0-dimensional biomaterials lack inductive properties. [SEP] It has less ground substance than loose connective tissue. A vector space is indecomposable if and only if its dimension is 1. Explicitly, the modules of the form 
  
    
      
        R
        
          /
        
        
          p
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle R/p^{n}}
   for prime ideals p (including p = 0, which yields R) are indecomposable. There are, however, other indecomposable abelian groups which are not finitely generated; examples are the rational numbers Q and the Prüfer p-groups Z(p∞) for any prime number p.
For a fixed positive integer n, consider the ring R of n-by-n matrices with entries from the real numbers (or from any other field K). Facts
Every simple module is indecomposable. The constrictivity is defined not for a single pore, but as the parameter of the entire pore space considered. Constrictivity must be distinguished from the effects of Knudsen diffusion. In soft matter physics, plumber's nightmare are structures that are characterized by fully connected, periodic, and topologically nontrivial surfaces. 
1 in 5 million in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] According to the Namibia Statistics Agency based on the 2016 Inter-censal Demographic Survey, 5% of Namibia's population has varying degrees of disability. As of 2023, the company employs around 500 people and "runs 40 practises" treating about 150,000 patients.In 2013 SSP took over 22 practices in Liverpool and the Metropolitan Borough of Sefton, adding to the 17 practices it was already running. In 2016, only 5 of 20 contracts were renewed with SSP Health, which the Liverpool Echo called a "controversial private health firm". Unsourced information
SSP Health currently manages 37 GP surgeries aligned to 30 practices across 10 NHS Clinical Commissioning Groups in Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Cheshire, Merseyside and Cumbria. "Two GP practices celebrate 100 per cent ratings". "BOLTON GP PRACTICE HITS 100% RATING". GP surgeries celebrate after being given 100 per cent rating [2]
SSP Health GPMS Ltd [3]
Two St Helens GP surgeries get perfect ratings for healthcare [4] 35% of London GP practices had fewer than 2,000 patients compared with the national figure of almost 20%. 
1-1% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] A clinical classification (cTNM) is done at diagnosis and is based on MRI and CT, and a pathological TNM (pTNM) classification is performed after surgery.The most common metastasis sites for colorectal cancer are the liver, the lung and the peritoneum. Younger patients with metastases from colorectal cancer confined to one lobe of the liver and up to 4 in number may be treated by partial hepatectomy. Globally, colorectal cancer is the third most common type of cancer, making up about 10% of all cases. A gene that appears to contribute to the potential for metastatic disease, metastasis associated in colon cancer 1 (MACC1), has been isolated. 15 to 18 percent of colorectal cancer tumours have MMR deficiencies, with 3 percent developing due to Lynch syndrome. When colorectal cancer is caught early, surgery can be curative. It is estimated that at least 8 in 100,000 of the people are most likely to developed colorectal cancer every year, which is unlike lung or breast cancer, where for the latter alone is 24 in 100,000 of the women folks alone. Presence of synchronous or metachronous colorectal or other Lynch syndrome associated cancers (e.g. 
10% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden unexplained death of a child of less than one year of age. SIDS makes up about 80% of sudden and unexpected infant deaths (SUIDs). SIDS was the third leading cause of death in children less than one year old in the United States in 2011. By definition, SIDS deaths occur under the age of one year, with the peak incidence occurring when the infant is two to four months old. The estimate of the percentage of SIDS deaths that are actually infanticide varies from less than 1% to up to 5% of cases.Some have underestimated the risk of two SIDS deaths occurring in the same family; the Royal Statistical Society issued a media release refuting expert testimony in one UK case, in which the conviction was subsequently overturned. Rates vary significantly by population from 0.05 per 1000 in Hong Kong to 6.7 per 1000 in Native Americans.SIDS was responsible for 0.54 deaths per 1,000 live births in the US in 2005. Crib death – Sudden infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). Globally, an estimated 2.6 million neonates died in 2013 before the first month of age down from 4.5 million in 1990. 
32% of liver transplantation programs required patients to discontinue methadone treatment in 2001. [SEP] In many parts of the United States, methadone clinics are few and far between, which presents problems for addicts seeking methadone treatment who live far from a clinic. "Between 70-90% of patients who discontinue methadone maintenance will relapse. A 2009 Cochrane review found methadone was effective in retaining people in treatment and in the reduction or cessation of heroin use as measured by self-report and urine/hair analysis, and did not affect criminal activity or risk of death.Treatment of opioid-dependent persons with methadone follows one of two routes: maintenance or detoxification. A certified opioid treatment program is required under federal law (42 CFR 8.12) when dispensing methadone for the treatment of opioid addiction or detoxification. Patients' eligibility for methadone maintenance treatment is most often contingent on them being enrolled in substance abuse counseling. Many addicts seeking treatment usually avoid methadone or see it as a last resort, specifically because they do not want to have to go to a clinic every day to receive their medication.The use of take-home doses was expanded during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. References
External links
"Methadone". Methadone, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Tapering off of methadone maintenance
DE patent 711069, Dr Max Bockmuehl & Dr Gustav Ehrhart, "Verfahren zur Darstellung von basischen Estern", published 1941-09-25, issued 1941-09-25,  assigned to IG Farbenindustrie AG 
4-PBA treatment decreases endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] They are therefore particularly sensitive to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the subsequent unfolded protein response (UPR). XBP1 mRNA cleavage leads to the translation of a transcription factor for genes that resolve ER stress. Although different organelles may each have a different redox status, through probing for factors such as glutathione and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), it was determined that reductive stress is present in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of senescent cells. The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a cellular stress response related to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Diseases
Diseases amenable to UPR inhibition include Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease.Endoplasmic reticulum stress was reported to play a major role in non‐alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) induction and progression. ER stress is known to activate hepatic de novo lipogenesis, inhibit VLDL secretion, promote insulin resistance and inflammatory process, and promote cell apoptosis. Zingiber officinale (ginger) extract and omega‐3 fatty acids were reported to ameliorate endoplasmic reticulum stress in a nonalcoholic fatty liver rat model.As stated above, the UPR can also be activated as a compensatory mechanism in disease states. See also
Endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress)
Mitochondrial unfolded protein response
Aggresome
PERK inhibitors


== References == 
4-PBA treatment raises endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] They are therefore particularly sensitive to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the subsequent unfolded protein response (UPR). Activation of ER stress
ER stress can be activated by a variety of factors. The UPR is also activated by cytokinesER-stress activates Apoptosis through C/EBP Homologous Protein (CHOP)

Measurement
ER Stress can be measured using Quantitative Real-Time RT-PCR to measure the rate at which XBP1 is cleaved by IRE1 when the UPR is activated. XBP1 mRNA cleavage leads to the translation of a transcription factor for genes that resolve ER stress. The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a cellular stress response related to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Diseases
Diseases amenable to UPR inhibition include Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease.Endoplasmic reticulum stress was reported to play a major role in non‐alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) induction and progression. ER stress is known to activate hepatic de novo lipogenesis, inhibit VLDL secretion, promote insulin resistance and inflammatory process, and promote cell apoptosis. See also
Endoplasmic reticulum stress response (ER stress)
Mitochondrial unfolded protein response
Aggresome
PERK inhibitors


== References == 
40mg/day dosage of folic acid and 2mg/day dosage of vitamin B12 does not affect chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression. [SEP] The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends a daily amount of 400 micrograms of folic acid for the prevention of NTDs. Heart disease
One meta-analysis reported that multi-year folic acid supplementation, in amounts in most of the included clinical trials at higher than the upper limit of 1,000 μg/day, reduced the relative risk of cardiovascular disease by a modest 4%. It was shown that supplementation with folic acid at 1,000 to 2,500 μg/day – the amounts used in many of the cited supplement trials – would result in higher concentrations of serum folate than what is achieved from diets high in food-derived folate. Supplementing the diet with folic acid and vitamin B12 lowers plasma homocysteine. However, several reviews reported that supplementation with folic acid alone or in combination with other B vitamins did not prevent development of cognitive impairment nor slow cognitive decline.A 2017 meta-analysis found that the relative risk of autism spectrum disorders was reduced by 23% when the maternal diet was supplemented with folic acid during pregnancy. A deficiency of folic acid or vitamin B12 may mask the deficiency of iron; so when taken as dietary supplements, the three need to be in balance. There is evidence that folate consumption is protective. People with megaloblastic anemia need to be tested for vitamin B12 deficiency before treatment with folic acid, because if the person has vitamin B12 deficiency, folic acid supplementation can remove the anemia, but can also worsen neurologic problems. 
5'-nucleotidase metabolizes 6MP. [SEP] "(2′)3′,5′-Bisphosphate nucleotidase". 5′-Nucleotidase (EC 3.1.3.5) is an enzyme which catalyzes the phosphorylytic cleavage of 5′-nucleotides. Although originally found in snake venom, the activity of 5'nucleotidase has been described for bacteria and plant cells, and is widely distributed in vertebrate tissue. Membrane-bound and soluble forms
Studies of mammalian 5′-nucleotidases have shown that there exist at least four different forms of the 5′-nucleotidase enzyme: one membrane-bound form and three soluble forms. Medical relevance
5' Nucleotidase blood test
The concentration of 5’nucleotidase protein in the blood is often used as a liver function test in individuals that show signs of liver problems. References
External links
5'-nucleotidase at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 5′-nucleotidase (5′-NT), also known as ecto-5′-nucleotidase or CD73 (cluster of differentiation 73), is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the NT5E gene. Function
Ecto-5-prime-nucleotidase (5-prime-ribonucleotide phosphohydrolase; EC 3.1.3.5) catalyzes the conversion at neutral pH of purine 5-prime mononucleotides to nucleosides, the preferred substrate being AMP. 
50% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] In fact, only a small fraction of the initial damage is transduction of late chromosomal damage has also been measured in the progeny of human lymphocytes that were exposed with much higher frequency in the progeny of cells that were exposed to heavy ions compared to gamma rays. The aggressive progression and recurrence of this disease has been attributed the presence of a subset of tumor cells known as breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs). While reduced ROS Level promotes radioresistance and EMT phenotype of cancer stem cells, Notch signaling interacts with cellular metabolism to promote breast cancer stem cell. It may specifically refer to the radiation dose required to achieve a 50% tumor control probability. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multipotent cells found in multiple human adult tissues including bone marrow, synovial tissues, and adipose tissues. Because of their multi-potent capabilities, mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) lineages have been used successfully in animal models to regenerate articular cartilage and in human models to regenerate bone. Mesenchymal stem cell applications
Marrow nucleated cells are used every day in regenerative orthopedics. At some point, a signal is introduced (either in culture or after transplant to the damaged tissue) for the cells to differentiate into the end tissue

Recent developments
Until recently, the use of cultured mesenchymal stem cells to regenerate cartilage has been primarily in research with animal models. 
53% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] The prevalence of low birth weights has trended slightly upward from 2012 to the present.Low birth weight is associated with neonatal infection, infant mortality, as well as illness into adulthood. Abnormalities
A low birth weight can be caused either by a preterm birth (low gestational age at birth) or the infant being small for gestational age (slow prenatal growth rate), or a combination of both. Women aged 40–54 had a rate of low birth weight at 11.8 percent. Because of this, many of these babies also have low birth weights. This includes babies born three months early and have extremely low birth weight. In 2013, 22 million newborns had low birth weight, around 16 percent of all babies globally. WHO estimates that worldwide, 15-20 % of all births each year are considered low birth weight, which is about 20 million births.The start of prenatal care is very important to help prevent low birth weight and early medical problems. Infant mortality due to low birth weight is usually directly causal, stemming from other medical complications such as preterm birth, PPROM, poor maternal nutritional status, lack of prenatal care, maternal sickness during pregnancy, and an unhygienic home environment. 
61% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] A clinical classification (cTNM) is done at diagnosis and is based on MRI and CT, and a pathological TNM (pTNM) classification is performed after surgery.The most common metastasis sites for colorectal cancer are the liver, the lung and the peritoneum. Younger patients with metastases from colorectal cancer confined to one lobe of the liver and up to 4 in number may be treated by partial hepatectomy. The systems for staging colorectal cancers depend on the extent of local invasion, the degree of lymph node involvement and whether there is distant metastasis. Globally, colorectal cancer is the third most common type of cancer, making up about 10% of all cases. A gene that appears to contribute to the potential for metastatic disease, metastasis associated in colon cancer 1 (MACC1), has been isolated. 15 to 18 percent of colorectal cancer tumours have MMR deficiencies, with 3 percent developing due to Lynch syndrome. In addition, 11 hypermethylations and 96 hypomethylations of miRNAs were also associated with colorectal cancers. Presence of synchronous or metachronous colorectal or other Lynch syndrome associated cancers (e.g. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 5% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] Blastobotrys elegans is a species of fungus. Description
Physiology
Blastobotrys elegans exhibits yeast like growth consisting of very dense, outwardly growing hyphae. Like many Blastobotrys species, B. elegans is characterized by bearing globular primary conidia which synchronously produce distinct, secondary globular conidia. For the most part, budding cells are absent in B. elegans. Morphology
A strain of B. elegans, labelled CBS 530.83A, was grown at 20-22°C on 4% malt extract/0.5% yeast extract agar and the following traits were observed from its growth. Even as B. elegans growth progresses, it does not emit any noticeable odors. Therefore, when only looking at growth tests, it is very challenging to differentiate B. elegans from other Blastobotrys species.It is worth mentioning, that B. elegans also grows on adenine, arbutin, D-ribose, ethanol, ethylamine, glycine, isobutanol, lactose, n-Hexadecane, maltose, succinate and uric acid. Pathogenicity and toxicity
While B. elegans appears to be closely related to many pathogenic fungi, it has not been recorded to cause disease or damage in a host. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 75% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] The age-1 gene is located on chromosome 2 in C.elegans. It gained attention in 1983 for its ability to induce long-lived C. elegans mutants. Age-1 mutants also have a higher DNA repair capability than wild-type C. elegans. After the age-1 gene was discovered, Cynthia Kenyon published groundbreaking research on doubling the lifespan of C. elegans by the insulin/IGF-1 pathway. Description
Physiology
Blastobotrys elegans exhibits yeast like growth consisting of very dense, outwardly growing hyphae. For the most part, budding cells are absent in B. elegans. Morphology
A strain of B. elegans, labelled CBS 530.83A, was grown at 20-22°C on 4% malt extract/0.5% yeast extract agar and the following traits were observed from its growth. Even as B. elegans growth progresses, it does not emit any noticeable odors. 
70% of burn patients are admitted for hospitalization and further treatment after appearing at hospital emergency wards or outpatient clinics. [SEP] A burn center, burn unit, or burns unit is a hospital specializing in the treatment of burns. Burn centers are often used for the treatment and recovery of patients with more severe burns. Burn team
A burn center needs a team approach for the management of critically burnt patients. Early burn wound excision and immediate wound cover can improve the chances of survival in major burn cases. Many patients are examined and given treatment as outpatients before being admitted to the hospital at a later date as inpatients. A burn recovery bed or burn bed is a special type of bed designed for hospital patients who have suffered severe skin burns across large portions of their body.Generally, concentrated pressure on any one spot of the damaged skin can be extremely painful to the patient, so the primary function of a burn bed is to distribute the weight of the patient so evenly that no single bed contact point is pressed harder than any other. Progress in modern medicine and the advent of comprehensive out-patient clinics ensure that patients are only admitted to a hospital when they are extremely ill or have severe physical trauma. Progress
Patients enter inpatient care mainly from previous ambulatory care such as referral from a family doctor, or through emergency medicine departments. 
76-85% of people with severe mental disorder receive no treatment in low and middle income countries. [SEP] Shortage of mental health professionals in addition to inadequate infrastructures and poor public attitudes towards mental illness has result to about 80 percent of people with serious mental illness unable to access adequate care. Incarcerations are due to lack of treatments such as psychiatric hospital beds. Around 30% of people globally suffer from a mental disorder in any given year, and more than two thirds of those individuals do not receive the necessary care. Many developing countries lack policies that address the basic needs and rights of people suffering from mental illnesses. According to research, patients in developing countries frequently leave hospitals without knowing their diagnosis or what medications they are taking, they wait too long for referrals, appointments, and treatment, and they are not respected or given adequate emotional support.There is astounding disparity that exists between the prevalence of mental problems around the world and the resources available for mental health. The few psychiatric hospitals that do exist in developing countries are frequently overcrowded, understaffed, and may not offer the necessary level of care. "Although there is a lack of attention to mental health in the healthcare systems, it is a major issue in Southeast African countries. Over 90 percent of people with a mental disorder have never been treated. 
90% of patients with melanoma and an objective response to PD-1 blockade will experience a progression in their melanoma. [SEP] Spartalizumab (INN; development code PDR001) is a monoclonal antibody and checkpoint inhibitor that is being investigated for melanoma. "Relatlimab and Nivolumab versus Nivolumab in Untreated Advanced Melanoma". External links
Clinical trial number NCT03470922 for "A Study of Relatlimab Plus Nivolumab Versus Nivolumab Alone in Participants With Advanced Melanoma (RELATIVITY-047)" at ClinicalTrials.gov Clinical trials
It gave good results in a trial for advanced melanoma when used in combination with interleukin-2.Another trial against Ipilimumab in advanced melanoma suggested Ipilimumab may be better than the gp100 vaccine alone. Melanocytic tumors are tumors developed from melanocytes. However, as has been well documented in multiple publications including the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study (COMS), in nearly 50% of patients the melanoma has likely already metastasized by the time the primary eye tumor has been diagnosed and treated. Unfortunately, many of the current diagnostic techniques (including imaging and liver function tests) are not able to accurately detect micrometastases until tumor nodules have grown considerably, and likely become resistant to therapy.The lack of accurate prognostic tests to identify which patients are at risk of developing clinically overt metastatic disease has been a significant issue in the management of individual patients with uveal melanoma. Genetic Factors
Genetic analysis techniques have led to the identification of chromosomal abnormalities  associated with metastatic tumor progression in uveal melanoma. 
90% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the sudden unexplained death of a child of less than one year of age. SIDS makes up about 80% of sudden and unexpected infant deaths (SUIDs). SIDS was the third leading cause of death in children less than one year old in the United States in 2011. By definition, SIDS deaths occur under the age of one year, with the peak incidence occurring when the infant is two to four months old. The estimate of the percentage of SIDS deaths that are actually infanticide varies from less than 1% to up to 5% of cases.Some have underestimated the risk of two SIDS deaths occurring in the same family; the Royal Statistical Society issued a media release refuting expert testimony in one UK case, in which the conviction was subsequently overturned. Crib death – Sudden infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). Globally, an estimated 2.6 million neonates died in 2013 before the first month of age down from 4.5 million in 1990. Infant respiratory distress syndrome, in turn, is the leading cause of death in preterm infants, affecting about 1% of newborn infants. 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 1 year of weekly intake. [SEP] Chloroquine retinopathy is a form of toxic retinopathy (damage of the retina) caused by the drugs chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine, which are sometimes used in the treatment of autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. This eye toxicity limits long-term use of the drugs. Presentation
The risk of toxicity is low for individuals without complicating conditions during the first five years of treatment using less than 6.5 mg/kg/day of hydroxychloroquine or 3 mg/kg/day of chloroquine, and/or cumulative doses of less than 1000 gram and 460 gram (total dose), respectively. Some physicians suggest that lean body weight is more accurate when calculating daily dosage.Most patients are routinely given 400 mg of hydroxychloroquine daily (or 250 mg chloroquine). Advanced stage
With continued drug exposure, there is progressive development of a bilateral atrophic bull's-eye maculopathy and paracentral scotomata, which may in severe cases ultimately spread over the entire fundus, causing widespread retinal atrophy and visual loss. Diagnosis
Patients and their primary care physicians must be made fully aware of the ophthalmic risks and the need for regular screening examinations to detect retinal toxicity at an early stage. Baseline evaluation for patients beginning treatment with a chloroquine derivative should include a complete eye examination by an eye care professional, retinal photography for follow-up comparisons, and Visual field testing with a white pattern. Chronic toxicity results from daily intakes greater than 25,000 IU for 6 years or longer and more than 100,000 IU for 6 months or longer. 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 5-6 years of weekly intake. [SEP] Chloroquine retinopathy is a form of toxic retinopathy (damage of the retina) caused by the drugs chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine, which are sometimes used in the treatment of autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus. This eye toxicity limits long-term use of the drugs. Presentation
The risk of toxicity is low for individuals without complicating conditions during the first five years of treatment using less than 6.5 mg/kg/day of hydroxychloroquine or 3 mg/kg/day of chloroquine, and/or cumulative doses of less than 1000 gram and 460 gram (total dose), respectively. Some physicians suggest that lean body weight is more accurate when calculating daily dosage.Most patients are routinely given 400 mg of hydroxychloroquine daily (or 250 mg chloroquine). Advanced stage
With continued drug exposure, there is progressive development of a bilateral atrophic bull's-eye maculopathy and paracentral scotomata, which may in severe cases ultimately spread over the entire fundus, causing widespread retinal atrophy and visual loss. Baseline evaluation for patients beginning treatment with a chloroquine derivative should include a complete eye examination by an eye care professional, retinal photography for follow-up comparisons, and Visual field testing with a white pattern. RVCL is associated with progressive deterioration in visual acuity due to multifocal microvascular disease, retinal neovascularization leading, and/or glaucoma. Over a five- to ten-year period, this vasculopathy (blood vessel pathology) results in vision loss and destructive brain lesions with neurologic deficits and death. 
A T helper 2 cell (Th2) environment impedes disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] In addition to medical therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy has also been demonstrated to be effective in reducing stress, anxiety, and depression due to the psychological and social impacts that lupus may have.People with SLE treated with standard care experience a higher risk of opportunistic infections and death than the general population. Activated T helper cells such as Th1, Th2, and Th17 are found in the synovial cavity during the time of inflammation due to rheumatoid arthritis. Put shortly the function of IL-2 is to stimulate the growth of helper, cytotoxic and regulatory T cells. Function
IL-2 has essential roles in key functions of the immune system, tolerance and immunity, primarily via its direct effects on T cells. In the thymus, where T cells mature, it prevents autoimmune diseases by promoting the differentiation of certain immature T cells into regulatory T cells, which suppress other T cells that are otherwise primed to attack normal healthy cells in the body. IL-2 also promotes the differentiation of T cells into effector T cells and into memory T cells when the initial T cell is also stimulated by an antigen, thus helping the body fight off infections. Together with other polarizing cytokines, IL-2 stimulates naive CD4+ T cell differentiation into Th1 and Th2 lymphocytes while it impedes differentiation into Th17 and folicular Th lymphocytes.IL-2 increases the cell killing activity of both natural killer cells and cytotoxic T cells.Its expression and secretion is tightly regulated and functions as part of both transient positive and negative feedback loops in mounting and dampening immune responses. In humans, Th17 pathogenic cells are associated with diseases like multiple sclerosis (MS) or rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). 
A breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen influences treatment outcome. [SEP] N-Desmethyltamoxifen is further metabolized into endoxifen (4-hydroxy-N-desmethyltamoxifen), which is thought to be the major active form of tamoxifen in the body. N,N-Desmethyltamoxifen is a metabolite of tamoxifen, a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). It is taken by mouth.Endoxifen is an active metabolite of tamoxifen and has been found to be effective in patients that have failed previous hormonal therapies (tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors, and fulvestrant). The prodrug tamoxifen is metabolized by the CYP2D6 enzyme to produce endoxifen and afimoxifene (4-hydroxytamoxifen).Currently, endoxifen is approved by Drugs Controller General of India for the acute treatment of manic episode with or without mixed features of Bipolar I disorder. Research
Endoxifen has been investigated as a potential drug in the treatment of breast cancer. It is an active metabolite of the selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) tamoxifen. Metabolism and elimination
When taken orally, about 95% of a dose of estradiol is metabolized in the intestines and liver into estrone and estrogen conjugates such as estrone sulfate, estrone glucuronide, and estradiol sulfate, among others, prior to entering the circulation. Preclinical studies have shown that estrone sulfate, via local transformation into estradiol, stimulates the growth of mammary cancer cells.Due to the first pass through the liver, disproportionate and supraphysiological levels of estrogens occur locally in the liver with oral estradiol. 
A country's Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) eligibility is not indictivate of accelerated adoption of the Hub vaccine. [SEP] GAVI, officially Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance (previously the GAVI Alliance, and before that the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) is a public–private global health partnership with the goal of increasing access to immunization in poor countries. GAVI seeks to design its AMCs in a way that encourages a competitive market.GAVI has been particularly successful at promoting the uptake of newer vaccines. Vaccination programs
GAVI's main objective is vaccination programs. At GAVI, some argued that vaccination could not be effectively carried out and sustained without strengthening healthcare, citing experiences in Gavi's vaccination programmes, where availability of staff, training, transport, and funds had hindered vaccination and reporting of vaccination coverage and stocks. Gavi's funding for this platform was conditional on the platform meeting vaccine coverage goals.As of the mid-2010s, few in Gavi were working on HSS, most of the former pro-HSS people had left, and some at Gavi dismissed HSS as PR to gain support from pro-HSS donors and counter criticisms that Gavi was harming healthcare systems. The country previously obtained the AstraZeneca vaccine through the program, but Venezuelan health officials did not approve the product for domestic use.According to a report produced by the People's Vaccine Alliance covering 14 countries, 'vaccine hesitancy' was not the reason for low jab rates in low- and middle-income countries. The International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) is a global not-for-profit, public-private partnership working to accelerate the development of vaccines to prevent HIV infection and AIDS. History
In 1994, the Rockefeller Foundation convened an international meeting of AIDS researchers, vaccinologists, public health officials, and representatives from philanthropic organizations in Bellagio, Italy, to evaluate the challenges facing HIV/AIDS vaccine development and identify ways to jump-start research.The International AIDS Vaccine Initiative was founded in 1996 by epidemiologist Seth Berkeley with the mission of accelerating the development and global distribution of preventative AIDS vaccines.In February 2023, Muhammad Ali Pate was appointed chairman of the Vaccine Alliance (Gavi), which works to provide vaccines in low-income countries. 
A deficiency of folate increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Management
In common forms of MTHFR deficiency, elevated plasma homocysteine levels have sometimes been treated with Vitamin B12 and low doses of folic acid. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a medical condition characterized by an abnormally high level of total homocysteine (that is, including homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine disulfide) in the blood, conventionally described as above 15 μmol/L.As a consequence of the biochemical reactions in which homocysteine is involved, deficiencies of
vitamin B6, folic acid (vitamin B9), and vitamin B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. Cardiovascular risks
Elevated homocysteine is a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease as well as thrombosis. Causes
Vitamin deficiency
Deficiencies of vitamins B6, B9 and B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. The proposed mechanism, is that low levels of folate or vitamin B12 can disrupt transmethylation reaction, leading to an accumulation of homocysteine (hyperhomocysteinemia) and to impaired metabolism of neurotransmitters (especially the hydroxylation of dopamine and serotonin from tyrosine and tryptophan), phospholipids, myelin, and receptors. Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. Because B12 and folate are involved in the metabolism of homocysteine, hyperhomocysteinuria is a non-specific marker of deficiency. Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. In adults with metabolic syndrome, individuals with low levels of vitamin B12 had higher levels of homocysteine compared to healthy subjects. In addition, low vitamin B12 and folate intakes have shown associations with hyperhomocysteinemia, which is associated with cerebrovascular disease, cognitive decline and an increased risk of dementia in prospective studies.There are limited intervention studies which have investigated the effect of supplementation of vitamin B12 and cognitive function. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a medical condition characterized by an abnormally high level of total homocysteine (that is, including homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine disulfide) in the blood, conventionally described as above 15 μmol/L.As a consequence of the biochemical reactions in which homocysteine is involved, deficiencies of
vitamin B6, folic acid (vitamin B9), and vitamin B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. There is also evidence that elevated homocysteine levels and low levels of vitamin B6 and B12 are risk factors for mild cognitive impairment and dementia. Causes
Vitamin deficiency
Deficiencies of vitamins B6, B9 and B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. The resulting elevated concentrations of homocysteine and MMA are often found in patients with low serum vitamin B12 and can usually be lowered with successful vitamin B12 replacement therapy. Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. 
A deficiency of vitamin B6 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. In adults with metabolic syndrome, individuals with low levels of vitamin B12 had higher levels of homocysteine compared to healthy subjects. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a medical condition characterized by an abnormally high level of total homocysteine (that is, including homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine disulfide) in the blood, conventionally described as above 15 μmol/L.As a consequence of the biochemical reactions in which homocysteine is involved, deficiencies of
vitamin B6, folic acid (vitamin B9), and vitamin B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. There is also evidence that elevated homocysteine levels and low levels of vitamin B6 and B12 are risk factors for mild cognitive impairment and dementia. Causes
Vitamin deficiency
Deficiencies of vitamins B6, B9 and B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. The remaining homocysteine is transsulfurated to cysteine, with vitamin B6 as the co-factor.Genetic defects in 5-MTHF reductase can consequently lead to hyperhomocysteinemia. Treatment
Vitamins B6, B9, or B12 supplements (alone or combined), while they lower homocysteine level, do not change the risk of heart disease or prevent death in people who have heart disease when compared to standard care or to an inactive supplement in a clinical trial. Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. 
A diminished ovarian reserve does not solely indicate infertility in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] Poor ovarian reserve is a condition of low fertility characterized by 1): low numbers of remaining oocytes in the ovaries or 2) possibly impaired preantral oocyte development or recruitment. A 2008 study concluded that diminished reserve did not affect the quality of oocytes and any reduction in quality in diminished reserve women was age related. One expert concluded: in young women with poor reserve when eggs are obtained they have near normal rates of implantation and pregnancy rates, but they are at high risk for IVF cancellation; if eggs are obtained, pregnancy rates are typically better than in older woman with normal reserve. Cause
Natural decline of ovarian reserve due to age. Ovarian reserve is a term that is used to determine the capacity of the ovary to provide egg cells that are capable of fertilization resulting in a healthy and successful pregnancy. While there is no known method for assessing the ovarian reserve of individual women, indirect determination of ovarian reserve is important in the treatment of infertility. Implications
Women with poor ovarian reserve are unlikely to conceive with infertility therapy. References
External links
Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI): Overview National Institutes of Health 
A diminished ovarian reserve is a very strong indicator of infertility, even in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] Poor ovarian reserve is a condition of low fertility characterized by 1): low numbers of remaining oocytes in the ovaries or 2) possibly impaired preantral oocyte development or recruitment. Recent research suggests that premature ovarian aging and premature ovarian failure (aka primary ovarian insufficiency) may represent a continuum of premature ovarian senescence. One expert concluded: in young women with poor reserve when eggs are obtained they have near normal rates of implantation and pregnancy rates, but they are at high risk for IVF cancellation; if eggs are obtained, pregnancy rates are typically better than in older woman with normal reserve. Ovarian reserve is a term that is used to determine the capacity of the ovary to provide egg cells that are capable of fertilization resulting in a healthy and successful pregnancy. While there is no known method for assessing the ovarian reserve of individual women, indirect determination of ovarian reserve is important in the treatment of infertility. High levels however can be present in women with Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome which compromises female fertility and therefore a combination of AMH and a transvaginal ultrasound to count the number of antral follicles is probably the best way to assess ovarian reserve and future fertility. Implications
Women with poor ovarian reserve are unlikely to conceive with infertility therapy. References
External links
Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI): Overview National Institutes of Health 
A high microerythrocyte count protects against severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] Alpha-thalassemia can be mistaken for iron-deficiency anaemia on a full blood count or blood film, as both conditions have a microcytic anaemia. Treatment
Treatment for alpha-thalassemia may include blood transfusions to maintain hemoglobin at a level that reduces symptoms of anemia. Epidemiology
Worldwide distribution of inherited alpha-thalassemia corresponds to areas of malaria exposure, suggesting a protective role. Alpha-thalassemia". A macrocytic class of anemia is an anemia (defined as blood with an insufficient concentration of hemoglobin) in which the red blood cells (erythrocytes) are larger than their normal volume. In contrast, in microcytic anemia, the erythrocytes are smaller than normal. In a macrocytic anemia, the larger red cells are always associated with insufficient numbers of cells and often also insufficient hemoglobin content per cell. In contrast, non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemias associated with a high reticulocyte count (reticulocytosis) may be caused by hemolysis or bleeding.For megaloblastic macrocytic anemias, useful tests may include serum levels of Vitamin B12, methylmalonic acid, and homocysteine. 
A low percentage of hematopoietic progenitor cells are susceptible to HIV-1 infection ex vivo. [SEP] Abortive HIV infection occurs due to slowing of reverse transcription promoting cytosolic DNA accumulation. Infection rates of HIV/AIDS in Niger are estimated to be under 1%, low in relation to most of Africa and much of the world. The lower infectivity of HIV-2, compared to HIV-1, implies that fewer of those exposed to HIV-2 will be infected per exposure. They appear to be the first cells infected by HIV and perhaps the source of HIV production when CD4+ cells become depleted in the patient. The appearance of HIV-1-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) early after primo-infection has been correlated with the control of HIV-1 viremia. LTNP’s have also been shown to have a vigorous proliferation of circulating activated HIV-1-specific CD4+ T cell and CTL response against multiple epitopes with no detectable broadly cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies in the setting of an extremely low viral load. Both reverse transcription of the HIV-1 genome and the rate of transcription of proviral DNA rely upon the activation state of the cell and are less likely to be successful in quiescent cells. HIV-1 also promotes a Th1 to Th0 shift and replicates preferentially in Th2 and Th0 cells. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of developing diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] MODY 3 or HNF1A-MODY is a form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young. It is caused by mutations of the HNF1-alpha gene, a homeobox gene on human chromosome 12. About 70% of people develop this type of diabetes by age 25 years, but it occurs at much later ages in a few. Typically patients present with a strong family history of diabetes (any type) and the onset of symptoms is in the second to fifth decade. Information about genetic forms of diabetes. With the inheritance pattern and background information, scientists hypothesized an autosomal recessive mutation causes p14 deficiency. When both GCK genes are affected the diabetes appears earlier and the hyperglycemia is more severe. A form of permanent neonatal diabetes has been caused by homozygous mutations in the GCK gene. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] MODY 3 or HNF1A-MODY is a form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young. It is caused by mutations of the HNF1-alpha gene, a homeobox gene on human chromosome 12. About 70% of people develop this type of diabetes by age 25 years, but it occurs at much later ages in a few. Typically patients present with a strong family history of diabetes (any type) and the onset of symptoms is in the second to fifth decade. References
External links

Diabetes Genes. Information about genetic forms of diabetes. With the inheritance pattern and background information, scientists hypothesized an autosomal recessive mutation causes p14 deficiency. The disorder is caused by mutations in the insulin receptor gene. 
A single nucleotide variant the gene DGKK is strongly associated with increased risk of hypospadias. [SEP] Dyskeratosis congenita (DKC), also known as Zinsser-Engman-Cole syndrome, is a rare progressive congenital disorder with a highly variable phenotype. Mutations in Nop10, Nhp2 and dyskerin1 have all been shown to lead to DKC-like symptoms. X-linked
The best characterized form of dyskeratosis congenita is a result of one or more mutations in the long arm of the X chromosome in the gene DKC1. One documented autosomal recessive mutation in a family that carries DKC has been found in NOP10. Diacylglycerol kinase alpha is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DGKA gene.The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the eukaryotic diacylglycerol kinase family. Diacylglycerol kinase gamma is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DGKG gene.This gene encodes an enzyme that is a member of the type I subfamily of diacylglycerol kinases, which are involved in lipid metabolism. Dickkopf-related protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DKK1 gene. In vitro studies
DKK1 is one of the most upregulated genes in androgen-potentiated balding, with DKK-1 messenger RNA upregulated a few hours after DHT treatment of hair follicles at the dermal papilla in vitro. 
A strong bias in the phage genome locations where the spacers were derived has been observed in many CRISPR subtypes that confer the immunity to phage. [SEP] Types
Anti-CRISPR genes can be found in different parts of the phage DNA: in the capsid, the tail and at the extreme end. In 2005, three independent research groups showed that some CRISPR spacers are derived from phage DNA and extrachromosomal DNA such as plasmids. A CRISPR region in Streptococcus thermophilus acquired spacers from the DNA of an infecting bacteriophage. A significant enhancement in spacer acquisition was detected where spacers already target the phage, even mismatches to the protospacer. The non-random evolution of these spacer regions has been found to be highly dependent on the environment and the particular foreign mobile genetic elements it contains.CRISPR/Cas can immunize bacteria against certain phages and thus halt transmission. To resist a phage infection, the sequence of the CRISPR spacer must correspond perfectly to the sequence of the target phage gene. The latter's strains that diverged 250 thousand years ago still contained the same spacer complement.Metagenomic analysis of two acid-mine-drainage biofilms showed that one of the analyzed CRISPRs contained extensive deletions and spacer additions versus the other biofilm, suggesting a higher phage activity/prevalence in one community than the other. It has been shown that spacers within the virus-borne CRISPR arrays target other viruses and plasmids, suggesting that mini-CRISPR arrays represent a mechanism of heterotypic superinfection exclusion and participate in interviral conflicts. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis for breast cancer primary tumors. [SEP] The percentage of patients with minimal residual disease after chemotherapy is higher among basal-like than HER2+/ER− breast cancers. Additionally, Cyclin E1 is more easily replicated in BLBC than other types of breast cancer, and its expression suggests a poor prognosis. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A1, also known as ALDH1A1 or retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (RALDH1), is an enzyme that is encoded by the ALDH1A1 gene. ALDH1A1 maintains stemness of cancer cells and several drugs have been designed to target cancer stem cells by targeting ALDH1A1. Hereditary lobular breast cancer is a rare inherited cancer predisposition associated with pathogenic CDH1 (gene) germline mutations, and without apparent correlation with the hereditary diffuse gastric cancer syndrome. Research studies identified novel CDH1 germline variants in women with diagnosed lobular breast cancer (in invasive and/or in situ histotype) and without any family history of gastric carcinoma. defined this syndrome as a new cancer predisposition and the Authors suggested additional clinical criteria to testing CDH1 in lobular breast cancer patients. CDH1 inactivation in lobular breast cancer
In a CDH1 (gene) wild-type situation, lobules are well-organized structures characterized by the cell-cell adhesion mediated through the homophilic binding of E-cadherin molecules on adjacent cells. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation reduces inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] 5' AMP-activated protein kinase or AMPK or 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase is an enzyme (EC 2.7.11.31) that plays a role in cellular energy homeostasis, largely to activate glucose and fatty acid uptake and oxidation when cellular energy is low. In response to binding AMP and ADP, the net effect of AMPK activation is stimulation of hepatic fatty acid oxidation, ketogenesis, stimulation of skeletal muscle fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake, inhibition of cholesterol synthesis, lipogenesis, and triglyceride synthesis, inhibition of adipocyte lipogenesis, inhibition of adipocyte lipolysis, and modulation of insulin secretion by pancreatic β-cells.It should not be confused with cyclic AMP-activated protein kinase (protein kinase A). AMPK also appears to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis by regulating PGC-1α which in turn promotes gene transcription in mitochondria. AMPK also activates anti-oxidant defenses. Additionally, recent discoveries can conceivably suggest a direct AMPK role in increasing blood supply to exercised/trained muscle cells by stimulating and stabilizing both vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. AMPK, therefore, helps regulate fatty acid oxidation and cholesterol synthesis. The kinase activity of AMPK is activated by the stimuli that increase the cellular AMP/ATP ratio. AMPK regulates the activities of a number of key metabolic enzymes through phosphorylation. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons results in decreased tau phosphorylation. [SEP] Since regulation of tau is critical for memory, this could explain the linkage between tauopathies and cognitive impairment. Other functions
Other typical functions of tau include cellular signalling, neuronal development, neuroprotection and apoptosis. Phosphorylation of tau is also developmentally regulated. Like kinases, phosphatases too play a role in regulating the phosphorylation of tau. Phosphorylation of tau has also been suggested to be regulated by O-GlcNAc modification at various Ser and Thr residues. Mechanism
The accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau in neurons is associated with neurofibrillary degeneration. On the other hand, tau release depends on neuronal activity. Mutations that alter function and isoform expression of tau lead to hyperphosphorylation. 
ART has no effect on the infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] : 42 Writing in the arts journal Art New Zealand, critic and artist Giovanni Intra noted the exhibition stemmed from the desire to improve the understanding of HIV/AIDs in the wider community:

Thus, the exhibition view AIDS as a social as well as biomedical phenomenon, an epidemic of signification, the effects of which extend far beyond the risks of contagion. There was no Safe Sex or testing information available inside the Gallery. Infection via sharing personal objects was the most cited vector of HIV transmission, and that little association amongst respondents was made between HIV and sexual activity. The effectiveness of using circumcision to prevent HIV in the developed world is not determined. Men who have sex with men
The WHO does not recommend circumcision as protection against male to male HIV transmission, as evidence is lacking in regards to receptive anal intercourse. It is not known whether the effect of male circumcision differs by HIV-1 variant. Although these results confirm that male circumcision reduces the risk of men becoming infected with HIV, the UN agencies emphasize that it does not provide complete protection against HIV infection. Circumcision has not been included in their HIV prevention recommendations. 
ART substantially reduces infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] In relation to HIV, antiretroviral therapy (ART) is a three or more drug combination therapy that is used to decrease the viral load, or the measured amount of virus, in an infected individual. When taken correctly, ART is able to diminish the presence of the HIV virus in the bodily fluids of an infected person to a level of undetectability. When the trial completed, the overall reduction percentage of HIV-1 transmission between couples who were treated early with ART or received the delay-ART treatment was 93%. ART reduces the amount of virus in the blood and genital secretions. ART also is recommended for HIV-infected individuals for the prevention of transmission of HIV. The SPARTAC trial compared 48 weeks of ART vs 12 weeks vs no treatment in acute HIV infection and found that 48 weeks of treatment delayed the time to decline in CD4 count below 350 cells per ml by 65 weeks and kept viral loads significantly lower even after treatment was stopped.Since viral loads are usually very high during acute infection, this period carries an estimated 26 times higher risk of transmission. ART for mothers both before and during delivery and to mothers and infants after delivery are recommended to substantially reduce the risk of transmission. One 2013 study estimated an overall cost savings to ART therapy in South Africa given reduced transmission. 
ATF4 is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] Activating transcription factor 4 (tax-responsive enhancer element B67), also known as ATF4, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ATF4  gene. ATF4 is not a functional transcription factor by itself but one-half of many possible heterodimeric transcription factors. PDBe-KB provides an overview of all the structure information available in the PDB for Human Cyclic AMP-dependent transcription factor ATF-4
ATF4 (activating transcription factor 4)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Function
ATF6 is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-regulated transmembrane transcription factor that activates the transcription of ER molecules. Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the Endoplasmic Reticulum results in the proteolytic cleavage of ATF6. Some of these ATFs, such as ATF3, ATF4, and ATF6 are known to play a role in stress responses. Surfeit locus protein 4 or Surf4 is a protein involved in regulating export of some proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi bodies. Stress-associated endoplasmic reticulum protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SERP1 gene. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein are critical for sensing DNA damage. [SEP] Introduction
Throughout the cell cycle DNA is monitored for damage. The ATM-mediated DNA damage response consists of a rapid and a delayed response. Upon DNA damage, ATM autophosphorylates on residue Ser1981. Therefore, a defect in ATM has severe consequences in repairing certain types of damage to DNA, and cancer may result from improper repair. The MRN complex also participates in activating the checkpoint kinase ATM in response to DNA damage. Central to all DNA damage induced checkpoints responses is a pair of large protein kinases belonging to the first group of PI3K-like protein kinases-the ATM (Ataxia telangiectasia mutated) and ATR (Ataxia- and Rad-related) kinases, whose sequence and functions have been well conserved in evolution. All DNA damage response requires either ATM or ATR because they have the ability to bind to the chromosomes at the site of DNA damage, together with accessory proteins that are platforms on which DNA damage response components and DNA repair complexes can be assembled. Function
The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to S. cerevisiae DNA damage repair protein Rad18. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein have no role in sensing DNA damage. [SEP] The ATM-mediated DNA damage response consists of a rapid and a delayed response. Inactive ATM is present in the cells without DSBs as dimers or multimers. Upon DNA damage, ATM autophosphorylates on residue Ser1981. While deletion of the entire PRD domain abolishes the kinase activity of ATM, specific small deletions show no effect. DNA-SCARS (short for DNA segments with chromatin alterations reinforcing senescence) are nuclear substructures with persistent DNA damage and DNA damage response proteins found in senescent cells. DNA-SCARS lack most of the characteristics of transient, reversible DNA damage foci, such as single-stranded DNA, active DNA synthesis, and DNA repair proteins RPA and RAD51. In these cells, ATR was unable to activate after UV damage, showing the need for single stranded DNA for ATR activity. ATR as an essential protein
Mutations in ATR are very uncommon. 
AZT given with ribavirin increases anemia. [SEP] The presence of both anemia of chronic disease and dietary iron deficiency results in a more severe anemia. Anemia of chronic disease, as it is now understood, is to at least some degree separate from the anemia seen in kidney failure in which anemia results from reduced production of erythropoietin, or the anemia caused by some drugs (like AZT, used to treat HIV infection) that have the side effect of inhibiting erythropoiesis. The risk of serious side effects such as bleeding, electrolyte depletion and cardiac arrest could be greater with ferric carboxymaltose therapy, however the certainty of this evidence is low.Erythropoietin treatment, which stimulates the production of red blood cell production, is sometimes used to treat severe or persistent anemia, both as amonotherapy and a combination therapy alongside IV iron, but is costly and the benefit is unclear. Very low-certainty evidence suggests that erythropoietin as a monotherapy may improve anemia more than a placebo. Blood transfusion to patients with anemia of chronic disease is associated with a higher mortality, supporting the concept. Allergic reactions are rare.Early long-term higher-dose therapy with AZT was initially associated with side effects that sometimes limited therapy, including anemia, neutropenia, hepatotoxicity, cardiomyopathy, and myopathy. Anemia due to AZT was successfully treated using erythropoetin to stimulate red blood cell production. Prolonged AZT treatment can lead to HIV developing resistance to AZT by mutation of its reverse transcriptase. 
Activated Cdk5 phosphorylates the ATM protein in response to DNA damage. [SEP] ATM serine/threonine kinase or Ataxia-telangiectasia mutated, symbol ATM, is a serine/threonine protein kinase that is recruited and activated by DNA double-strand breaks. In 1998, the Shiloh and Kastan laboratories independently showed that ATM is a protein kinase whose activity is enhanced by DNA damage. ATM plays a role in cell cycle delay after DNA damage, especially after double-strand breaks (DSBs). The ATM-mediated DNA damage response consists of a rapid and a delayed response. The effector kinase CHK2 is phosphorylated and thereby activated by ATM. Upon DNA damage, ATM autophosphorylates on residue Ser1981. Therefore, a defect in ATM has severe consequences in repairing certain types of damage to DNA, and cancer may result from improper repair. Interactions
DNA damage induces the activation of Chk1 which facilitates the initiation of the DNA damage response (DDR) and cell cycle checkpoints. 
Activated Cdk5 regulates DNA damage-induced neuronal death. [SEP] Studies have shown that the CDKL5 protein interacts with various signaling pathways and plays a role in controlling neurotransmitter release, synaptic plasticity, and cell survival. Cdk5 is not only implicated in neuronal migration. It is also worth noting that Cdk5 also regulates the process of apoptosis, which is necessary in order to assure that the neural connections that are formed are correct. Neurodegenerative diseases
Cdk5 plays an essential role in the central nervous system. Nevertheless, if Cdk5 activity is deregulated, it can lead to really severe neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson, Multiple sclerosis and Huntington’s disease. On top of that, Cdk5 can have an influence on the alteration of the mitochondrial morphology or its transmembrane potential, which can lead to cell death and neurodegeneration. Moreover, Cdk5 phosphorylates Apoptosis-associated tyrosine kinase (AATK). When Cdk5/p25 derregulates HDAC1, abnormal cell-cycle activity appears and double-strand DNA breaks, causing neurotoxicity. 
Activation of PPM1D enhances p53 function. [SEP] Apoptosis-stimulating of p53 protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PPP1R13B gene.This gene encodes a member of the ASPP (apoptosis-stimulating protein of p53) family of p53 interacting proteins. p53-regulated apoptosis-inducing protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TP53AIP1 gene. The MDM2 oncoprotein ubiquitinates and antagonizes p53 but may also carry out p53-independent functions. Following DNA damage, phosphorylation of Mdm2 leads to changes in protein function and stabilization of p53. Additionally, phosphorylation at certain residues within the central acidic domain of Mdm2 may stimulate its ability to target p53 for degradation. Tumor suppressor p53-binding protein 1 also known as p53-binding protein 1 or 53BP1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TP53BP1 gene. The expression of PUMA is regulated by the tumor suppressor p53. Regulation
Induction
The majority of PUMA induced apoptosis occurs through activation of the tumor suppressor protein p53. 
Activation of the Rac1 homolog CED-10 kills viable cells in SRGP-1 mutant Caenorhabditis elegans. [SEP] Ced-3 is one of the major protein components of the programmed cell death (PCD) pathway for Caenorhabditis elegans. The discovery of the ced-3 function and mutations in C. elegans led to the understanding of how programmed cell death works in mammals. CED-12 (Cell Death Abnormality Protein-12) is a cytoplasmic, PH-domain containing adaptor protein found in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster. This lead researchers to believe, and later confirm, that the protein products of ced-12 (CED-12), ced-5 (CED-5), and ced-2 (CED-2) all functioned as part of the same pathway.Researchers also noted direct protein-protein interactions between CED-12 and CED-10 (C. elegans homolog for Rac1), a Rac-GTPase (energy-dependent protein found used for cytoskeletal rearrangements among other functions). Cell death abnormality gene 9 (CED-9), also known as apoptosis regulator CED-9, is a gene found in Caenorhabditis elegans that inhibits/represses programmed cell death (apoptosis). Protein
CED-9 encodes the apoptosis regulator CED-9 protein which is an important negative regulator protein in the apoptosis pathway of C. elegans. Apoptosis in C. elegans is often simplified to interactions between four major proteins in the pathway; EGL-1, CED-9, CED-4, and CED-3. CED-9 gain of function mutations are unresponsive to apoptosis signalling and allow cells fated to die, to survive. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided ventrally by Xrl-sizzled. [SEP] Mastermind-like proteins act as critical transcriptional co-activators for Notch signaling.The N-terminal domain of MAML proteins, MAML1, MAML2, MAML3, is a polypeptide of up to 70 residues, numbers 15-67 of which adopt an elongated kinked helix that wraps around ANK and CSL forming one of the complexes in the build-up of the Notch transcriptional complex for recruiting general transcription factors. This N-terminal domain is responsible for its interaction with the ankyrin repeat region of the Notch proteins NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3 and NOTCH4. It forms a DNA-binding complex with Notch proteins and RBPSUH/RBP-J kappa/CBF1, and also binds CREBBP/CBP and CDK8. Notch receptors are cleaved upon ligand engagement and the intracellular domain of Notch shuttles to the nucleus. MAMLs form a functional DNA-binding complex with the cleaved Notch receptor and the transcription factor CSL, thereby regulating transcriptional events that are specific to the Notch pathway. See also
DIFP – diisopropyl fluorophosphate, a related inhibitor
IDFP – isopropyl dodecylfluorophosphonate, another related inhibitor with selectivity for FAAH and MAGL
Activity-based probes


== References == The ventral lateral nucleus (VL) is a nucleus in the ventral nuclear group of the thalamus. It is used to inhibit the decarboxylation of L-DOPA to dopamine outside the brain, i.e. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure consisting of five distinct subunits. [SEP] The proton-gated urea channel is an inner-membrane protein essential for the survival to Helicobacter pylori. Ureases (EC 3.5.1.5), functionally, belong to the superfamily of amidohydrolases and phosphotriesterases. Bacterial ureases are composed of three distinct subunits, one large catalytic (α 60–76kDa) and two small (β 8–21 kDa, γ 6–14 kDa) commonly forming (αβγ)3 trimers stoichiometry with a 2-fold symmetric structure (note that the image above gives the structure of the asymmetric unit, one-third of the true biological assembly), they are cysteine-rich enzymes, resulting in the enzyme molar masses between 190 and 300kDa.An exceptional urease is obtained from Helicobacter sp.. For example, jack bean urease has two structural and one catalytic subunit. Active site
The active site of ureases is located in the α (alpha) subunits. In Sporosarcina pasteurii urease, the flap was found in the open conformation, while its closed conformation is apparently needed for the reaction.When compared, the α subunits of Helicobacter pylori urease and other bacterial ureases align with the jack bean ureases.The binding of urea to the active site of urease has not been observed. Inhibition of urease is not only of interest to agriculture, but also to medicine as pathogens like H. pylori produce urease as a survival mechanism. The urease produced by H. pylori hydrolyzes urea to ammonia, which raises the pH of the medium, and changes the color of the specimen from yellow (NEGATIVE) to red (POSITIVE). 
Active Ly49Q induces neutrophil polarization. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. Mouse strains without Ly49H are more susceptible to MCMV infection. Activating receptors include Ly49D, H, L.


== References == Leukocyte polarization is an important requirement for migration, activation and apoptosis in the adaptive and innate immune systems; most leukocytes, including monocytes, granulocytes, and T and B lymphocytes migrate to and from primary and secondary lymphoid organs to tissues to initiate immune responses to pathogens. 
Active Ly49Q prevents neutrophil polarization. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. Mouse strains without Ly49H are more susceptible to MCMV infection. Phosphorylated Ly49 molecule recruits the src homology 2 (SH2) domain containing protein phosphatase SHP-1, which dephosphorylates ITIM and thus prevents cell activation. Leukocyte polarization is an important requirement for migration, activation and apoptosis in the adaptive and innate immune systems; most leukocytes, including monocytes, granulocytes, and T and B lymphocytes migrate to and from primary and secondary lymphoid organs to tissues to initiate immune responses to pathogens. 
Active caspase-11 participate in regulating phagosome-lysosome fusion. [SEP] Murine caspase-11, and its human homologs caspase-4 and caspase-5, are mammalian intracellular receptor proteases activated by TLR4 and TLR3 signaling during the innate immune response. Caspase-11 was subsequently shown to be a cytosolic protein that responds solely to intracellular, cytosolic LPS.Though caspase-11 was thought to be activated only by TLR4, these experiments showed that it was in fact activated by TRIF signaling, mediated by both TLR4 and TLR3 stimulation. Once expressed, caspase-11 is only able to bind cytosolic LPS and cannot respond to extracellular LPS. Caspase-11 activation by direct binding to LPS represents a novel and unprecedented mechanism for caspase activation.Caspase-11 activation results in pyroptosis, a form of lytic cell death that releases inflammatory molecules such as ATP, HMGB1 and IL-1α from the cytosol. While caspase-11-mediated pyroptosis provides defense against pathogens, it has also been shown to cause damage to the host as well.The CARD domain of caspase-11 has been shown to associate with AIP-1 and cofilin to facilitate actin depolymerization. Medical relevance
Caspase-11 appears to provide immune defense against bacteria that enter or access the host cell cytosol. References
External links
Caspase-11 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Phagosomes have membrane-bound proteins to recruit and fuse with lysosomes to form mature phagolysosomes. 
Active caspase-11 protein promotes pyroptosis. [SEP] Mechanism
TRIF activation is necessary for the upregulation of pro-caspase-11 (an inactive precursor to active caspase-11) expression and caspase-11-mediated pyroptosis. Caspase-11 activation by direct binding to LPS represents a novel and unprecedented mechanism for caspase activation.Caspase-11 activation results in pyroptosis, a form of lytic cell death that releases inflammatory molecules such as ATP, HMGB1 and IL-1α from the cytosol. While caspase-11-mediated pyroptosis provides defense against pathogens, it has also been shown to cause damage to the host as well.The CARD domain of caspase-11 has been shown to associate with AIP-1 and cofilin to facilitate actin depolymerization. Pyroptosis response
Following the inflammatory response, an activated Caspase-1 can induce pyroptosis, a lytic form of cell death, depending on the signal received as well as the specific inflammasome sensor domain protein that received it. Inflammasome formation was initially thought to be required for the induction of pyroptosis, but in 2013, the caspase-11 dependent noncanonical pathway was discovered, suggesting lipopolysaccharides (LPS) can trigger pyroptosis and subsequent inflammatory responses independent of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). Caspase-3-dependent cell death pathway
An alternative pathway that links apoptosis and pyroptosis has been recently proposed. Cancer
Pyroptosis, as an inflammation-associated programmed cell death, has wide implications in various cancer types. Understanding the mechanisms of pyroptosis and identifying pyroptosis-associated molecules can be useful in treating different cancers. 
Acute ablation of KRAS causes severe growth impairment. [SEP] Ablation studies require that a system exhibit graceful degradation: the system must continue to function even when certain components are missing or degraded. The term is by analogy with ablation in biology. Targeted radiofrequency ablation (also written t-RFA) is a minimally invasive procedure to treat severe pain and discomfort caused from metastatic tumors in the vertebral body of the spine. Procedure
Targeted radiofrequency ablation is not a treatment for cancer, but is used for pain management. Constitutive ablation refers to gene expression which results in cell death. PIK3CA-related overgrowth spectrum (PROS) is an umbrella term for rare syndromes characterized by malformations and tissue overgrowth caused by somatic mutations in PIK3CA gene. Mutations in PIK3CA cause over-activity of PI3K which in turn leads to altered growth of cells and tissues which is thought to be important for overgrowth and malformations in PROS. Kohlschütter-Tönz syndrome (KTS), also called amelo-cerebro-hypohidrotic syndrome, is a rare inherited syndrome characterized by epilepsy, psychomotor delay or regression, intellectual disability, and yellow teeth caused by amelogenesis imperfecta (abnormal formation of tooth enamel). 
Acute ablation of Snail in the embryonic cortex affects the proliferation and number of embryonic cortical precursors. [SEP] Once the basic structure is present and cortical neurons have migrated to their final destinations, many other processes contribute to the maturation of functional cortical circuits. Blastulation is the stage in early animal embryonic development that produces the blastula. Biological physics of the developing embryo. Neurogenesis, or the generation of neurons, occurs in the VZ during embryonic and fetal development as a function of the Notch pathway, and the newborn neurons must migrate substantial distances to their final destination in the developing brain or spinal cord where they will establish neural circuits. Ablative brain surgery (also known as brain lesioning) is the surgical ablation by various methods of brain tissue to treat neurological or psychological disorders. The method of removal of part of the brain was termed "experimental ablation". Genetic ablation in plant development
Genetic ablation is a remarkable component in the study of cell lineages in mammals. Because of the more specific technique used in the production of chimeric plants, coupled with laser ablation, genetic ablation serves as a principal mechanism for understanding plant cell development. 
Addition of BMP4, activin A, CHIR99021, and SU504 to reprogramming fibroblasts generates, expands and maintains cardiovascular progenitor cells (CPCs) [SEP] These proteins are receptor-type kinases of Ser/Thr type, which have a single transmembrane domain and a specific hydrophilic Cys-rich ligand-binding domain.Types include:

Activin type 1 receptors
Activin type 2 receptors

Human proteins containing this domain
ACVR1;     ACVR1B;    ACVR1C;    ACVR2A;    ACVR2B;    ACVRL1;    BMPR1A;    BMPR1B;    
BMPR2;    TGFBR1;

References
External links
Activin+receptors at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) The angiopoietins are protein growth factors required for the formation of blood vessels (angiogenesis). Angiopoietins
The angiopoietins  are protein growth factors that regulate angiogenesis, the formation of blood vessels. Studies using Fgf4 gene knockout mice showed developmental defects in embryos both in vivo and in vitro, revealing that FGF4 facilitates the survival and growth of the inner cell mass during the postimplantation phase of development by acting as an autocrine or paracrine ligand. Fgf signaling pathway has also been demonstrated to drive hindgut identity during gastrointestinal development, and the up regulation of the Fgf4 in pluripotent stem cell has been used to direct their differentiation for the generation of intestinal Organoids and tissues in vitro. Fascin is an actin bundling protein. Function
Fascin binds beta-catenin, and colocalizes with it at the leading edges and borders of epithelial and endothelial cells. The role of Fascin in regulating cytoskeletal structures for the maintenance of cell adhesion, coordinating motility and invasion through interactions with signalling pathways is an active area of research especially from the cancer biology perspective. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] They are the first developmental stage in the monocyte series leading to a macrophage. They mature into monocytes which, in turn, develop into macrophages. They then are seen as macrophages in the normal peripheral blood and many different tissues of the body. Development
The monoblast is the first stage of monocyte-macrophage maturation. Development
The mesoderm gives rise to myeloid progenitor cells, which further differentiate into macrophage populations. As a unique population in terms of developmental origin, these resident macrophages have a unique phenotype in which they are long lived, self-renew locally, and stay confined within the islet parenchyma. Macrophages are known to originate from bone marrow-derived blood monocytes (monocyte-derived macrophages) or yolk sac progenitors (tissue-resident macrophages), but the exact origin of TAMs in human tumors remains to be elucidated. The composition of monocyte-derived macrophages and tissue-resident macrophages in the tumor microenvironment depends on the tumor type, stage, size, and location, thus it has been proposed that TAM identity and heterogeneity is the outcome of interactions between tumor-derived, tissue-specific, and developmental signals. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] They are the first developmental stage in the monocyte series leading to a macrophage. They mature into monocytes which, in turn, develop into macrophages. They then are seen as macrophages in the normal peripheral blood and many different tissues of the body. Development
The monoblast is the first stage of monocyte-macrophage maturation. Development
The mesoderm gives rise to myeloid progenitor cells, which further differentiate into macrophage populations. As a unique population in terms of developmental origin, these resident macrophages have a unique phenotype in which they are long lived, self-renew locally, and stay confined within the islet parenchyma. Macrophages are known to originate from bone marrow-derived blood monocytes (monocyte-derived macrophages) or yolk sac progenitors (tissue-resident macrophages), but the exact origin of TAMs in human tumors remains to be elucidated. The composition of monocyte-derived macrophages and tissue-resident macrophages in the tumor microenvironment depends on the tumor type, stage, size, and location, thus it has been proposed that TAM identity and heterogeneity is the outcome of interactions between tumor-derived, tissue-specific, and developmental signals. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages possess a self-renewing capacity. [SEP] As a unique population in terms of developmental origin, these resident macrophages have a unique phenotype in which they are long lived, self-renew locally, and stay confined within the islet parenchyma. Development
Macrophages that reside in adult healthy tissues either derive from circulating monocytes or are established before birth and then maintained during adult life independently of monocytes. Unlike short-lived neutrophils, macrophages survive longer in the body, up to several months. It is known that macrophages' involvement in promoting tissue repair is not muscle specific; they accumulate in numerous tissues during the healing process phase following injury. Role in tissue homeostasis
Every tissue harbors its own specialized population of resident macrophages, which entertain reciprocal interconnections with the stroma and functional tissue. Macrophages and intestinal macrophages have high plasticity causing their phenotype to be altered by their environments. Macrophages are specialized phagocytes that remove dying or dead cells or cellular debris. Tissue resident macrophages
Some macrophages are known to be residing in the tissues and help in maintaining the tissue microenvironment. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] Macrophages are known to originate from bone marrow-derived blood monocytes (monocyte-derived macrophages) or yolk sac progenitors (tissue-resident macrophages), but the exact origin of TAMs in human tumors remains to be elucidated. Development
Development of an initial population of Kupffer cells begins in the embryonic yolk sac where precursor cells differentiate into fetal macrophages. The macrophages in the liver activate and release both IL-1 and TNF-alpha. The yolk sac is a membranous sac attached to an embryo, formed by cells of the hypoblast layer of the bilaminar embryonic disc. In humans, the yolk sac is important in early embryonic blood supply, and much of it is incorporated into the primordial gut during the fourth week of embryonic development. For a period during embryonic development, the dorsal aorta produces hematopoietic stem cells, which will eventually colonise the liver and give rise to all mature blood lineages in the adult. Development
The mesoderm gives rise to myeloid progenitor cells, which further differentiate into macrophage populations. As opposed to macrophages in the islet stroma (tissue), whose developmental origin is from the yolk sac (primitive hematopoiesis), islet resident progenitors come from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) of the definitive hematopoiesis. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] Macrophages are known to originate from bone marrow-derived blood monocytes (monocyte-derived macrophages) or yolk sac progenitors (tissue-resident macrophages), but the exact origin of TAMs in human tumors remains to be elucidated. Development
Development of an initial population of Kupffer cells begins in the embryonic yolk sac where precursor cells differentiate into fetal macrophages. The macrophages in the liver activate and release both IL-1 and TNF-alpha. The yolk sac is a membranous sac attached to an embryo, formed by cells of the hypoblast layer of the bilaminar embryonic disc. In humans, the yolk sac is important in early embryonic blood supply, and much of it is incorporated into the primordial gut during the fourth week of embryonic development. For a period during embryonic development, the dorsal aorta produces hematopoietic stem cells, which will eventually colonise the liver and give rise to all mature blood lineages in the adult. Development
The mesoderm gives rise to myeloid progenitor cells, which further differentiate into macrophage populations. As opposed to macrophages in the islet stroma (tissue), whose developmental origin is from the yolk sac (primitive hematopoiesis), islet resident progenitors come from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) of the definitive hematopoiesis. 
Aged patients are less susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] Reperfusion injury, sometimes called ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) or reoxygenation injury, is the tissue damage caused when blood supply returns to tissue (re- + perfusion) after a period of ischemia or lack of oxygen (anoxia or hypoxia). Hypothermia too has been shown to minimize a patient's production of deadly free radicals during reperfusion. Recent researches have shown significant therapeutic effects on pre-clinical models of reperfusion injury after ischemic stroke. Reduction of body temperature also reduces the inflammation response and reperfusion injury. It affects mainly elderly patients above 50 years of age who suffer from cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure or aortic regurgitation), hepatic, chronic kidney disease or diabetes mellitus. RIC not only confers protection against ischemia-reperfusion injury, but also increases cerebral blood flow, which may contribute to the neuroprotective effect. The second trial examined the effect of 180 days of RIC on symptomatic ICAS in Chinese people aged 80–95 years, as invasive stenting is not always suitable for elderly patients, and less-invasive methods are needed. RIC safely prevented stroke and TIA recurrence and reduced inflammation in these patients. 
Aged patients are more susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] Ischemia-reperfusion (IR) tissue injury is the resultant pathology from a combination of factors, including tissue hypoxia, followed by tissue damage associated with re-oxygenation. Reperfusion injury, sometimes called ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) or reoxygenation injury, is the tissue damage caused when blood supply returns to tissue (re- + perfusion) after a period of ischemia or lack of oxygen (anoxia or hypoxia). The inflammatory response is partially responsible for the damage of reperfusion injury. As this process is repeated, it eventually damages tissue enough to cause a wound.The main reason for the acute phase of ischemia-reperfusion injury  is oxygen deprivation and, therefore, arrest of generation of ATP (cellular energy currency) by mitochondria oxidative phosphorylation. Tissue damage due to the general energy deficit during ischemia is followed by reperfusion (increase of oxygen level) when the injury is enhanced. Mitochondrial complex I is thought to be the most vulnerable enzyme to tissue ischemia/reperfusion but the mechanism of damage is different in different tissues. The damage is the result of the build-up of metabolic waste products, inability to maintain cell membranes, mitochondrial damage, and eventual leakage of autolyzing proteolytic enzymes into the cell and surrounding tissues.Restoration of blood supply to ischemic tissues can cause additional damage known as reperfusion injury that can be more damaging than the initial ischemia. It affects mainly elderly patients above 50 years of age who suffer from cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure or aortic regurgitation), hepatic, chronic kidney disease or diabetes mellitus. 
Aggravated inflammation is dependent on NLRP3 inflammasome activation. [SEP] The NLRP3 inflammasome was also found to respond to PAMPs of different pathogens, such as viruses, e.g. The NLRP3 inflammasome can then mediate processing of pro-inflammatory cytokines and result in release of IL-1β and IL-18 in response to non-canonical inflammasome activation. Production of IL-1β downstream of caspase-11 requires another canonical inflammasome, called the NLRP3 inflammasome, that activates caspase-1. NLRP3 is a canonical inflammasome. The NLRP3 inflammasome forms by binding to pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) and damage associated molecular patterns (DAMPS) that activate caspase 1 which then signals for the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-18 resulting in pyroptosis Constant activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome is believed to play a direct or indirect role in acute arthritis, atherosclerosis and various neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Parkinson's disease (PD),,. Stressed cells in the system can ignite the NLRP3 inflammasome which in turn produces the secretion inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-18. Activation of NLRP1B-dependent inflammasome responses appears in host defense with mechanism like IL-1β and neutrophils. NLRP8 reduces inflammatory and innate immune responses by inhibiting the activity of two proteins associated with the inflammasome; caspase-1 and PYCARD. 
Albendazole is used to treat soil-transmitted helminths. [SEP] Albendazole is a broad-spectrum anthelmintic and antiprotozoal agent of the benzimidazole type. Medical uses
Albendazole is an effective treatment for:

Flatworms
Fasciolosis
Cestodes (tapeworms), as an alternative to praziquantel or niclosamide for adult beef tapewormss and as an alternative to praziquantel for pork tapeworms. A single dose of albendazole is sufficient to treat intestinal infestations by A. duodenale or Necator americanus. Veterinary use
Albendazole is mainly used in cattle and sheep, but has found some use in cats and dogs as well; it is also used in ratite birds for flagellate parasites and tapeworms. Albendazole has been used as an antihelminthic and for control of flukes in a variety of animal species, including cattle, sheep, goats, swine, camels, dogs, cats, elephants, poultry, and others. References
External links
"Albendazole". Fenbendazole is a broad spectrum benzimidazole anthelmintic used against gastrointestinal parasites including: giardia, roundworms, hookworms, whipworms, the tapeworm genus Taenia (but not effective against Dipylidium caninum, a common dog tapeworm), pinworms, aelurostrongylus, paragonimiasis, strongyles, and strongyloides that can be administered to sheep, cattle, horses, fish, dogs, cats, rabbits, most reptiles, freshwater shrimp tanks as planaria and hydra treatments, as well as seals. Medical use
Mebendazole is a highly effective, broad-spectrum antihelmintic indicated for the treatment of nematode infestations, including roundworm, hookworm, whipworm, threadworm (pinworm), and the intestinal form of trichinosis prior to its spread into the tissues beyond the digestive tract. 
Algerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] The West African College of Physicians is a professional society, founded in 1976, for medical specialists in the West African sub-region. There is educational and scientific collaboration between the West African College of Physicians and Britain’s Royal Medical Colleges especially the Royal College of Physicians of London, the American College of Physicians and the South African Medical College. The National Medical Association (NMA) is the largest and oldest organization representing African American physicians and their patients in the United States. As a 501(c)(3) national professional and scientific organization, the NMA represents the interests of over 30,000 African American physicians and their patients, with nearly 112 affiliated societies throughout the nation and U.S. territories. Conceived in no spirit of racial exclusiveness, fostering no ethnic antagonism, but born of the exigencies of the American environment, the National Medical Association has for its object the banding together for mutual cooperation and helpfulness, the men and women of African descent who are legally and honorably engaged in the practice of the cognate professions of medicine, surgery, pharmacy and dentistry.— C.V. Roman, M.D. As an association, however, it also sought to promote the interests of the African American physicians themselves. With 161,000 members, ACP is the largest medical-specialty organization and second-largest physician group in the United States, after the American Medical Association. Physician group practices with 2-4 physicians make up 22.3% of physician offices in the United States, 19.8% have 5-10 physicians, 12.1% have 11-24 physicians, 6.3% have 25–49, and the remaining 13.5% have 50 or more physicians. 
Alirocumab treatment reduces apo(a) fractional clearance rate. [SEP] Alirocumab, sold under the brand name Praluent, is a medication used as a second-line treatment for high cholesterol for adults whose cholesterol is not controlled by diet and statin treatment. Medical uses
Alirocumab is used as a second-line treatment to lower LDL cholesterol for adults who have a severe form of hereditary high cholesterol and people with atherosclerosis who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol when diet and statin treatment have not worked. According to the study, alirocumab significantly reduced major adverse cardiovascular events by 15% and it was associated with a 15% lower risk of death from any cause (hazard ratio [HR] 0.85; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.73 to 0.98).In 2021, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) added an indication for alirocumab to treat adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), a genetic condition that causes severely high cholesterol. Pharmacology
Alirocumab works by inhibiting the PCSK9 protein. Chemistry
Alirocumab is a human monoclonal antibody of the IgG1 isotype. A 78-week study of alirocumab in 2341 people taking statins who were at high risk for cardiovascular events and had high LDL cholesterol levels was published in April 2015. Studies are ongoing to assess the effects of alirocumab in normocholesterolemic individuals.In July 2014, Regeneron and Sanofi announced that they had purchased a priority review voucher that BioMarin had won for a recent rare disease drug approval for $67.5 million; the voucher cut four months off the regulatory review time for alirocumab and was part of their strategy to beat Amgen to market with the first approval of a PCSK9 inhibitor.In July 2015, the FDA approved alirocumab as a second-line treatment to lower LDL cholesterol for adults who have hereditary high cholesterol and people with atherosclerosis who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol when diet and statin treatment have not worked. The price of alirocumab was determined based in part on making apheresis no longer necessary. 
Allogeneic mechanical circulatory support is not as effective as autologous mechanical circulatory support for treating acute myocardial infarction. [SEP] It is effective across the entire spectrum of acute coronary syndromes, and it actually has been shown to reduce the rate of death in patients with STEMI and in patients presenting without ST elevation. Anticoagulation and antiplatelet agents are given to prevent the narrowed artery from occluding.At least 10% of patients with STEMI do not develop myocardial necrosis (as evidenced by a rise in cardiac markers) and subsequent Q waves on EKG after reperfusion therapy. Failure
Thrombolytic therapy to abort a myocardial infarction is not always effective. While the use of intracoronary stents do not improve the short term outcomes in primary PCI, the use of stents is widespread because of the decreased rates of procedures to treat restenosis compared to balloon angioplasty.Adjuvant therapy during an angioplasty includes intravenous heparin, aspirin, and clopidogrel. Coronary artery bypass surgery
Emergency bypass surgery for the treatment of an acute myocardial infarction (MI) is less common than PCI or thrombolysis. In patients developing cardiogenic shock after a myocardial infarction, both PCI and CABG are satisfactory treatment options, with similar survival rates.Coronary artery bypass surgery involves an artery or vein from the patient being implanted to bypass narrowings or occlusions in the coronary arteries. Have been told by their doctor that there is nothing that can be further done to help their symptoms.TMR has shown positive clinical benefits for patients who may require one or two bypass grafts, yet also have other areas of the heart that are not able to be bypassed by direct bypass-surgery. TMR is not suitable for patients whose:

Heart muscle is severely damaged due to heart attacks; the heart muscle is dead or scarred rather than affected by inadequate blood supply (ischemic)
Heart muscle has no areas of ischemia

References
External links
Emedicine: Transmyocardial Laser Revascularization 
Alteration of origin firing causes changes in termination zones of Okazaki fragments. [SEP] Okazaki fragments are short sequences of DNA nucleotides (approximately 150 to 200 base pairs long in eukaryotes) which are synthesized discontinuously and later linked together by the enzyme DNA ligase to create the lagging strand during DNA replication. Pathways
Two pathways have been proposed to process Okazaki fragments: the short flap pathway and the long flap pathway. Dna2 endonuclease is responsible for the removal of the initiator RNA segment on Okazaki Fragments. For Okazaki maturation to occur, RNA primers must create segments on the fragments to be ligated. Once the template becomes discontinuous, it will create an Okazaki fragment. Defects in the maturation of Okazaki fragments can potentially cause strands in the DNA to break and cause different forms of chromosome abnormality. These lagging strands are synthesized by the production of Okazaki fragments that are soon joined. Because Okazaki fragments are the set of nucleotides for the lagging strand, any alteration including deletions, insertions, or duplications from the original strand can cause a mutation if it is not detected and fixed. 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is inaccurate at diagnosing hypertension. [SEP] Target organ damage
Readings revealing possible hypertension-related end organ damage, such as left ventricular hypertrophy or narrowing of the retinal arteries, are more likely to be gained through ambulatory blood pressure monitoring than through clinical blood pressure measurement. As a result, "... ambulatory blood pressure predicts mortality significantly better than clinic blood pressure." References
External links
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, Medical Journal of Australia Pseudohypertension, also known as pseudohypertension in the elderly, noncompressibility artery syndrome, and Osler's sign of pseudohypertension is a falsely elevated blood pressure reading obtained through sphygmomanometry due to calcification of blood vessels which cannot be compressed. This condition however is associated with significant cardiovascular disease risk.Because the stiffened arterial walls of arteriosclerosis do not compress with pressure normally, the blood pressure reading is theoretically higher than the true intra-arterial measurement.To perform the test, one first inflates the blood pressure cuff above systolic pressure to obliterate the radial pulse. Diagnosis is typically by 24 hours ambulatory blood pressure monitoring to which measurements can be taken at home without having to visit to the physician’s office. Diagnosis
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring: A non-invasive portable device that can monitor and record blood pressure automatically during specific time of the day, especially is focused on people who have White Coat Syndrome as it can reduce the elevation of blood pressure during the visit in the examination room. This is because the condition is not yet well defined and makes it difficult for doctors to treat labile hypertension as medications are usually given for patients who have hypertension. 
Amitriptyline is an effective treatment for chronic tension-type headaches. [SEP] Despite being associated with depression, antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, have been found to effectively treat "near-daily headaches" and numerous chronic pain conditions as well as improving mood and sleep—two possible triggers for people with chronic headaches. Amitriptyline, sold under the brand name Elavil among others, is a tricyclic antidepressant primarily used to treat major depressive disorder, a variety of pain syndromes such as neuropathic pain, fibromyalgia, migraine and tension headaches. Medical uses
Amitriptyline is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder and neuropathic pain and for the prevention of migraine and chronic tension headache. Amitriptyline is as effective at relieving pain as duloxetine. It is recommended only as a second line therapy for non-chemotherapy-induced neuropathic or mixed neuropathic pain, if opioids did not provide the desired effect.Moderate evidence exists in favor of amitriptyline use for atypical facial pain. Headache
Amitriptyline is probably effective for the prevention of periodic migraine in adults. Amitriptyline is not significantly different from placebo when used for the prevention of migraine in children.Amitriptyline may reduce the frequency and duration of chronic tension headache, but it is associated with worse adverse effects than mirtazapine. Overall, amitriptyline is recommended for tension headache prophylaxis, along with lifestyle advice, which should include avoidance of analgesia and caffeine. 
An M2-like phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages is quickly induced by cold exposure. [SEP] Adipose tissue macrophages (abbr. In adipose tissue, distinction between M1 and M2 macrophage polarization can be monitored by assessing the expression of selected markers. Adipose tissue macrophages and obesity
Increased recruitment of macrophages into adipose tissue is multifactoral. Macrophages surrounding dying or dead adipocytes form crown-like structures (CLSs), identified by the absence of perilipin staining.In addition to increased number of macrophages within adipose tissue, obesity also induces a phenotypic switch in these cells toward the classically activated (M1) phenotype. Adipose tissue macrophages and weight loss
Acute weight loss is also associated with increased, yet transient recruitment of macrophages into adipose tissue. revealed that when the animals are re-exposed to a cold environment, the same adipocytes will adopt a beige phenotype, suggesting that beige adipocytes are retained.Transcriptional regulators, as well as a growing number of other factors, regulate the induction of beige fat. This suggests that some of the adipocytes switched to a beige phenotype at 6 °C. Its expression in adipose tissues is increased following cold exposure. 
Androgenetic haploid mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can be derived and genetically manipulated in vitro. [SEP] Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are pluripotent stem cells derived from the inner cell mass of a blastocyst, an early-stage pre-implantation embryo. Properties
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs), derived from the blastocyst stage of early mammalian embryos, are distinguished by their ability to differentiate into any embryonic cell type and by their ability to self-renew. Embryonic stem cells is one of the sources that are being considered for the use of tissue engineering. 1981: Embryonic stem cells (ES cells) were independently first derived from a mouse embryos by two groups. Martin Evans and Matthew Kaufman from the Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge published first in July, revealing a new technique for culturing the mouse embryos in the uterus to allow for an increase in cell number, allowing for the derivation of ES cell from these embryos. She showed that embryos could be cultured in vitro and that ES cells could be derived from these embryos. Current uses for mouse ES cells include the generation of transgenic mice, including knockout mice. It is a common technique to use mouse cells and other animal cells to maintain the pluripotency of actively dividing stem cells. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with decreased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are a class of medication used primarily for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure. ACE inhibitors inhibit the activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme, an important component of the renin–angiotensin system which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II, and hydrolyses bradykinin. Therefore, ACE inhibitors decrease the formation of angiotensin II, a vasoconstrictor, and increase the level of bradykinin, a peptide vasodilator. In those with stable coronary artery disease, but no heart failure, benefits are similar to other usual treatments.In 2012, there was a meta-analysis published in the BMJ that described the protective role of ACE inhibitors in reducing the risk of pneumonia when compared to ARBs (Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers). Effects
ACE inhibitors block the conversion of angiotensin I (ATI) to angiotensin II (ATII). This decreases blood volume, leading to decreased blood pressure.Epidemiological and clinical studies have shown ACE inhibitors reduce the progress of diabetic nephropathy independently from their blood pressure-lowering effect. There are warnings about the combination of ACE inhibitors with ARBs.Patients with heart failure may benefit from the combination in terms of reducing morbidity and ventricular remodeling.The most compelling evidence for the treatment of nephropathy has been found: This combination therapy partially reversed the proteinuria and also exhibited a renoprotective effect in patients with diabetic nephropathy, and pediatric IgA nephropathy. ACE inhibitors reduce the activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) which produces angiotensin II, a hormone that constricts blood vessels. 
Anthrax spores are very difficult to dispose once they are dispersed. [SEP] It has since been used in bioterrorism.Anthrax spores can cause infection from inhalation, skin contact, ingestion or injection and when untreated can lead to death. Biological overview
Concentrated anthrax spores, and not necessarily the bacterium Bacillus anthracis, pose the biggest risk as a biological weapons to humans. The destructive effects of an anthrax attack on a large city may have the destructive capacity of a nuclear weapon. Bomb
Similar to a warhead, an anthrax filled bomb, such as the E61 Anthrax Bomblet or other N-bomb cluster munition filled with anthrax spores could allow an area to be contaminated for months, or decades. Exposure
The spores of anthrax are able to survive in harsh conditions for decades or even centuries. However, a person's clothing and body may be contaminated with anthrax spores. People that progress to the fulminant phase of inhalational anthrax nearly always die, with one case study showing a death rate of 97%. To make large amounts of an aerosol form of anthrax suitable for biological warfare requires extensive practical knowledge, training, and highly advanced equipment.Concentrated anthrax spores were used for bioterrorism in the 2001 anthrax attacks in the United States, delivered by mailing postal letters containing the spores. 
Anthrax spores remain deadly until affected areas are decontaminated. [SEP] It has since been used in bioterrorism.Anthrax spores can cause infection from inhalation, skin contact, ingestion or injection and when untreated can lead to death. The destructive effects of an anthrax attack on a large city may have the destructive capacity of a nuclear weapon. Containment treatment and avoidance
Detection of airborne anthrax requires 24–48 hours. Bomb
Similar to a warhead, an anthrax filled bomb, such as the E61 Anthrax Bomblet or other N-bomb cluster munition filled with anthrax spores could allow an area to be contaminated for months, or decades. Anthrax toxin is a three-protein exotoxin secreted by virulent strains of the bacterium, Bacillus anthracis—the causative agent of anthrax. Anthrax toxin allows the bacteria to evade the immune system, proliferate, and ultimately kill the host animal. Each individual anthrax toxin protein is nontoxic. "The genetically unique parent material of the anthrax spores... was created and solely maintained by Dr. 
Antidepressants increase the severity of migraines. [SEP] Antimigraine drugs are medications intended to reduce the effects or intensity of migraine headache. They include drugs for the treatment of acute migraine symptoms as well as drugs for the prevention of migraine attacks. Migraines can also be treated with unspecific analgesics such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or acetaminophen. Opioids are not recommended for treatment of migraines. Opioids
Opioids are not recommended for treatment of acute migraines due to their significant side effect profile, including twice the risk of MOH headache when compared to NSAIDS, acetaminophen or triptans. Prevention
For patients who require preventive therapy with symptoms such as more than 4 migraines per month or migraines lasting longer than 12 hours, first-line drugs for the prevention of migraine attacks include beta blockers, antidepressants, and anti convulsants. Antidepressants
Antidepressants are suggested to be both efficacious and tolerable in the treatment of migraine prevention for both migraine frequency and migraine index. The exact mechanism of action is unknown but seems to be related to serotonin's impact on migraine. 
Antidepressants reduce the severity of migraines. [SEP] Antimigraine drugs are medications intended to reduce the effects or intensity of migraine headache. Prevention
For patients who require preventive therapy with symptoms such as more than 4 migraines per month or migraines lasting longer than 12 hours, first-line drugs for the prevention of migraine attacks include beta blockers, antidepressants, and anti convulsants. Antidepressants
Antidepressants are suggested to be both efficacious and tolerable in the treatment of migraine prevention for both migraine frequency and migraine index. Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. The most commonly prescribed drugs for migraine prevention are beta-blockers, antidepressants, and anticonvulsants. Antidepressants
Amitriptyline has been more frequently studied of the antidepressants and is the only antidepressant with fairly consistent support for efficacy in migraine prevention. Anticonvulsants
Anticonvulsant medication is commonly prescribed for migraine prevention, because they have been shown in placebo-controlled double-blind trials to be effective in some migraine sufferers. Ibuprofen has been found to provide effective pain relief in about 50% of migraine attacks. 
Antimicrobial agents are less effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] Overuse or misuse of antimicrobials can lead to the development of antimicrobial resistance. Since 1980, the introduction of new antimicrobial agents for clinical use has declined, in part because of the enormous expense of developing and testing new drugs. Drug-resistant bacteria are increasingly difficult to treat, requiring replacement or higher-dose drugs that may be more expensive or more toxic. Over time, the bacteria will become resistant with that particular antimicrobial medication. Pharmacodynamics
The successful outcome of antimicrobial therapy with antibacterial compounds depends on several factors. Also, incorrect or suboptimal antibiotics are prescribed for certain bacterial infections. Whilst antibiotics can clearly be lifesaving in patients with bacterial infections, their overuse, especially in patients where infections are hard to diagnose, can lead to harm via multiple mechanisms. Reducing the selection pressure for antibiotic resistance
In addition to developing new antibacterial treatments, it is important to reduce the selection pressure for the emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance. 
Antimicrobial agents are more effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] Antimicrobial medicines can be grouped according to the microorganisms they act primarily against. The use of antimicrobial medicines to treat infection is known as antimicrobial chemotherapy, while the use of antimicrobial medicines to prevent infection is known as antimicrobial prophylaxis.The main classes of antimicrobial agents are disinfectants (non-selective agents, such as bleach), which kill a wide range of microbes on non-living surfaces to prevent the spread of illness, antiseptics (which are applied to living tissue and help reduce infection during surgery), and antibiotics (which destroy microorganisms within the body). Chemical
Antibacterials
Antibacterials are used to treat bacterial infections. Antibiotics increase selective pressure in bacterial populations, killing vulnerable bacteria; this increases the percentage of resistant bacteria which continue growing. The antimicrobial stewardship program will also provide pharmacists with the knowledge to educate patients that antibiotics will not work for a virus for example.Excessive antimicrobial use has become one of the top contributors to the evolution of antimicrobial resistance. Overuse of antimicrobials has become the primary cause of rising levels of antimicrobial resistance. At the hospital level
Antimicrobial stewardship teams in hospitals are encouraging optimal use of antimicrobials. In this day and age current antimicrobial resistance leads to longer hospital stays, higher medical costs, and increased mortality. 
Antiretroviral therapy increases rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] The risk and severity of tuberculosis increases soon after infection with HIV. Although tuberculosis can be a relatively early manifestation of HIV infection, it is important to note that the risk of tuberculosis progresses as the CD4 cell count decreases along with the progression of HIV infection. The risk of TB generally remains high in HIV-infected patients, remaining above the background risk of the general population even with effective immune reconstitution and high CD4 cell counts with antiretroviral therapy. The early provision of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults with newly diagnosed tuberculosis improved survival in patients who had a low CD4 count (less than 0.050 x 109 cells/L). Research at molecular level
A study conducted on 452 patients revealed that the genotype responsible for higher IL-10 expression makes HIV infected people more susceptible to tuberculosis infection. There are a number risk factors for tuberculosis infection; worldwide the most important of these is HIV. HIV
HIV is a major risk factor for tuberculosis. The risk of developing TB is estimated to be between 20 and 37 times greater in people living with HIV than among those without HIV infection. 
Approximately 250,000 people are infected with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 in the United Kingdom. [SEP] Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 or human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV-I), also called the adult T-cell lymphoma virus type 1, is a retrovirus of the human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV) family that has been implicated in several kinds of diseases including very aggressive adult T-cell lymphoma (ATL), HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, uveitis, Strongyloides stercoralis hyper-infection and some other diseases. It is thought that about 1–5% of infected persons develop cancer as a result of the infection with HTLV-I over their lifetimes.Adult T-cell lymphoma (ATL) was discovered in 1977 in Japan. A patient infected with HTLV can be diagnosed when antibodies against HTLV-1 are detected in the serum. Epidemiology
The knowledge about HTLV-1 epidemiology is limited.The highest prevalence for any country has been detected in Japan (particularly in the southwest); in 2007 around 1% of Japan's population was infected. In Europe HTLV-1 is still uncommon, although it is present in some high-risk populations, including immigrants and intravenous drug users. Opportunistic infections
Individuals infected with HTLV-1 are at risk for opportunistic infections—diseases not caused by the virus itself, but by alterations in the host's immune functions.HTLV-1, unlike the distantly related retrovirus HIV, has an immunostimulating effect which actually becomes immunosuppressive. One case report describes an HTLV-1 infected woman who developed chronic refractory eczema, corneal injury and adult T cell leukemia. The report found that around 1,250 people with bleeding disorders were infected with HIV in the UK and that at least a further 2,400 people were infected with Hepatitis C. The report concluded that around three-quarters of those infected with HIV have died and that at least 700 people infected with Hepatitis C had died. 
Assessing treatment adherence is more beneficial to clinical practice than measuring routine outcomes. [SEP] In medicine and psychology, clinical significance is the practical importance of a treatment effect—whether it has a real genuine, palpable, noticeable effect on daily life. In terms of testing clinical treatments, practical significance optimally yields quantified information about the importance of a finding, using metrics such as effect size, number needed to treat (NNT), and preventive fraction. Specific usage
In contrast, when used as a technical term within psychology and psychotherapy, clinical significance yields information on whether a treatment was effective enough to change a patient’s diagnostic label. In terms of clinical treatment studies, clinical significance answers the question "Is a treatment effective enough to cause the patient to be normal [with respect to the diagnostic criteria in question]?" Like blood pressure, cholesterol and other routine lab work that helps to guide and inform general medical practice, the use of routine measurement in behavioral health is proving to be invaluable in assisting therapists to deliver better quality care. Macro-context
In behavioral healthcare (mental health and substance abuse treatment) routine health outcomes measurement has expanded beyond aggregating measurements for quality improvement studies and has placed equal emphasis on the therapeutic gain delivered by real-time patient-level outcome feedback. Percent of patient documenting reliable improvement. Patients typically welcome these efforts to integrate their feelings into treatment plans and to make the process of therapy more objective and progress measurable. 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations leads to improved vision. [SEP] Older people also have reduced levels of retinal illuminance, such as having smaller pupils and less transparent crystalline lenses. Screening for vision problems in children may improve future vision and educational achievement. Mobility
Older adults with visual impairment are at an increased risk of physical inactivity, slower gait speeds, and fear of falls.Physical activity is a useful predictor of overall well-being, and routine physical activity reduces the risk of developing chronic diseases and disability. Cognitive
Older adults with vision loss are at an increased risk of memory loss, cognitive impairment, and cognitive decline. Social and psychological
Studies demonstrate an association between older adults with visual impairment and a poor mental health; discrimination was identified as one of the causes of this association. Despite the fact that only 8% of adults 40 years and older experience vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy (e.g. The American Medical Association provides an approach to evaluating visual loss as it affects an individual's ability to perform activities of daily living.Screening adults who have no symptoms is of uncertain benefit. More than 82% of all people who are blind are 50 years of age and older, although they represent only 19% of the world's population. 
At least 85% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of myofibroblasts. [SEP] Studies with protons and HZE nuclei of relative biological effectiveness for molecular, cellular, and tissue endpoints, including tumor induction, demonstrate risk from space radiation exposure. In fact, only a small fraction of the initial damage is transduction of late chromosomal damage has also been measured in the progeny of human lymphocytes that were exposed with much higher frequency in the progeny of cells that were exposed to heavy ions compared to gamma rays. Patients are exposed to ionizing radiation when they undergo diagnostic examinations using x-rays or radiopharmaceuticals. Radiation emitted by radioisotopes or radiation generators is utilized in therapy for cancer or benign lesions and also in interventional procedures using fluoroscopy. Histopathology
Acute radiation proctopathy occurs due to direct damage of the lining (epithelium) of the colon. Radiation fibrosis syndrome is a human illness. It occurs as a result of cell death, and can be caused by radiotherapy. It is characterized by the accumulation of fibrin in irradiated tissues. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has better graft function than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous stem-cell transplantation (also called autogenous, autogeneic, or autogenic stem-cell transplantation and abbreviated auto-SCT) is autologous transplantation of stem cells—that is, transplantation in which stem cells (undifferentiated cells from which other cell types develop) are removed from a person, stored, and later given back to that same person.Although it is most frequently performed with hematopoietic stem cells (precursors of blood-forming cells) in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, cardiac cells have also been used successfully to repair damage caused by heart attacks.Autologous stem-cell transplantation is distinguished from allogenic stem cell transplantation where the donor and the recipient of the stem cells are different people. In autologous cancer immunotherapy, T cells are extracted from the patient, genetically modified and cultured in vitro and returned to the same patient. Clinically, this approach has been exploited to transfer either immune-promoting or tolerogenic cells (often lymphocytes) to either enhance immunity against viruses and cancer or to promote tolerance in the setting of autoimmune disease, such as Type I diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis. Also called autologous expanded mesenchymal stem cells OTI-010. Autologous transplants have the advantage of lower risk of infection during the immune-compromised portion of the treatment, since the recovery of immune function is rapid. In general, by transfusing healthy stem cells to the recipient's bloodstream to reform a healthy immune system, allogeneic HSCTs appear to improve chances for cure or long-term remission once the immediate transplant-related complications are resolved.A compatible donor is found by doing additional HLA testing from the blood of potential donors. : 320–321  Instead, nonmyeloablative transplants run lower risks of serious infections and transplant-related mortality while relying upon the graft versus tumor effect to resist the inherent increased risk of cancer relapse. This lower rate of relapse accounts for the increased success rate of allogeneic transplants, compared to transplants from identical twins, and indicates that allogeneic HSCT is a form of immunotherapy. 
Autophagy deficiency in the liver increases vulnerability to insulin resistance. [SEP] A special emphasis is on the role or autophagy in a wide spectrum of diseases with metabolic, inflammatory and immunological aspects. Autophagy has been  implicated in cancer, neurodegeneration such as Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease and Parkinson's disease, diabetes, development, infections and immune diseases, as well as a process of relevance for aging. Although initially characterized as a primordial degradation pathway induced to protect against starvation, it has become increasingly clear that autophagy also plays a major role in the homeostasis of non-starved cells. The roles of autophagy in neurodegeneration and immune defense also received considerable attention. A study of mice shows that autophagy is important for the ever-changing demands of their nutritional and energy needs, particularly through the metabolic pathways of protein catabolism. Autophagy plays an important role in cancer – both in protecting against cancer as well as potentially contributing to the growth of cancer. This renders cancer cells vulnerable to intervention on regulators of autophagy. Deregulation of the autophagy pathway and mutation of alleles regulating autophagy are believed to cause neurodegenerative diseases. 
B cells go though plasmablast differentiation and antibody production by continuous expression of EBI2. [SEP] B cells differentiate into plasma cells that produce antibody molecules closely modeled after the receptors of the precursor B cell. Most of these B cells will become plasmablasts (or "immature plasma cells"), and eventually plasma cells, and begin producing large volumes of antibodies. Differentiation of mature B cells into plasma cells is dependent upon the transcription factors Blimp-1/PRDM1, BCL6, and IRF4. B cells produce antibody molecules which may be either secreted or inserted into the plasma membrane where they serve as a part of B-cell receptors. When a naïve or memory B cell is activated by an antigen, it proliferates and differentiates into an antibody-secreting effector cell, known as a plasmablast or plasma cell. Once activated, B cells participate in a two-step differentiation process that yields both short-lived plasmablasts for immediate protection and long-lived plasma cells and memory B cells for persistent protection. B cell types
Plasmablast
A short-lived, proliferating antibody-secreting cell arising from B cell differentiation. There is evidence that B cells first differentiate into a plasmablast-like cell, then differentiate into a plasma cell. 
B3-Galectin decreases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] A tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) is a pharmaceutical drug that inhibits tyrosine kinases. The proteins are activated by adding a phosphate group to the protein (phosphorylation), a step that TKIs inhibit. TKIs are typically used as anticancer drugs. Development of drugs
Numerous TKIs aiming at various tyrosine kinases have been generated by the originators of these compounds and proven to be effective anti-tumor agents and anti-leukemic agents. Based on this work imatinib was developed against chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and later gefitinib and erlotinib aiming at the EGF receptor. Dasatinib is a Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is effective both as a senolytic and as therapy for CML.Sunitinib, an inhibitor of the receptors for FGF, PDGF and VEGF is also based on early studies on TKIs aiming at VEGF receptors.Adavosertib is a Wee1 kinase inhibitor that is undergoing numerous clinical trials in the treatment of refractory solid tumors. See also
Bcr-Abl tyrosine-kinase inhibitor
Protein kinase inhibitor


== References == RTK class III is a class of receptor tyrosine kinases. 
B3-Galectin increases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] RTK class III is a class of receptor tyrosine kinases. The protein encoded by this gene is an atypical member of the family of growth factor receptor protein tyrosine kinases, differing from other members at a number of conserved residues in the activation and nucleotide binding domains. A tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) is a pharmaceutical drug that inhibits tyrosine kinases. The proteins are activated by adding a phosphate group to the protein (phosphorylation), a step that TKIs inhibit. Development of drugs
Numerous TKIs aiming at various tyrosine kinases have been generated by the originators of these compounds and proven to be effective anti-tumor agents and anti-leukemic agents. Based on this work imatinib was developed against chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and later gefitinib and erlotinib aiming at the EGF receptor. Dasatinib is a Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is effective both as a senolytic and as therapy for CML.Sunitinib, an inhibitor of the receptors for FGF, PDGF and VEGF is also based on early studies on TKIs aiming at VEGF receptors.Adavosertib is a Wee1 kinase inhibitor that is undergoing numerous clinical trials in the treatment of refractory solid tumors. See also
Bcr-Abl tyrosine-kinase inhibitor
Protein kinase inhibitor


== References == 
BCL-2 activation antagonizes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2), encoded in humans by the BCL2 gene, is the founding member of the Bcl-2 family of regulator proteins that regulate cell death (apoptosis), by either inhibiting (anti-apoptotic) or inducing (pro-apoptotic) apoptosis. These pro-apoptotic proteins are in turn activated by BH3-only proteins, and are inhibited by the function of BCL-2 and its relative BCL-Xl.There are additional non-canonical roles of BCL-2 that are being explored. Role in disease
Damage to the Bcl-2 gene has been identified as a cause of a number of cancers, including melanoma, breast, prostate, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and lung cancer, and a possible cause of schizophrenia and autoimmunity. The over-expression of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein in lymphocytes alone does not cause cancer. But simultaneous over-expression of Bcl-2 and the proto-oncogene myc may produce aggressive B-cell malignancies including lymphoma. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. It is also thought that some Bcl-2 family proteins can induce (pro-apoptotic members) or inhibit (anti-apoptotic members) the release of cytochrome c into the cytosol which, once there, activates caspase-9 and caspase-3, leading to apoptosis. Bcl-2 proteins act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. 
BCL-2 promotes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2), encoded in humans by the BCL2 gene, is the founding member of the Bcl-2 family of regulator proteins that regulate cell death (apoptosis), by either inhibiting (anti-apoptotic) or inducing (pro-apoptotic) apoptosis. The over-expression of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein in lymphocytes alone does not cause cancer. But simultaneous over-expression of Bcl-2 and the proto-oncogene myc may produce aggressive B-cell malignancies including lymphoma. There are a number of theories concerning how the Bcl-2 gene family exert their pro- or anti-apoptotic effect. It is also thought that some Bcl-2 family proteins can induce (pro-apoptotic members) or inhibit (anti-apoptotic members) the release of cytochrome c into the cytosol which, once there, activates caspase-9 and caspase-3, leading to apoptosis. BCL-2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. It has been shown to interact with other members of the BCL-2 protein family, including BCL2, BCL2L1/BCL-X(L), and MCL1, and to act as an apoptotic activator. Bcl-2 proteins act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. 
BLM gene encodes RecQ-class DNA helicase. [SEP] ATP-dependent DNA helicase Q5 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the RECQL5 gene. RecQ helicase is a family of helicase enzymes initially found in Escherichia coli that has been shown to be important in genome maintenance. Sgs1(BLM) is a helicase that functions in homologous recombinational repair of DNA double-strand breaks. BLM gene encodes a RecQ Helicase, description of the gene ATP-dependent DNA helicase Q4 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the RECQL4 gene.Mutations in RECQL4 are associated with the autosomal recessive disease Rothmund–Thomson syndrome, a disorder that has features of premature aging. ATP-dependent DNA helicase Q1 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the RECQL gene.The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the RecQ DNA helicase family. BS is caused by mutations in the BLM gene which is a member of the RecQ DNA helicase family. The hyper-recombination can also be detected by molecular assays  The BLM gene is a member of the protein family referred to as RecQ helicases. 
BRCA 1 mutation carriers' risk of breast and ovarian cancer depends on where the mutation is located. [SEP] Women with harmful mutations in either BRCA1 or BRCA2 have a risk of breast cancer that is about five times the normal risk, and a risk of ovarian cancer that is about ten to thirty times normal. The risk of breast and ovarian cancer is higher for women with a high-risk BRCA1 mutation than with a BRCA2 mutation. Health effects
Women with deleterious mutations in either the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes have a high risk of developing breast and/or ovarian cancer. : 89–111 Approximately 50% to 65% of women born with a deleterious mutation in BRCA1 will develop breast cancer by age 70, and 35% to 46% will develop ovarian cancer by age 70. Mutations in BRCA1 are associated with a 39-46% risk of ovarian cancer and mutations in BRCA2 are associated with a 10-27% risk of ovarian cancer.Other identified genes include:

MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2: mutations in genes that lead to Lynch Syndrome put individuals at risk for ovarian cancer. Mutations and cancer risk
Certain variations of the BRCA1 gene lead to an increased risk for breast cancer as part of a hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. Pathogenic mutations anywhere in a model pathway containing BRCA1 and BRCA2 greatly increase risks for a subset of leukemias and lymphomas.Women who have inherited a defective BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene are at a greatly elevated risk to develop breast and ovarian cancer. Mutation of BRCA1 in breast and ovarian cancer
Only about 3%–8% of all women with breast cancer carry a mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2. 
Bacterial meningitis can be diagnosed on the basis of positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures. [SEP] The cerebrospinal fluid collected from the lumbar puncture is analyzed by microscope examination or by culture to distinguish between bacterial and aseptic meningitis. In 1887 Anton Weichselbaum isolated the bacterium from the CSF of patients with bacterial meningitis. Viral meningitis has no evidence of bacteria present in cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). CSF findings that suggest a viral cause of meningitis include an elevated white blood cell count (usually 10-100  cells/µL) with a lymphocytic predominance in combination with a normal glucose level. Increasingly,  cerebrospinal fluid PCR tests have become especially useful for diagnosing viral meningitis, with an estimated sensitivity of 95-100%. CSF vs serum c-reactive protein and procalcitonin have not been shown to elucidate whether meningitis is bacterial or viral.In certain cases, a CT scan of the head should be done before a lumbar puncture such as in those with poor immune function or those with increased intracranial pressure. The research team will develop a new method to be used for the diagnosis of meningitis, analysing the genetic material of microorganisms found in CSF (cerebrospinal fluid). Diagnosis
Diagnosis of TB meningitis is made by analysing cerebrospinal fluid  collected by lumbar puncture. 
Bacteriophagaes MS2 and Qβ are members of the Leviviridae. [SEP] Leviviricetes is a class of viruses, which infect prokaryotes. Taxonomy
Leviviricetes contains two orders and nine genera unassigned to an order. Bacteriophage MS2 (Emesvirus zinderi), commonly called MS2, is an icosahedral, positive-sense single-stranded RNA virus that infects the bacterium Escherichia coli and other members of the Enterobacteriaceae. MS2 is a member of a family of closely related bacterial viruses that includes bacteriophage f2, bacteriophage Qβ, R17, and GA.

History
In 1961, MS2 was isolated by Alvin John Clark and recognized as an RNA-containing phage very similar to bacteriophage f2.In 1976, the MS2 genome was the first genome to be completely sequenced. MS2 replication has been much less well studied than replication of the highly related bacteriophage Qβ, partly because the MS2 replicase has been difficult to isolate, but is likely to be similar.The formation of the virion is thought to be initiated by binding of maturation protein to the MS2 RNA; in fact, the complex of maturation protein and RNA is infectious. A LS dipeptide motif on the L protein is found throughout the genus Levivirus and appears to be essential to the lysis activity, although their different locations suggest that they have evolved independently. In 2020, the family was renamed from Leviviridae to its current name. Two notable genera are Emesvirus, which contains bacteriophage MS2, and Qubevirus, which contains bacteriophage Qbeta. 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of colorectal cancer. [SEP] Colorectal cancer
Both general and central obesity are associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC). An association between increased BMI and risk of colorectal adenoma has been reported, as has a dose–response relationship between BMI and colorectal adenoma risk. A number of genetic syndromes are also associated with higher rates of colorectal cancer. The risk of colon cancer can be reduced by maintaining a normal body weight through a combination of sufficient exercise and eating a healthy diet.Current research consistently links eating more red meat and processed meat to a higher risk of the disease. When colorectal cancer is caught early, surgery can be curative. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Bariatric surgery reduces the risk of gestational diabetes and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy in women who later become pregnant but increases the risk of preterm birth. 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] Obesity has been associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer, 
pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer (among postmenopausal women), endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, thyroid cancer, liver cancer and gallbladder cancer. This was shown, in particular, in women with breast cancer.Lymphocytes from postmenopausal obese women also have reduced DNA repair capacity compared to non-obese postmenopausal women.If DNA repair is reduced by obesity, this would allow DNA damages to accumulate. Breast cancer
Obesity has been found to decrease the risk of breast cancer among African and Caucasian women, but increase it among Asian women. Obesity is also associated with decreased survival among women with breast cancer, regardless of whether the cancer is pre- or post-menopausal. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. Increased risk of fracture has also been linked to bariatric surgery. 
Bariatric surgery leads to negative outcomes in mental health. [SEP] Surgery is contraindicated with a medically correctable cause of obesity, substance abuse, concurrent or planned pregnancy, eating disorder, or inability to adhere to postoperative recommendations and mandatory lifestyle changes.When counseling a patient on bariatric procedures, providers should take an interdisciplinary approach. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Mental health
Among the patients who seek bariatric surgery, pre-operative mental health struggles are common. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. Increased risk of fracture has also been linked to bariatric surgery. In addition, self-harm behaviors and suicide appear to be increased in people with mental health issues in the five years after bariatric surgery had been done. Some improvement in patient psychological health is noted after bariatric surgery. 51% of bariatric surgery candidates report a history of mental illness, specifically depression, as well as being prescribed at least one psychotropic medication at the time of their surgery candidacy. 
Bariatric surgery leads to positive outcomes in mental health. [SEP] A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Medical uses
Bariatric surgery has proven to be the most effective obesity treatment option for durable weight loss. A 2017 meta-analysis found bariatric surgery to be effective for weight loss in adolescents 36 months after the intervention and that additional data was needed to determine whether it is also effective for long-term weight loss in adolescents. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Some studies have suggested that psychological health can improve after bariatric surgery, due in part to improved body image, self-esteem, and change in self-concept—these findings were also present in pediatric populations. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. Some improvement in patient psychological health is noted after bariatric surgery. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. 
Bariatric surgery reduces colorectal cancer. [SEP] Bariatric surgery (or weight loss surgery) is the medical term for a variety of procedures dealing with obesity. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Some improvement in patient psychological health is noted after bariatric surgery. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. The risk of colon cancer can be reduced by maintaining a normal body weight through a combination of sufficient exercise and eating a healthy diet.Current research consistently links eating more red meat and processed meat to a higher risk of the disease. When colorectal cancer is caught early, surgery can be curative. In epidemiological studies, exercise may decrease colorectal cancer-specific mortality and all-cause mortality. 
Bariatric surgery reduces postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] Bariatric surgery (or weight loss surgery) is the medical term for a variety of procedures dealing with obesity. Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment causing weight loss and reducing complications of obesity.As of October 2022, the American Society of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) and International Federation for the Surgery of Obesity (IFSO) recommend bariatric surgery for adults with a body mass index (BMI) >35, regardless of obesity-associated conditions, and recommend considering surgery for people with BMI 30.0-34.9 who have metabolic disease. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. Breast conserving surgery at National Breast and Ovarian Cancer Centre www.nbocc.org Some improvement in patient psychological health is noted after bariatric surgery. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. 
Basophils promote disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] Basophils are a type of white blood cell. Function
Basophils appear in many specific kinds of inflammatory reactions, particularly those that cause allergic symptoms. Like eosinophils, basophils play a role in both parasitic infections and allergies. Recent studies in mice suggest that basophils may also regulate the behavior of T cells and mediate the magnitude of the secondary immune response. This suggests that basophils may play a role in the immune response to these viruses. Recent evidence suggests that basophils are an important source of the cytokine, interleukin-4, perhaps more important than T cells. There are other substances that can activate basophils to secrete which suggests that these cells have other roles in inflammation.The degranulation of basophils can be investigated in vitro by using flow cytometry and the so-called basophil-activation-test (BAT). This is why basophils are considered with mast cells to be the key cells in allergic diseases. 
Bcp1 is a chaperone for Rpl23. [SEP] 60S ribosomal protein L23 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RPL23 gene.Ribosomes, the organelles that catalyze protein synthesis, consist of a small 40S subunit and a large 60S subunit. The protein belongs to the L14P family of ribosomal proteins. This gene has been referred to as RPL17 because the encoded protein shares amino acid identity with ribosomal protein L17 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae; however, its official symbol is RPL23. 60S ribosomal protein L23a is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RPL23A gene. The protein belongs to the L23P family of ribosomal proteins. 39S ribosomal protein L23, mitochondrial is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MRPL23 gene. Solute carrier family 23 member 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SLC23A1 gene. The protein belongs to the S12P family of ribosomal proteins. 
Beta-band coherence is diminished for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] Concepts
Signal strength
Signal strength plays an important role in the literature of binocular rivalry and visual suppression. An image with weaker signal strength is more likely to be suppressed when both eyes are provided with conflicting images of differing signal strength. A blurred image is more likely to be suppressed perceptually as opposed to a better focused one.Rivalry dominance and perceptual suppression is also expected to be greater when the difference in signal strength is greater. When this phenomenon occurs, the stimulus will gradually 'fade' away visually. While illusory continuity restores perceptual continuity of obscured sounds, illusory discontinuity disrupts the perception even if the sound is indeed continuous. The target might be invisible or appear to have reduced contrast or lightness. In this sense, the visibility is a measure of the coherence between two optical fields. Visual extinction has the characteristic symptom of difficulty to perceive contralesional stimuli when presented simultaneously with an ipsilesional stimulus, but the ability to correctly identify them when not presented simultaneously. 
Beta-band coherence is enhanced for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] Incoherent broad band cavity enhanced absorption spectroscopy (IBBCEAS), sometimes called broadband cavity enhanced extinction spectroscopy (IBBCEES), measures the transmission of light intensity through a stable optical cavity consisting of high reflectance mirrors (typically R>99.9%). Similar to other cavity enhanced spectroscopic techniques, in IBBCEAS, the transmission signal strength is measured with and without the absorber of interest present inside the cavity ( I(λ) and I0(λ) respectively). Experimental Setup
Free space IBBCEAS
A basic IBBCEAS setup consists of an incoherent light source, collimation optics, the absorber of interest and a detector. Detection sensitivities at picomolar concentration levels in solution have been reported for BBCEAS measurements with SC sources with signal acquisition times in the lower millisecond range. Optical brighteners, optical brightening agents (OBAs), fluorescent brightening agents (FBAs), or fluorescent whitening agents (FWAs),  are chemical compounds that absorb light in the ultraviolet and violet region (usually 340-370 nm) of the electromagnetic spectrum, and re-emit light in the blue region (typically 420-470 nm) through the phenomenon of fluorescence. Experiments on lateral inhibition
White and White (1985) concluded that at a higher spatial frequency the grating of White's illusion could be described by brightness assimilation. They also concluded that at lower spatial frequencies White's illusion is still present.Blakeslee and McCourt (2004) suggested that patterns whose scales are larger compared to the encoding filters (low spatial frequency) are represented with a loss of low frequency information exhibiting brightness contrast; patterns whose scales are smaller compared to encoding filters (high spatial frequency), are represented with a loss of high frequency information exhibiting brightness assimilation. In beta movement, two stimuli, 
  
    
      
        a
      
    
    {\displaystyle a}
   and 
  
    
      
        b
      
    
    {\displaystyle b}
  , appear in succession, but are perceived as the motion of a single object, 
  
    
      
        a
      
    
    {\displaystyle a}
  , into position 
  
    
      
        b
      
    
    {\displaystyle b}
  . 
BiP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] Binding immunoglobulin protein (BiPS) also known as 78 kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP-78) or heat shock 70 kDa protein 5 (HSPA5) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HSPA5 gene.BiP is a HSP70 molecular chaperone located in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that binds newly synthesized proteins as they are translocated into the ER, and maintains them in a state competent for subsequent folding and oligomerization. UPR pathway
BiP is both a target of the ER stress response, or UPR, and an essential regulator of the UPR pathway. During ER stress, BiP dissociates from the three transducers (IRE1, PERK, and ATF6), effectively activating their respective UPR pathways. Clinical significance
Autoimmune disease
Like many stress and heat shock proteins, BiP has potent immunological activity when released from the internal environment of the cell into the extracellular space. Cardiovascular disease
Upregulation of BiP has been associated with ER stress-induced cardiac dysfunction and dilated cardiomyopathy. Neurodegenerative disease
As an ER chaperone protein, BiP prevents neuronal cell death induced by ER stress by correcting misfolded proteins. Stress-associated endoplasmic reticulum protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SERP1 gene. XBP1 mRNA cleavage leads to the translation of a transcription factor for genes that resolve ER stress. 
Binding of p53 to enhancer regions (p53BERs) regulates the activity of p53 transcription and cell cycle arrest through the production of p53-dependent eRNAs. [SEP] Function
DNA damage and repair
p53 plays a role in regulation or progression through the cell cycle, apoptosis, and genomic stability by means of several mechanisms:

It can activate DNA repair proteins when DNA has sustained damage. The expression of a given eRNA correlates with the activity of its corresponding enhancer in target genes. eRNAs interact with proteins to affect transcription
One well-studied eRNA is the eRNA of the enhancer that interacts with the promoter of the prostate specific antigen (PSA) gene. Implications in development and disease
Evidence that eRNAs cause downstream effects on the efficiency of enhancer activation and gene transcription suggests its functional capabilities and potential importance. The transcription factor p53 has been demonstrated to bind enhancer regions and generate eRNAs in a p53-dependent manner. In cancer, p53 plays a central role in tumor suppression as mutations of the gene are shown to appear in 50% of tumors. These p53-bound enhancer regions (p53BERs) are shown to interact with multiple local and distal gene targets involved in cell proliferation and survival. Furthermore, eRNAs generated by the activation of p53BERs are shown to be required for efficient transcription of the p53 target genes, indicating the likely important regulatory role of eRNAs in tumor suppression and cancer. 
Birth-weight is negatively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] The association between obesity, as defined by a body mass index of 30 or higher, and risk of a variety of types of cancer has received a considerable amount of attention in recent years. Obesity has been associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer, 
pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer (among postmenopausal women), endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, thyroid cancer, liver cancer and gallbladder cancer. Obesity may also lead to increased cancer-related mortality. Obesity is the source of about 15% of all preventable cancers.In 2018, Chinese researchers performed a systematic review and comprehensive quantitative meta‐analysis of cohort studies reporting body mass index (BMI) and the risk of 23 cancer types, providing epidemiological evidence supporting the association between BMI and cancer risk. Mechanisms
The mechanisms by which obesity may increase the risk of cancer are not well understood, but it is believed that the combined effects of the adipose tissue environment and the endocrine alterations that accompany it among obese people both interact to promote tumor initiation and progression. Breast cancer
Obesity has been found to decrease the risk of breast cancer among African and Caucasian women, but increase it among Asian women. Obesity is also associated with decreased survival among women with breast cancer, regardless of whether the cancer is pre- or post-menopausal. Thyroid cancer
Obese people are at a higher risk of thyroid cancer than are their normal weight counterparts. 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 prevents TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] Some CCPs, such as CD46, recruit other RCAs to proteolytically inactivate developing convertases. TRAF proteins are associated with, and mediate signal transduction from members of the TNF receptor superfamily. Signals from receptors such as CD40, TNFSF11/TRANCE/RANKL and IL-1 have been shown to be mediated by this protein. α1-Chimerin is also able to regulate dendritic spinal density by binding to NMDA receptors at the NR2A subunit. Over expression of this protein in hippocampus tissue can inhibit the formation of new spines and remove existing spines. Neuropilin is a protein receptor active in neurons. Neuropilins are transmembrane glycoproteins, first documented to regulate neurogenesis and angiogenesis by complexing with Plexin receptors/class-3 semaphorin ligands and Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) receptors/VEGF ligands, respectively. Therefore, dysregulation of NRP activity has been implicated in many pathological conditions, including many types of cancer and cardiovascular disease. 
Bone Marrow (BM) transplantation is used to treat acute myeloid leukemia (AML) [SEP] : 3

History
The idea for high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) with autologous bone marrow transplant (ABMT)  originated in the 1950s as a leukemia treatment, when E. Donnall Thomas had shown that bone marrow could be harvested from a person and transplanted into the same or another person. High-dose chemotherapy and bone marrow transplant for other cancers
While the high-dose chemotherapy and bone marrow transplant treatment is known for its impact on breast cancer, the treatment is presently used to treat other types of cancer, including testicular cancer, neuroblastoma, multiple myeloma, and various types of leukemias and lymphomas, like Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin Lymphoma.There are two types of stem cell (bone marrow) transplants: autologous stem cell transplant, where the person's own stem cells are collected, frozen, and stored before the chemotherapy regimen and transfused back into their body by IV after chemotherapy, and allogeneic stem cell transplant, where the stem cells come from a donor that matches the person's HLA type to prevent the risk of graft-versus-host disease. Autologous stem cell transplants are used more often to treat lymphoma, but this may not be an option if the person's lymphoma has metastasized to their bone marrow or blood. Bone Marrow Transplant. Bone Marrow Transplantation is a peer-reviewed medical journal covering transplantation of bone marrow in humans. Abstracting and indexing
Bone Marrow Transplantation is abstracted and indexed in BIOBASE/Current Awareness in Biological Sciences,  BIOSIS, Current Contents/Clinical Medicine, Current Contents/Life Sciences, EMBASE/Excerpta Medica, MEDLINE/Index Medicus, and Science Citation Index. Acute myelomonocytic leukemia (AMML) is a form of acute myeloid leukemia that involves a proliferation of CFU-GM myeloblasts and monoblasts. Biology of Blood and Marrow Transplantation. 
Bone marrow cells don't contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] Bone-marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM) refers to macrophage cells that are generated in a research laboratory from mammalian bone marrow cells. Undifferentiated bone marrow cells are cultured in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF; CSF-1). Mature macrophages and fibroblasts, which may carry unwanted growth factors, are removed. Additionally, without stimuli like LPS to induce macrophage maturation to M1 or M2, mice accumulate a large pool of monocytes, the precursor cells to macrophages, which are less helpful for macrophage-specific research


== References == Acute myeloblastic leukemia without maturation is a quickly progressing disease in which too many immature white blood cells (not lymphocytes) are found in the blood and bone marrow.It is classified as "M1" in the FAB classification. Bone marrow failure occurs in individuals who produce an insufficient amount of red blood cells, white blood cells or platelets. Bone marrow also contains platelets, which trigger clotting, and thus help stop the blood flow when a wound occurs. Causes
Bone marrow failure in both children and adults can be either inherited or acquired. 
British female students are bullied more than British male students. [SEP] Historically, the English-language comic-book field has been male-dominated. This is evidenced in Tim Haley's ongoing study called 'Gendercrunching' on the website Bleeding Cool. The research shows that male soldiers may have a case for unlawful gender discrimination because most of the soldiers of the UK Armed Forces are male. Bullying in the legal profession is believed to be more common than in some other professions. Women, trainees and solicitors who have been qualified for five years or less are more impacted, as are ethnic minority lawyers and lesbian, gay and bisexual lawyers.Half of women lawyers and one in three men who took part in a study by the Law Council of Australia (LCA) reported they had been bullied or intimidated in the workplace. Different forms of School-related gender-based violence (SRGBV) interact and overlap. Students are bullied when they are repeatedly and intentionally exposed to harmful and/or aggressive behaviour that results in injury or discomfort. Research in two schools of Hai Phong City showed that nearly 57% of the students surveyed had been bullied. 
British male students are bullied more than British female students. [SEP] Historically, the English-language comic-book field has been male-dominated. This is evidenced in Tim Haley's ongoing study called 'Gendercrunching' on the website Bleeding Cool. The research shows that male soldiers may have a case for unlawful gender discrimination because most of the soldiers of the UK Armed Forces are male. Different forms of School-related gender-based violence (SRGBV) interact and overlap. Students are bullied when they are repeatedly and intentionally exposed to harmful and/or aggressive behaviour that results in injury or discomfort. Research in two schools of Hai Phong City showed that nearly 57% of the students surveyed had been bullied. Bullying in the legal profession is believed to be more common than in some other professions. Women, trainees and solicitors who have been qualified for five years or less are more impacted, as are ethnic minority lawyers and lesbian, gay and bisexual lawyers.Half of women lawyers and one in three men who took part in a study by the Law Council of Australia (LCA) reported they had been bullied or intimidated in the workplace. 
Broadly HIV-1 Neutralizing Antibodies (bnAb) 10EB have no affinity for phospholipids. [SEP] Broadly neutralizing HIV-1 antibodies (bNAbs) are neutralizing antibodies which neutralize multiple HIV-1 viral strains. Unlike most other bNAbs, these antibodies do not bind to known epitopes, on Env or on Env's subunits (gp120 or gp41). In some cases, the virus is unable to infect even after the antibody dissociates. Virus evasion of neutralizing antibodies
Viruses use a variety of mechanisms to evade neutralizing antibodies. However, viruses have evolved certain mechanisms to hinder steric access of an antibody to these regions, making binding difficult. Viruses with a low density of surface structural proteins are more difficult for antibodies to bind to. No antigen that triggers bNAb production in animal models or humans is known. Previous experimental infusions of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNABs) have suppressed HIV for about two weeks by targeting proteins on the virus itself, but the rapid mutation rate of HIV induces antibody-resistant strains that render the treatment ineffective. 
C2 works synergistically with A-769662 to activate dephosphorylated AMPK. [SEP] This calcium saturation activates the kinase and allows it to undergo a conformational change which permits the kinase to bind to its phosphorylation target sites. AMPK is deactivated upon AMP displacement by ATP at CBS site 3, suggesting CBS3 to be the primary allosteric regulatory site. It is in this catalytic domain where AMPK becomes activated when phosphorylation takes place at threonine-172 (on α1 isoform) or Thr-174 (on α2 isoform) by an upstream AMPK kinase (AMPKK). AMPK is regulated allosterically and by post-translational modification, which work together.If residue Thr-172 of AMPK's α1-subunit (or Thr-174 of AMPK's α2-subunit) is phosphorylated, AMPK is activated around 100-fold; access to that residue by phosphatases is blocked if AMP or ADP can block access for and ATP can displace AMP and ADP. That residue is phosphorylated by at least three kinases (liver kinase B1 (LKB1), which works in a complex with STRAD and MO25, Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase II-(CAMKK2), and TGFβ-activated kinase 1 (TAK1)) and is dephosphorylated by three phosphatases (protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A); protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) and Mg2+-/Mn2+-dependent protein phosphatase 1E (PPM1E)).Regulation of AMPK by CaMKK2 requires a direct interaction of these two proteins via their kinase domains. This conformational change represents a plausible mechanism for AMPK modulation. AMPK stimulates glycolysis by activating phosphorylation of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 2/3 and activating phosphorylation of glycogen phosphorylase, and it inhibits glycogen synthesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of glycogen synthase. At basal conditions, the temperature-dependent Ca2+ leak also leads to increased energy demand and activation of energy sensing AMP kinase (AMPK) in skeletal muscle. 
CCL19 is a ligand for CCR7. [SEP] Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CCL19 gene.This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor CCR7.Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that is also known as EBI1 ligand chemokine (ELC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-3-beta (MIP-3-beta). Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 7 (CCL7) is a small cytokine that was previously called monocyte-chemotactic protein 3 (MCP3). CCL7 is a small protein that belongs to the CC chemokine family and is most closely related to CCL2 (previously called MCP1). CCL7 consists of 99 amino acids, which contains 23-amino acid signal peptide. Clinical importance
CCL7 is a multipotent chemokine involved in anti-bacterial, anti-viral and anti-fungal immune responses. The ligands have similar affinity for the receptor, though CCL19 has been shown to induce internalisation of CCR7 and desensitisation of the cell to CCL19/CCL21 signals. CCR7 is a transmembrane protein with 7 transmembrane domains, which is coupled with heterotrimeric G proteins, which transduce the signal downstream through various signalling cascades. 
CCL19 is predominantly present within dLNs. [SEP] Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CCL19 gene.This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor CCR7.Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that is also known as EBI1 ligand chemokine (ELC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-3-beta (MIP-3-beta). CCL19 is expressed abundantly in thymus and lymph nodes, with moderate levels in trachea and colon and low levels in stomach, small intestine, lung, kidney and spleen. The gene for CCL19 is located on human chromosome 9. References
Further reading
External links
Human CCL19 genome location and CCL19 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. Coiled-Coil Domain Containing 198 (CCDC198) is a gene that encodes for a protein of the same name. CCDC198 is notably expressed in both the liver and the kidney. Expression
CCDC198 is primarily expressed in the kidneys, liver and pancreas, and also shows minor but significant expression in the fallopian tubes based on general NCBI profile data. 
CD28 initiates tonic signaling in conventional T cells, which causes an exhaustion phenotype and limited efficiency. [SEP] CD28 (Cluster of Differentiation 28) is one of the proteins expressed on T cells that provide co-stimulatory signals required for T cell activation and survival. Some antigen-experienced T cells lose CD28 and subsequently can be re-activated without CD28 engagement. Signaling
CD28 possesses an intracellular domain with several residues that are critical for its effective signaling. The CD28 receptors enhance signals from the T cell receptors (TCR) in order to stimulate an immune response and an anti-inflammatory response on regulatory T cells. Through the promotion of T cell function, CD28 receptors allow effector T cells to combat regulatory T cell-mediated suppression from adaptive immunity. Ligation of CD28 receptors causes epigenetic, transcriptional and post-translational alterations in T cells. CD28 also drives transcription within T cells and produce signals that lead to IL-2 production and Bcl-xL regulation, an antiapoptotic protein, which are essential for T cell survival. CD28 costimulation influences the expression of key genes expressed in T cell differentiation. 
CD28 signals regulate trafficking of murine auto-reactive T cells into target tissues. [SEP] CD28 (Cluster of Differentiation 28) is one of the proteins expressed on T cells that provide co-stimulatory signals required for T cell activation and survival. Signaling
CD28 possesses an intracellular domain with several residues that are critical for its effective signaling. CD28 has also been found to stimulate eosinophil granulocytes where its ligation with anti-CD28 leads to the release of IL-2, IL4, IL-13 and IFN-γ.It is known that CD28 and CTL4 may be critical regulators autoimmune diseases in mouse model. The CD28 receptors enhance signals from the T cell receptors (TCR) in order to stimulate an immune response and an anti-inflammatory response on regulatory T cells. Function
CD28 receptors aid in other T cell processes such as cytoskeletal remodeling, production of cytokines and chemokines and intracellular biochemical reactions (i.e. Ligation of CD28 receptors causes epigenetic, transcriptional and post-translational alterations in T cells. CD28 costimulation influences the expression of key genes expressed in T cell differentiation. CD28 plays an important role in decreasing the risk of T cell auto-immunity against host antigens.Once the naïve T cell has both pathways activated, the biochemical changes induced by Signal 1 are altered, allowing the cell to activate instead of undergoing anergy. 
CD44v6 is not associated with constitutive and reprogrammed cancer stem cells driving cancer metastasis. [SEP] CD44, a cell surface glycoprotein, plays a crucial role in the adhesion, migration and invasion of breast cancer cells. Pleural metastases from breast cancer patients were enriched with CD44+/CD24- cells, indicative of a higher enrichment of BCSCs in these resistant tumors. Function
CD44 participates in a wide variety of cellular functions including lymphocyte activation,  recirculation and homing, hematopoiesis, and tumor metastasis. Splice variants of CD44 on colon cancer cells display sialofucosylated HCELL glycoforms that serve as P-, L-, and E-selectin ligands and fibrin, but not fibrinogen, receptors under hemodynamic flow conditions pertinent to the process of cancer metastasis.CD44 gene transcription is at least in part activated by beta-catenin and Wnt signalling (also linked to tumour development). CD44 expression is an indicative marker for effector-memory T-cells. In breast cancer research CD44+/CD24- expression is commonly used as a marker for breast CSCs and is used to sort breast cancer cells into a population enriched in cells with stem-like characteristics and has been seen as an indicator of increased survival time in epithelial ovarian cancer patients.Endometrial cells in women with endometriosis demonstrate increased expression of splice variants of CD44, and increased adherence to peritoneal cells.CD44 variant isoforms are also relevant to the progression of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.Monoclonal antibodies against CD44 variants include bivatuzumab for v6. CD44 in cancer
CD44 is a multistructural and multifunctional cell surface molecule involved in cell proliferation, cell differentiation, cell migration, angiogenesis, presentation of cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors to the corresponding receptors, and docking of proteases at the cell membrane, as well as in signaling for cell survival. On the contrary, in some neoplasms CD44 upregulation is associated with a favorable outcome. 
CDK6 shows impaired binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] INK4 is a family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs). In addition, INK4 proteins play roles in cellular senescence, apoptosis and DNA repair.INK4 proteins are tumor suppressors and loss-of-function mutations lead to carcinogenesis.INK4 proteins are highly similar in terms of structure and function, with up to 85% amino acid similarity. When they bind to CDK4 and CDK6, they induce an allosteric change that leads to the formation of CDK-INK4 complexes rather than CDK-cyclin complexes. Furthermore, it was shown that p18INK4c is preferentially inhibitory to CDK6, but not CDK4 activity in activated T cells that suggest p18INK4c may set an inhibitory threshold in resting T cells. Clinical significance
Role in cancer
Cells containing oncogenic mutations in-vivo often responded by activating the INK4A/ARF/INK4B locus that encodes the INK4 tumor suppressor proteins. Role in aging
The INK4 family has been implicated in the aging process. The gene codes for two proteins, including the INK4 family member p16 (or p16INK4a) and p14arf. When a mutation occurs in protein p16, it prevents the protein kinase of CDK4, which results in the inactivation of the tumor suppressor gene. 
CDK6 shows improved binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] INK4 is a family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs). The members of this family (p16INK4a, p15INK4b, p18INK4c, p19INK4d) are inhibitors of CDK4 (hence their name INhibitors of CDK4), and of CDK6. In addition, INK4 proteins play roles in cellular senescence, apoptosis and DNA repair.INK4 proteins are tumor suppressors and loss-of-function mutations lead to carcinogenesis.INK4 proteins are highly similar in terms of structure and function, with up to 85% amino acid similarity. When they bind to CDK4 and CDK6, they induce an allosteric change that leads to the formation of CDK-INK4 complexes rather than CDK-cyclin complexes. Furthermore, it was shown that p18INK4c is preferentially inhibitory to CDK6, but not CDK4 activity in activated T cells that suggest p18INK4c may set an inhibitory threshold in resting T cells. The name of p16 is derived from its molecular weight, and the alternative name p16INK4a refers to its role in inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinase CDK4. The gene codes for two proteins, including the INK4 family member p16 (or p16INK4a) and p14arf. P16（INK4A）
P16 interacts with Rb and controls the G1 to S transition. 
CHOP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] Regulation and function
Due to a variety of upstream and downstream regulatory interactions, CHOP plays an important role in ER stress-induced apoptosis caused by a variety of stimuli such as pathogenic microbial or viral infections, amino acid starvation, mitochondrial stress, neurological diseases, and neoplastic diseases. However, under overwhelming ER stress conditions, the expression of CHOP rises sharply along with the activation of apoptotic pathways in a wide variety of cells. Those processes are mainly regulated by three factors: protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), and inositol requiring protein 1 (IRE1α)

Upstream regulatory pathways
During ER stress, CHOP is mainly induced via activation of the integrated stress response pathways through the subsequent downstream phosphorylation of a translation initiation factor, eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α), and induction of a transcription factor, activation transcription factor 4 (ATF4), which converges on the promoters of target genes, including CHOP. Thus, ATF6 activates the transcription of both CHOP and XBP-1, while XBP-1 can also upregulate the expression of CHOP.ER stress also stimulates transmembrane protein IRE1α activity. Identified CHOP-p21 relationship may play a role in changing the cell state from adapting to ER stress towards pre-apoptotic activity.Under most conditions, CHOP can directly bind to the promoters of downstream related genes. An important example is that the proapoptotic protein CHOP (CCAAT/-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein), is upregulated downstream of the bZIP transcription factor ATF4 (activating transcription factor 4) and uniquely responsive to ER stress. Stress-associated endoplasmic reticulum protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SERP1 gene. The UPR is also activated by cytokinesER-stress activates Apoptosis through C/EBP Homologous Protein (CHOP)

Measurement
ER Stress can be measured using Quantitative Real-Time RT-PCR to measure the rate at which XBP1 is cleaved by IRE1 when the UPR is activated. 
COPI coatmer is involved in lipid homeostasis. [SEP] COPI is a coatomer, a protein complex that coats vesicles transporting proteins from the cis end of the Golgi complex back to the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where they were originally synthesized, and between Golgi compartments. The name "COPI" refers to the specific coat protein complex that initiates the budding process on the cis-Golgi membrane. Coat proteins
Coat protein, or COPI, is an ADP ribosylation factor (ARF)-dependent protein involved in membrane traffic. COPI was first identified in retrograde traffic from the cis-Golgi to the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and is the most extensively studied of ARF-dependent adaptors. The Coat Protein Complex II, or COPII, is a group of proteins that facilitate the formation of vesicles to transport proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus or endoplasmic-reticulum–Golgi intermediate compartment. Function
The COPII coat is responsible for the formation of vesicles from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Conformational changes
CopII has three specific binding sites that can each be complexed. Exomer is a heterotetrameric protein complex similar to COPI and other adaptins. 
COPI coatmer is involved in viral replication. [SEP] COPI is a coatomer, a protein complex that coats vesicles transporting proteins from the cis end of the Golgi complex back to the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where they were originally synthesized, and between Golgi compartments. The name "COPI" refers to the specific coat protein complex that initiates the budding process on the cis-Golgi membrane. Coat proteins
Coat protein, or COPI, is an ADP ribosylation factor (ARF)-dependent protein involved in membrane traffic. COPI consists of seven subunits which compose the heteroheptameric protein complex. The Coat Protein Complex II, or COPII, is a group of proteins that facilitate the formation of vesicles to transport proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus or endoplasmic-reticulum–Golgi intermediate compartment. Function
The COPII coat is responsible for the formation of vesicles from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Role in disease
Lethal or pathogenic variants of most COPII proteins have been described. Coatomer subunit zeta-1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the COPZ1 gene. 
CRP is positively correlated with postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] Coronary artery bypass surgery, also known as coronary artery bypass graft (CABG, pronounced "cabbage") is a surgical procedure to treat coronary artery disease (CAD), the buildup of plaques in the arteries of the heart. at Duke University Medical Center showed an increased incidence of cognitive decline after coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG), both immediately (53 percent at discharge from hospital) and over time (36 percent six weeks, 24 percent at six months, and 42 percent at five years). Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG)
Coronary artery bypass grafting, also called revascularization, is a common surgical procedure to create an alternative path to deliver blood supply to the heart and body, with the goal of preventing clot formation. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. Nevertheless, a level above 2.4 mg/L has been associated with a doubled risk of a coronary event compared to levels below 1 mg/L; however, the study group in this case consisted of patients who had been diagnosed with unstable angina pectoris; whether elevated CRP has any predictive value of acute coronary events in the general population of all age ranges remains unclear. CRP level is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. Patients with high CRP concentrations are more likely to develop stroke, myocardial infarction, and severe peripheral vascular disease. Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. 
Ca2+ cycling controls whole-body energy homeostasis in beige fat. [SEP] In biology, energy homeostasis, or the homeostatic control of energy balance, is a biological process that involves the coordinated homeostatic regulation of food intake (energy inflow) and energy expenditure (energy outflow). So, when a calorie of food energy is consumed, one of three particular effects occur within the body: a portion of that calorie may be stored as body fat, triglycerides, or glycogen, transferred to cells and converted to chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP – a coenzyme) or related compounds, or dissipated as heat. Calcium metabolism is the movement and regulation of calcium ions (Ca2+) in (via the gut) and out (via the gut and kidneys) of the body, and between body compartments: the blood plasma, the extracellular and intracellular fluids, and  bone. It is used to mobilize stored energy during fasting or exercise, and usually occurs in fat adipocytes. Mechanisms
In the body, stores of fat are referred to as adipose tissue. Free fatty acids not immediately taken up by cells may bind to albumin for transport to surrounding tissues that require energy. In the body, store fats act as a reservoir of energy. Overview
The citric acid cycle is a  metabolic pathway that connects carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism. 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-dependent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] Thermogenin (called uncoupling protein by its discoverers and now known as uncoupling protein 1, or UCP1) is a mitochondrial carrier protein found in brown adipose tissue (BAT). UCP1-mediated heat generation in brown fat uncouples the respiratory chain, allowing for fast substrate oxidation with a low rate of ATP production. The UCP1, or thermogenin, gene likely arose in an ancestor of modern vertebrates, but did not initially allow for our vertebrate ancestor to use non-shivering thermogenesis for warmth. This is what links UCP to thermogenesis. History
Scientists observed the thermogenic activity in brown adipose tissue, which eventually led to the discovery of UCP1, initially known as "Uncoupling Protein". The homologs are as follows:

UCP1, also known as thermogenin or SLC25A7
UCP2, also known as SLC25A8
UCP3, also known as SLC25A9
UCP4, also known as SLC25A27
UCP5, also known as SLC25A14

Maintaining body temperature
The first uncoupling protein discovered, UCP1, was discovered in the brown adipose tissues of hibernators and small rodents, which provide non-shivering heat to these animals. In addition to UCP1, UCP3 is an important mediator of thermogenesis. Uncoupling protein (UCP3) modulating the process of Sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) by declining the mitochondrial ATP fabrication (De Marchi U et al., 2011). 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-independent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] Thermogenin (called uncoupling protein by its discoverers and now known as uncoupling protein 1, or UCP1) is a mitochondrial carrier protein found in brown adipose tissue (BAT). UCP1-mediated heat generation in brown fat uncouples the respiratory chain, allowing for fast substrate oxidation with a low rate of ATP production. The UCP1, or thermogenin, gene likely arose in an ancestor of modern vertebrates, but did not initially allow for our vertebrate ancestor to use non-shivering thermogenesis for warmth. This is what links UCP to thermogenesis. History
Scientists observed the thermogenic activity in brown adipose tissue, which eventually led to the discovery of UCP1, initially known as "Uncoupling Protein". The homologs are as follows:

UCP1, also known as thermogenin or SLC25A7
UCP2, also known as SLC25A8
UCP3, also known as SLC25A9
UCP4, also known as SLC25A27
UCP5, also known as SLC25A14

Maintaining body temperature
The first uncoupling protein discovered, UCP1, was discovered in the brown adipose tissues of hibernators and small rodents, which provide non-shivering heat to these animals. In addition to UCP1, UCP3 is an important mediator of thermogenesis. Uncoupling protein (UCP3) modulating the process of Sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) by declining the mitochondrial ATP fabrication (De Marchi U et al., 2011). 
Cancer cells can stimulate the accumulation of intra-tumoural myeloid-derived suppressor cells by promoting granulocyte colony stimulating factor production. [SEP] Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or GCSF), also known as colony-stimulating factor 3 (CSF 3), is a glycoprotein that stimulates the bone marrow to produce granulocytes and stem cells and release them into the bloodstream.Functionally, it is a cytokine and hormone, a type of colony-stimulating factor, and is produced by a number of different tissues. White blood cells
The G-CSF-receptor is present on precursor cells in the bone marrow, and, in response to stimulation by G-CSF, initiates proliferation and differentiation into mature granulocytes. G-CSF stimulates the production of granulocytes, a type of white blood cell. Cutibacterium granulosum is a bacterium that may stimulate the immune system to fight cancer. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), also known as colony-stimulating factor 2 (CSF2), is a monomeric glycoprotein secreted by macrophages, T cells, mast cells, natural killer cells, endothelial cells and fibroblasts that functions as a cytokine. GM-CSF stimulates stem cells to produce granulocytes (neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils) and monocytes. The colony stimulating factor 1 (CSF1), also known as macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), is a secreted cytokine which causes hematopoietic stem cells to differentiate into macrophages or other related cell types. The granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor also known as CD116 (Cluster of Differentiation 116), is a receptor for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, which stimulates the production of white blood cells. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are constituents of tumor microenvironments [SEP] A cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) (also known as tumour-associated fibroblast; carcinogenic- associated fibroblast; activated fibroblast) is a cell type within the tumor microenvironment that promotes tumorigenic features by initiating the remodelling of the extracellular matrix or by secreting cytokines. CAFs are a complex and abundant cell type within the tumour microenvironment; the number cannot decrease, as they are unable to undergo apoptosis.CAFs have been found to be abundant in a tumour stroma. Myofibroblasts and fibroblasts make up CAFs.The functions of these CAFs have been known to stimulate angiogenesis, supporting the formation of tumours and thus proliferation of cancer cell and metastasis. Resident
These CAFs arise from fibroblasts within the vicinity of the tumour that have been recruited by cancer derived growth factor. This process is similar to active inflammation with the main difference between these two processes being that, in cancer, the fibroblasts can’t be deactivated which has led to tumours being referred to as “wounds that do not heal.” It is believed that most CAFs arise from differentiated resident fibroblast cells.The normal fibroblast cells receive a hormone signal from nearby cells, indicating that it must become activated, and is thus classed as a CAF. Roles in cancer
Prognosis
In general, the presence and density of cancer associated fibroblasts (CAF) point towards a bad prognosis for the patient, and so, are pro-tumour. Effect on Tumour Cells
Cancer-associated fibroblasts negatively influence the outcome of oncological diseases. Carcinoma associated fibroblasts
Carcinoma associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are a heterogenous group of fibroblasts whose function is pirated by cancer cells and redirected toward carcinogenesis. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) have no known interaction with cancer cells in the formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] A cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) (also known as tumour-associated fibroblast; carcinogenic- associated fibroblast; activated fibroblast) is a cell type within the tumor microenvironment that promotes tumorigenic features by initiating the remodelling of the extracellular matrix or by secreting cytokines. Myofibroblasts and fibroblasts make up CAFs.The functions of these CAFs have been known to stimulate angiogenesis, supporting the formation of tumours and thus proliferation of cancer cell and metastasis. Cancer cells are usually also drug resistant, which is contributed by CAFs. Resident
These CAFs arise from fibroblasts within the vicinity of the tumour that have been recruited by cancer derived growth factor. This process is similar to active inflammation with the main difference between these two processes being that, in cancer, the fibroblasts can’t be deactivated which has led to tumours being referred to as “wounds that do not heal.” It is believed that most CAFs arise from differentiated resident fibroblast cells.The normal fibroblast cells receive a hormone signal from nearby cells, indicating that it must become activated, and is thus classed as a CAF. Roles in cancer
Prognosis
In general, the presence and density of cancer associated fibroblasts (CAF) point towards a bad prognosis for the patient, and so, are pro-tumour. Effect on Tumour Cells
Cancer-associated fibroblasts negatively influence the outcome of oncological diseases. CAF tumors rarely recur at the sites of their surgical removal whether treated by total or simple resections and have not been reported to metastasize. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interact with cancer cells to mediate formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] A cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) (also known as tumour-associated fibroblast; carcinogenic- associated fibroblast; activated fibroblast) is a cell type within the tumor microenvironment that promotes tumorigenic features by initiating the remodelling of the extracellular matrix or by secreting cytokines. CAFs are a complex and abundant cell type within the tumour microenvironment; the number cannot decrease, as they are unable to undergo apoptosis.CAFs have been found to be abundant in a tumour stroma. Myofibroblasts and fibroblasts make up CAFs.The functions of these CAFs have been known to stimulate angiogenesis, supporting the formation of tumours and thus proliferation of cancer cell and metastasis. Resident
These CAFs arise from fibroblasts within the vicinity of the tumour that have been recruited by cancer derived growth factor. This process is similar to active inflammation with the main difference between these two processes being that, in cancer, the fibroblasts can’t be deactivated which has led to tumours being referred to as “wounds that do not heal.” It is believed that most CAFs arise from differentiated resident fibroblast cells.The normal fibroblast cells receive a hormone signal from nearby cells, indicating that it must become activated, and is thus classed as a CAF. Roles in cancer
Prognosis
In general, the presence and density of cancer associated fibroblasts (CAF) point towards a bad prognosis for the patient, and so, are pro-tumour. Effect on Tumour Cells
Cancer-associated fibroblasts negatively influence the outcome of oncological diseases. CAF express various cytokines and factors, which activate and contribute to pathways favouring tumorigenesis. 
Cancers that initially benefit from epidermal growth factor receptor targeted therapies later become refractory through several mechanisms. [SEP] Gefitinib (Iressa, also known as ZD1839), targets the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase and is approved in the U.S. for non small cell lung cancer. Erlotinib inhibits epidermal growth factor receptor, and works through a similar mechanism as gefitinib. Panitumumab also targets the EGFR. EGFR-targeted agents appear particularly effective in papillary adenocarcinoma, non-mucinous bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma with mixed subtypes.Bevacizumab may improve some measures of survival in both SCLC and non-squamous cell variants of NSCLC.Pemetrexed, although not classified as a targeted agent, has been shown to have improve survival in non-squamous cell NSCLC, and is the first drug to reveal differential survival benefit in large cell lung carcinoma.C-SCLC appear to express female hormone (i.e. Mechanism of action
Matuzumab binds to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) on the outer membrane of normal and tumor cells. The EGFR is receptor tyrosine kinase which binds multiple growth factors including EGF (epidermal growth factor) and other members of the EGF family of growth factors, resulting in activation of its tyrosine kinase activity. Development of matuzumab and other antibodies to the EGFR (for example cetuximab) as cancer therapeutics was motivated by observations that EGFR expression and/or signaling is frequently upregulated in cancer cells. Activating mutations of the Ras protein and upstream elements of the Ras protein may play a role in more than two thirds of all human cancers, including most metastatic disease, which suggests that pelareorep may be an effective therapeutic for many Ras-activated tumor types and potentially for some cell proliferative disorders.In both single-arm and randomized phase 2 clinical studies, pelareorep, in combination with various chemotherapeutic agents, has shown a trend to improve overall survival (OS) in certain indications and patient populations, while having a limited impact on objective response rate (ORR) or progression-free survival (PFS), a therapeutic profile consistent with those observed with approved immunotherapies. 
Cardiac tissue-resident macrophages directly contribute to electrical activity. [SEP] In mammals, cardiac electrical activity originates from specialized myocytes of the sinoatrial node (SAN) which generate spontaneous and rhythmic action potentials (AP). ATMs) comprise tissue resident macrophages present in adipose tissue. Adipose tissue macrophages and obesity
Increased recruitment of macrophages into adipose tissue is multifactoral. Recruited macrophages are characterized by higher expression of scavenger receptors (i.e. The cardiac conduction system (CCS) (also called the electrical  conduction system of the heart) transmits the signals generated by the sinoatrial node – the heart's pacemaker, to cause the heart muscle to contract, and pump blood through the body's circulatory system. Development
Embryologic evidence of generation of the cardiac conduction system illuminates the respective roles of this specialized set of cells. These signals are propagated through the heart's electrical conduction system. Tissue resident macrophages
Some macrophages are known to be residing in the tissues and help in maintaining the tissue microenvironment. 
Carriers of HNF4A mutations are at reduced risk for diabetes. [SEP] HNF4 (Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4) is a nuclear receptor protein mostly expressed in the liver, gut, kidney, and pancreatic beta cells that is critical for liver development. In humans, there are two isoforms of HNF4, HNF4α and HNF4γ, encoded by two separate genes HNF4A and HNF4G respectively. Ligands
HNF4 was originally classified as an orphan receptor that exhibits constitutive transactivation activity apparently by being continuously bound to a variety of fatty acids. Pathology
Mutations in the HNF4A gene have been linked to maturity onset diabetes of the young 1 (MODY1).This seems to be caused by HNF4-a's [1] role in the synthesis of SHBG, which is known to be severely diminished in patients with insulin-resistance. The diabetic patients’ genome sequences differ from the controls' genome in specific loci along and around numerous genes, and these differences in the nucleotide sequences alter phenotypic traits that exhibit increased susceptibility to the diabetes. SNP rs7873784 located in the 3′-untranslated region (3′-UTR) of TLR4 gene and associated with the development of type-2 diabetes mellitus. Additionally, mice with deficiencies in TLR4 signaling were protected from insulin resistance caused by high-fat diet and from secondary complications of T2DM such as atherosclerosis.Most SNPs that increase the risk of diabetes reside in noncoding regions of the genes, making the SNP's mechanism for increasing susceptibility largely unknown. As CDKN2A and B regulate the pancreatic beta-cell replication, and HNF1B is homeodomain containing transcription factor that regulates other genes, faulty regulations of those genes increase the risk of diabetes. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Galliformes. [SEP] The evolution of sex-determining mechanisms, characterized by the evolutionary transition to genetic sex determination or temperature-dependent sex determination from the opposite mechanism, has frequently and readily occurred among multiple taxa across a transitionary continuum. Evolutionary transitions
Technological advances in comparative chromosome mapping and molecular cytogenetics have advanced understanding of the many transitions between sex-determining modes. The ZW sex-determination system is a chromosomal system that determines the sex of offspring in birds, some fish and crustaceans such as the giant river prawn, some insects (including butterflies and moths), the schistosome family of flatworms, and some reptiles, e.g. One possible gene that could determine sex in birds is the DMRT1 gene. Auto-sexing breeds of poultry are those in which the sex of newly-hatched chicks can be determined from the colour and markings of the down. Birds have different sex-chromosomes (Z and w) and a different sex-determination system compared to mammals (X and Y). Its sperm normally contains either one X chromosome or no sex chromosomes at all. This system determines the sex of offspring among:

Most arachnids with the exception of mites where a small majority are haplodiploid,
Almost all apterygote and Paleopteran insects (e.g., dragonflies, silverfish)
Most exopterygote insects (e.g., grasshoppers, crickets, cockroaches)
Some nematodes, crustaceans, gastropod molluscs, and bony fish, notably in the genus Ancistrus
Several mammals
A few species of bat, including the hammer-headed bat, Buettikofer's epauletted fruit bat, Franquet's epauletted fruit bat, Peters's epauletted fruit bat, and Gambian epauletted fruit bat
The Ryukyu spiny rat and Tokunoshima spiny ratIn a variant of this system, most individuals have two sex chromosomes (XX) and are hermaphroditic, producing both eggs and sperm with which they can fertilize themselves, while rare individuals are male and have only one sex chromosome (XO). 
Cellular clocks are associated with mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] The different stages of mitosis altogether define the mitotic (M) phase of an animal cell cycle—the division of the mother cell into two daughter cells genetically identical to each other.The process of mitosis is divided into stages corresponding to the completion of one set of activities and the start of the next. Mitosis varies between organisms. The circadian clock is intertwined with most cellular metabolic processes and it is affected by organism aging. Recently, oxygen rhythms were found to synchronize clocks in cultured cells. postulated that the clock is interconnected with many aspects of cellular function. 3T3 cells are several cell lines of mouse embryonic fibroblasts. In Drosophila, newly synthesized CLOCK (CLK) is hypophosphorylated in the cytoplasm before entering the nucleus. Less intuitive is the relationship between replication timing and the three-dimensional positioning of chromatin in the nucleus. 
Cellular clocks are not predictive of mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] 3T3 cells are several cell lines of mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Nomenclature
The '3T3' designation refers to the abbreviation of "3-day transfer, inoculum 3×105 cells." The different stages of mitosis altogether define the mitotic (M) phase of an animal cell cycle—the division of the mother cell into two daughter cells genetically identical to each other.The process of mitosis is divided into stages corresponding to the completion of one set of activities and the start of the next. Producing three or more daughter cells instead of the normal two is a mitotic error called tripolar mitosis or multipolar mitosis (direct cell triplication / multiplication). Mitosis varies between organisms. Interphase
The mitotic phase is a relatively short period of the cell cycle. Cell division may or may not occur at this time depending on the organism. In order to improve the reproducibility and accuracy of the mitotic count, automated image analysis using deep learning-based algorithms have been proposed. 
Cellular differentiation of embryonic stem cells is accompanied by changes in replication timing, transcription and nuclear localization. [SEP] examined the effects of epigenetic modifications on the chromatin structure and the modulation of these epigenetic markers during stem cell differentiation through in vitro differentiation of murine embryonic stem (ES) cells. Experimental background
Embryonic stem cells exhibit dramatic and complex alterations to both global and site-specific chromatin structures. Effects of global histone modifications during embryonic stem cell differentiation
Histones modifications in chromatin were analyzed at various time intervals (along a 6-day period) following the initiation of in vitro embryonic stem cell differentiation. Histone modifications of H3K9 position show a decrease in di- and tri-methylation of undifferentiated embryonic stem cells and had a gradual increase in methylation during the six-day time course of in vitro differentiation, which indicated that there is a global increase of inactive heterochromatin levels at this histone mark.As the embryonic stem cell undergoes differentiation the markers for active euchromatin (histone acetylation and H3K4 methylation) are decreased after the removal of LIF showing that the cell is indeed becoming more differentiated. The global cytosine methylation pattern appears to be established prior to the reprogramming of the histone code that occurs upon in vitro differentiation of embryonic stem cells. As the embryonic stem cell undergoes differentiation the level of DNA methylation increases. Initial deacetylation of histone is required for embryonic stem cell differentiation. During embryonic development, various niche factors act on embryonic stem cells to alter gene expression, and induce their proliferation or differentiation for the development of the fetus. 
Certain immunomodulator-human dialyzable leukocyte extract (hDLE) peptides are recognized by toll-like receptors (TLRs) on macrophages and dendritic cells. [SEP] Function
The TLR family plays a fundamental role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a class of proteins that play a key role in the innate immune system. Function
The ability of the immune system to recognize molecules that are broadly shared by pathogens is, in part, due to the presence of immune receptors called toll-like receptors (TLRs) that are expressed on the membranes of leukocytes including dendritic cells, macrophages, natural killer cells, cells of the adaptive immunity T cells, and B cells, and non-immune cells (epithelial and endothelial cells, and fibroblasts).The binding of ligands - either in the form of adjuvant used in vaccinations or in the form of invasive moieties during times of natural infection - to the TLR marks the key molecular events that ultimately lead to innate immune responses and the development of antigen-specific acquired immunity.Upon activation, TLRs recruit adaptor proteins (proteins that mediate other protein-protein interactions) within the cytosol of the immune cell to propagate the antigen-induced signal transduction pathway. Toll-like receptors have also been shown to be an important link between innate and adaptive immunity through their presence in dendritic cells. Summary of known mammalian TLRs
Toll-like receptors bind and become activated by different ligands, which, in turn, are located on different types of organisms or structures. This identified TLR4 as one of the key components of the receptor for LPS. TLR2 is one of the toll-like receptors and plays a role in the immune system. TLR3 is a member of the toll-like receptor family of pattern recognition receptors of the innate immune system. 
Charcoal is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] Activated charcoal, also known as activated carbon, is a medication used to treat poisonings that occurred by mouth. Activated charcoal works by adsorbing the toxin.While charcoal has been used since ancient times for poisonings, activated charcoal has been used since the 1900s. Medical uses
Poison ingestion
Activated charcoal is used to treat many types of oral poisonings such as phenobarbital and carbamazepine. It is not effective for a number of poisonings including: strong acids or bases, iron, lithium, arsenic, methanol, ethanol or ethylene glycol.Although activated charcoal is the most commonly used agent for GI decontamination in poisoned patients,  medical professionals use discretion when determining whether or not its use is indicated. Charcoal, when ingested, will absorb vitamins and nutrients as well as prescription medications present in the gastrointestinal tract which can make it dangerous to use unless directed by a medical doctor. Medical use
Activated charcoal is used to detoxify people, but only in life-threatening medical emergencies such as overdoses or poisonings. Charcoal is not an effective treatment for alcohol, metals or elemental poisons such as lithium or arsenic as it will only adsorb certain chemicals and molecules. Claims
Proponents of charcoal detoxes claim that it will cleanse the body by aiding in the removal of excess toxins that the body is unable to get rid of by itself. 
Charcoal shows no benefit for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] It does not work for poisonings by cyanide, corrosive agents, iron, lithium, alcohols, or malathion. Medical uses
Poison ingestion
Activated charcoal is used to treat many types of oral poisonings such as phenobarbital and carbamazepine. It is not effective for a number of poisonings including: strong acids or bases, iron, lithium, arsenic, methanol, ethanol or ethylene glycol.Although activated charcoal is the most commonly used agent for GI decontamination in poisoned patients,  medical professionals use discretion when determining whether or not its use is indicated. In a study of acute poisonings from agricultural pesticides and yellow oleander seeds, the administration of activated carbon did not affect survival rates. Other
Claims that activated charcoal will do things such as whiten teeth, cure alcohol-induced hangovers, and prevent bloating, are not supported by evidence. Activated charcoal cleanses also lack evidence and are considered pseudoscience. Charcoal-burning suicide is suicide by burning charcoal in a closed room or area. History
One of the earliest known suicides by inhalation of charcoal fumes may have been that of Seneca (65 AD) as well as Amédée Berthollet (1811), son of Claude Louis Berthollet. 
Chemical injury represses transglutaminase 2 activity. [SEP] Tissue transglutaminase (abbreviated as tTG or TG2) is a 78-kDa, calcium-dependent enzyme (EC 2.3.2.13) of the protein-glutamine γ-glutamyltransferases family (or simply transglutaminase family). Protein
TG2 is a multifunctional enzyme that belongs to transglutaminases which catalyze the crosslinking of proteins by epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine isopeptide bonds. Transglutaminases are enzymes that in nature primarily catalyze the formation of an isopeptide bond between γ-carboxamide groups ( -(C=O)NH2 ) of glutamine residue side chains and the ε-amino groups ( -NH2 ) of lysine residue side chains with subsequent release of ammonia ( NH3 ). Bonds formed by transglutaminase exhibit high resistance to proteolytic degradation (proteolysis). Examples
Nine transglutaminases have been characterised in humans, eight of which catalyse transamidation reactions. Biological role
Transglutaminases form extensively cross-linked, generally insoluble protein polymers. Protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase K is a transglutaminase enzyme that in humans is encoded by the TGM1 gene. Epidermal transglutaminase is the autoantigen, in humans, of dermatitis herpetiformis. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment decreases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] Chenodeoxycholic acid is one of the main bile acids. Biosynthesis and function
Chenodeoxycholic acid is synthesized in the liver from cholesterol via several enzymatic steps. See also
Ursodeoxycholic acid
Hyodeoxycholic acid

References
External links
"Chenodiol". Techniques to manipulate the differentiation of "brown fat" could become a mechanism for weight loss therapy in the future, encouraging the growth of tissue with this specialized metabolism without inducing it in other organs. A review on the eventual therapeutic targeting of brown fat to treat human obesity was published by Samuelson and Vidal-Puig in 2020.Until recently, brown adipose tissue in humans was thought to be primarily limited to infants, but new evidence has overturned that belief. Metabolically active tissue with temperature responses similar to brown adipose was first reported in the neck and trunk of some human adults in 2007, and the presence of brown adipose in human adults was later verified histologically in the same anatomical regions. The calorie-burning capacity of brown and beige fat has been extensively studied as research efforts focus on therapies targeted to treat obesity and diabetes. Studies of WAT browning have greatly benefited from advances in these techniques, as beige fat is rapidly gaining popularity as a therapeutic target for the treatment of obesity and diabetes. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment increases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] The therapeutic targeting of brown fat for the treatment of human obesity is an active research field.In contrast to white adipocytes, which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which gives the tissue its color. However, brown adipose tissue is highly specialized for this non-shivering thermogenesis. Brown adipose tissue activation may play an important role in bone health and bone density. Techniques to manipulate the differentiation of "brown fat" could become a mechanism for weight loss therapy in the future, encouraging the growth of tissue with this specialized metabolism without inducing it in other organs. A review on the eventual therapeutic targeting of brown fat to treat human obesity was published by Samuelson and Vidal-Puig in 2020.Until recently, brown adipose tissue in humans was thought to be primarily limited to infants, but new evidence has overturned that belief. Metabolically active tissue with temperature responses similar to brown adipose was first reported in the neck and trunk of some human adults in 2007, and the presence of brown adipose in human adults was later verified histologically in the same anatomical regions. The calorie-burning capacity of brown and beige fat has been extensively studied as research efforts focus on therapies targeted to treat obesity and diabetes. Studies of WAT browning have greatly benefited from advances in these techniques, as beige fat is rapidly gaining popularity as a therapeutic target for the treatment of obesity and diabetes. 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are less vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] Low folate intake affects individuals with the 677TT genotype to a greater extent than those with the 677CC/CT genotypes. Other research has found that individuals with folate-related mutations can still have a functional deficiency even when blood levels of folate are within the normal range, and recommended supplementation of methyltetrahydrofolate to potentially prevent and treat dementia (along with depression). The active form of folate, L-methylfolate, may be appropriate to target for conditions affected by MTHFR polymorphisms. Causes
One cause of cerebral folate deficiency is due to a genetic mutation in the FOLR1 gene. Neurodegeneration due to cerebral folate transport deficiency - description in the OMIM, a catalog of genetically-linked disorders. "Localized depletion: the key to colorectal cancer risk mediated by MTHFR genotype and folate?". 5-MTHF was shown to induce significantly higher plasma folate concentrations compared to folic acid in homozygous MTHFR mutation carriers in this case series.A different study corroborates these results and suggests a physiological dose (800 μg) of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate can bypass MTHFR C677T and A1298C isoforms in couples with fertility problems. Stroke in China: epidemiology, prevention, and management strategies . 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are more vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] Mutations of the MTHFS gene disrupt folate metabolism, which is very important for the proper development of the nervous system and myelination of nerve fibers.Patients present with cerebral folate deficiency, a condition in which there are reduced levels of 5-MTHF in the cerebrospinal fluid. However, contrary to other causes of cerebral folate deficiency, the use of folinic acid for treatment may be contraindicated due to excess levels of folinic acid in the organism of patients.The first case report of MTHFS deficiency was published in 2018. See also
Cerebral folate deficiency


== References == Without treatment there may be poor muscle tone, trouble with coordination, trouble talking, and seizures.One cause of cerebral folate deficiency is a mutation in a gene responsible for folate transport, specifically FOLR1. Causes
One cause of cerebral folate deficiency is due to a genetic mutation in the FOLR1 gene. Neurodegeneration due to cerebral folate transport deficiency - description in the OMIM, a catalog of genetically-linked disorders. Low folate intake affects individuals with the 677TT genotype to a greater extent than those with the 677CC/CT genotypes. The active form of folate, L-methylfolate, may be appropriate to target for conditions affected by MTHFR polymorphisms. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among individuals in their 50s and 60s. [SEP] Chlamydia, or more specifically a chlamydia infection, is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Epidemiology
Globally, as of 2015, sexually transmitted chlamydia affects approximately 61 million people. Chlamydial infection is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection in the UK.Chlamydia causes more than 250,000 cases of epididymitis in the U.S. each year. Chlamydia trachomatis (), commonly known as chlamydia, is a bacterium that causes chlamydia, which can manifest in various ways, including: trachoma, lymphogranuloma venereum, nongonococcal urethritis, cervicitis, salpingitis, pelvic inflammatory disease. trachomatis in the lungs presents as the chlamydia pneumoniae respiratory infection and can affect all ages. Prevalence
Three times as many women are diagnosed with genitourinary C. trachomatis infections as men. External links

Chlamydiae.com
"Chlamydia trachomatis". Trachoma is an infectious disease caused by bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among sexually-experienced individuals aged 16 to 24. [SEP] Chlamydia, or more specifically a chlamydia infection, is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Chlamydial infection is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection in the UK.Chlamydia causes more than 250,000 cases of epididymitis in the U.S. each year. Chlamydia trachomatis (), commonly known as chlamydia, is a bacterium that causes chlamydia, which can manifest in various ways, including: trachoma, lymphogranuloma venereum, nongonococcal urethritis, cervicitis, salpingitis, pelvic inflammatory disease. trachomatis in the lungs presents as the chlamydia pneumoniae respiratory infection and can affect all ages. External links

Chlamydiae.com
"Chlamydia trachomatis". "Sexual behaviour in Britain: reported sexually transmitted infections and prevalent genital Chlamydia trachomatis infection". Trachoma is an infectious disease caused by bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Cause
Trachoma is caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, serotypes (serovars) A, B, and C. It is spread by direct contact with eye, nose, and throat secretions from affected individuals, or contact with fomites (inanimate objects that carry infectious agents), such as towels and/or washcloths, that have had similar contact with these secretions. 
Cholesterol loading induces KLF4 expression in VSMCs, resulting in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] Similar finding in esophageal epithelium was observed, where overexpression of KLF4 resulted in increased inflammation that eventually lead to the development of esophageal squamous cell cancer in mice.The role of KLF4 in Epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) is also controversial. It may suppress angiogenesis by regulating NOTCH1 activity, while in the central nervous system its overexpression leads to vascular dysplasia.KLF4 may promote inflammation by mediating NF-κB-dependent inflammatory pathway such as in macrophages, esophageal epithelium and in chemically-induced acute colitis in mice. Additionally, KLF-4 downregulates TNF-α-induced VCAM1 expression by targeting and blocking the binding site of NF-κB to the VCAM1 promoter.However, KLF4 may also suppress the activation of inflammatory signaling such as in endothelial cells in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli.KLF4 is essential for the cellular response to DNA damage. Inflammation
During an inflammatory response cholesterol is loaded into immune cells including macrophages. The cholesterol is a signal that activates cytokine production and other inflammatory responses. Cholesterol's role in inflammation is central to many diseases. Coronary Heart Disease
inflammation induced by cholesterol loading into immune cells causes heart disease. However, more recently, cholesterol uptake was shown to signal an immune response in macrophages. 
Chronic HIV stimulation of B cells leads to the premature exhaustion of B cells. [SEP] During the acute phase, HIV-induced cell lysis and killing of infected cells by CD8+ T cells accounts for CD4+ T cell depletion, although apoptosis may also be a factor. During the chronic phase, the consequences of generalized immune activation coupled with the gradual loss of the ability of the immune system to generate new T cells appear to account for the slow decline in CD4+ T cell numbers.Although the symptoms of immune deficiency characteristic of AIDS do not appear for years after a person is infected, the bulk of CD4+ T cell loss occurs during the first weeks of infection, especially in the intestinal mucosa, which harbors the majority of the lymphocytes found in the body. Continuous HIV replication causes a state of generalized immune activation persisting throughout the chronic phase. The primary causes of death from HIV/AIDS are opportunistic infections and cancer, both of which are frequently the result of the progressive failure of the immune system. HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms, including pyroptosis of abortively infected T cells, apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral killing of infected cells, and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8+ cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells. When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections, leading to the development of AIDS. Role in disease
In HIV
HIV has been confirmed to target CD4+ T cells and destroy them, making T cell depletion an important hallmark of HIV. Apoptosis also occurs more frequently in HIV+ patients.Depletion of regulatory T cells increases immune activation. 
Cis-acting lncRNAs control the expression of genes that are positioned in the vicinity of their transcription sites. [SEP] A locus control region (LCR) is a long-range cis-regulatory element that enhances expression of linked genes at distal chromatin sites. stRNAs exert negative post-transcriptional regulation by binding to complementary sequences in the 3' untranslated regions of their target genes. They are labeled as cis because they are typically located on the same DNA strand as the genes they control as opposed to trans, which refers to effects on genes not located on the same strand or farther away, such as transcription factors. A number of genome-wide sequencing projects have revealed that enhancers are often transcribed to long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) or enhancer RNA (eRNA), whose changes in levels frequently correlate with those of the target gene mRNA. Mode of action
Cis-regulatory modules can regulate their target genes over large distances. The lac operator is, thus, considered to "act in cis" on the regulation of the nearby genes. Multiple classes of ncRNAs (lncRNAs, circRNAs, pseudogenes) and protein-coding mRNAs function as key ceRNAs (sponges) and to regulate the expression of mRNAs in plants and mammalian cells.This competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) databases and resources is a compilation of databases and web portals and servers used for ceRNA prediction and ceRNA networks. LncRNA p53 regulated and ESC associated 1 is a non-coding RNA that in humans is encoded by the LNCPRESS1 gene. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to disrupt the inflammatory cycle. [SEP] Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are networks of extracellular fibers, primarily composed of DNA from neutrophils, which bind pathogens. Neutrophils are the immune system's first line of defense against infection and have conventionally been thought to kill invading pathogens through two strategies: engulfment of microbes and secretion of anti-microbials. NET formation has also been shown to augment macrophage bactericidal activity in response to multiple bacterial pathogens.More recently, it has also been shown that not only bacteria but also pathogenic fungi such as Candida albicans induce neutrophils to form NETs that capture and kill C. albicans hyphal as well as yeast-form cells. Trapping of bacteria under flow has been imaged directly in flow chambers in vitro and intravital microscopy demonstrated that bacterial trapping occurs in the liver sinusoids and lung capillaries (sites where platelets bind neutrophils). References
External links
Frontiers in Molecular Innate Immunity research topic about NET
"Molecular mechanisms involved in neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation", PhD thesis, Jyaysi Desai, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. Clinically, cyclic citrullinated peptides (CCP) are frequently used to detect these antibodies in patient serum or plasma (then referred to as anti–citrullinated peptide antibodies).During inflammation, arginine amino acid residues can be enzymatically converted into citrulline residues in proteins such as vimentin, by a process called citrullination. History
The presence of autoantibodies against citrullinated proteins in rheumatoid arthritis patients was first described in the mid-1970s when the biochemical basis of antibody reactivity against keratin and filaggrin was investigated. The list of proteins that undergo citrullination and make up the citrullinome continues to increase. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to perpetuate the inflammatory cycle via induction of autoantibodies. [SEP] Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are networks of extracellular fibers, primarily composed of DNA from neutrophils, which bind pathogens. NET formation has also been shown to augment macrophage bactericidal activity in response to multiple bacterial pathogens.More recently, it has also been shown that not only bacteria but also pathogenic fungi such as Candida albicans induce neutrophils to form NETs that capture and kill C. albicans hyphal as well as yeast-form cells. References
External links
Frontiers in Molecular Innate Immunity research topic about NET
"Molecular mechanisms involved in neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation", PhD thesis, Jyaysi Desai, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. Anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) are autoantibodies (antibodies to an individual's own proteins) that are directed against peptides and proteins that are citrullinated. Clinically, cyclic citrullinated peptides (CCP) are frequently used to detect these antibodies in patient serum or plasma (then referred to as anti–citrullinated peptide antibodies).During inflammation, arginine amino acid residues can be enzymatically converted into citrulline residues in proteins such as vimentin, by a process called citrullination. History
The presence of autoantibodies against citrullinated proteins in rheumatoid arthritis patients was first described in the mid-1970s when the biochemical basis of antibody reactivity against keratin and filaggrin was investigated. Citrullinated vimentin is a very promising autoantigen in RA, and a suitable tool for studying this systemic autoimmune disease. The list of proteins that undergo citrullination and make up the citrullinome continues to increase. 
Clathrin stabilizes the spindle fiber apparatus during mitosis. [SEP] Clathrin is a protein that plays a major role in the formation of coated vesicles. Function
Clathrin performs critical roles in shaping rounded vesicles in the cytoplasm for intracellular trafficking. Clathrin has another function aside from the coating of organelles. Formation of clathrin-coated vesicles is shut down in cells undergoing mitosis. During mitosis, clathrin binds to the spindle apparatus, in complex with two other proteins: TACC3 and ch-TOG/CKAP5. Clathrin aids in the congression of chromosomes by stabilizing kinetochore fibers of the mitotic spindle. The stabilization of kinetochore fibers requires the trimeric structure of clathrin in order to crosslink microtubules.Clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) regulates many cellular physiological processes such as the internalization of growth factors and receptors, entry of pathogens, and synaptic transmission. During mitosis, spindle fibers attach to the centromere via the kinetochore. 
Cnn1 recruitment varies with cell cycle timing. [SEP] The presence of these core cell cycle factors can be explained through their role in neuronal migration, maturation, and synaptic plasticity (Christopher L. Frank1 and Li-Huei Tsai1, 2009). Alternative functions of core cell cycle regulators in neuronal migration, neuronal maturation, and synaptic plasticity. Neuronal cell cycle: The neuron itself and its circumstances. Putting one step before the other: distinct activation pathways for Cdk1 and Cdk2 bring order to the mammalian cell cycle. The cell cycle and cancer. Calponin 1 (CNN1) contains three copies of this domain. Variation in cell cycle
Individual cells in a population will often be at different points in the cell cycle. Variability in cell cycle can be studied using several of the methods previously described. 
Cognitive behavioral therapy is an ineffective treatment for insomnia [SEP] Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is a technique for treating insomnia without (or alongside) medications. Currently no treatment method is recommended over another; neither is it recommended to administer a single intervention over a combination of different interventions.CBT-I has been found to be an effective form of treatment of insomnia. Cognitive therapy
Cognitive therapy within CBT-I is not synonymous with versions of cognitive behavioral therapy that are not targeted at insomnia. When dealing with insomnia, cognitive therapy is mostly about offering education about sleep in order to target dysfunctional beliefs/attitudes about sleep. Research suggests that acceptance and commitment therapy might even be effective in patients not responding to CBT-I.Biofeedback has been shown to be an effective treatment for insomnia and is listed in the American Academy of Sleep Medicine treatment guidelines. See also
Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia

References
Sources
Kragh, M.; Martiny, K.; Videbech, P.; Møller, D. N.; Wihlborg, C. S.; Lindhardt, T.; Larsen, E. R. (December 2017). A systematic review by the AASM concluded that clinicians should not prescribe sleep hygiene for insomnia due to the evidence of absence of its efficacy and potential delaying of adequate treatment, recommending instead that effective therapies such as CBT-i should be preferred. There is however no evidence that poor sleep hygiene can contribute to insomnia.While there is inconclusive evidence that sleep hygiene alone is effective as a treatment for insomnia, some research studies have shown improvement in insomnia for patients who receive sleep hygiene education in combination with cognitive behavioral therapy practices.The American Academy of Sleep Medicine released in 2021 a meta-analysis on behavioral therapies concluding that they "did not favor the use of sleep hygiene as a stand-alone therapy for chronic insomnia" since "recent evidence shows that it is no longer supported as a single-component therapy". 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion are more effective after 12 weeks of reatment compared to varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy works by reducing cravings caused by nicotine addiction.They were first approved for use in 1984, in the United States. Nicotine replacement therapy is as effective as medications, such as bupropion, in helping people quit smoking for at least six months. All forms of nicotine replacement therapy, including nicotine gum, patches, nasal spray, inhalers, and lozenges, have similar success rates in terms of helping people stop smoking. Using a few different nicotine replacement methods in combination may improve success rates in stopping tobacco use. Additionally, using nicotine replacement with counseling has been proven to improve tobacco abstinence rates. Nicotine gum, nicotine sprays, nicotine toothpicks, nicotine sublingual tablets, and nicotine lozenges administer nicotine orally with quicker nicotine uptake into the body but lasting a shorter amount of time. Medicines
In 2015, the United States Public Health Service listed seven agents for the stopping of tobacco, which included five nicotine replacement treatments (nicotine patches, gum, lozenges, inhalers, and nasal sprays) and two oral medications (bupropion and varenicline). Combining nicotine patch treatment with a faster nicotine-delivery means, like nicotine gum or spray, improves the likelihood of successful treatment. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus (ComYMV) has three typical badnavirus ORFs, capable of encoding proteins 23, 15, and 216 kD. [SEP] Chuviridae is a family of viruses. Commelina mosaic virus (CoMV) is a plant pathogenic virus  in the genus Potyvirus and the virus family Potyviridae. Like other members of the Potyvirus genus, CoMV is a monopartite strand of positive-sense, single-stranded RNA surrounded by a capsid made for a single viral encoded protein. Symptoms and Inclusions of Commelina mosaic virus in Commelina diffusa. There are four different kinds of Potyvirus inclusions. (CoMV belongs to group II. ) Host Range and Geographic Distribution
Commelina mosaic virus was first reported in 1977 and was the first Potyvirus found infecting a member of the plant family, Commelinaceae (2). Since then, two, possibly three, other potyviruses have been reported to infect members of this family, Tradescantia mosaic virus (=Tradescantia/Zebrina virus), Aneilema virus (3) and Tradescantia mild mosaic virus CoMV was originally found in the host plant Commelina diffusa (2). 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 2140 baise pairs. [SEP] Commelina mosaic virus (CoMV) is a plant pathogenic virus  in the genus Potyvirus and the virus family Potyviridae. Like other members of the Potyvirus genus, CoMV is a monopartite strand of positive-sense, single-stranded RNA surrounded by a capsid made for a single viral encoded protein. Symptoms and Inclusions of Commelina mosaic virus in Commelina diffusa. Host Range and Geographic Distribution
Commelina mosaic virus was first reported in 1977 and was the first Potyvirus found infecting a member of the plant family, Commelinaceae (2). Since then, two, possibly three, other potyviruses have been reported to infect members of this family, Tradescantia mosaic virus (=Tradescantia/Zebrina virus), Aneilema virus (3) and Tradescantia mild mosaic virus CoMV was originally found in the host plant Commelina diffusa (2). However, it was often found in a double infection with Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) which is an important pest for Florida agriculture. Clover yellow mosaic virus (ClYMV) is a plant pathogenic virus in the genus Potexvirus and the virus family Alphaflexiviridae. The one that was transmitted by dodder became known as pea mottle virus and eventually Clover yellow mosaic virus.ClYMV is now known to infect several other species of clover, peas (Pisum sativum), faba beans (Vicia faba), green beans (Phaseolus vulgaris), cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) and snapdragons (Antirrhinum majus). 
Comparative transcriptome analysis identified new platelet proteins with structural features suggesting a role in platelet function. [SEP] Glycoprotein IX (platelet) (GP9) also known as CD42a (Cluster of Differentiation 42a), is a human gene.Platelet glycoprotein IX (GP9) is a small membrane glycoprotein found on the surface of human platelets. The complete receptor complex includes noncovalent association of the alpha and beta subunits with GP9 and platelet glycoprotein V (GP5; MIM 173511). Glycoprotein V (platelet) (GP5) also known as CD42d (Cluster of Differentiation 42d), is a human gene.Human platelet glycoprotein V (GP5) is a part of the Ib-V-IX system of surface glycoproteins that constitute the receptor for von Willebrand factor (VWF; MIM 193400) and mediate the adhesion of platelets to injured vascular surfaces in the arterial circulation, a critical initiating event in hemostasis. The complete receptor complex includes noncovalent association of the alpha and beta subunits with platelet glycoprotein IX (GP9; MIM 173515) and GP5. Platelet glycoprotein Ib alpha chain also known as glycoprotein Ib (platelet), alpha polypeptide or CD42b (Cluster of Differentiation 42b), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GP1BA gene. The binding of the GP Ib-IX-V complex to VWF facilitates initial platelet adhesion to vascular subendothelium after vascular injury, and also initiates signaling events within the platelet that lead to enhanced platelet activation, thrombosis, and hemostasis. Function
Platelet glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) is a heterodimeric transmembrane protein consisting of a disulfide-linked 140 kD alpha chain and 22 kD beta chain. Furthermore, the protein is known to play a role in platelet degranulation, cell adhesion, and response to elevated platelet cytosolic Ca2+. 
Concentrations of SNV and CNV in stem-cell regulatory elements and binding sites of transcription factors in iPSC-lines are distinct from their founding cells. [SEP] Hepatitis C virus stem-loop VII is a regulatory element found in the coding region of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase gene, NS5B. Embryonic stem cells and development
Bivalent chromatin domains are found in embryonic stem (ES) cells and play an important role in cell differentiation. Gene expression at these histones regulated by epigenetic modifications is critical in restricting the embryonic stem cell to desired cell lineages and developing cellular memory. Embryonic stem cells containing reduced or elevation levels of methylation are viable but unable to differentiate and therefore require critical regulation of cytosine methylation for mammalian development. Effects of global histone modifications during embryonic stem cell differentiation
Histones modifications in chromatin were analyzed at various time intervals (along a 6-day period) following the initiation of in vitro embryonic stem cell differentiation. DNA methylation in differentiated versus undifferentiated cells
Global levels of 5-methylcytosine were compared between undifferentiated and differentiated embryonic stem cells in vitro. performed a ChIP analysis of the Oct4 promoter, associated with undifferentiated cells, region to examine the epigenetic modifications of regulated genes undergoing development during embryonic stem cell differentiation. Initial deacetylation of histone is required for embryonic stem cell differentiation. 
Consumption of whole fruits increases the risk of type 2 diabetes. [SEP] Sugar sweetened drinks appear to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes both through their role in obesity and potentially through a direct effect. A higher proportion of ultra-processed food in the diet was associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes in a large ten year study published in 2019. Causes
The development of type 2 diabetes is caused by a combination of lifestyle and genetic factors. Smoking appears to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Genetics
Most cases of diabetes involve many genes, with each being a small contributor to an increased probability of becoming a type 2 diabetic. There is an association between higher intake of sugar-sweetened fruit juice and diabetes, but no evidence of an association with 100% fruit juice. Increases in the overall diabetes prevalence rates largely reflect an increase in risk factors for type 2, notably greater longevity and being overweight or obese. Women who had gestational diabetes during pregnancy have a 20-50% increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes later in life. 
Continued HHV-8 transmission among MSM in San Francisco may be explained by urogenital contact. [SEP] Since reports of emergence and spread of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States between the 1970s and 1980s, the HIV/AIDS epidemic has frequently been linked to gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM) by epidemiologists and medical professionals. The United Nations estimates that 2 to 20% of MSM are infected with HIV, depending on region. The increasing rates of sexually transmitted diseases in major cities in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom led to reports in the gay and mainstream media of condom fatigue and "AIDS optimism" as causes of the new "laxness" in safe sex practices. In Norway, UNAIDS has observed an increasing number of MSM who have untreated sexually transmitted infections, and their emphasis is on promoting condom use within the gay community. A 2008 CDC study found that one in five (19%) of MSM in major U.S. cities were infected with HIV and almost half (44%) were unaware of their infection. STDs are by definition spread through this vector. It is strongly associated with persistent and recurring non-gonococcal urethritis (NGU) responsible for 15 percent to 20 percent of symptomatic NGU cases in men. M. genitalium is strongly associated with HIV-1. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing prevents the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] C->U-editing enzyme APOBEC-4, also known as Apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme catalytic polypeptide-like 4, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APOBEC4 gene. Apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3A, also known as APOBEC3A, or A3A is a gene of the APOBEC3 family found in humans, non-human primates, and some other mammals. The APOBEC3 family of DNA editing enzymes are thought to be part of the innate immune system by restricting retroviruses, mobile genetic elements like retrotransposons and endogenous retroviruses. DNA dC->dU-editing enzyme APOBEC-3H, also known as Apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme catalytic polypeptide-like 3H or APOBEC-related protein 10, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APOBEC3H gene. Probable DNA dC->dU-editing enzyme APOBEC-3D is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APOBEC3D gene.This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. APOBEC ("apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide") is a family of evolutionarily conserved cytidine deaminases. RNA editing by APOBEC-1 requires homodimerisation and this complex interacts with RNA binding proteins to form the editosome.In humans/mammals they help protect from viral infections. APOBEC3G (apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic subunit 3G) is a human enzyme encoded by the APOBEC3G gene that belongs to the APOBEC superfamily of proteins. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing worsens the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] C->U-editing enzyme APOBEC-4, also known as Apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme catalytic polypeptide-like 4, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APOBEC4 gene. Apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3A, also known as APOBEC3A, or A3A is a gene of the APOBEC3 family found in humans, non-human primates, and some other mammals. The APOBEC3 family of DNA editing enzymes are thought to be part of the innate immune system by restricting retroviruses, mobile genetic elements like retrotransposons and endogenous retroviruses. Probable DNA dC->dU-editing enzyme APOBEC-3D is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APOBEC3D gene.This gene is a member of the cytidine deaminase gene family. DNA dC->dU-editing enzyme APOBEC-3H, also known as Apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme catalytic polypeptide-like 3H or APOBEC-related protein 10, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APOBEC3H gene. APOBEC ("apolipoprotein B mRNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide") is a family of evolutionarily conserved cytidine deaminases. RNA editing by APOBEC-1 requires homodimerisation and this complex interacts with RNA binding proteins to form the editosome.In humans/mammals they help protect from viral infections. These enzymes, when misregulated, are a major source of mutation in numerous cancer types.A 2013 review discussed the structural and biophysical aspects of APOBEC3 family enzymes. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data accurately reflect prices for patients in actual clinical practice. [SEP] If efficacy and tolerability is demonstrated, however, then a simple comparison of "cost/course of treatment" can suffice for the purpose of comparing two or more therapeutically equivalent treatment alternatives. When conducting a cost-minimization study, the author needs to measure all costs (resource expenditures) inherent to the delivery of the therapeutic intervention and that are relevant to the pharmacoeconomic perspective. Although the RBRVS system is mandated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the data for it appears in the Federal Register, the American Medical Association (AMA) maintains that their copyright of the CPT allows them to charge a license fee to anyone who wishes to associate RVU values with CPT codes. Price setting
The RBRVS for each CPT code is determined using three separate factors: physician work, practice expense, and malpractice expense. The RUC examines each new code to determine a relative value by comparing the physician work of the new code to the physician work involved in existing codes. In a 2002 study, HEDIS measures "generally reflect[ed] cost-effective practices". : 303 As of 2017, a systematic review found that markup regulation and ERP are the most commonly implemented drug pricing policies in LMICs, followed by cost-plus and the use of generics.Another review found limited evidence that implementing ERP had the effect of narrowing down the prices, by lowering drug prices in high-price countries and raising them in low-price countries. : 200 : 9  This sets a reference price for a class of equivalent or similar therapeutic agents, the rest being paid out-of-pocket by the patient. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data lack external validity. [SEP] Randomized controlled trials of pacing using a heart rate monitor are lacking. Data on adverse effects were not systematically presented by any included study. The report noted that "It is difficult however, to judge these results, since no control group had been included. The FDA concluded that the two RCTs submitted "did not provide credible evidence of efficacy. However, there is no research available which examines its effect on comorbid CFS and POTS. Another review concluded that "Given the weak evidence of benefit for immunotherapy, the potential harms indicate that it should not be offered as a treatment for CFS." A 2008 review found insufficient evidence to recommend dietary supplements as a treatment in chronic fatigue syndrome. A 2008 review concluded that there is no good evidence that intramuscular magnesium is of benefit in CFS. 
Crossover hot spots are found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] The mating-type locus is a specialized region in the genomes of some yeast and other fungi, usually organized into heterochromatin and possessing unique histone methylation patterns. Mating-type switching
In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mating-type is determined by two non-homologous alleles at the mating-type locus. The Yeast Promoter Atlas (YPA) is a repository of promoter features in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Alternatively, initiation sites of recombination hotspots can be coded for in the genome. These findings suggest that transcription-associated recombination may contribute significantly to recombination hotspot formation. Recently, it has been shown that certain promoters are capable of directing transcription inside regions that are otherwise silenced by SIR proteins. Sequence similarity is a major player in crossover – crossover events are more likely to occur in long regions of close identity on a gene. This means that any section of the genome with long sections of repetitive DNA is prone to crossover events. 
Cyclin A2 destruction is necessary to switch from unstable to stable kt-mt attachments in mitosis. [SEP] However, when cyclin B1 levels are degraded to fast this can result in the cell exiting mitosis prematurely resulting in potential mitotic errors including missegregation of chromosomes. Cyclin B is a mitotic cyclin. The amount of cyclin B (which binds to Cdk1) and the activity of the cyclin B-Cdk complex rise through the cell cycle until mitosis, where they fall abruptly due to degradation of cyclin B (Cdk1 is constitutively present). In order for the cell to progress out of mitosis, the degradation of cyclin B is necessary.The cyclin B/CDK1 complex also interacts with a variety of other key proteins and pathways which regulate cell growth and progression of mitosis. Because cyclin B is necessary for cells to enter mitosis and therefore necessary for cell division, cyclin B levels are often de-regulated in tumors. Degradation of cyclin A/CDK1 induces mitotic exit.Cyclin A/CDK2 complex was thought to be restricted to the nucleus and thus exclusively involved in S phase progression. These mutants entered mitosis late due to a delayed activation of the cyclin B/CDK1 complex. Coupling of microtubule nucleation in the centrosome with mitotic events in the nucleus was lost in the cyclin A knockout/CDK2 inhibited mutant cells. 
Cytochrome c is transferred from cytosol to the mitochondrial intermembrane space during apoptosis. [SEP] The cytochrome complex, or cyt c, is a small hemeprotein found loosely associated with the inner membrane of the mitochondrion where it plays a critical role in cellular respiration. Role in apoptosis
Cytochrome c was also discovered in 1996 by Xiaodong Wang to have an intermediate role in apoptosis, a controlled form of cell death used to kill cells in the process of development or in response to infection or DNA damage.Cytochrome c binds to cardiolipin in the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus anchoring its presence and keeping it from releasing out of the mitochondria and initiating apoptosis. Inhibition of apoptosis
One of the ways cell apoptosis is activated is by release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into cytosol. As an antioxidative enzyme
In addition to its well-known roles in the electron transport chain and cell apoptosis, according to a recent study cytochrome c can also act as an antioxidative enzyme in the mitochondria; it does so by removing superoxide (O2–) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) from mitochondria. Extramitochondrial localisation
Cytochrome c is widely believed to be localised solely in the mitochondrial intermembrane space under normal physiological conditions. The release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol, where it activates the caspase family of proteases, is believed to be the primary trigger leading to the onset of apoptosis. Measuring the amount of cytochrome c leaking from mitochondria to cytosol, and out of the cell to culture medium, is a sensitive method to monitor the degree of apoptosis. Apoptosis
Releasing of cytochrome c from the IMS to the cytosol activates procaspases and triggers a caspase cascade leading to apoptosis. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for TFRC1. [SEP] When iron is present, it interacts with the protein to cause it to release the mRNA. Genes with IREs
Genes known to contain IREs include FTH1, FTL, TFRC, ALAS2,  Sdhb, ACO2, Hao1, SLC11A2 (encoding DMT1), NDUFS1, SLC40A1 (encoding the ferroportin) CDC42BPA , CDC14A, EPAS1.In humans, 12 genes have been shown to be transcribed with the canonical IRE structure, but several mRNA structures, that are non-canonical, have been shown to interact with IRPs and be influenced by iron concentration. Sequences of mRNA called iron-responsive elements (IREs) are contained within the mRNA sequences that code for transferrin receptors and for ferritin. Iron-responsive element-binding protein (IRE-BP) binds to these mRNA sequences. Iron-Responsive+Element+Binding+Proteins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) TfR1 is required for iron import from transferrin into cells by endocytosis. TfR1 is a high affinity ubiquitously expressed receptor while expression of TfR2 is restricted to certain cell types and is unaffected by intracellular iron concentrations. TfR production in the cell is regulated according to iron levels by iron-responsive element-binding proteins, IRP1 and IRP2. 
DMS3 protein enables Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] In eukaryote cells, RNA polymerase III (also called Pol III) is a protein that transcribes DNA to synthesize 5S ribosomal RNA, tRNA and other small RNAs. Therefore, the regulation of Pol III transcription is primarily tied to the regulation of cell growth and the cell cycle, and thus requires fewer regulatory proteins than RNA polymerase II. Pol III is unusual (compared to Pol II) by requiring no control sequences upstream of the gene, instead normally relying on internal control sequences - sequences within the transcribed section of the gene (although upstream sequences are occasionally seen, e.g. TFIIIB is the transcription factor that assembles Pol III at the start site of transcription. This leads to a high rate of transcriptional reinitiation of Pol III-transcribed genes. Function
Pol V transcribes one of the two types of non-coding RNA involved in RdDM. Pol V transcripts are also necessary for the recruitment of chromatin remodelers to the target site. dolichyl-phosphate mannosyltransferase polypeptide 3, also known as DPM3, is a human gene. 
DRD1 proteins enable Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] RNA polymerase V (Pol V), previously known as RNA polymerase IVb, is a multisubunit plant specific RNA polymerase. Together with
RNA polymerase IV (Pol IV), Pol V is involved in an siRNA-dependent epigenetic pathway known as RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM), which establishes and maintains heterochromatic silencing in plants. While the subunit is unique to Pol V, it does contain a conserved domain common with the largest subunit of Pol IV known as Defective Chloroplasts and Leaves (DeCL), which provides an unknown function. Function
Pol V transcribes one of the two types of non-coding RNA involved in RdDM. In canonical RdDM, Pol V transcribes a scaffold RNA which base pairs with a 24-nt siRNA bound to AGO4. Pol V transcripts are also necessary for the recruitment of chromatin remodelers to the target site. DNA-directed RNA polymerases I and III subunit RPAC2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the POLR1D gene. Interactions
POLR1D has been shown to interact with POLR1C. 
DUSP4 decreases apoptosis. [SEP] Dual specificity protein phosphatase 4 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP4 gene. Dual-specificity phosphatase (DUSP; DSP) is a form of phosphatase that can act upon tyrosine or serine/threonine residues.There are several families of dual-specificity phosphatase enzymes in mammals. Classification
The human genome encodes at least 61 different DUSP proteins. Dual specificity protein phosphatase 22 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP22 gene. Interactions
DUSP22 has been shown to interact with MAPK1 and MAPK8. Dual specificity phosphatase 6 (DUSP6) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP6  gene. Dual specificity protein phosphatase 16 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP16 gene.The activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades transduces various extracellular signals to the nucleus to induce gene expression, cell proliferation, differentiation, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis. Dual specificity protein phosphatase 5 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP5 gene. 
DUSP4 downregulation deactivates the Ras-ERK pathway [SEP] Acting as a suppressor of RAS function, the protein enhances the weak intrinsic GTPase activity of RAS proteins resulting in the inactive GDP-bound form of RAS, thereby allowing control of cellular proliferation and differentiation. Dual specificity protein phosphatase 4 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP4 gene. Dual-specificity phosphatase (DUSP; DSP) is a form of phosphatase that can act upon tyrosine or serine/threonine residues.There are several families of dual-specificity phosphatase enzymes in mammals. Classification
The human genome encodes at least 61 different DUSP proteins. U0126 is a highly selective inhibitor of both MEK1 and MEK2, a type of MAPK/ERK kinase. U0126 was found to functionally antagonize AP-1 transcriptional activity via noncompetitive inhibition of the dual specificity kinase MEK with IC50 of 72 nM for MEK1 and 58 nM for MEK2. U0126 inhibited anchorage-independent growth of Ki-ras-transformed rat fibroblasts by simultaneously blocking both extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-p70(S6K) pathways. The effects of U0126 on the growth of eight human breast cancer cell lines shown that U0126 selectively repressed anchorage-independent growth of MDA-MB231 and HBC4 cells, two lines with constitutively activated ERK. 
DUSP4 increases apoptosis. [SEP] Dual specificity protein phosphatase 4 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP4 gene. Dual-specificity phosphatase (DUSP; DSP) is a form of phosphatase that can act upon tyrosine or serine/threonine residues.There are several families of dual-specificity phosphatase enzymes in mammals. Classification
The human genome encodes at least 61 different DUSP proteins. Apoptosis is a specialized sequence of events that a cell can induce for programmed death. Dual specificity protein phosphatase 22 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP22 gene. Caspases are the enzymes primarily responsible for cell death. Dual specificity protein phosphatase 16 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP16 gene.The activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades transduces various extracellular signals to the nucleus to induce gene expression, cell proliferation, differentiation, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis. Dual specificity phosphatase 6 (DUSP6) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DUSP6  gene. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has fewer specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] De novo transcriptome assembly is the de novo sequence assembly method of creating a transcriptome without the aid of a reference genome. De novo transcriptome assembly is often the preferred method to studying non-model organisms, since it is cheaper and easier than building a genome, and reference-based methods are not possible without an existing genome. De novo vs. reference-based assembly
A set of assembled transcripts allows for initial gene expression studies. De novo sequence assemblers are a type of program that assembles short nucleotide sequences into longer ones without the use of a reference genome. Assemblathon
There are numerous programs for de novo sequence assembly and many have been compared in the Assemblathon. Transcribed genes contain many fewer repeats, making assembly somewhat easier. Types of sequence assembly
There are three approaches to assembling sequencing data:

De-novo: assembling sequencing reads to create full-length (sometimes novel) sequences, without using a template (see de novo sequence assemblers, de novo transcriptome assembly)
Mapping/Aligning: assembling reads by aligning reads against a template (AKA reference). De novo genome assembly is used when the genome to be assembled is not similar to any other organisms whose genomes have been previously sequenced. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has shorter contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] De novo transcriptome assembly is the de novo sequence assembly method of creating a transcriptome without the aid of a reference genome. De novo sequence assemblers are a type of program that assembles short nucleotide sequences into longer ones without the use of a reference genome. Assemblathon
There are numerous programs for de novo sequence assembly and many have been compared in the Assemblathon. See also
Sequence assembly
Sequence alignment
De novo transcriptome assembly


== References == Transcribed genes contain many fewer repeats, making assembly somewhat easier. Types of sequence assembly
There are three approaches to assembling sequencing data:

De-novo: assembling sequencing reads to create full-length (sometimes novel) sequences, without using a template (see de novo sequence assemblers, de novo transcriptome assembly)
Mapping/Aligning: assembling reads by aligning reads against a template (AKA reference). De novo genome assembly is used when the genome to be assembled is not similar to any other organisms whose genomes have been previously sequenced. The initial de novo assembly of contigs was achieved in parallel using Velvet, which assembles contigs by manipulating De Bruijn graphs, and Edena, which is an OLC-based assemblerComparing the assembly constructed using the hybrid approach to the assembly created using the traditional reference genome approach showed that, with the availability of a reference genome, it is more beneficial to utilize an hybrid de novo assembly strategy as it preserves more genome sequences. 
Decrease of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] Autophagy plays an important role in cancer – both in protecting against cancer as well as potentially contributing to the growth of cancer. There is evidence that emphasizes the role of autophagy as both a tumor suppressor and a factor in tumor cell survival. Therapeutic target
New developments in research have found that targeted autophagy may be a viable therapeutic solution in fighting cancer. As discussed above, autophagy plays both a role in tumor suppression and tumor cell survival. This renders cancer cells vulnerable to intervention on regulators of autophagy. Also known as the ubiquitin-binding protein p62, it is an autophagosome cargo protein that targets other proteins that bind to it for selective autophagy. "Chaperone-mediated autophagy at a glance". Methods to monitor chaperone-mediated autophagy. 
Decreased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] 15(S)-HpETE may be:

Rapidly reduced to 15(S)-HETE by ubiquitous cellular peroxidase reactions including those possessed by prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase-1 and -2, prostacyclin synthase, thromboxane synthase, and various glutathione peroxidases. 15(S)-HpETE and 15(S)-HETE bind to and activate the G protein-coupled receptor, Leukotriene B4 receptor 2, i.e. The decline in the level of 15(S)-HpETE-forming enzymes and consequential fall in cellular 15-HETE production that occurs in human prostate cancer cells may be one mechanism by which this and perhaps other human cancer cells (e.g. 15(S)-HpETE and 15(S)-HETE inhibit angiogenesis and the growth of cultured human chronic myelogenous leukemia K-562 cells by a mechanism that is associated with the production of reactive oxygen species.Several bifunctional electrophilic breakdown products of 15(S)-HpETE, e.g. It also binds with and activates PPARγ and thereby can stimulate or inhibit cells independently of OXE1. The particular reaction catalyzed by PTGE2 is thought to be:
(5Z,13E)-(15S)-9-alpha,11-alpha-epidioxy-15-hydroxyprosta-5,13-dienoate = (5Z,13E)-(15S)-11-alpha,15-dihydroxy-9-oxoprosta-5,13-dienoate.The PTGE2 protein functions in part of the prostaglandin synthesis pathway, which forms a component of the overall lipid synthesis mechanism in the human body. Prostaglandin E synthase (EC 5.3.99.3, or PGE synthase) is an enzyme involved in eicosanoid and glutathione metabolism, a member of MAPEG family. It generates prostaglandin E (PGE) from prostaglandin H2.The synthase generating PGE2 is a membrane-associated protein. 
Decreased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] Causes
Systolic hypertension may be due to reduced compliance of the aorta with increasing age. Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a localized enlargement of the abdominal aorta such that the diameter is greater than 3 cm or more than 50% larger than normal. Classification
Abdominal aortic aneurysms are commonly divided according to their size and symptomatology. Aortic aneurysms result from a weakness in the wall of the aorta and increase the risk of aortic rupture. One reason for this is that elastin, the principal load-bearing protein present in the wall of the aorta, is reduced in the abdominal aorta as compared to the thoracic aorta. Medical therapy
Medical therapy of aortic aneurysms involves strict blood pressure control. This does not treat the aortic aneurysm per se, but control of hypertension within tight blood pressure parameters may decrease the rate of expansion of the aneurysm. The medical management of patients with aortic aneurysms, reserved for smaller aneurysms or frail patients, involves cessation of smoking, blood pressure control, use of statins and occasionally beta blockers. 
Deleting Raptor increases G-CSF levels. [SEP] Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or GCSF), also known as colony-stimulating factor 3 (CSF 3), is a glycoprotein that stimulates the bone marrow to produce granulocytes and stem cells and release them into the bloodstream.Functionally, it is a cytokine and hormone, a type of colony-stimulating factor, and is produced by a number of different tissues. G-CSF also stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils. G-CSF stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils. The treatment was well tolerated and a dose-dependent rise in circulating neutrophils was noted.A study in mice has shown that G-CSF may decrease bone mineral density.G-CSF administration has been shown to attenuate the telomere loss associated with chemotherapy. G-CSF can restore neutrophil count. Following a return to baseline after stopping the drug, it may sometimes be safely rechallenged with the added use of G-CSF. G-CSF-R is a cell-surface receptor for the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Thus, GM-CSF facilitates development of the immune system and promotes defense against infections.GM-CSF also plays a role in embryonic development by functioning as an embryokine produced by reproductive tract. 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein is not predictive of acute tissue loss. [SEP] The total knockout of ATR is responsible for early death of mouse embryos, showing that it is a protein with essential life functions. Interactions
Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
External links
Drosophila meiotic-41 - The Interactive Fly
Human ATR genome location and ATR gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. While deletion of the entire PRD domain abolishes the kinase activity of ATM, specific small deletions show no effect. Therefore, a defect in ATM has severe consequences in repairing certain types of damage to DNA, and cancer may result from improper repair. The promoter methylation of ATM causes reduced protein or mRNA expression of ATM. In both mice and humans, ATM deficiency results in female and male infertility. See also
Ataxia telangiectasia
Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related

References
Further reading
External links
https://web.archive.org/web/20060107000211/http://www.hprd.org/protein/06347
Drosophila telomere fusion - The Interactive Fly
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Ataxia telangiectasia
OMIM entries on Ataxia telangiectasia
Human ATM genome location and ATM gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. DNA-SCARS lack most of the characteristics of transient, reversible DNA damage foci, such as single-stranded DNA, active DNA synthesis, and DNA repair proteins RPA and RAD51. 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein leads to acute tissue loss. [SEP] E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase RAD18 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the RAD18 gene. Function
The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to S. cerevisiae DNA damage repair protein Rad18. The total knockout of ATR is responsible for early death of mouse embryos, showing that it is a protein with essential life functions. Interactions
Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
External links
Drosophila meiotic-41 - The Interactive Fly
Human ATR genome location and ATR gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. While deletion of the entire PRD domain abolishes the kinase activity of ATM, specific small deletions show no effect. In both mice and humans, ATM deficiency results in female and male infertility. See also
Ataxia telangiectasia
Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related

References
Further reading
External links
https://web.archive.org/web/20060107000211/http://www.hprd.org/protein/06347
Drosophila telomere fusion - The Interactive Fly
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Ataxia telangiectasia
OMIM entries on Ataxia telangiectasia
Human ATM genome location and ATM gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. UV excision repair protein RAD23 homolog A is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RAD23A gene. 
Deltex has no known interactions with eIF3f. [SEP] Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DTX3 gene. Function
DTX3 functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase (Takeyama et al., 2003 [PubMed 12670957]). Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3L is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DTX3L gene. Function
DTX3L functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase (Takeyama et al., 2003 [PubMed 12670957]). Cotriptyline (SD-2203-01) is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) which was never marketed. Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DTX4 gene. Like all synthetic elements, it would have no stable isotopes. List of isotopes
No isotopes of unbinilium are known. 
Deltex interacts with eIF3. There is no known interaction between Deltex and elF3 [SEP] ELF3 is one of the three components that make up the Evening Complex (EC) within the plant circadian clock, in which all three components reach peak gene expression and protein levels at dusk. ELF3 also plays an important role in temperature and light input within plants for circadian clock entrainment. Structure
In Arabidopsis thaliana, the ELF3 gene is located on the second chromosome and contains four exons and three introns. However, these characteristics are hypothesized to permit ELF3 to regulate transcription in concert with LUX and ELF4 as part of the EC.ELF3 is known to be a hub of protein-protein interactions, and the regions of the ELF3 peptide responsible for these interactions have been identified for some of its binding partners. Homologs
ELF3 homologs have been identified across the plant lineage in basal land plants, such as mosses, as well as across angiosperms, in both monocot and dicot species. Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DTX3 gene. Protein deltex-2 also known as E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase DTX2 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the DTX2 gene.DTX2 functions as a ubiquitin E3 ligase in conjunction with the E2 enzyme UBCH5A. Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3L is a protein that in humans is encoded by the DTX3L gene. 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection decreases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] T helper 17 cells (Th17) are a subset of pro-inflammatory T helper cells defined by their production of interleukin 17 (IL-17). Th17 cells play an important role in maintaining mucosal barriers and contributing to pathogen clearance at mucosal surfaces; such protective and non-pathogenic Th17 cells have been termed as Treg17 cells.They have also been implicated in autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. Function
Th17 cells play a role in adaptive immunity protecting the body against pathogens. Th17 cells have also been shown to be necessary for maintenance of mucosal immunity. Contribution of Th17 cells in HIV pathogenesis
The depletion of Th17 cell populations in the intestine disrupts the intestinal barrier, increases levels of movement of bacteria out of the gut through microbial translocation, and contributes to chronic HIV infection and progression to AIDS. Increasing Th17 cell populations in the intestine has been shown to be both an effective treatment as well as possibly preventative.Although all CD4+ T cells gut are severely depleted by HIV, the loss of intestinal Th17 cells in particular has been linked to symptoms of chronic, pathogenic HIV and SIV infection. Th17 cells prevent severe HIV infection by maintaining the intestinal epithelial barrier during HIV infection in the gut. In an SIV-rhesus monkey model, it was found that administering IL-21, a cytokine shown to encourage Th17 differentiation and proliferation, decreases microbial translocation by increasing Th17 cell populations. 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection increases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] Typhoid fever, also known as typhoid, is a disease caused by Salmonella serotype Typhi bacteria. S. enterica Typhi is believed to infect and replicate only within humans.Typhoid is caused by the bacterium Salmonella enterica subsp. Typhoid is spread by eating or drinking food or water contaminated with the feces of an infected person. Causes
Bacteria
The Gram-negative bacterium that causes typhoid fever is Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhi is spread by the fecal-oral route from people who are infected and from asymptomatic carriers of the bacterium. enterica serovar Typhi associated with a large outbreak and a carrier at the genome level provides new insight into the pathogenesis of the pathogen.In industrialized nations, water sanitation and food handling improvements have reduced the number of typhoid cases. Today, the bacillus that causes typhoid fever goes by the scientific name Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi. Monack's mouse model allows long-term carriage of salmonella in mesenteric lymph nodes, spleen and liver. 
Depletion of nitric oxide is responsible for vasospasm. [SEP] Normally, nitric oxide then works to promote vasodilation in a blood vessel through its own mechanisms such as inhibiting the release of agents that cause vasoconstriction. Endothelial dysfunction wherein there is a deficiency in the production of nitric oxide has been found to be associated with coronary vasospasm in some but not all cases. Vasodilatory agents with mechanisms dependent on a functional endothelial nitric oxide synthase can cause vasoconstriction instead in the setting of endothelial dysfunction, leading to coronary vasospasm. Oxidative Stress
Oxygen free radicals contribute to the pathogenesis of coronary vasospasm through their damaging effects on vascular endothelial cells and degrading nitric oxide, an important vasodilatory agent. Vasospasm is one of the leading causes of death after the aneurysmal rupture along with the effect of the initial haemorrhage and later bleeding. Symptomatic vasospasm or delayed cerebral ischemia is a major contributor to post-operative stroke and death especially after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Along with physical resistance, vasospasm is a main cause of ischemia. A nitrovasodilator is a pharmaceutical agent that causes vasodilation (widening of blood vessels) by donation of nitric oxide (NO), and is mostly used for the treatment and prevention of angina pectoris. 
Deregulation of HAND2 is a crucial step in endometrial carcinogenesis in mice. [SEP] Heart- and neural crest derivatives-expressed protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HAND2 gene. In avian species, Hand2 has been shown to be expressed in developing gut tissue and is believed to contribute to the formation of enteric neurons.Hand2 also plays a critical role in the establishment of a proper implantation environment for pregnancy in mice. The induction of Hand2 by progesterone-dependent mechanisms in uterine stromal tissue suppresses fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) that would otherwise stimulate estrogen producing pathways and impair embryo implantation.Hand2 plays a role in lower jaw formation and tongue morphogenesis in mice by suppressing the homeobox genes Dlx5 and Dlx6. In this instance, trisomy of the hand2 gene can directly cause human congenital heart disease.Hand2 gene hypermethylation and epigenetic silencing has also been implicated to increase the development of endometrial cancer. Hand2, in addition to its other functions in the developing heart and limbs, has been found to be an important transcription factor seen in the endometrial stroma. In fact, in mice with the Hand2 gene knocked out, they developed premalignant lesions as they grew older, further providing evidence of its role in endometrial cancer development. These findings have led to Hand2 becoming a potentially promising biomarker for early detection of endometrial cancer and may be used to predict its treatment. Regulation of Hand2
HAND2 is an important transcription factor in development of the endothelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) which allows for the development of the cardiac cushion in the atrioventricular canal which forms the mitral and tricuspid valves. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] During the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic of 2003, awareness of the possibility of acquisition of infection on a commercial aircraft reached its zenith when on one flight from Hong Kong to Beijing, 16 of 120 people on the flight developed proven SARS from a single index case.There is very limited research done on contagious diseases on aircraft. There is no standardisation of air handling by aircraft, installation of HEPA filters or of hand washing by air crew, and no published information on the relative efficacy of any of these interventions in reducing the spread of infection.Air travel, like other forms of travel, radically increases the speed at which infections spread around the world, as viruses rapidly spread to large numbers of people living across the world. Human and cargo traffic greatly facilitates the spread of pathogens across the world, for example during the COVID-19 pandemic. Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Additionally, coinfection with and lack of rapid tests for Zika virus and chikungunya complicate matters in real-world infections.Dengue virus has increased dramatically within the last 20 years, becoming one of the worst mosquito-borne human pathogens which tropical countries have to deal with. Dengue virus is transmitted by species of the mosquito genus Aedes. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. The previous antibodies to the old strain of dengue virus now interfere with the immune response to the current strain, leading paradoxically to more virus entry and uptake. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] During the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic of 2003, awareness of the possibility of acquisition of infection on a commercial aircraft reached its zenith when on one flight from Hong Kong to Beijing, 16 of 120 people on the flight developed proven SARS from a single index case.There is very limited research done on contagious diseases on aircraft. There is no standardisation of air handling by aircraft, installation of HEPA filters or of hand washing by air crew, and no published information on the relative efficacy of any of these interventions in reducing the spread of infection.Air travel, like other forms of travel, radically increases the speed at which infections spread around the world, as viruses rapidly spread to large numbers of people living across the world. Human and cargo traffic greatly facilitates the spread of pathogens across the world, for example during the COVID-19 pandemic. Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Additionally, coinfection with and lack of rapid tests for Zika virus and chikungunya complicate matters in real-world infections.Dengue virus has increased dramatically within the last 20 years, becoming one of the worst mosquito-borne human pathogens which tropical countries have to deal with. Dengue virus is transmitted by species of the mosquito genus Aedes. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. Dengue is endemic in the U.S. territories of American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
Dexamethasone increases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] Dexamethasone is a glucocorticoid medication used to treat rheumatic problems, a number of skin diseases, severe allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, croup, brain swelling, eye pain following eye surgery, superior vena cava syndrome (a complication of some forms of cancer), and along with antibiotics in tuberculosis. The effects of dexamethasone are frequently seen within a day and last for about three days.The long-term use of dexamethasone may result in thrush, bone loss, cataracts, easy bruising, or muscle weakness. Cancer
People with cancer undergoing chemotherapy are often given dexamethasone to counteract certain side effects of their antitumor treatments. Although dexamethasone, and other glucocorticoids, reduce mortality in COVID-19 they have also been associated with an increased risk of secondary infections, secondary infections being a significant issue in critically ill COVID-19 patients.The mechanism of action of dexamethasone involves suppression of late-stage interferon type I programs in severe COVID-19 patients. Surgery
Dexamethasone is used fairly regularly to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting, manage pain (potentially reduce the amount of pain medications needed), and to help reduce the amount of time spent in the hospital following surgery. The adverse effects of taking steroids after surgery on wound healing, blood sugar levels, and in people with diabetes are not completely understood, however it is likely that dexamethasone does not increase the risk of postoperative infections. Nausea and vomiting
Intravenous dexamethasone is effective for prevention of nausea and vomiting in people who had surgery and whose post-operative pain was treated with long-acting spinal or epidural spinal opioids.The combination of dexamethasone and a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist such as ondansetron is more effective than a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist alone in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting. Contraindications
Contraindications of dexamethasone include, but are not limited to:

Uncontrolled infections
Known hypersensitivity to dexamethasone
Cerebral malaria
Systemic fungal infection
Concurrent treatment with live virus vaccines (including smallpox vaccine)

Adverse effects
The exact incidence of the adverse effects of dexamethasone are not available, hence estimates have been made as to the incidence of the adverse effects below based on the adverse effects of related corticosteroids and on available documentation on dexamethasone. 
Diabetes remission occurs less in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] Gastric banding is performed using laparoscopic surgery and usually results in a shorter hospital stay, faster recovery, smaller scars, and less pain than open surgical procedures. Typically, patients who undergo adjustable gastric banding procedures lose less weight over the first 3.5 years than those who have RNY gastric bypass, BPD, or DS surgeries. Although other procedures appear to result in greater weight loss than adjustable gastric banding in the short term, results from the study by Maggard suggest that this difference decreases significantly over time. Benefits of gastric banding when compared to other bariatric surgeries
Lower mortality rate: only 1 in 1000 versus 1 in 250 for Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery
No cutting or stapling of the stomach
Short hospital stay
Quick recovery
Adjustable without additional surgery
No malabsorption issues (because no intestines are bypassed)
Fewer life-threatening complications (see complications table for details)

Potential complications
Some studies reveal there is a decrease in adjustable gastric banding surgeries due to the increased risk of reoperation, compared to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) or sleeve gastrectomy (SG) bariatric procedures.One commonly reported occurrence for banded patients is regurgitation of non-acidic swallowed food from the upper pouch, commonly known as Productive Burping (PBing). Losing weight after surgery
Effectiveness
The average gastric banding patient loses 500 grams to a kilogram (1–2 pounds) per week consistently, but heavier patients often lose faster in the beginning. However, with greater experience and longer patient follow up, several studies have found suboptimal weight loss and high complication rates for the gastric band.A systematic review concluded "LAGB has been shown to produce a significant loss of excess weight while maintaining low rates of short-term complications and reducing obesity-related comorbidities. This study was supported by Allergan Inc., which markets a gastric band system.A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. 
Diabetes remission occurs more in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] Gastric banding is performed using laparoscopic surgery and usually results in a shorter hospital stay, faster recovery, smaller scars, and less pain than open surgical procedures. Although other procedures appear to result in greater weight loss than adjustable gastric banding in the short term, results from the study by Maggard suggest that this difference decreases significantly over time. Benefits of gastric banding when compared to other bariatric surgeries
Lower mortality rate: only 1 in 1000 versus 1 in 250 for Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery
No cutting or stapling of the stomach
Short hospital stay
Quick recovery
Adjustable without additional surgery
No malabsorption issues (because no intestines are bypassed)
Fewer life-threatening complications (see complications table for details)

Potential complications
Some studies reveal there is a decrease in adjustable gastric banding surgeries due to the increased risk of reoperation, compared to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) or sleeve gastrectomy (SG) bariatric procedures.One commonly reported occurrence for banded patients is regurgitation of non-acidic swallowed food from the upper pouch, commonly known as Productive Burping (PBing). However, with greater experience and longer patient follow up, several studies have found suboptimal weight loss and high complication rates for the gastric band.A systematic review concluded "LAGB has been shown to produce a significant loss of excess weight while maintaining low rates of short-term complications and reducing obesity-related comorbidities. This study was supported by Allergan Inc., which markets a gastric band system.A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. The laparoscopic era
The advent of surgical laparoscopy has transformed the field of bariatric surgery and made the gastric band a more appealing option for the surgical management of obesity. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Compared to the Sleeve Gastrectomy and Rou-en-Y Gastric Bypass, BPD/DS produces the best results in terms of durable weight loss and resolution of Type 2 Diabetes. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience decreased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] Overall, complications are far less common and less severe in people with well-controlled blood sugar levels. Stroke (mainly the ischemic type)
Carotid artery stenosis does not occur more often in diabetes, and there appears to be a lower prevalence of abdominal aortic aneurysm. The work of Pirart  suggested that microvascular complications of diabetes were less likely to occur in individuals with better glycaemic control. So far as macrovascular disease in type 1 diabetes is concerned, the same group reported improved outcomes for cardiovascular events in the group who had been managed by strict blood glucose control: in this group the incidence of any cardiovascular disease was reduced by 30% (95% CI 7, 48; P = 0.016) compared to the group with less intensive control and the incidence of major cardiovascular events (nonfatal myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death) was reduced by 32% (95% CI −3, 56; P = 0.07).The situation regarding glycaemic control and complications in type 2 diabetes is less clear cut than for type 1, though there is evidence from the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study Group that strict blood glucose control is beneficial for both microvascular and macrovascular complications. Management
Blood pressure control
Modulating and ameliorating diabetic complications may improve the overall quality of life for diabetic patients. For example; when elevated blood pressure was tightly controlled, diabetic related deaths were reduced by 32% compared to those with less controlled blood pressure. Intensive blood pressure management (less than 130/80 mmHg) as opposed to standard blood pressure management (less than 140-160 mmHg systolic to 85–100 mmHg diastolic) results in a slight decrease in stroke risk but no effect on overall risk of death.Intensive blood sugar lowering (HbA1c<6%) as opposed to standard blood sugar lowering (HbA1c of 7–7.9%) does not appear to change mortality. Aspirin is recommended in people at high risk of cardiovascular disease, however routine use of aspirin has not been found to improve outcomes in uncomplicated diabetes. 
Differentiated E2f-1, -2, -3 TKO cells in the intestine do not exhibit apoptosis. [SEP] The distribution and size of tuft cell microvilli are very different from enterocytes that neighbour them. Also tuft cells, in comparison with enterocytes, do not have a terminal web at the base of apical microvilli. Paraptosis does not demonstrate nuclear fragmentation, formation of apoptotic bodies, or definitive demonstration of chromatin condensation - all seen in apoptosis. Additionally, research found that caspase inhibitors (zVAD.fmk, p53, BAF), x-chromosome-linked inhibitor (xiap), and Bcl-xL( from the Bcl-2 family) did not prevent cell death in 293T cells when induced by IGFIR-IC. Apoptotic death similar to that found in animals does not occur in plants, due to the cell wall of plant cells preventing phagocytosis. In culture, Caco-2 cells spontaneously differentiate into a heterogeneous mixture of intestinal epithelial cells. Unlike in apoptosis, necrosis and necroptosis do not involve caspase activation. ACF are, as opposed to normal epithelial cells, apoptosis resistant. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed upon activation of insulin signaling. [SEP] Both leptin and insulin recruit PI3K signalling for metabolic regulation. Activation of insulin receptors activates the PI3K/AKT pathway, which promotes proliferation. Cellular differentiation is often controlled by cell signaling. Models of in vitro differentiation
Transcriptional regulations
PPARγ
PPARγ is a member of the nuclear-receptor superfamily and is the master regulator of adipogenesis. PPARγ is necessary and sufficient to promote fat cell differentiation. Transcriptional cascade
Although PPARγ and C/EBPα are master regulators of adipogenesis, other transcription factors function in the progression of differentiation. Insulin and IGF1
Insulin regulates adipogenesis through insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) receptor signaling. Insulin/IGF1 promotes the induction transcription factors regulating terminal differentiation. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed when insulin signaling is suppressed. [SEP] Both leptin and insulin recruit PI3K signalling for metabolic regulation. Activation of insulin receptors activates the PI3K/AKT pathway, which promotes proliferation. Insulin originates from beta cells located in the islets of Langerhans. See also
Insulin
Diabetes


== References == During terminal differentiation, a precursor cell formerly capable of cell division permanently leaves the cell cycle, dismantles the cell cycle machinery and often expresses a range of genes characteristic of the cell's final function (e.g. Cellular differentiation is often controlled by cell signaling. PcG knockout ES cells do not differentiate efficiently into the three germ layers, and deletion of the PRC1 and PRC2 genes leads to increased expression of lineage-affiliated genes and unscheduled differentiation. Function
LIF derives its name from its ability to induce the terminal differentiation of myeloid leukemic cells, thus preventing their continued growth. 
Diminished ovarian reserve is a reliable indicator of infertility in a non-infertile population. [SEP] Poor ovarian reserve is a condition of low fertility characterized by 1): low numbers of remaining oocytes in the ovaries or 2) possibly impaired preantral oocyte development or recruitment. Cause
Natural decline of ovarian reserve due to age. Recent studies have validated the use of serum AMH levels as a marker for the quantitative aspect of ovarian reserve. Ovarian reserve is a term that is used to determine the capacity of the ovary to provide egg cells that are capable of fertilization resulting in a healthy and successful pregnancy. While there is no known method for assessing the ovarian reserve of individual women, indirect determination of ovarian reserve is important in the treatment of infertility. High levels however can be present in women with Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome which compromises female fertility and therefore a combination of AMH and a transvaginal ultrasound to count the number of antral follicles is probably the best way to assess ovarian reserve and future fertility. Implications
Women with poor ovarian reserve are unlikely to conceive with infertility therapy. References
External links
Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI): Overview National Institutes of Health 
Distant CREs are important for transcriptional regulation. [SEP] Cis-regulatory elements (CREs) or Cis-regulatory modules (CRMs) are regions of non-coding DNA which regulate the transcription of neighboring genes. CREs are found in the vicinity of the genes that they regulate. CREs typically regulate gene transcription by binding to transcription factors. A single transcription factor may bind to many CREs, and hence control the expression of many genes (pleiotropy). CREs contrast with trans-regulatory elements (TREs). CREs function to control transcription by acting nearby or within a gene. When activated, CREB protein recruits other transcriptional coactivators to bind to CRE promoter 5’ upstream region. "Transcriptional regulation by the phosphorylation-dependent factor CREB". 
Distant CREs are less conserved among species. [SEP] They state that "unless the species interacts significantly with other species in the community (e.g. This results shows another example of how the ecological extinction of a keystone predator can reduce species diversity in an ecosystem. Guanacos and rheas have been classified as a low risk for global extinction, but this simplistic view of their demography doesn't take into account that they have already become functionally extinct in the Argentine Patagonia. See also
Data deficient
Convention on Biological Diversity


== Notes and references == For example, a species may have several of the characteristics often found in threatened species, such as large body size, small geographic distribution, or low reproductive rate, but still be rated as "least concern" in the IUCN Red List. Explanations
Rohde (1996) explained the fact that the rule is restricted to very high latitudes by effects of glaciations which have wiped out species with narrow ranges, a view also expressed by Brown (1995). Equal sampling effort at species-rich and species-poor localities tends to underestimate range size at the richer localities relative to the poorer, when in fact range sizes might not differ among localities. Evolutionary age
The inconsistent results concerning Rapoport's rule suggest that certain characteristics of species may be responsible for their different latitudinal ranges. 
Drosophila supracellular actomyosin structures are found at boundaries in wing imaginal discs. [SEP] Contained within the body of the larva, there are pairs of discs that will form, for instance, the wings or legs or antennae or other structures in the adult. The study of imaginal discs in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster led to the discovery of homeotic mutations such as antennapedia, where the developmental fate of a disc could sometimes change. In invertebrates, the wing imaginal disc of Drosophila provides an excellent model for the study of compartments. Although other tissues, such as the abdomen, and even other imaginal discs are compartmentalized, much of our understanding of key concepts and molecular mechanisms involved in compartment boundaries has been derived from experimentation in the wing disc of the fruit fly. Experimental data has shown that Myosin-II is up-regulated along both the dorsal-ventral and anterior-posterior boundaries in the imaginal wing disc. The D/V boundary is characterized by the presence of filamentous actin and mutations in Myosin-II heavy chain impairs D/V compartmentalization. The “novel” hypothesis suggested that insect wings did not form from pre-existing ancestral appendages but rather as outgrowths from the insect body wall.Long since, research on insect wing origins has built on the “pre-existing structures” position that was originally proposed in the 19th century. Posteriorly the articular membrane often forms an ample lobe between the wing and the body, and its margin is generally thickened and corrugated, giving the appearance of a ligament, the so-called axillary cord, continuous mesally with the posterior marginal scutellar fold of the tergal plate bearing the wing.The articular sclerites, or pteralia, of the wing base of the wing-flexing insects and their relations to the body and the wing veins, shown diagrammatically, are as follows:

Humeral plates
First Axillary
Second Axillary
Third Axillary
Fourth Axillary
Median plates (m, m')The humeral plate is usually a small sclerite on the anterior margin of the wing base, movable and articulated with the base of the costal vein. 
Dscam1 acts as a hypervariable pattern-recognition receptor for the immune system. [SEP] Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) play a crucial role in the proper function of the innate immune system. Gene
The DSCAM gene has been identified in the DS critical region. Dscam is predicted to be a transmembrane protein and a member of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily of cell adhesion molecules. Functions
Like many neuronal receptors, Dscam proteins have multiple functions, with repulsive and attractive roles that are dependent on the type of ligand that they interact with. The role of Dscam in the fly immune response was demonstrated by an RNAi mediated depletion experiment of DSCAM in which it was found to be associated with the cells that play a role in the fly's immune system.Dscam is found to have a role in phagocytosis in insects. In addition to homophilic repulsion, Dscam1 mediates repulsion between neurites of different subtypes based on the specific isoform patterns displayed on the cell surface. Consequently, the role of Dscam2, in either self-avoidance or cell-type-specific avoidance, occurs depending on which isoform or ratio of isoforms that the neuron expresses. Vertebrate DSCAMs and DSCAML1s have not only been shown to bind homophilically (i.e., DSCAM–DSCAM or DSCAML1–DSCAML1, and not DSCAM–DSCAML1), but also have cell-type specific, mutually exclusive, expression patterns. 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 3' of strand breaks as compared to 5' strand breaks. [SEP] NHEJ is referred to as "non-homologous" because the break ends are directly ligated without the need for a homologous template, in contrast to homology directed repair(HDR), which requires a homologous sequence to guide repair. In this step, the 5' strand of the break is degraded by nucleases to create long 3' single-stranded tails. As of such non-homologous end joining can cause illegitimate recombination which creates insertion and deletion mutations in chromosomes as well as translocation of one chromosomal segment to that of another chromosome. Genes required
A biochemical assay system shows that at least 6 genes are required for microhomology-mediated end joining: FEN1, Ligase III, MRE11, NBS1, PARP1 and XRCC1. See also
Exonuclease
Double-strand breaks
Blunt ends
Non-homologous end joining
Nucleotide
Cell cycle
Telomere
NHEJ
Homologous Recombination
Microhomology-mediated end joining


== References == NHEJ modifies and ligates the damaged ends regardless of homology. For instance, the 3’ extension after the end resection in SSA anneals to the repeated/homologous sequences of the other end, whereas in other pathways the strand invasion to another homologous DNA template. See also
DNA damage & repair
Homologous Recombination
Synthesis-dependent strain annealing
Non-homologous end joining
Microhomology-mediated end joining
Cell cycle
DNA synthesis


== References == 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 5' of strand breaks as compared to 3' strand breaks. [SEP] NHEJ is referred to as "non-homologous" because the break ends are directly ligated without the need for a homologous template, in contrast to homology directed repair(HDR), which requires a homologous sequence to guide repair. In this step, the 5' strand of the break is degraded by nucleases to create long 3' single-stranded tails. As of such non-homologous end joining can cause illegitimate recombination which creates insertion and deletion mutations in chromosomes as well as translocation of one chromosomal segment to that of another chromosome. Genes required
A biochemical assay system shows that at least 6 genes are required for microhomology-mediated end joining: FEN1, Ligase III, MRE11, NBS1, PARP1 and XRCC1. See also
Exonuclease
Double-strand breaks
Blunt ends
Non-homologous end joining
Nucleotide
Cell cycle
Telomere
NHEJ
Homologous Recombination
Microhomology-mediated end joining


== References == NHEJ modifies and ligates the damaged ends regardless of homology. For instance, the 3’ extension after the end resection in SSA anneals to the repeated/homologous sequences of the other end, whereas in other pathways the strand invasion to another homologous DNA template. See also
Genetic recombination
Non-homologous end joining


== References == 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer follicular areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] Within the immune system, Follicular B cells (FO B cells) are a type of B cell that reside in primary and secondary lymphoid follicles (containing germinal centers) of secondary and tertiary lymphoid organs, including spleen and lymph nodes. Antibody responses against proteins are believed to involve follicular B cell pathways in secondary lymphoid organs.Mature B cells from the spleen can be divided into two main populations: FO B cells, which constitute the majority, and marginal zone B-cells, lining outside the marginal sinus and bordering the red pulp. FO B cells organize into the primary follicles of B cell zones focused around follicular dendritic cells in the white pulp of the spleen and the cortical areas of peripheral lymph nodes. Primary B cell development takes place in the bone marrow, where immature B cells must generate a functional B cell receptor (BCR) and overcome negative selection induced by reactivity with autoantigens. The B cells develop dynamically after the activation of follicular B cells by T-dependent antigen. Following activation of naive B cells in the lymph node follicles, the B cells migrate to the interfollicular areas so that they can interact with T cells. The mechanism by which this occurs is that, when the B cell receptor binds the antigen presented by the follicular dendritic cells, the antigen is internalized. Process
Within lymph nodes, mature peripheral B cells known as follicular (Fo) B cells acquire antigen from FDCs and in turn present it to cognate CD4+ TFH cells at the border that demarcates the interfollicular T cell area and B cell zone (also known as lymphoid follicles). 
EG7 tumors can be killed by systemic oxaliplatin primed CD8+ T cells from the tumor-draining lymph node cells. [SEP] Therefore, these T cells are called CD8+ T cells. CD8+ T cells are recognized as TC cells once they become activated and are generally classified as having a pre-defined cytotoxic role within the immune system. However, CD8+ T cells also have the ability to make some cytokines, such as TNF-α and IFN-γ, with antitumour and antimicrobial effects. CD8 T cells can also show Activation Induced Cell Death or AICD which is mediated by CD3 receptor complex. Recently, a platelet released protein TLT-1 has been shown to induce AICD like cell death in CD8 T cellsThe transcription factor Eomesodermin is suggested to play a key role in CD8+ T cell function, acting as a regulatory gene in the adaptive immune response. Autologous TIL therapy for metastatic melanoma has broad T cell recognition of both defined and undefined tumor antigens against all human leukocyte antigen (HLA) restrictions. See also
Lymphocyte
Tumor-Infiltrating Dendritic Cell
Cancer Immunotherapy
CAR T-Cell therapy
T-cells

References
External links
Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms
Lion Biotechnologies, Inc. This redirected killing does not require binding of any co-stimulatory molecules and is effected through the targeted release of perforin and granzyme from the redirected T cell that induces the targeted disease cell to die through an apoptosis mediated mechanism. 
EGR2 is important to myelination of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] Myelin P2 protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PMP2 gene. Myelin protein P2 is a constituent of peripheral nervous system (PNS) myelin, also present in small amounts in central nervous system (CNS) myelin. As a structural protein, P2 is thought to stabilize the myelin membranes, and may play a role in lipid transport in Schwann cells. Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a glycoprotein believed to be important in the myelination of nerves in the central nervous system (CNS). Molecular function
While the primary molecular function of MOG is not yet known, its likely role with the myelin sheath is either in sheath "completion and/or maintenance". More specifically, MOG is speculated to be "necessary" as an "adhesion molecule" on the myelin sheath of the CNS to provide the structural integrity of the myelin sheath." Early growth response protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the EGR2 gene. EGR2 (also termed Krox20) is a transcription regulatory factor, containing three zinc finger DNA-binding sites, and is highly expressed in a population of migrating neural crest cells. 
ER-localized phosphatase Sac1 processes PI4P through coordination with OSBP and the endosome-localized protein sorting nexin 2. [SEP] Phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate-binding protein 2 (Pib2) is a yeast protein involved in the regulation of TORC1 signaling and lysosomal membrane permeabilization. Discovery
Pib2 was first identified as a FYVE domain-containing protein able to bind phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P). Pib2 is found at the yeast vacuole and endosomes. The PI3P binding FYVE domain of Pib2 is key for this localization. Phosphatidylinositide phosphatase SAC1 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the SACM1L gene. Putative phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase alpha-like protein P2 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PI4KAP2 gene. The PP2A heterotrimeric protein phosphatase is ubiquitously expressed, accounting for a large fraction of phosphatase activity in eukaryotic cells. Surfeit locus protein 4 or Surf4 is a protein involved in regulating export of some proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi bodies. 
ERAP1 SNPs are epistatic to HLA alleles for ankylosing spondylitis. [SEP] HLA-B27 is strongly associated with ankylosing spondylitis and other associated inflammatory diseases, such as psoriatic arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and reactive arthritis. In northern Scandinavia (Lapland), 24% of people are HLA-B27 positive, while 1.8% have associated ankylosing spondylitis. In Finland, an estimated 14% of the population is positive for HLA-B27, while over 95% of patients with ankylosing spondylitis and approximately 70-80% of patients with Reiter's disease or reactive arthritis have the genetic marker. In particular, 90% of people with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) are HLA-B27 positive, though only a small fraction of people with HLA-B27 ever develop AS. There are additional genes being discovered that also predispose to AS and associated diseases, and additionally there are potential environmental factors (triggers) that may also play a role in susceptible individuals.In addition to its association with ankylosing spondylitis, HLA-B27 is implicated in other types of seronegative spondyloarthropathy as well, such as reactive arthritis, certain eye disorders such as acute anterior uveitis and iritis, psoriatic arthritis, Crohn's and ulcerative colitis associated spondyloarthritis. Pathological mechanism
HLA-B27 is the most researched HLA-B allele due to its high relationship with spondyloarthropathies. The arthritogenic peptide hypothesis suggests that HLA-B27 has a unique ability to bind antigens from a microorganism that trigger a CD8 T-cell response that then cross-reacts with a HLA-B27/self-peptide pair. Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM): 142830
HLA-B27 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
BASDAI and Ankylosing Spondylitis
National Library of Medicine - Papers on HLA B-27  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=hla+b27
PDBe-KB provides an overview of all the structure information available in the PDB for Human HLA class I histocompatibility antigen, B-27 alpha chain 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening decreases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a medical condition in which the ductus arteriosus fails to close after birth: this allows a portion of oxygenated blood from the left heart to flow back to the lungs through the aorta, which has a higher blood pressure, to the pulmonary artery, which has a lower blood pressure. In a PDA, the vessel does not close, but remains patent (open), resulting in an abnormal transmission of blood from the aorta to the pulmonary artery. However, a 2020 systematic review found that early (≤7 days of life) or very early (≤72 hours of life) pharmacological treatment of symptomatic PDA does not reduce death or other poor clinical outcomes in preterm infants but instead increases their exposure to NSAIDS. See also
George Alexander Gibson

References
External links
Patent Ductus Arteriosus Causes from US Department of Health and Human Services
Patent Ductus Arteriosus from Merck
Patent ductus arteriosus information for parents. Incidence
A patent ductus arteriosus affects approximately 4% of infants with Down syndrome (DS). The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act of 2014 (H.R. Thus, for some of the diseases in MDA's program, the availability of a newborn screening program at the time of treatment availability presents the best opportunity for impacting optimal and potential lifesaving treatment outcomes."Rep. According to Roybal-Allard, in California "newborns are screened for more than 40 preventable and treatable conditions – and for every one dollar California spends on screening, it yields a benefit of over $9 as we prevent disease in children who are diagnosed with these treatable conditions."Rep. 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening increases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a medical condition in which the ductus arteriosus fails to close after birth: this allows a portion of oxygenated blood from the left heart to flow back to the lungs through the aorta, which has a higher blood pressure, to the pulmonary artery, which has a lower blood pressure. In a PDA, the vessel does not close, but remains patent (open), resulting in an abnormal transmission of blood from the aorta to the pulmonary artery. In full-term newborns, PDA occurs in 1 in 2,000 births, and accounts for 5–10% of congenital heart disease cases. A large PDA generally accompanies an enlarged cardiac silhouette and increased blood flow to the lungs. See also
George Alexander Gibson

References
External links
Patent Ductus Arteriosus Causes from US Department of Health and Human Services
Patent Ductus Arteriosus from Merck
Patent ductus arteriosus information for parents. Thus, for some of the diseases in MDA's program, the availability of a newborn screening program at the time of treatment availability presents the best opportunity for impacting optimal and potential lifesaving treatment outcomes."Rep. According to Roybal-Allard, in California "newborns are screened for more than 40 preventable and treatable conditions – and for every one dollar California spends on screening, it yields a benefit of over $9 as we prevent disease in children who are diagnosed with these treatable conditions."Rep. Incidence
A patent ductus arteriosus affects approximately 4% of infants with Down syndrome (DS). 
Ectopic expression of Sall4, Nanog, Esrrb, and Lin28 generates induced pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic fibroblasts more efficiently than other factor combinations. [SEP] Homeobox protein NANOG (hNanog) is a transcriptional factor that helps embryonic stem cells (ESCs) maintain pluripotency by suppressing cell determination factors. Function
NANOG is a transcription factor in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and is thought to be a key factor in maintaining pluripotency. NANOG is thought to function in concert with other factors such as POU5F1 (Oct-4) and SOX2 to establish ESC identity. There, NANOG has been implicated in inhibiting embryonic hematopoiesis by repressing the expression of the transcription factor Tal1. Derived human ESC lines also expressed specific pluripotency markers:

TRA-1-60
TRA-1-81
SSEA4
alkaline phosphatase
TERT
Rex1These markers allowed for the differentiation in vitro and in vivo conditions into derivatives of all three germ layers.POU5F1, TDGF1 (CRIPTO), SALL4, LECT1, and BUB1 are also related genes all responsible for self-renewal and pluripotent differentiation.The NANOG protein has been found to be a transcriptional activator for the Rex1 promoter, playing a key role in sustaining Rex1 expression. Knockdown of NANOG in embryonic stem cells results in a reduction of Rex1 expression, while forced expression of NANOG stimulates Rex1 expression.Besides the effects of NANOG in the embryonic stages of life, ectopic expression of NANOG in the adult stem cells can restore the proliferation and differentiation potential that is lost due to organismal aging or cellular senescence. Cancer stem cells
Nanog is a transcription factor that controls both self-renewal and pluripotency of embryonic stem cells. See also
Enhancer
Histone
Oct-4
Pribnow box
Promoter
RNA polymerase
Brachyury
Transcription factors
Gene regulatory network
Bioinformatics

References
Further reading
External links
NANOG+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Nanog+protein,+mouse at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
FactorBook NANOG
"Core Transcriptional Regulatory Circuitry in Human Embryonic Stem Cells". 
Egr2 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] EBNA2 is involved in the regulation of latent viral transcription and contributes to the immortalization of EBV infected cells. G-protein coupled receptor 183 also known as Epstein-Barr virus-induced G-protein coupled receptor 2 (EBI2) is a protein (GPCR) expressed on the surface of some immune cells, namely B cells and T cells; in humans it is encoded by the GPR183 gene. Expression of EBI2 is one critical mediator of immune cell localization within lymph nodes, responsible in part for the coordination of B cell, T cell, and dendritic cell movement and interaction following antigen exposure. Though CCR7 is the dominant receptor in this stage of B cell migration, EBI2 is still critical, the low expression of which contributes to organized interaction along the T zone border that maximizes interactions with T cells. Thus, EBI2 expression modulates B cell differentiation by directing cells toward or away from germinal centers. T cells
EBI2 also regulates intra-lymphatic T cell migration. In concert with upregulation of CXCR5, the downregulation of EBI2 helps T follicular helper cells move toward the follicle center to help B cells undergoing affinity maturation in germinal centers. Dendritic cells
EBI2 expression on CD4+ dendritic cells is a key initiator of immune response. 
Egr3 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] Early growth response protein 3 is a protein in humans, encoded by the EGR3 gene.The gene encodes a transcriptional regulator that belongs to the EGR family of C2H2-type zinc-finger proteins. References
Further reading
External links
EGR3+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Early growth response protein 4 (EGR-4), also known as AT133, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the EGR4 gene.EGR-4 is a member of the early growth response (EGF) family of zinc finger transcription factors. Epstein-Barr virus induced gene 3, also known as interleukin-27 subunit beta or IL-27B, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the EBI3 gene. It plays a role in regulating cell-mediated immune responses.EBI3 is a subunit in 2 distinct heterodimeric cytokines: interleukin-27 (IL27) and IL35. IL35, an inhibitory cytokine involved in regulatory T-cell function, is composed of EBI3 and the  p35 subunit of IL12. EBI3 human gene details in the UCSC Genome Browser. CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3) is a protein complex and T cell co-receptor that is involved in activating both the cytotoxic T cell (CD8+ naive T cells) and T helper cells (CD4+ naive T cells). 
Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos elicits rapid and long-lasting neutralizing antibodies in nonhuman primates. [SEP] Eilat virus (EILV) is a unique Alphavirus which is known mainly for its host range restriction generally to insects (primarily to mosquitoes) by means of RNA replication. This specific isolation was performed in a study for over ninety-one identified viruses, and the EILV virus was found and isolated from the gut of the collected mosquitoes. Normally, an alphavirus similar to that of the EILV would use mosquitoes as the vector of transmission to other (usually vertebrates) creatures. Thus, EILV appears to be mosquito-specific and represents a previously undescribed complex within the genus Alphavirus. [1]

Areas of infection
When tested on four different mosquito species the Eilat virus had similar effects on certain organs of the mosquitos and did not infect other organs. The Eilat virus's incapability of entering vertebrate cells was proven by infection with the EILV-expressing red fluorescent protein which was obtained from a second genomic promoter. When a few species of mosquito were fed ( a blood meal) containing the Eilat virus in high doses, all test species did in fact get infected; however, when the dose range was lowered, the species would fail to get infected. Anopheles coustani's aid in natural maintenance
The Eilat virus was first isolated from the specified species Anopheles coustani (mosquito species) located at the Negrev desert. 
Elevated cell-free mitochondrial DNA levels are associated with mortality. [SEP] Circulating mitochondrial DNA, also called cell-free circulating mitochondrial DNA and circulating cell-free mitochondrial DNA (ccf mtDNA), are short sections of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) that are released by cells undergoing stress or other damaging or pathological events. Circulating mitochondrial DNA is recognized by the immune system and activates inflammatory reactions. These higher levels have shown to be a reliable non-invasive biomarker in the diagnosis and prognosis of many kinds of tumours.Specific analysis of tumor-derived circulating mitochondrial DNA is challenging in human samples as it requires to track in plasma defined mutations, or alterations from the mitochondrial genome. Cell-free DNA could refer to:

Cell-free fetal DNA
Cell-free tumour DNA
Cell-free circulating mitochondrial DNA Cell‐free DNA (cfDNA) is present in the circulating plasma and in other body fluids.The release of cfDNA into the bloodstream appears by different reasons, including apoptosis, necrosis and NETosis. Oxidized mtDNA generated during programmed cell death is not limited to activate TLR9, but was shown to also engage the NRLP3 inflammasome, leading to the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-1β, and IL-18. Telomere loss has also been associated with decreased mitochondrial function. Clinical Applications of Targeting Mitochondrial Biogenesis
Mitochondrial biogenesis can be targeted to prevent cancer proliferation. 
Eliminating the last sporadic cases of malaria requires considerable funding. [SEP] Malaria No More is a nonprofit organization that seeks to eradicate malaria. History
Malaria No More was established in December 2006 by business leaders looking to apply private sector expertise and entrepreneurial methods to tackling malaria.Since Malaria No More's inception - at the White House event that launched the U.S. President's Malaria Initiative in 2006 - Malaria No More has worked to mobilize political commitment, funding and innovation, with the goal of "ending malaria within our generation. References
External links
Malaria No More's official Website
Forecasting Healthy Futures
Twittering for a Good Cause, CNN, April 17, 2009
Big Guns Enter Malaria Fight, Wall Street Journal, September 26, 2008
Saving the World in Study Hall, New York Times, May 11, 2008 References
External links
Official website
"Against Malaria Foundation, registered charity no. Background
The UN Foundation and its partners use the money raised by donations to Nothing But Nets to fight malaria. By 1951 this federal program—with state and local participation—had reduced the incidence of malaria in the United States to the point that the program was officially ended. In 1952, CDC participation in eradication operations ceased altogether.A major international effort along the lines of the NMEP—the Global Malaria Eradication Programme (1955–1969), administered by the World Health Organization—was unsuccessful. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2010), “Elimination of Malaria in the United States (1947–1951)”. 
Emodin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] Well conserved residues form a hydrophobic cleft and cluster around the AF1521-ADP-ribose binding site. PGAM family member 5 (PGAM5), also known as mitochondrial Serine/threonine-protein phosphatase PGAM5 is related to phosphoglycerate mutase family. It, in humans, is encoded by the PGAM5 gene on chromosome 12. References
External links
PDBe-KB provides an overview of all the structure information available in the PDB for Human Serine/threonine-protein phosphatase PGAM5, mitochondrial Emodin (6-methyl-1,3,8-trihydroxyanthraquinone) is a chemical compound, of the anthraquinone family, that can be isolated from rhubarb, buckthorn, and Japanese knotweed (Reynoutria japonica syn. Emodin is particularly abundant in the roots of the Chinese rhubarb (Rheum palmatum), knotweed and knotgrass (Polygonum cuspidatum and multiflorum) as well as Hawaii ‘au‘auko‘i cassia seeds or coffee weed (Semen cassia). Pharmacology
Emodin is an active component of several plants used in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) such as Rheum palmatum, Polygonum cuspidatum and Polygonum multiflorum. Specifically, it is seen dose-dependent inhibition in the prevention of infection by the SARS-Cov-1 whose evidence has stimulated further investigations on SARS-Cov-2.Emodin has been shown to inhibit the ion channel of protein 3a which could play a crucial role in the release of the virus from infected cells. 
Energy balance requires hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission. [SEP] In biology, energy homeostasis, or the homeostatic control of energy balance, is a biological process that involves the coordinated homeostatic regulation of food intake (energy inflow) and energy expenditure (energy outflow). The human brain, particularly the hypothalamus, plays a central role in regulating energy homeostasis and generating the sense of hunger by integrating a number of biochemical signals that transmit information about energy balance. Energy intake is modulated by hunger, which is primarily regulated by the hypothalamus, and choice, which is determined by the sets of brain structures that are responsible for stimulus control (i.e., operant conditioning and classical conditioning) and cognitive control of eating behavior. Hunger is regulated in part by the action of certain peptide hormones and neuropeptides (e.g., insulin, leptin, ghrelin, and neuropeptide Y, among others) in the hypothalamus. In biochemistry, the glutamate–glutamine cycle is a cyclic metabolic pathway which maintains an adequate supply of the neurotransmitter glutamate in the central nervous system. The glutamate/GABA–glutamine cycle is a metabolic pathway that describes the release of either glutamate or GABA from neurons which is then taken up into astrocytes (non-neuronal glial cells). Recent electrophysiological evidence suggests that active synapses require presynaptically localized glutamine glutamate cycle to maintain excitatory neurotransmission in specific circumstances. If a certain part of the brain is more active, more glucose or energy will be needed there and more FDG will be absorbed. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines damages viral control in the lung. [SEP] IL-8 is believed to play a role in the pathogenesis of bronchiolitis, a common respiratory tract disease caused by viral infection.IL-8 is a member of the CXC chemokine family. This chemokine is constitutively expressed in the colon, but its levels can be increased by pro-inflammatory cytokines and certain bacterial products implying a role in effector cell recruitment to sites of epithelial injury. These altered immune cells are derived from several signaling pathways and are able to induce numerous respiratory diseases. The reprogram of macrophage implies a dysregulated inflammation that can damage healthy lung cells. Immune Response
The immune functions in smoker’s macrophages are compromised, so the airway pathogens are more likely to accumulate and cause infection. Smoker's macrophages affect the elastic fibers in the mucus layer of the airways, tightening the lumen and causing asthma. Because of the altered inflammatory response of the macrophages, smoking induces inflammation across the entire airway, which in turns obstructs the airflow. As inflammation plays an important role in inducing cancer, with smoking affecting the inflammatory response of macrophages in the lungs, the dysregulated inflammatory response poses a higher risk in developing cancer along the airway. 
Environmental factors can influence the development of breast cancer. [SEP] Breast cancer, like other forms of cancer, can result from multiple environmental and hereditary risk factors. For breast cancer, the list of environmental risk factors includes the individual person's development, exposure to microbes, "medical interventions, dietary exposures to nutrients, energy and toxicants, ionizing radiation, and chemicals from industrial and agricultural processes and from consumer products...reproductive choices, energy balance, adult weight gain, body fatness, voluntary and involuntary physical activity, medical care, exposure to tobacco smoke and alcohol, and occupational exposures, including shift work" as well as "metabolic and physiologic processes that modify the body's internal environment." Some of these environmental factors are part of the physical environment, while others (such as diet and number of pregnancies) are primarily part of the social, cultural, or economic environment.Although many epidemiological risk factors have been identified, the cause of any individual breast cancer is most often unknowable. However, it also increased their risk of breast cancer. Factors in the physical environment
According to a review, the main mechanisms by which environmental compounds increase breast cancer risk are acting like hormones, especially estrogen, or affecting susceptibility to carcinogenesis. The increasing prevalence of these substances in the environment may explain the increasing incidence of breast cancer, though direct evidence is sparse. The relationship between alcohol and breast cancer is clear: drinking alcoholic beverages, including wine, beer, or liquor, is a risk factor for breast cancer, as well as some other forms of cancer. Mechanism
The mechanisms of increased breast cancer risk by alcohol are not clear, and may be:

Increased estrogen and androgen levels
Enhanced mammary gland susceptibility to carcinogenics
Increased mammary DNA damage
Greater metastatic potential of breast cancer cellsTheir magnitude likely depends on the amount of alcohol consumed.Susceptibility to the breast cancer risk of alcohol may also be increased by other dietary factors (e.g. 
Environmentally-induced senescence is mimicked in disease modeling by adding specific molecules to the culture system. [SEP] Cellular senescence can be initiated by a wide variety of stress inducing factors. These stress factors include both environmental and internal damaging events, abnormal cellular growth, oxidative stress, autophagy factors, among many other things.The physiological importance for cell senescence has been attributed to prevention of carcinogenesis, and more recently, aging, development, and tissue repair. This induces replicative senescence. The induction of cellular senescence was associated with an increase in inflammatory cytokines as is expected based on the SASP. Cellular senescence in mammalian disease
Transplantation of only a few (1 per 10,000) senescent cells into lean middle-aged mice was shown to be sufficient to induce frailty, early onset of aging-associated diseases, and premature death.Biomarkers of cellular senescence have been shown to accumulate in tissues of older individuals. The accumulation of senescent cells in tissues of vertebrates with age is thought to contribute to the development of ageing-related diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, type 2 diabetes, and various cancers.Progeria is another example of a disease that may be related to cell senescence. Potential Regulators of the Senescence-Associated Secretory Phenotype During Senescence and Aging. See also
•  DNA damage theory of aging


== References == 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in high economic settings. [SEP] Chronic, non-communicable diseases account for an estimated 80% of total deaths and 70% of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) lost in China. Rates of death from chronic disease in middle-aged people are higher in China than in some high-income countries.In China, as in many other parts of the world, the government has focused on communicable diseases—however, China now has a "double burden" of disease. Economic consequences
The economic consequences of chronic diseases for China are serious. Disease burden is the impact of a health problem as measured by financial cost, mortality, morbidity, or other indicators. The "environmentally-mediated" disease burden is much higher in developing countries, with the exception of certain non-communicable diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases and cancers, where the per capita disease burden is larger in developed countries. The infant death rate attributed to environmental causes is also 12 times higher in developing countries. For example, maternal death (one of the top three killers in most poor countries) and pediatric respiratory and intestinal infections maintain a high disease burden, and safe pregnancy and the prevention of coughs in infants do not receive adequate funding. But there is also significant growth in noncommunicable diseases (cardiovascular syndromes, cancers, mental illness etc) and injury. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] Second, ethanol has bactericidal activity by causing damage to the cell membrane and protein denaturing, allowing yeast fungus to outcompete environmental bacteria for resources. Despite the bactericidal effects of ethanol, acidifying effects of fermentation, and low oxygen conditions of industrial alcohol production, bacteria that undergo lactic acid fermentation can contaminate such facilities because lactic acid has a low pKa of 3.86 to avoid decoupling the pH membrane gradient that supports regulated transport. The ethanol generated from these pathways is absorbed in the small intestine, causing an increase in blood alcohol concentrations that produce the effects of intoxication without the consumption of alcohol.Researchers speculate the underlying causes of ABS are related to prolonged antibiotic use, poor nutrition and/or diets high in carbohydrates, and to pre-existing conditions such as diabetes and genetic variations that result in improper liver enzyme activity. In the latter case, decreased activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase can result in accumulation of ethanol in the gut, leading to fermentation. Research has also shown that Klebsiella bacteria can similarly ferment carbohydrates to alcohol in the gut, which can accelerate non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. An esophagogastroscopy showed the presence of S. cerevisiae and C. albicans in his gastric fluid, causing endogenous ethanol production. The operon contains two heat-shock genes, encoding inclusion body binding proteins A and B (IbpA/B), and is the most drastically upregulated operon under heat-shock in Escherichia coli.IbpA is regulated by a ROSE element found in its 5' UTR, while IbpB has its own heat-sensitive cis-regulatory element. BiP protein expression has been found to be significantly enhanced by the heat shock response due to internal ribosome entry site (IRES)-dependent translation. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] Second, ethanol has bactericidal activity by causing damage to the cell membrane and protein denaturing, allowing yeast fungus to outcompete environmental bacteria for resources. Despite the bactericidal effects of ethanol, acidifying effects of fermentation, and low oxygen conditions of industrial alcohol production, bacteria that undergo lactic acid fermentation can contaminate such facilities because lactic acid has a low pKa of 3.86 to avoid decoupling the pH membrane gradient that supports regulated transport. This protein also has the capacity to synthesize (p)ppGpp, and seems to be the primary synthase under certain conditions of stress. "PpGpp: A global regulator in Escherichia coli". "(p)ppGpp and Its Role in Bacterial Persistence: New Challenges". During bacterial starvation the USP genes upregulated will often arrest cell growth and promote its metabolism to adapt to sparse nutrients.Recent research also suggests proteins containing this domain have functions beyond the realms of dealing with environmental stresses. Regulation
In bacteria, the USP genes can be regulated by sigma factors within RNA polymerases. Virulence-related outer membrane proteins, or outer surface proteins (Osp) in some contexts, are expressed in the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria and are essential to bacterial survival within macrophages and for eukaryotic cell invasion. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] Second, ethanol has bactericidal activity by causing damage to the cell membrane and protein denaturing, allowing yeast fungus to outcompete environmental bacteria for resources. Despite the bactericidal effects of ethanol, acidifying effects of fermentation, and low oxygen conditions of industrial alcohol production, bacteria that undergo lactic acid fermentation can contaminate such facilities because lactic acid has a low pKa of 3.86 to avoid decoupling the pH membrane gradient that supports regulated transport. Within genetics, post-genomic research has rendered bacterial small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) as major players in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in response to environmental stimuli. The SraL RNA ('sra' for small RNA), also known as RyjA,  is a small non-coding RNA discovered in E. coli, and later in Salmonella Tiphimurium. Subjective response to alcohol (SR) refers to an individual's unique experience of the pharmacological effects of alcohol and is a putative risk factor for the development of alcoholism. There is also mounting evidence for consideration of SR as an endophenotype with some studies suggesting that it accounts for a significant proportion of genetic risk for the development of alcohol use disorder. Importantly, differences in SR by family history were significant only in the alcohol condition and not the placebo condition, suggesting that SRs observed in the alcohol condition could be attributed to the pharmacological effects of alcohol, rather than to a confounding factor. Clinical implications
Because SR is such a strong predictor of future alcohol consumption and problems, medication development has focused on drugs which either reduce the pleasant or increase the unpleasant effects of alcohol. 
Ethanol stress lowers the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] Second, ethanol has bactericidal activity by causing damage to the cell membrane and protein denaturing, allowing yeast fungus to outcompete environmental bacteria for resources. Despite the bactericidal effects of ethanol, acidifying effects of fermentation, and low oxygen conditions of industrial alcohol production, bacteria that undergo lactic acid fermentation can contaminate such facilities because lactic acid has a low pKa of 3.86 to avoid decoupling the pH membrane gradient that supports regulated transport. Furthermore, ppGpp and pppGpp cause the up-regulation of many other genes involved in stress response such as the genes for amino acid uptake (from surrounding media) and biosynthesis. Historically, literature surrounding (p)ppGpp have given conflicting findings and information on its role in bacterial stress responses. This protein also has the capacity to synthesize (p)ppGpp, and seems to be the primary synthase under certain conditions of stress. Impact of (p)ppGpp on bacterial physiology
Inhibition of growth by inhibition of protein synthesis
ppGpp inhibits IF2-mediated fMet-Phe initiation dipeptide formation, probably by interfering with 30S and 50S subunit interactions. "PpGpp: A global regulator in Escherichia coli". "(p)ppGpp and Its Role in Bacterial Persistence: New Challenges". 
Ethanol stress reduces the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] Second, ethanol has bactericidal activity by causing damage to the cell membrane and protein denaturing, allowing yeast fungus to outcompete environmental bacteria for resources. Despite the bactericidal effects of ethanol, acidifying effects of fermentation, and low oxygen conditions of industrial alcohol production, bacteria that undergo lactic acid fermentation can contaminate such facilities because lactic acid has a low pKa of 3.86 to avoid decoupling the pH membrane gradient that supports regulated transport. See also
Ethanol fermentation
Fermentation (biochemistry)
Facultative anaerobic organism
Allosteric regulation

References


== Further reading == See also
Alcohol dehydrogenase

References

Fidge NH, Goodman DS (1968). Purification and properties of aryl-alcohol: NADP-oxidoreductase from Neurospora crassa]". The SraL RNA ('sra' for small RNA), also known as RyjA,  is a small non-coding RNA discovered in E. coli, and later in Salmonella Tiphimurium. SraL down-regulates  the expression of the ribosome-associated chaperone Trigger Factor (TF), which is involved in the folding of the newly synthesised  cystolic proteins. Within genetics, post-genomic research has rendered bacterial small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) as major players in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in response to environmental stimuli. 
Excess gestational weight gain is associated with obesity-related pregnancy outcomes. [SEP] Expectations
Overweight and obese women are significantly more likely to expect excessive gestational weight gain compared with normal-weight women, and women who report expecting to gain excessively are three times more likely to actually gain excessively  than those who expect to gain within the guidelines. Mental or physical effects on the fetus
Maternal obesity is linked with elective preterm delivery, neonatal death, and delivery of an extremely low birth weight infant. Obesity effects on the mother
Disease
Obese women have an increased risk of pregnancy-related complications, including hypertension, gestational diabetes, and blood clots. Maternal obesity is also known to be associated with increased rates of complications in late pregnancy such as cesarean delivery, and shoulder dystocia. Obesity in pregnancy is also known to be associated with hyperinsulinemia, dyslipidemia, impaired endothelial function, and up-regulated markers of inflammation. In general, obese mothers or women with excessive gestational weight gain may have higher risk of pregnancy complications (ranging from LGA, shoulder dystocia, etc.). Obesity
Obesity during pregnancy and high-fat maternal diets both show strong associations with obesity in offspring. It has been postulated that maternal obesity causes an accumulation of fat in fetal adipose tissue (adiposity) and predisposes babies for obesity in childhood and adulthood. 
Exercise increases cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] Cardiovascular diseases, chronic respiratory disease, and cancer are the leading causes of both death and of the burden of disease, and exposure to risk factors is high: more than 300 million men smoke cigarettes and 160 million adults are hypertensive, most of whom are not being treated. It is said that about 25% of all cancer deaths globally - across planet Earth - are of Chinese persons in Mainland China and that one-fifth (20%) of all deaths inside China are from one or more cancers. This favorable trend must be continued, because lung cancer death rates are calculated to have more than doubled in men between 1991 and 1995, and are increasing at 2–5% per year in urban and rural working men aged 15–54 years. Progress in chronic disease prevention and control
The establishment of Chinese cancer registries began in 1963 in Shanghai, and data from registries led to some of the first programs that addressed chronic diseases in China. Cancer has led the way in chronic disease control initiatives. Some elements of the Program of Cancer Prevention and Control in China (2004–2010) are now being implemented, for example with rapid diagnosis and screening trials for cervical cancer.Between 1991 and 2000, a community-based intervention trial on management of diabetes and hypertension was done in an urban population of 300,000 in three cities (Beijing, Shanghai, and Changsha). To date, among the chronic diseases outcomes reported are an overall reduction of 15% in the prevalence of male adult cigarette smokers, and in Beijing substantial increases in hypertension detection and treatment with a fall in cardiovascular disease death rates of more than 15% in the last year of the project (Wu Z, Director, Beijing Institute of Heart, Lung and Blood Vessel Diseases, personal communication).Based on the experience of this project, the Ministry of Health began establishing demonstration sites for chronic disease prevention and control nationwide in 1997. The major causes of death in China are vascular disease, cancer, and chronic respiratory disease. 
Exercise reduces cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] Physical activity
Research shows that regular physical activity helps to reduce up to 30% the risk of a variety of cancer types, such as colon cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer and endometrium cancer. The biological mechanisms underlying this association are still not well understood but different biological pathways involved in cancer have been studied suggesting that physical activity reduces cancer risk by helping weight control, reducing hormones such as estrogen and insulin, reducing inflammation and strengthening the immune system. Some studies indicate that exercise may increase life expectancy and the overall quality of life. People who participate in moderate to high levels of physical exercise have a lower mortality rate compared to individuals who by comparison are not physically active. According to the American Heart Association, exercise reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases, including heart attack and stroke.Some have suggested that increases in physical exercise might decrease healthcare costs, increase the rate of job attendance, as well as increase the amount of effort women put into their jobs. Cancer
A systematic review evaluated 45 studies that examined the relationship between physical activity and cancer survival rates. According to the review, "[there] was consistent evidence from 27 observational studies that physical activity is associated with reduced all-cause, breast cancer–specific, and colon cancer–specific mortality. Evidence suggests that exercise may positively affect the quality of life in cancer survivors, including factors such as anxiety, self-esteem and emotional well-being. 
Exhaustion of B cells contributes to poor Ab response in HIV-infected individuals. [SEP] During the acute phase, HIV-induced cell lysis and killing of infected cells by CD8+ T cells accounts for CD4+ T cell depletion, although apoptosis may also be a factor. When the CD4 lymphocyte count falls below 200 cells/ml of blood, the HIV host has progressed to AIDS, a condition characterized by deficiency in cell-mediated immunity and the resulting increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and certain forms of cancer. During primary infection, the level of HIV may reach several million virus particles per milliliter of blood.This response is accompanied by a marked drop in the numbers of circulating CD4+ T cells. However, direct killing by HIV alone cannot account for the observed depletion of CD4+ T cells since only 0.01–0.10% of CD4+ T cells in the blood are infected.A major cause of CD4+ T cell loss appears to result from their heightened susceptibility to apoptosis when the immune system remains activated. These studies found that >95% of CD4 T cells die because of abortive HIV infection. Abortive HIV infection occurs due to slowing of reverse transcription promoting cytosolic DNA accumulation. HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms, including pyroptosis of abortively infected T cells, apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells, direct viral killing of infected cells, and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8+ cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells. When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level, cell-mediated immunity is lost, and the body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections, leading to the development of AIDS. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is unrelated to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] Very fine particulate matter has been linked to cardiovascular disease. Some claims exist that the incidence of autism is higher for babies whose mothers spend time in ‘high traffic pollution’ areas compared to mothers who spend their pregnancy in cleaner air. This study found that babies who were exposed to higher levels of pollutants while in the womb had a 10% higher risk of autism than babies who had low levels of exposure; another finding from this study is that fine particulates had the strongest association with autism

See also
Environmental impact of transport
List of most-polluted cities by particulate matter concentration

References
External links
Zero To Three - information on child brain development In contrast, children from the low pollution area scored as expected on IQ tests, and did not show any significant sign of the risk of brain lesions. The researchers hypothesized that air pollutants increase epilepsy risk by increasing inflammatory mediators, and by providing a source of oxidative stress. Brain inflammation is known to be a risk factor for epilepsy; thus, the sequence of events provides a plausible mechanism by which pollution may increase epilepsy risk in individuals who are genetically vulnerable to the disease. Airborne metal particulates have been shown to directly access and affect the brain through olfactory pathways, which allows a large amount of particulate matter to reach the blood–brain barrier.These facts, coupled with air pollution's link to neurofibrillary tangles and the observed subcortical vascular changes observed in dogs, imply that the negative neuroplastic effects of pollution could result in increased risk for Alzheimer's disease, and could also implicate pollution as a cause of early-onset Alzheimer's disease through multiple mechanisms. Despite common belief that SO2 was the main source of the asthma, by investigating sulfur dioxide and sulfur trioxide levels in Yokkaichi and analyzing compound toxicity levels, a study conducted in 1984 from Yokohama National University concluded that respiratory diseases were not a result of sulfur dioxide, but rather due to a titanium oxide manufacturing plant venting concentrated sulfuric acid mists downwind onto populated urban areas. 
Expression of MSX2 is induced 3 hours after the addition of BMP4, which is earlier than T and CDX2. [SEP] Membrane-spanning 4-domains subfamily A member 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MS4A3 gene.This gene encodes a member of the membrane-spanning 4A gene family. Interactions
MS4A3 has been shown to interact with CDKN3. Bone morphogenetic protein 3, also known as osteogenin, is a protein in humans that is encoded by the BMP3 gene.The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transforming growth factor beta superfamily. BMP3 is an antagonist to other BMP's in the differentiation of osteogenic progenitors. In humans, rigor mortis can occur as soon as four hours after death. Interactions
MTMR2 has been shown to interact with SBF1. Chromobox protein homolog 3 is a protein that is encoded by the CBX3 gene in humans.At the nuclear envelope, the nuclear lamina and heterochromatin are adjacent to the inner nuclear membrane. Interactions
CBX3 has been shown to interact with PIM1, Ki-67, Lamin B receptor, CBX5 and CBX1. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides makes relapse more likely. [SEP] An oncolytic virus is a virus that preferentially infects and kills cancer cells. As the infected cancer cells are destroyed by oncolysis, they release new infectious virus particles or virions to help destroy the remaining tumour. Oncolytic viruses are thought not only to cause direct destruction of the tumour cells, but also to stimulate host anti-tumour immune system responses. Mechanisms of action
Immunotherapy
With advances in cancer immunotherapy such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, increased attention has been given to using oncolytic viruses to increase antitumor immunity. Some oncolytic viruses are very immunogenic and may by infection of the tumour, elicit an anti-tumor immune response, especially viruses delivering cytokines or other immune stimulating factors.Viruses selectively infect tumor cells because of their defective anti-viral response. Modifications to improve oncolytic activity
Oncolytic viruses can be used against cancers in ways that are additional to lysis of infected cells. In oncogenic polyomaviruses, the tumor antigens are responsible for the transformation activity, although the exact molecular mechanisms vary from one virus to another. Because foreign virus antigens are expressed in these tumors, persons who are immunosuppressed such as AIDS or transplant patients are at higher risk for these types of cancers.Chronic indirect tumor viruses, on the other hand, can be lost (at least theoretically) from a mature tumor that has accumulated sufficient mutations and growth conditions (hyperplasia) from the chronic inflammation of viral infection. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides permits additional protection against relapse. [SEP] Peptide vaccines can not only induce protection against infectious pathogens and non-infectious diseases but also be utilized as therapeutic cancer vaccines, where peptides from tumor-associated antigens are used to induce an effective anti-tumor T-cell response. An oncolytic virus is a virus that preferentially infects and kills cancer cells. Oncolytic viruses are thought not only to cause direct destruction of the tumour cells, but also to stimulate host anti-tumour immune system responses. Mechanisms of action
Immunotherapy
With advances in cancer immunotherapy such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, increased attention has been given to using oncolytic viruses to increase antitumor immunity. It has been shown that immunosuppression by chemotherapy and inhibition of the complement system can enhance oncolytic virus therapy.Pre-existing immunity can be partly avoided by using viruses that are not common human pathogens. Some oncolytic viruses are very immunogenic and may by infection of the tumour, elicit an anti-tumor immune response, especially viruses delivering cytokines or other immune stimulating factors.Viruses selectively infect tumor cells because of their defective anti-viral response. Since vaccinia virus has long been recognized as an ideal backbone for vaccines due to its potent antigen presentation capability, this combines well with its natural oncolytic activities as an oncolytic virus for cancer immunotherapy. Modifications to improve oncolytic activity
Oncolytic viruses can be used against cancers in ways that are additional to lysis of infected cells. 
F4/80+ macrophages regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] Macrophages have a wide variety of functions in the body including phagocytosis of foreign invaders and other cellular debris, releasing cytokines to trigger immune responses, and antigen presentation. It is particularly useful as a marker for the various cells of the macrophage lineage, including monocytes, histiocytes, giant cells, Kupffer cells, and osteoclasts. Because of their phagocytic properties, osteoclasts are considered to be a component of the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS). When osteoclast-inducing cytokines are used to convert macrophages to osteoclasts, very large cells that may reach 100 µm in diameter occur. The size of the multinucleated assembled osteoclast allows it to focus the ion transport, protein secretory and vesicular transport capabilities of many macrophages on a localized area of bone. It was in the beginning of 1980 that the monocyte phagocytic system was recognized as precursor of osteoclasts. Osteoclast formation requires the presence of RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor κβ ligand) and M-CSF (Macrophage colony-stimulating factor). Both of these molecules are necessary for osteoclastogenesis and are widely involved in the differentiation of monocyte/macrophage derived cells. 
FACT and other histone chaperone(s) compensate for Histone 2A (H2A)-histone 2B (H2B) dimer eviction during the histone exchange process. [SEP] Histone H2B type 2-E is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST2H2BE gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A type 2-B is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST2H2AB gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A.J is a protein that in humans is encoded by the H2AFJ gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A type 2-C is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST2H2AC gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H1.2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H1C gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins responsible for nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H1.2 also forms a complex with the apoptosome, possibly regulating its formation. Histone H3.2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST2H3C gene. Histone H2A type 1-B/E is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AB gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have decreased risk for dementia. [SEP] Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. Projecting from their data, some researchers have suggested that lowering serum cholesterol levels may reduce a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease, even if they have two ApoE4 alleles, thus reducing the risk from nine or ten times the odds of getting AD down to just two times the odds.Women are more likely to develop AD than men across most ages and APOE genotypes. The hypothesis has held  in the case of putative causal variants in apolipoprotein E, including APOE ε4, associated with Alzheimer's disease. APOE 𝜀2 has been shown to have a neuroprotective effect with carriers of the allele showing a lower prevalence of AD. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. Projecting from their data, some researchers have suggested that lowering serum cholesterol levels may reduce a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease, even if they have two ApoE4 alleles, thus reducing the risk from nine or ten times the odds of getting AD down to just two times the odds.Women are more likely to develop AD than men across most ages and APOE genotypes. Of these, APOE ε4 is associated with increased amyloid beta accumulation and early AD onset. The hypothesis has held  in the case of putative causal variants in apolipoprotein E, including APOE ε4, associated with Alzheimer's disease. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have longer lifetime exposure to estrogen due to an increased reproductive period. [SEP] Research conducted by Alfred Plechner points to cortisol as a possible cause of naturally elevated estrogen. 17-beta-estradiol (E2) is considered the most potent estrogen found in humans. Estetrol (E4) is an estrogen medication and naturally occurring steroid hormone which is used in combination with a progestin in combined birth control pills and is under development for various other indications. Estradiol (E2) is the predominant estrogen during reproductive years both in terms of absolute serum levels as well as in terms of estrogenic activity. The metabolic effects of estrogen in postmenopausal women have been linked to the genetic polymorphism of the ER.While estrogens are present in both men and women, they are usually present at significantly higher levels in women of reproductive age. These occur especially prominently among women who are genetically vulnerable to binge eating phenotypes.Binge eating is associated with decreased estradiol and increased progesterone. Estrogen has been shown to upregulate the peptide hormone adropin. High estrogen can amplify stress-hormone responses in stressful situations. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have shorter lifetime exposure to estrogen due to a decreased reproductive period. [SEP] This is said to be caused by a decrease in progesterone without a subsequent decrease in estrogen. Sudden drops or fluctuations in, or long periods of sustained low levels of estrogen may be correlated with significant mood-lowering. Clinical signs suggested a profile of complete estrogen insensitivity syndrome with a resemblance to ERα knockout mice. Mutations involving the corresponding residue in the AR and MR have previously been associated with androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) and diminished sensitivity to mineralocorticoids, respectively.Assays revealed that the mutated ERα showed strongly reduced transcriptional activity in response to stimulation by estradiol, with an ED50 that was approximately 65-fold greater than that of normal/wild-type ERα. Estrogen also makes the endometrium more sensitive to progesterone in preparation for the luteal phase. The drop in progesterone leads to endometrial ischemia which will subsequently shed in the beginning of the next cycle at the start of menses. Lipoidal estradiol (LE2) is the variety of endogenous C17β long-chain fatty acid esters of estradiol which are formed as metabolites of estradiol. It has been hypothesized that LE2 may serve as a store of estrogen for when estradiol levels become low. 
Fibroblast Growth Factor is a ligand which signals through receptor tyrosine kinases. [SEP] Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1), also known as basic fibroblast growth factor receptor 1, fms-related tyrosine kinase-2 / Pfeiffer syndrome, and CD331, is a receptor tyrosine kinase whose ligands are specific members of the fibroblast growth factor family. Fibroblast growth factors (FGF) are a family of cell signalling proteins produced by macrophages; they are involved in a wide variety of processes, most notably as crucial elements for normal development in animal cells. The fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) are, as their name implies, receptors that bind to members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family of proteins. Structure
The fibroblast growth factor receptors consist of an extracellular ligand domain composed of three immunoglobulin-like domains, a single transmembrane helix domain, and an intracellular domain with tyrosine kinase activity. It binds to and exerts effects via specific fibroblast growth factor receptor  (FGFR) proteins, themselves a family of closely related molecules. Signalling
In common with all FGF receptors, FGF21R protein embodies a tyrosine kinase capacity, which is activated upon the binding of FGF21, with the simultaneous trigger of receptor dimer generation. FGFR2 is a receptor for fibroblast growth factor. Like the other members of the fibroblast growth factor receptor family, these receptors signal by binding to their ligand and dimerisation (pairing of receptors), which causes the tyrosine kinase domains to initiate a cascade of intracellular signals. 
Fibroblast growth factor 21 protects against atherosclerosis by modulating adiponectin and SREBP2 levels. [SEP] Function
FGF21 is beneficially involved in the regulation of lipid, glucose, and energy metabolism. FGF21 induces the insulin-sensitizing hormone adiponectin. FGF21 treatment of adipocytes is associated with phosphorylation of FRS2, a protein linking FGF receptors to the Ras/MAP kinase pathway. FGF21 also protects mice from diet-induced obesity when over expressed in transgenic mice and lowers blood glucose and triglyceride levels when administered to diabetic rodents. Clinical significance
Serum FGF21 levels are significantly increased in obesity and in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), presumably indicating a state of FGF21-resistance.Elevated levels also correlate with liver fat content in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and positively correlate with Body Mass Index in humans, again suggesting obesity as a FGF21-resistant state, although this postulate is still a subject of debate. In mice, FGF21 has been shown to protect against high fat diet-induced inflammation and islet hyperplasia in the pancreas, a finding of possible clinical relevance. In obese individuals however (mice, monkeys or human), systemically given FGF21 can increase energy expenditure, trigger body weight reduction, and reduce abnormally high circulating insulin, triglycerides, and LDL-cholesterol levels. In obese mice, FGF21 treatment can also reduce circulating glucose and abnormal fat accumulation in the liver. 
Flexible molecules experience less steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] References

Jain R.K., "An indirect way to tame cancer", Sci Am 310(2): 46–53, 2014
Jain R.K., J. D. Martin and T. Stylianopoulos, "The role of mechanical forces in tumor progression and therapy", Annual Review of Biomedical Engineering, 16:321-46, 2014. Tumors can influence the microenvironment by releasing extracellular signals, promoting tumor angiogenesis and inducing peripheral immune tolerance, while the immune cells in the microenvironment can affect the growth and evolution of cancerous cells. Tumor vasculature also plays an active role in restricting T cell entry into the TME.T cells reach tumor sites via the circulatory system. Collagenase added to reduce matrix rigidity or chemokine CCL5 experimentally produced by tumor cells increased movement into contact with cancer cells. The tumor microenvironment may also contribute to tumour expansion, as it is capable of altering the selective pressures that the tumour cells are exposed to. Tumour microenvironment
Heterogeneity between tumour cells can be further increased due to heterogeneity in the tumour microenvironment. This is attributed to the drug-resistant selective advantage of the tumour cells. This phenomenon is referred to as the "enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect" of macromolecules and lipids in solid tumors. 
Folate and vitamin B12 levels influence the association between homocysteine and preeclampsia. [SEP] Management
In common forms of MTHFR deficiency, elevated plasma homocysteine levels have sometimes been treated with Vitamin B12 and low doses of folic acid. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a medical condition characterized by an abnormally high level of total homocysteine (that is, including homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine disulfide) in the blood, conventionally described as above 15 μmol/L.As a consequence of the biochemical reactions in which homocysteine is involved, deficiencies of
vitamin B6, folic acid (vitamin B9), and vitamin B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. Causes
Vitamin deficiency
Deficiencies of vitamins B6, B9 and B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. Further, there is no evidence that changing salt intake has an effect.Supplementation with antioxidants such as vitamin C, D and E has no effect on pre-eclampsia incidence; therefore, supplementation with vitamins C, E, and D is not recommended for reducing the risk of pre-eclampsia.Calcium supplementation of at least 1 gram per day is recommended during pregnancy as it prevents pre-eclampsia where dietary calcium intake is low, especially for those at high risk. Women with folate deficiency who become pregnant are more likely to give birth to low birth weight premature infants, and infants with neural tube defects and even spina bifida. Pregnancy
Folate deficiency can occur during pregnancy as a result of the increasing number of cells of the growing fetus, decreased absorption and intake of folate, maternal hormones that mediate its metabolism, vascular circulation of maternal and fetal blood and an increasing amount of blood resulting in dilution. Research
Folate deficiency during gestation or infancy due to development by the fetus or infant of autoantibodies to the folate receptor might result in various developmental disorders.Studies suggest that insufficient folate and vitamin B12 status may contribute to major depressive disorder and that supplementation might be useful in this condition. 
For every 1,000 children with cerebral palsy, more than 300 of them are premature or underweight at birth. [SEP] People with cerebral palsy are at risk of low bone mineral density. Grip strength impairments are less common.Children with severe cerebral palsy, particularly with oropharyngeal issues, are at risk of undernutrition. Children with cerebral palsy are at risk of learned helplessness and becoming passive communicators, initiating little communication. Most children who are born with cerebral palsy have more than one risk factor associated with CP.While in certain cases there is no identifiable cause, typical causes include problems in intrauterine development (e.g. Preterm birth
Between 40% and 50% of all children who develop cerebral palsy were born prematurely. Chronic disease risk, such as obesity, is also higher among adults with cerebral palsy than the general population. Epidemiology
Cerebral palsy occurs in about 2.1 per 1000 live births. It has been found that high-income countries have lower rates of children born with cerebral palsy than low or middle-income countries.Prevalence of cerebral palsy is best calculated around the school entry age of about six years; the prevalence in the U.S. is estimated to be 2.4 out of 1000 children. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in apoptosis. [SEP] Apoptosis
FOXO1 may play an important role in apoptosis because it is phosphorylated and inhibited by AKT. When FOXO1 is over expressed in human LNCaP prostate cancer cells, it causes apoptosis. Also, FOXO1 regulates TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), which caused FOXO1-induced apoptosis in the human prostate cancer cell line LAPC4 when FOXO1 adenovirus-mediated overexpression was used. FOXO1 upregulates Fas ligand (FasL) transcriptionally resulting in apoptotic cell death. FOX (forkhead box) proteins are a family of transcription factors that play important roles in regulating the expression of genes involved in cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and longevity. For example, the FOXF2 gene encodes forkhead box F2, one of many human homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transcription factor forkhead. Structure
FOXA2 belongs to a subfamily of the Forkhead box (FOX) transcription factors, the other members being FOXA1 and FOXA3. FOXI3 is a forkhead box transcription factor that is expressed in the development of hair and teeth. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in cellular differentiation. [SEP] FOX (forkhead box) proteins are a family of transcription factors that play important roles in regulating the expression of genes involved in cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and longevity. FOX proteins also have pioneering transcription activity by being able to bind condensed chromatin during cell differentiation processes.The defining feature of FOX proteins is the forkhead box, a sequence of 80 to 100 amino acids forming a motif that binds to DNA. For example, the FOXF2 gene encodes forkhead box F2, one of many human homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transcription factor forkhead. It is a member of the Forkhead/winged helix (FOX) family of transcription factors that is involved in ciliogenesis. Function
This gene encodes a member of the forkhead family of transcription factors. Function
FOXE3 is a forkhead-box transcription factor which is involved in the proper formation of the ocular lens and is post-natally expressed in the lens epithelium. Structure
FOXA2 belongs to a subfamily of the Forkhead box (FOX) transcription factors, the other members being FOXA1 and FOXA3. Consistent with its role as a pioneering transcription factor, FOXA2 is expressed in early development and essential for the development and homeostasis of various cell types and tissues. 
Formation of N-terminal pyroglutamate by glutamine cyclase (GC) competes with NTAQ1 for Nt-Gln substrates. [SEP] This enzyme participates in D-glutamine and D-glutamate metabolism. "THE OPTICALLY-SPECIFIC  ENZYMATIC CYCLIZATION OF D-GLUTAMATE". Pyroglutamate aminopeptidase may be used to cleave the cyclical lactam and will therefore leave the next amino acid with a free N-terminal. In enzymology, a glutamine N-acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.68) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

acyl-CoA + L-glutamine 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   CoA + N-acyl-L-glutamineThus, the two substrates of this enzyme are acyl-CoA and L-glutamine, whereas its two products are CoA and N-acyl-L-glutamine. This enzyme manufactures glutamate from glutamine and α-ketoglutarate, and thus along with glutamine synthetase (abbreviated GS) plays a central role in the regulation of nitrogen assimilation in photosynthetic eukaryotes and prokaryotes. glnA encodes glutamine synthetase, an enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of glutamate and ammonia to glutamine, thereby controlling the nitrogen level in the cell. Structure
The glnALG has three structural genes:

glnA: encodes glutamine synthetase, an enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of glutamate and ammonia to glutamine. In enzymology, a glutamate N-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.35) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

N2-acetyl-L-ornithine + L-glutamate 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   L-ornithine + N-acetyl-L-glutamateThus, the two substrates of this enzyme are N2-acetyl-L-ornithine and L-glutamate, whereas its two products are L-ornithine and N-acetyl-L-glutamate. 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is inhibited by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] Apoptosis
FOXO1 may play an important role in apoptosis because it is phosphorylated and inhibited by AKT. When FOXO1 is over expressed in human LNCaP prostate cancer cells, it causes apoptosis. FOXO1 upregulates Fas ligand (FasL) transcriptionally resulting in apoptotic cell death. FOXO1 plays a role in the protection of cells from oxidative stress. (2018) demonstrated that FOXO3a activation in vascular smooth muscle cells induces prominent apoptosis and extracellular matrix breakdown in vitro and exacerbates atherosclerosis and vascular remodelling in vivo. It is thought that FOXO3a is also involved in protection from oxidative stress by upregulating antioxidants such as catalase and MnSOD. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. FOXO3 is known as a tumour suppressor. 
Foxk2 regulates autophagy genes in muscle cells and fibroblast cells. [SEP] Molecular biology
Autophagy is executed by autophagy-related (Atg) genes. These two kinases regulate autophagy through inhibitory phosphorylation of the Unc-51-like kinases ULK1 and ULK2 (mammalian homologues of Atg1). Induction of autophagy results in the dephosphorylation and activation of the ULK kinases. Exercise-induced autophagy was unsuccessful however; but when autophagy was induced artificially post-exercise, the accumulation of damaged organelles in collagen VI deficient muscle fibres was prevented and cellular homeostasis was maintained. Both studies demonstrate that autophagy induction may contribute to the beneficial metabolic effects of exercise and that it is essential in the maintaining of muscle homeostasis during exercise, particularly in collagen VI fibers.Work at the Institute for Cell Biology, University of Bonn, showed that a certain type of autophagy, i.e. Autophagy plays an important role in cancer – both in protecting against cancer as well as potentially contributing to the growth of cancer. The interface between inflammation and autophagy
Regulators of autophagy control regulators of inflammation, and vice versa. Autophagy is essential for neuronal survival. 
Foxp3 enables the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] A member of the FOX protein family, FOXP3 appears to function as a master regulator of the regulatory pathway in the development and function of regulatory T cells. In regulatory T cell model systems, the FOXP3 transcription factor occupies the promoters for genes involved in regulatory T-cell function, and may inhibit transcription of key genes following stimulation of T cell receptors. Foxp3 is the major transcription factor controlling T-regulatory cells (Treg or CD4+ cells). The Foxp3 gene is also known to convert naïve T-cells to Treg cells, which are capable of an in vivo and in vitro suppressive capabilities suggesting that Foxp3 is capable of regulating the expression of suppression-mediating molecules. In mice overexpressing the Foxp3 gene, fewer T cells are observed. Role in cancer
In addition to Foxp3's role in regulatory T cell differentiation, multiple lines of evidence have indicated that Foxp3 play important roles in cancer development. The latest research suggests that regulatory T cells are defined by expression of the forkhead family transcription factor FOXP3 (forkhead box p3). Expression of FOXP3 is required for regulatory T cell development and appears to control a genetic program specifying this cell's fate. 
Foxp3 represses the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] A member of the FOX protein family, FOXP3 appears to function as a master regulator of the regulatory pathway in the development and function of regulatory T cells. In regulatory T cell model systems, the FOXP3 transcription factor occupies the promoters for genes involved in regulatory T-cell function, and may inhibit transcription of key genes following stimulation of T cell receptors. Foxp3 is the major transcription factor controlling T-regulatory cells (Treg or CD4+ cells). The Foxp3 gene is also known to convert naïve T-cells to Treg cells, which are capable of an in vivo and in vitro suppressive capabilities suggesting that Foxp3 is capable of regulating the expression of suppression-mediating molecules. In mice overexpressing the Foxp3 gene, fewer T cells are observed. Role in cancer
In addition to Foxp3's role in regulatory T cell differentiation, multiple lines of evidence have indicated that Foxp3 play important roles in cancer development. The latest research suggests that regulatory T cells are defined by expression of the forkhead family transcription factor FOXP3 (forkhead box p3). Expression of FOXP3 is required for regulatory T cell development and appears to control a genetic program specifying this cell's fate. 
G-CSF increases the expansion and infiltration of MDSCs into tumors. [SEP] Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or GCSF), also known as colony-stimulating factor 3 (CSF 3), is a glycoprotein that stimulates the bone marrow to produce granulocytes and stem cells and release them into the bloodstream.Functionally, it is a cytokine and hormone, a type of colony-stimulating factor, and is produced by a number of different tissues. G-CSF also stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils. G-CSF stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils. The action of G-CSF in the central nervous system is to induce neurogenesis, to increase the neuroplasticity and to counteract apoptosis. In oncology and hematology, a recombinant form of G-CSF is used with certain cancer patients to accelerate recovery and reduce mortality from neutropenia after chemotherapy, allowing higher-intensity treatment regimens. Targeting
Selectively targeting CSCs may allow treatment of aggressive, non-resectable tumors, as well as prevent metastasis and relapse. The pathway appears to be active in CSCs of pediatric brain tumors. Due to their significant role in driving disease progression, BCSCs represent a new target by which to treat the tumor at the source of metastasis. 
GATA3 regulates cell cycle progression in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] Regulation of GATA2 expression is highly complex. For example, displacement of GATA2 bond to this sequence by the GATA1 transcription factor appears important for the normal development of some types of hematological stem cells. GATA3 is a transcription factor that in humans is encoded by the GATA3 gene. Studies in animal models and humans indicate that it controls the expression of a wide range of biologically and clinically important genes.The GATA3 transcription factor is critical for the embryonic development of various tissues as well as for inflammatory and humoral immune responses and the proper functioning of the endothelium of blood vessels. Function
GATA3 belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors. Gene-deletion studies in mice indicate that Gata3 (mouse gene equivalent to GATA3) is critical for the embryonic development and/or function of various cell types (e.g. The GATA2 protein is a transcription factor critical for the embryonic development, maintenance, and functionality of blood-forming, lymphatic-forming, and other tissue-forming stem cells. For example, displacement of GATA2 bond to this sequence by the GATA1 transcription factor appears important for the normal development of some types of hematological stem cells. 
GATA3 regulates self-renewal capacity in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] The latter findings, human clinical studies, and experiments on human tissues support the conclusion that in humans both parental GATA2 genes are required for sufficient numbers of hematopoietic stem cells to emerge from the hemogenic endothelium during embryogenesis and for these cells and subsequent progenitor cells to survive, self-renew, and  differentiate into mature cells. For example, displacement of GATA2 bond to this sequence by the GATA1 transcription factor appears important for the normal development of some types of hematological stem cells. Function
GATA3 belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors. Gene-deletion studies in mice indicate that Gata3 (mouse gene equivalent to GATA3) is critical for the embryonic development and/or function of various cell types (e.g. The GATA2 protein is a transcription factor critical for the embryonic development, maintenance, and functionality of blood-forming, lymphatic-forming, and other tissue-forming stem cells. For example, displacement of GATA2 bond to this sequence by the GATA1 transcription factor appears important for the normal development of some types of hematological stem cells. The latter findings, human clinical studies, and experiments on human tissues support the conclusion that in humans both parental GATA2 genes are required for sufficient numbers of hematopoietic stem cells to emerge from the hemogenic endothelium during embryogenesis and for these cells and subsequent progenitor cells to survive, self-renew, and  differentiate into mature cells. These defects reflect the essential role of Gata-1 in stimulating the development, self-renewal, and/or maturation of red blood cell and platelet precursor cells. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori decreases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] Bacterial infection may also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced stomach cancer. The most prominent example is the link between chronic infection of the wall of the stomach with Helicobacter pylori and gastric cancer.Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1%  to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have no H. pylori infection. Due to the prevalence of infection by H. pylori in middle-aged adults (74% in developing countries and 58% in developed countries in 2002), and 1% to 3% likelihood of infected individuals developing gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.The mechanism by which H. pylori causes cancer may involve chronic inflammation, or the direct action of some of its virulence factors, for example, CagA has been implicated in carcinogenesis.As reviewed by Chang and Parsonnet, chronic H. pylori infection in the human stomach is characterized by chronic inflammation. Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1% to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have had no H. pylori infection. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is by far the best known Helicobacter species primarily because humans infected with it may develop gastrointestinal tract diseases such as stomach inflammation, stomach ulcers, duodenal ulcers, stomach cancers of the non-lymphoma type, and various subtypes of extranodal marginal zone lymphomass, e.g. Helicobacter pylori  is by far the best known Helicobacter species primarily because humans infected with it may develop gastrointestinal tract diseases such as stomach inflammation, stomach ulcers, duodenal ulcers, stomach cancers of the nonlymphoma type, and various subtypes of extranodal marginal zone lymphomass, e.g. Helicobacter pylori  is by far the best known Helicobacter species, primarily because humans infected with it may develop gastrointestinal tract diseases such as stomach inflammation, stomach ulcers, duodenal ulcers, stomach cancers of the nonlymphoma type, and various subtypes of extranodal marginal zone lymphomass, e.g. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori increases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] Bacterial infection may also increase the risk of cancer, as seen in Helicobacter pylori-induced stomach cancer. The most prominent example is the link between chronic infection of the wall of the stomach with Helicobacter pylori and gastric cancer.Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1%  to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have no H. pylori infection. Due to the prevalence of infection by H. pylori in middle-aged adults (74% in developing countries and 58% in developed countries in 2002), and 1% to 3% likelihood of infected individuals developing gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.The mechanism by which H. pylori causes cancer may involve chronic inflammation, or the direct action of some of its virulence factors, for example, CagA has been implicated in carcinogenesis.As reviewed by Chang and Parsonnet, chronic H. pylori infection in the human stomach is characterized by chronic inflammation. Although the data varies between different countries, overall about 1% to 3% of people infected with Helicobacter pylori develop gastric cancer in their lifetime compared to 0.13% of individuals who have had no H. pylori infection. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. Helicobacter pylori  is by far the best known Helicobacter species primarily because humans infected with it may develop gastrointestinal tract diseases such as stomach inflammation, stomach ulcers, duodenal ulcers, stomach cancers of the nonlymphoma type, and various subtypes of extranodal marginal zone lymphomass, e.g. Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is by far the best known Helicobacter species primarily because humans infected with it may develop gastrointestinal tract diseases such as stomach inflammation, stomach ulcers, duodenal ulcers, stomach cancers of the non-lymphoma type, and various subtypes of extranodal marginal zone lymphomass, e.g. Helicobacter pylori  is by far the best known Helicobacter species, primarily because humans infected with it may develop gastrointestinal tract diseases such as stomach inflammation, stomach ulcers, duodenal ulcers, stomach cancers of the nonlymphoma type, and various subtypes of extranodal marginal zone lymphomass, e.g. 
Gastric lavage is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] Technique
Gastric lavage involves the passage of a tube (such as an Ewald tube) via the mouth or nose down into the stomach followed by sequential administration and removal of small volumes of liquid. Indications
Gastric lavage is used infrequently in modern poisoning treatment. Lavage should only be considered if the amount of poison ingested is potentially life-threatening and the procedure can be performed within 60 minutes of ingestion. Lavage is also the initial treatment for duodenal atresia in newborns, a condition where the small intestine is closed distal to the stomach, causing food and fluid to accumulate in the stomach. In the United States, paraquat is available primarily as a solution in various strengths. Toxicity
Paraquat is toxic to humans (Category II) by the oral route and moderately toxic (Category III) through the skin. Diluted paraquat used for spraying is less toxic; thus, the greatest risk of accidental poisoning is during mixing and loading paraquat for use.The standard treatment for paraquat poisoning is first to remove as much as possible by pumping the stomach. It has been reported that a small dose, even if removed from the stomach or spat out, can still cause death from fibrous tissue developing in the lungs, leading to asphyxiation.Accidental deaths and suicides from paraquat ingestion are relatively common. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than rotator cuff exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] The exercise even performed at maximum voluntary isometric contraction did not increase pain in one study in people with shoulder pain. Because strengthening the serratus anterior improves shoulder stability, the exercise is recommended for people suffering from shoulder pain or bad posture and is recommended in one treatment protocol as non-surgical treatment for a rotator cuff tear. Criticism and support
Due to concerns over the quality of supporting evidence, graded exercise therapy is not recommended by the CDC or NICE. Glenohumeral flexion
Circumduction with compression
Circumduction with traction
Abduction of the shoulder joint
Internal Rotation
Joint Pump

See also
Atlas of Osteopathic Techniques, Alexander Nicholas DO FAAO


== References == In addition, it can cause rotator cuff injuries. Shoulder reduction is the process of returning the shoulder to its normal position following a shoulder dislocation. Cunningham technique
The Cunningham technique was originally published in 2003 and is an anatomically based method of shoulder reduction that utilizes positioning (analgesic position), voluntary scapular retraction, and bicipital massage. The therapy is especially useful for sprains, strains, pulled muscles and pulled ligaments. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than scapular stabilizer exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] The exercise even performed at maximum voluntary isometric contraction did not increase pain in one study in people with shoulder pain. Because strengthening the serratus anterior improves shoulder stability, the exercise is recommended for people suffering from shoulder pain or bad posture and is recommended in one treatment protocol as non-surgical treatment for a rotator cuff tear. Pain can be managed during the procedures either by procedural sedation and analgesia or by injecting lidocaine into the shoulder joint. Cunningham technique
The Cunningham technique was originally published in 2003 and is an anatomically based method of shoulder reduction that utilizes positioning (analgesic position), voluntary scapular retraction, and bicipital massage. It performs the functions of downward rotation and depression of the scapulae combined with adduction and extension of the shoulder joint. Some lifters will retract the scapulae and hold them there, as opposed to letting them protract, to get a better stretch in the posterior deltoid. The therapy is especially useful for sprains, strains, pulled muscles and pulled ligaments. The goals of performing these exercises were to reduce pain and provide lower trunk stability by actively developing the "abdominal, gluteus maximus, and hamstring muscles as well as..." passively stretching the hip flexors and lower back (sacrospinalis) muscles. 
Genes involved in pre-mRNA splicing have a significant impact on genome stability. [SEP] Transcriptome instability is a genome-wide, pre-mRNA splicing-related characteristic of certain cancers. In general, pre-mRNA splicing is dysregulated in a high proportion of cancerous cells. Transcriptome instability correlates significantly with reduced expression level of splicing factor genes. RNA splicing is a process in molecular biology where a newly-made precursor messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) transcript is transformed into a mature messenger RNA (mRNA). The secondary structure of the pre-mRNA transcript also plays a role in regulating splicing, such as by bringing together splicing elements or by masking a sequence that would otherwise serve as a binding element for a splicing factor. Splicing response to DNA damage
DNA damage affects splicing factors by altering their post-translational modification, localization, expression and activity. Splicing is just one of many different post-transcriptional modifications that mRNA must undergo before translation. Role in splicing
Pre-mRNA splicing involves two trans-esterification reactions and attacks by hydroxyl groups within the spliceosome. 
Genes regulated by Esrrb transcription factor are sensitive to Mbd3 function. [SEP] Methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MBD3 gene. The predicted MBD3 protein shares 71% and 94% identity with MBD2 (isoform 1) and mouse Mbd3. MBD3 is a subunit of the NuRD, a multisubunit complex containing nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase activities. MBD3 mediates the association of metastasis-associated protein 2 (MTA2) with the core histone deacetylase complex.MBD3 also contains the coiled‐coil domain common to all three MBD3 isoforms. Interactions
MBD3 has been shown to interact with:

AURKA,
GATAD2B,
HDAC1,
MTA2, and
MBD2. The protein encoded by MBD1 binds to methylated sequences in DNA, and thereby influences transcription. Each of these proteins, with the exception of MBD3, is capable of binding specifically to methylated DNA. MECP2, MBD1 and MBD2 can also repress transcription from methylated gene promoters. 
Genetic deficiency of mast cells leads to decreased weight gain in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. [SEP] "Mastocytosis: Developments During the Past Decade". Transgenic expression of the WDTC1 gene in mice showed the opposite effect with mice having less adipose. Genetic-based obesity
Genetic mutations to genes monitoring metabolism and appetite predispose people to obesity. Various syndromes resulting in genetic polymorphisms lead to obesity. These cases have resulted in the increase of metabolic syndrome in the mouse models as well as resulted in obesity. Mice without lymphotoxin alpha, lymphotoxin beta, or a lymphotoxin beta receptor gained less weight on a high-fat diet than wild type mice did, even after remaining on a high-fat diet for a prolonged period of time. Mice are used to study the significance of certain chemicals on obesity. Physiological changes
Weight gain is the primary effect of diet-induced obesity, but there are a variety of additional physiological side effects. 
Genetic deletion of JAM-A increases gut permeability. [SEP] Intestinal permeability is a term describing the control of material passing from inside the gastrointestinal tract through the cells lining the gut wall, into the rest of the body. The intestine normally exhibits some permeability, which allows nutrients to pass through the gut, while also maintaining a barrier function to keep potentially harmful substances (such as antigens) from leaving the intestine and migrating to the body more widely. There is some evidence abnormally increased intestinal permeability may play a role in some chronic diseases and inflammatory conditions. This leads to increased intestinal permeability to macromolecules. Clinical significance
Most people do not experience adverse symptoms, but the opening of intercellular tight junctions (increased intestinal permeability) can act as a trigger for diseases that can affect any organ or tissue depending on genetic predisposition.Increased intestinal permeability is a factor in several diseases, such as Crohn's disease, celiac disease, type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, spondyloarthropathies, inflammatory bowel disease, schizophrenia, certain types of cancer, obesity, fatty liver, atopy and allergic diseases, among others. Physiology
Intestinal barrier integrity is malleable and multiple mechanisms have been shown to be capable of modulating intestinal permeability (a measure of intestinal barrier function). Celiac disease sufferers have been shown to have elevated intestinal permeability and altered tight junctions. JAML or Junctional Adhesion Molecule-Like, or AMICA1 is a JAM transmembrane protein family member. 
Genomic aberrations of metastases provide information for targeted therapy. [SEP] Targeted agents are designed to be selective in their effects by modulating the activity of proteins necessary and essential for oncogenesis and maintenance of cancer, particularly enzymes driving the uncontrolled growth, angiogenesis, invasiveness, and metastasis characteristic of malignant tumors. The success of targeted cancer therapies such as Gleevec, Herceptin and Avastin raised the hope for oncogenomics to elucidate new targets for cancer treatment. Besides understanding the underlying genetic mechanisms that initiate or drive cancer progression, oncogenomics targets personalized cancer treatment. Identifying and targeting the mutations in an individual patient may lead to increased treatment efficacy. Progenetix is an oncogenomic reference database, presenting cytogenetic and molecular-cytogenetic tumor data. Diagnostic applications
Some anticancer drugs target mtDNA and have shown positive results in killing tumor cells. Research has used mitochondrial mutations as biomarkers for cancer cell therapy. "Precision Oncology and Genomically Guided Radiation Therapy: A Report From the American Society for Radiation Oncology/American Association of Physicists in Medicine/National Cancer Institute Precision Medicine Conference". 
Genomic sequences involved in alternative splicing responsible for Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) are abundant in the ''progerinonly'' allele of Lmna knock-in models. [SEP] This protein is suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of Hutchinson–Gilford progeria (HGP), which is reported to lack the binding of collagen in basement membranes and cartilage. Progeria is a specific type of progeroid syndrome, also known as Hutchinson–Gilford syndrome. Pathophysiology
Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome (HGPS) is an extremely rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder in which symptoms resembling aspects of aging are manifested at an early age. In 2003, the cause of progeria was discovered to be a point mutation in position 1824 of the LMNA gene, which replaces a cytosine with thymine. It is caused by mutations in the LMNA (lamin A protein) gene on chromosome 1; the mutated form of lamin A is commonly known as progerin. A genetic test for LMNA mutations can confirm the diagnosis of progeria. The condition was later named Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants. 
Glial calcium waves influence seizures. [SEP] Gliotransmission occurs because of the ability of glial cells to induce excitability with variations in Ca2+ concentrations. Between astrocytes, a “Ca[2+] wave” of activity can be initiated, even when they are not in contact with each other, stimulating release of gliotransmitters.Gliotransmission can also occur between two types of glial cells: astrocytes and microglia. Calcium waves within the intracellular matrix of the astrocyte can cause a response in microglia with the presence of ATP in the extracellular matrix. These include Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases as well as schizophrenia, stroke, and epilepsy.It is believed that certain disorders, particularly schizophrenia and epilepsy, may be partially caused by varying levels of gliotransmission and calcium excitability. This has led researchers to believe that excitation of epileptic discharges may be caused by the glutamate-mediated gliotransmission. Although that some studies show that the all excitations caused by gliotransmission lead to epileptic discharges, but it could possibly increase the intensity of length of epileptiform activity.The 5 first mentioned transmitters are primarily excitatory and can thus lead to neural apoptosis through excitotoxicity when expressed at large amounts. These studies show that an increase in the expression and/or activity of mGlu4 receptors is associated with spike-and-wave discharges seen in absence seizures. Cognitive deterioration with high-frequency spike-wave activity affects most patients 2–9 years old with generalized seizures. 
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is characterized by extensive invasion, rapid growth, necrosis, and angiogenesis. [SEP] Glioblastoma, previously known as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), is the most aggressive and most common type of cancer that originates in the brain, and has very poor prognosis for survival. Tumor vasculature
GBM is characterized by abnormal vessels that present disrupted morphology and functionality. Diagnosis
When viewed with MRI, glioblastomas often appear as ring-enhancing lesions. GBM cells are widely infiltrative through the brain at diagnosis, and despite a "total resection" of all obvious tumor, most people with GBM later develop recurrent tumors either near the original site or at more distant locations within the brain. History
The term glioblastoma multiforme was introduced in 1926 by Percival Bailey and Harvey Cushing, based on the idea that the tumor originates from primitive precursors of glial cells (glioblasts), and the highly variable appearance due to the presence of necrosis, hemorrhage, and cysts (multiform). See also
References
External links

Information about Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) from the American Brain Tumor Association
AFIP Course Syllabus – Astrocytoma WHO Grading Lecture Handout The giant-cell glioblastoma is a histological variant of glioblastoma, presenting a prevalence of bizarre, multinucleated (more than 20 nuclei) giant (up to 400 μm diameter) cells. Historical annotation
The giant-cell glioblastoma was originally termed "monstrocellular sarcoma", because of its stromal reticulin network, but the astrocytic nature of the tumor was firmly established through the consistent GFAP expression analysis. 
Glucose restriction to 0.05% reduces RLS (replicative life span) by 20-40% in S. cerevisiae. [SEP] It improves lipid profile, glucose tolerance, and waist measurement, and is therefore comparable in effect to calorie restriction (CR). Sgs1, also known as slow growth suppressor 1, is a DNA helicase protein found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Despite this energetic incentive, Rosario Lagunas has shown that yeast continue to partially ferment available glucose into ethanol for many reasons. Cellular mechanisms
Stress response and DNA damage
Mechanistically, replicative senescence can be triggered by a DNA damage response due to the shortening of telomeres. The successive shortening of the chromosomal telomeres with each cell cycle is also believed to limit the number of divisions of the cell, contributing to aging. This induces replicative senescence. When glucose is available in the environment, the synthesis of β-galactosidase is under repression due to the effect of catabolite repression caused by glucose. Absence of glucose will "turn off" catabolite repression. 
Glycan adaptation involves insertion-deletion events. [SEP] Different species synthesize different types of N-linked glycan. N-linked glycans are almost always attached to the nitrogen atom of an asparagine (Asn) side chain that is present as a part of Asn–X–Ser/Thr consensus sequence, where X is any amino acid except proline (Pro).In animal cells, the glycan attached to the asparagine is almost inevitably N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) in the β-configuration. This core glycan is then elaborated and modified further, resulting in a diverse range of N-glycan structures. There are three conditions to fulfill before a glycan is transferred to a nascent polypeptide:
Asparagine must be located in a specific consensus sequence in the primary structure (Asn–X–Ser or Asn–X–Thr or in rare instances Asn–X–Cys). Upon transferring the completed glycan onto the nascent polypeptide, two glucose residues are removed from the structure. These modifications are catalyzed by glycosyltransferases and glycosidases respectively. "Glycans in the immune system and The Altered Glycan Theory of Autoimmunity: a critical review". An interdisciplinary effort, combining chemistry, biology, and biochemistry, studies glycan-protein interactions to see how different sequences of carbohydrates initiate different cellular responses. 
Glycan adaptation is rarely observed in the B-cell repertoire. [SEP] CG suppression is a term for the phenomenon that CG dinucleotides are very uncommon in most portions of vertebrate genomes. Although cell wall carbohydrates are ideal immunotherapeutic targets due to their abundance in bacteria and high level of conservation, their poor immunogenicity compared with protein targets complicates their use for the development of protective antibodies. The process of immunological B-cell maturation involves transformation from an undifferentiated B cell to one that secretes antibodies with particular specificity. It is characterised by absent circulating B and T cells and normal natural killer cells. "Candidatus Brocadia anammoxidans" is a bacterial member of the phylum Planctomycetota and therefore lacks peptidoglycan in its cell wall, and has a compartmentalized cytoplasm. A naive B cell is a B cell that has not been exposed to an antigen. Obviously, the immune selection pressure against iGb3 is mechanistically different from the well known anti-alpha-Gal antibodies, which caused the loss of alpha1,3-galactose epitope on glycoproteins in humans, apes, and old world monkeys. The disappearance of iGb3 in pig and mouse species cannot be attributed to anti-alpha-Gal antibodies which are absent in these animals. 
Gpr124 increases BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] Animal models of ischemic stroke are procedures inducing cerebral ischemia. Ischemic stroke has a complex pathophysiology involving the interplay of many different cells and tissues such as neurons, glia, endothelium, and the immune system. "Further characterisation of a thromboembolic model of stroke in the rat". "Rodent models of focal stroke: size, mechanism, and purpose". "The macrosphere model: evaluation of a new stroke model for permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats". "Complications and Pitfalls in Rat Stroke Models for Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion: A Comparison Between the Suture and the Macrosphere Model Using Magnetic Resonance Angiography". "Animal Models of Ischemic Stroke: Balancing Experimental Aims and Animal Care" (PDF). Computational modeling of ischemic stroke has been used to understand the biological events during an ischemic stroke, and to identify potential drug targets. 
Gpr124 suppresses BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] Animal models of ischemic stroke are procedures inducing cerebral ischemia. Ischemic stroke has a complex pathophysiology involving the interplay of many different cells and tissues such as neurons, glia, endothelium, and the immune system. "Further characterisation of a thromboembolic model of stroke in the rat". "Rodent models of focal stroke: size, mechanism, and purpose". "A model of focal ischemic stroke in the rat: reproducible extensive cortical infarction". "The macrosphere model: evaluation of a new stroke model for permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats". "Complications and Pitfalls in Rat Stroke Models for Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion: A Comparison Between the Suture and the Macrosphere Model Using Magnetic Resonance Angiography". "Animal Models of Ischemic Stroke: Balancing Experimental Aims and Animal Care" (PDF). 
Guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (Rho-GDI) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] References
External links
Guanine+Nucleotide+Dissociation+Inhibitors at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) RHO protein GDP dissociation inhibitor  of Rho proteins (rho GDI), regulates GDP/GTP exchange. p75NTR is involved in pathways that promote neuronal survival and neuronal death. This was an early indication that p75NTR does nor signal death through the same mechanism as the TNFR death domains, although the ability of the p75NTR death domain to activate other second messengers is conserved.The p75ECD-binding interface to NT-3 can be divided into three main contact sites, two in the case of NGF, that are stabilized by hydrophobic interactions, salt bridges, and hydrogen bonds. Coexpression of p75NTR and OMgP suppress RhoA activation. p75NTR associates with the Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor (RhoGDI), and RhoGDI associates with RhoA. RhoGEF domain describes two distinct structural domains with  guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity to regulate small GTPases in the Rho family. Rho small GTPases are inactive when bound to GDP but active when bound to GTP; RhoGEF domains in proteins are able to promote GDP release and GTP binding to activate specific Rho family members, including RhoA, Rac1 and Cdc42. 
Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) mediate RhoA activation in response to tensional forces on fibronectin-binding integrins. [SEP] RhoGEF domain describes two distinct structural domains with  guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity to regulate small GTPases in the Rho family. Rho small GTPases are inactive when bound to GDP but active when bound to GTP; RhoGEF domains in proteins are able to promote GDP release and GTP binding to activate specific Rho family members, including RhoA, Rac1 and Cdc42. GEFs activate G proteins by promoting nucleotide exchange. Function
Rho GTPases play a fundamental role in numerous cellular processes that are initiated by extracellular stimuli that work through G protein-coupled receptors. The encoded protein may form complex with G proteins and stimulate Rho-dependent signals. Interactions
GEFT has been shown to interact with RHOA. They act as guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for small G proteins of the Rho family. Ras-GRF1 is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor. 
H.pylori-mediated gastric cancer occurs due to the accumulation of mutations in host epithelial cells. [SEP] Chronic inflammation caused by H. pylori infection in the stomach and GERD in the esophagus are seen as the primary instigators of metaplasia and subsequent adenocarcinoma formation. Cancer
Two related mechanisms by which H. pylori could promote cancer are under investigation. According to the proposed perigenetic mechanism, inflammation-associated signaling molecules, such as TNF-α, can alter gastric epithelial cell adhesion and lead to the dispersion and migration of mutated epithelial cells without the need for additional mutations in tumor suppressor genes, such as genes that code for cell adhesion proteins.The strain of H. pylori a person is exposed to may influence the risk of developing gastric cancer. Since 1% to 3% of infected individuals are likely to develop gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.Infection by H. pylori causes no symptoms in about 80% of those infected. Over half of the world's population is colonized with H. pylori and it is estimated that H. pylori-positive patients have a 1-2% risk of developing distal gastric cancer. Due to the prevalence of infection by H. pylori in middle-aged adults (74% in developing countries and 58% in developed countries in 2002), and 1% to 3% likelihood of infected individuals developing gastric cancer, H. pylori-induced gastric cancer is the third highest cause of worldwide cancer mortality as of 2018.The mechanism by which H. pylori causes cancer may involve chronic inflammation, or the direct action of some of its virulence factors, for example, CagA has been implicated in carcinogenesis.As reviewed by Chang and Parsonnet, chronic H. pylori infection in the human stomach is characterized by chronic inflammation. Infections
Helicobacter pylori infection is an essential risk factor in 65–80% of gastric cancers, but only 2% of people with H. pylori infections develop stomach cancer. The mechanism by which H. pylori induces stomach cancer potentially involves chronic inflammation, the action of H. pylori virulence factors such as CagA, or an interaction between H. pylori infection and germline pathogenic variants in homologous-recombination genes. 
H4 G94P proteins induce chromatin assembly, which increases free histones. [SEP] Histone H4 is one of the five main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in eukaryotic cells. Histone H4 is an important protein in the structure and function of chromatin, where its sequence variants and variable modification states are thought to play a role in the dynamic and long term regulation of genes. List of H4 modifications
H4S1p
H4R3me
H4K5ac
H4K8ac
H4K12ac
H4K16ac
H4K16adp
H4K20me
H4S47o-p
H4K91ac
H4K91ub

See also
Histone code#Histone H4

References
See also
nucleosome
histone
chromatin
Other histone proteins involved in chromatin:H1
H2A
H2B
H3 H4K91ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein histone H4. Nomenclature
H4K91ac indicates acetylation of lysine 91 on histone H4 protein subunit:

Histone modifications
The genomic DNA of eukaryotic cells is wrapped around special protein molecules known as histones. H4K12ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein histone H4. H4R3me2 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein histone H4. H4K20me is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H4. 
H4 G94P proteins induce degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] H4K91ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein histone H4. H4 histone
H4 modifications are not as well known as H3's and H4 have fewer variations which might explain their important function. Histone H4 is one of the five main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in eukaryotic cells. Histone H4 is an important protein in the structure and function of chromatin, where its sequence variants and variable modification states are thought to play a role in the dynamic and long term regulation of genes. Histone H4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST4H4 gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H4B gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H4D gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H4E gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. 
H4 G94P proteins inhibit chromatin assembly, which decreases free histones. [SEP] Histone H4 is one of the five main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in eukaryotic cells. Histone H4 is an important protein in the structure and function of chromatin, where its sequence variants and variable modification states are thought to play a role in the dynamic and long term regulation of genes. List of H4 modifications
H4S1p
H4R3me
H4K5ac
H4K8ac
H4K12ac
H4K16ac
H4K16adp
H4K20me
H4S47o-p
H4K91ac
H4K91ub

See also
Histone code#Histone H4

References
See also
nucleosome
histone
chromatin
Other histone proteins involved in chromatin:H1
H2A
H2B
H3 H4K91ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein histone H4. Nomenclature
H4K91ac indicates acetylation of lysine 91 on histone H4 protein subunit:

Histone modifications
The genomic DNA of eukaryotic cells is wrapped around special protein molecules known as histones. H4 histone
H4 modifications are not as well known as H3's and H4 have fewer variations which might explain their important function. H4 histone
H4 modifications are not as well known as H3's and H4 have fewer variations which might explain their important function. H4 histone
H4 modifications are not as well known as H3's and H4 have fewer variations which might explain their important function. 
H4 G94P proteins suppress degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] Histone H4 is one of the five main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in eukaryotic cells. Histone H4 is an important protein in the structure and function of chromatin, where its sequence variants and variable modification states are thought to play a role in the dynamic and long term regulation of genes. H4K91ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein histone H4. H4 histone
H4 modifications are not as well known as H3's and H4 have fewer variations which might explain their important function. H4 histone
H4 modifications are not as well known as H3's and H4 have fewer variations which might explain their important function. Histone H4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST4H4 gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H4B gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. H4 histone
H4 modifications are not as well known as H3's and H4 has fewer variations which might explain their important function. 
HAND2 methylation is a key step in early endometrial carcinogenesis. [SEP] Risk factors for development of EIN and the endometrioid type of endometrial carcinoma include exposure to estrogens without opposing progestins, obesity, diabetes, and rare hereditary conditions such as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. In avian species, Hand2 has been shown to be expressed in developing gut tissue and is believed to contribute to the formation of enteric neurons.Hand2 also plays a critical role in the establishment of a proper implantation environment for pregnancy in mice. In this instance, trisomy of the hand2 gene can directly cause human congenital heart disease.Hand2 gene hypermethylation and epigenetic silencing has also been implicated to increase the development of endometrial cancer. Mounting evidence showing its methylation increased chances of premalignant endometrial lesions. Hand2, in addition to its other functions in the developing heart and limbs, has been found to be an important transcription factor seen in the endometrial stroma. In fact, in mice with the Hand2 gene knocked out, they developed premalignant lesions as they grew older, further providing evidence of its role in endometrial cancer development. These findings have led to Hand2 becoming a potentially promising biomarker for early detection of endometrial cancer and may be used to predict its treatment. In breast cancer, CARM1 methylates chromatin remodeling factor BAF155 to enhance tumor progression and metastasis. 
HIV trans-activator protein (TAT) effectively transports large and small molecules across cellular membranes into larger populations of neurons. [SEP] In molecular biology, Tat is a protein that is encoded for by the tat gene in HIV-1. Tat is a regulatory protein that drastically enhances the efficiency of viral transcription. Tat then binds to cellular factors and mediates their phosphorylation, resulting in increased transcription of all HIV genes, providing a positive feedback cycle. Function and mechanism
Like other lentiviruses, HIV-1 encodes a trans-activating regulatory protein (Tat), which is essential for efficient transcription of the viral genome. Tat secretion by infected cells is highly active, and export is the major destination for HIV-1 Tat. In contrast to the Sec pathway which transports proteins in an unfolded manner, the Tat pathway serves to actively translocate folded proteins across a lipid membrane bilayer. Many transmembrane proteins function as gateways to permit the transport of specific substances across the membrane. Transcytosis is prominent in brain microvascular peptide and protein transport, because the brain microvascular endothelium, which forms the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in vivo, expresses unique, epithelial-like, high-resistance tight junctions. 
HNF4A mutations are associated with macrosomia in infancy. [SEP] It is typified by deletion of the HNF1B gene, resulting in kidney abnormalities and renal cysts and diabetes syndrome. The name is an acronym of the four primary aspects of the disorder: Macrosomia (excessive birth weight), Obesity, Macrocephaly (excessive head size) and Ocular abnormalities. It is characterized by polyhydramnios and fetal overgrowth, including macrocephaly, neonatal macrosomia, visceromegaly, dysmorphic facial features, and an increased risk for Wilms' tumor at an early age. This gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 4 (4q21.21). Hemifacial microsomia (HFM) is a congenital disorder that affects the development of the lower half of the face, most commonly the ears, the mouth and the mandible. Hemifacial microsomia sometimes results in temporomandibular joint disorders. ^  "Hemifacial Microsomia" at the Children's Hospital and Health System of Wisconsin. External links
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Craniofacial Microsomia Overview 
HOXB4 facilitates HSC expansion when co-cultured with HSCs. [SEP] Homeobox protein Hox-C4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HOXC4 gene. References
Further reading
External links
HOXC4+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Homeobox protein Hox-B4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HOXB4 gene. See also
Homeobox

References
Further reading
External links
HOXB4+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. HoxC6 has been highly expressed in many types of cancers including prostate, breast, and esophageal squamous cell cancer. HOXC6 plays a role in lymphoma. Thus, HOXC6 was demonstrated to induce proliferative activity. See also
Homeobox

References
Further reading
External links
HOXC6+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)

This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. 
HOXB4 is a highly expressed component of cellular secretome from fetal liver cell populations. [SEP] Homeobox A4, also known as HOXA4, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the HOXA4 gene. Homeobox protein Hox-B4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HOXB4 gene. See also
Homeobox

References
Further reading
External links
HOXB4+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Homeobox protein Hox-C4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HOXC4 gene. This gene, HOXC4, is one of several homeobox HOXC genes located in a cluster on chromosome 12. References
Further reading
External links
HOXC4+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. HOXC6 plays a role in lymphoma. Homeobox protein Hox-D4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HOXD4 gene. 
HSCT-T dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before AMI. [SEP] Typically, this stimulation test involves determining basal
TSH levels and levels 15 to 30 minutes after an intravenous bolus of TRH. Third generation TSH assays do not have this
limitation and thus TRH stimulation is generally not required when third generation TSH
assays are used to assess degree of suppression. In children, late blood sampling at 60 to 120 minutes is necessary. Public awareness on the need to seek a medical assessment for these non-focal symptoms is also low, and can result in a delay by patients to seek treatmentSymptoms of TIAs can last on the order of minutes to one–two hours, but occasionally may last for a longer period of time. Imaging
According to guidelines from the American Heart Association and American Stroke Association Stroke Council, patients with TIA should have head imaging "within 24 hours of symptom onset, preferably with magnetic resonance imaging, including diffusion sequences". Cardiac imaging can be performed if head and neck imaging do not reveal a vascular cause for the patient's TIA (such as atherosclerosis of the carotid artery or other major vessels of the head and neck). Symptoms generally begin within a day. Type IV hypersensitivity, often called delayed-type hypersensitivity, is a type of hypersensitivity reaction that can take a day or more to develop. 
Having a main partner improves HIV outcomes. [SEP] Male circumcision reduces the risk of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) transmission from HIV positive women to men in high risk populations.In 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) reiterated that male circumcision is an efficacious intervention for HIV prevention if carried out by medical professionals under safe conditions. Efficacy
Heterosexual men
As of 2020, past research has shown that circumcision reduces the risk of HIV infection in heterosexual men, although these studies have had limitations.The WHO Expert Group on Models To Inform Fast Tracking Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision In HIV Combination Prevention in 2016 found "large benefits" of circumcision in settings with high HIV prevalence and low circumcision prevalence. Furthermore, WHO stated that: "While circumcision reduces a man’s individual lifetime HIV risk, the indirect effect of preventing further HIV transmissions to women, their babies (vertical transmission) and from women to other men has an even greater impact on the population incidence, particularly for circumcisions performed at younger ages (under age
25 years). This risk of post-operative transmission presents a challenge, although in the long-term it is possible the circumcision of HIV-infected men helps lessen heterosexual HIV transmission overall. In 2020, WHO again concluded that male circumcision is an efficacious intervention for HIV prevention and that the promotion of male circumcision is an essential strategy, in addition to other preventive measures, for the prevention of heterosexually acquired HIV infection in men. Although these results confirm that male circumcision reduces the risk of men becoming infected with HIV, the UN agencies emphasize that it does not provide complete protection against HIV infection. In 2020, a review including post-study follow up from the three randomized controlled trials, as well as newer observational studies, found a 59% relative reduction in HIV incidence, and 1.31% absolute decrease across the three randomized controlled trials, as well as continued protection for up to 6 years after the studies began. Donors
As the main advocate for global action on HIV/AIDS, UNAIDS leads, strengthens and supports an expanded response aimed at preventing the transmission of HIV, providing care and support, reducing the vulnerability of individuals and communities to HIV/AIDS, and alleviating the impact of the epidemic. 
Having a main partner worsens HIV outcomes. [SEP] Because women are often identified as HIV-positive before men, they are branded as the spreaders of the disease and may subsequently face physical abuse and abandonment.A study conducted in 2010 indicated that the majority of girls in a Cape Town township correlated thinness with disease – in particular, HIV/AIDS. Female rates of HIV infection in South Africa are on average five times higher than male infection rates due to biological and social vulnerability. Women in Khutsong reported that their relationship would deteriorate if they insisted that their partner use a condom because such a request demonstrates a lack of trust and respect.Ubuntu, an African philosophy that promotes a spirit of brotherhood between and among community members, explains why township adolescents knowingly spread the disease – they believe that the entire community should share their burden. Infection via sharing personal objects was the most cited vector of HIV transmission, and that little association amongst respondents was made between HIV and sexual activity. The majority of HIV/AIDS cases in women are directly influenced by high-risk sexual activities, injectional drug use, the spread of medical misinformation, and the lack of adequate reproductive health resources in the United States. Serodiscordancy contributes to the spread of HIV/AIDS, particularly in Sub-Saharan nations such as Lesotho.Serodiscordant couples face numerous issues not faced by seroconcordant couples, including decisions as to what level of sexual activity is comfortable for them, knowing that practicing safer sex reduces but does not eliminate the risk of transmission to the HIV-negative partner. There are also potential psychological issues arising out of taking care of a sick partner, and survivor guilt. Financial strains may also be more accentuated as one partner becomes ill and potentially less able or unable to work.Research involving serodiscordant couples has offered insights into how the virus is passed and how individuals who are HIV positive may be able to reduce the risk of passing the virus to their partner.Experts predict that there are thousands of serodiscordant couples in the US who wish to have children, and researchers report a growing stream of calls from these couples wanting reproductive help. 
HbA1c consistently overestimates glycemic control in black individuals with Sickle cell trait (SCT). [SEP] Individuals with sickle cell–hemoglobin C (HbSC), have inherited the gene for sickle cell disease (HbS) from one parent and the gene for hemoglobin C disease (HbC) from the other parent. Hemoglobin C gene is found in 2-3% of African-Americans while 8% of African-Americans have hemoglobin S (Sickle) gene. Most Americans who have sickle cell anemia are of African descent. Elevated fetal hemoglobin levels have been observed in populations where sickle-cell disease is prevalent. Whole genome sequence analysis has identified a single origin of the sickle trait, with one haplotype ancestral to all sickle-cell variants. Sickle cell anemia is the most common genetic disorder among African Americans. Notes
References
Further reading
External links

Sickle cell at Curlie Individuals with sickle cell and increase of Hb F have a milder case of the disease. 
Headaches are correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] Migraine headaches are usually characterized by severe pain on one or both sides of the head, an upset stomach, and, for some people, disturbed vision. Like other types of pain, headaches can serve as warning signals of more serious disorders. This is particularly true for headaches caused by inflammation, including those related to meningitis as well as those resulting from diseases of the sinuses, spine, neck, ears, and teeth. Cognitive impairment is an inclusive term to describe any characteristic that acts as a barrier to the cognition process or different areas of cognition. The term cognitive impairment covers many different diseases and conditions and may also be symptom or manifestation of a different underlying condition. Cause
Cognitive impairments may be caused by many different factors including environmental factors or injuries to the brain (e.g traumatic brain injury), neurological illnesses, or mental disorders. Cognitive impairment may also be caused by a pathology in the brain. Secondary effects may include the inability to organize thoughts and plans, physical exhaustion, confusion, agitation, aggressiveness, depression, and anxiety.People with CH may dread facing another headache and adjust their physical or social activities around a possible future occurrence. 
Healthy volunteers exhibit rapid and transient increase of cellular ATP after being bolus-injected with fructose. [SEP] Phosphate supplementation is used to treat hypophosphatemia. Physiological effects
When people are involved in incremental exercise, at a specific intensity level of 70% and 75% VO2 max, they are performing at a greater rate than what they would be during a 30-minute submaximal constant load test. The results suggest the physiological effects of incremental exercise can be more predominant than that of a submaximal constant load. Contributions of the energy systems
One study found that the aerobic systems are predominant throughout an incremental exercise test (IET), accounting for about 86%-95% of energy systems at work. ATP11C is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ATP11C gene. Function
ATP11C encodes a member of the Type IV P-type ATPase family that is thought to transport or 'flip' aminophospholipids. Fructoselysine is an Amadori adduct of glucose to lysine.It breaks down into furosine on acid-catalysed hydrolysis. E. coli breaks it down using the enzymes fructoselysine-6-kinase and fructoselysine 6-phosphate deglycase into glucose 6-phosphate and lysine, a set of enzymes located on the frl (fructoselysine) operon. 
Helicobacter pylori-induced aberrant NF-kB-dependent expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase contributes to the mutagenesis of host DNA. [SEP] Activation-induced cytidine deaminase, also known as AICDA, AID and single-stranded DNA cytosine deaminase, is a 24 kDa enzyme which in humans is encoded by the AICDA gene. It creates mutations in DNA by deamination of cytosine base, which turns it into uracil (which is recognized as a thymine). Function
This gene encodes a DNA-editing deaminase that is a member of the cytidine deaminase family. Cytidine deaminase is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the CDA gene.This gene encodes an enzyme involved in pyrimidine salvaging. The encoded protein forms a homotetramer that catalyzes the irreversible hydrolytic deamination of cytidine and deoxycytidine to uridine and deoxyuridine, respectively. Most cytidine deaminases act on RNA, and the few that act on DNA require ssDNA.A related activation-induced (cytidine) deaminase (AID) regulates antibody diversification, especially the process of somatic hypermutation. In molecular biology, mutagenesis is an important laboratory technique whereby DNA mutations are deliberately engineered to produce libraries of mutant genes, proteins, strains of bacteria, or other genetically modified organisms. Other techniques of mutagenesis include combinatorial and insertional mutagenesis. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of coinfections by microbial pathogens 16. [SEP] The effects of parasitic worms, or helminths, on the immune system is a recently emerging topic of study among immunologists and other biologists. "Co-infection of helminths and malaria: modulation of the immune responses to malaria". "Immune modulation by helminthic infections: worms and viral infections". "Parasitic Helminths: New Weapons against Immunological Disorders". "Review series on helminths, immune modulation and the hygiene hypothesis: The broader implications of the hygiene hypothesis". "Role of helminths in regulating mucosal inflammation". Immunological response
As pathogens in the body, helminths induce an immune response. Immunoregulation
Helminth proteins modulate the immune response of their hosts, but do not suppress it entirely. 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rates above 90%. [SEP] Hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT) is the transplantation of multipotent hematopoietic stem cells, usually derived from bone marrow, peripheral blood, or umbilical cord blood in order to replicate inside of a patient and to produce additional normal blood cells. In general, by transfusing healthy stem cells to the recipient's bloodstream to reform a healthy immune system, allogeneic HSCTs appear to improve chances for cure or long-term remission once the immediate transplant-related complications are resolved.A compatible donor is found by doing additional HLA testing from the blood of potential donors. Therefore, there are many techniques to isolate haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Traditional purification method used to yield a reasonable purity level of mouse hematopoietic stem cells, in general, requires a large (~10–12) battery of markers, most of which were surrogate markers with little functional significance, and thus partial overlap with the stem cell populations and sometimes other closely related cells that are not stem cells. CD150+CD48− gave stem cell purity comparable to Thy1loSCA-1+lin−c-kit+ in mice. All cellular blood components are derived from haematopoietic stem cells. Process
Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs)
Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) reside in the medulla of the bone (bone marrow) and have the unique ability to give rise to all of the different mature blood cell types and tissues. Hematopoietic stem cell development. 
High levels of CRP lead to a higher risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] Those with COPD are more susceptible to the harmful effects of particulate exposure that can cause acute exacerbations brought about by infections. Long-term exposure is indicated as an increased rate of mortality in COPD. Therefore, the only factor that affects the blood CRP concentration is its production rate, which increases with inflammation, infection, trauma, necrosis, malignancy, and allergic reactions. In acute inflammation, CRP can increase as much as 50 to 100 mg/L within 4 to 6 hours in mild to moderate inflammation or an insult such as skin infection, cystitis, or bronchitis. Cardiovascular disease
Recent research suggests that patients with elevated basal levels of CRP are at an increased risk of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. Patients with high CRP concentrations are more likely to develop stroke, myocardial infarction, and severe peripheral vascular disease. Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are negatively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] Carnitine is a quaternary ammonium compound involved in metabolism in most mammals, plants, and some bacteria. Carnitine supplements do not improve oxygen consumption or metabolic functions when exercising, nor do they increase the amount of carnitine in muscle. Male fertility
The carnitine content of seminal fluid is directly related to sperm count and motility, suggesting that the compound might be of value in treating male infertility. Diseases
Carnitine has been studied in various cardiometabolic conditions, indicating it is under preliminary research for its potential as an adjunct in heart disease and diabetes, among numerous other disorders. Carnitine has no effect on preventing all-cause mortality associated with cardiovascular diseases, and has no significant effect on blood lipids.Although there is some evidence from meta-analyses that L-carnitine supplementation improved cardiac function in people with heart failure, there is insufficient research to determine its overall efficacy in lowering the risk or treating cardiovascular diseases.There is only preliminary clinical research to indicate the use of L-carnitine supplementation for improving symptoms of type 2 diabetes, such as improving glucose tolerance or lowering fasting levels of blood glucose.The kidneys contribute to overall homeostasis in the body, including carnitine levels. In the case of renal impairment, urinary elimination of carnitine increasing, endogenous synthesis decreasing, and poor nutrition as a result of disease-induced anorexia can result in carnitine deficiency. Carnitine has no effect on most parameters in end-stage kidney disease, although it may lower C-reactive protein, a biomarker for systemic inflammation. Carnitine blood levels and muscle stores can become low, which may contribute to anemia, muscle weakness, fatigue, altered levels of blood fats, and heart disorders. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are positively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] Carnitine is a quaternary ammonium compound involved in metabolism in most mammals, plants, and some bacteria. Carnitine also plays a role in stabilizing Acetyl-CoA and coenzyme A levels through the ability to receive or give an acetyl group. Carnitine supplements do not improve oxygen consumption or metabolic functions when exercising, nor do they increase the amount of carnitine in muscle. Male fertility
The carnitine content of seminal fluid is directly related to sperm count and motility, suggesting that the compound might be of value in treating male infertility. Diseases
Carnitine has been studied in various cardiometabolic conditions, indicating it is under preliminary research for its potential as an adjunct in heart disease and diabetes, among numerous other disorders. Carnitine has no effect on preventing all-cause mortality associated with cardiovascular diseases, and has no significant effect on blood lipids.Although there is some evidence from meta-analyses that L-carnitine supplementation improved cardiac function in people with heart failure, there is insufficient research to determine its overall efficacy in lowering the risk or treating cardiovascular diseases.There is only preliminary clinical research to indicate the use of L-carnitine supplementation for improving symptoms of type 2 diabetes, such as improving glucose tolerance or lowering fasting levels of blood glucose.The kidneys contribute to overall homeostasis in the body, including carnitine levels. Carnitine has no effect on most parameters in end-stage kidney disease, although it may lower C-reactive protein, a biomarker for systemic inflammation. Carnitine blood levels and muscle stores can become low, which may contribute to anemia, muscle weakness, fatigue, altered levels of blood fats, and heart disorders. 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) induces oxidative stress. [SEP] Sclerostin is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SOST gene.Sclerostin is a secreted glycoprotein with a C-terminal cysteine knot-like (CTCK) domain and sequence similarity to the DAN (differential screening-selected gene aberrative in neuroblastoma) family of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonists. Sclerostin is produced primarily by the osteocyte but is also expressed in other tissues, and has anti-anabolic effects on bone formation. Function
Sclerostin, the product of the SOST gene, located on chromosome 17q12–q21 in humans, was originally believed to be a non-classical bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonist. Sclerostin is expressed in osteocytes and some chondrocytes and it inhibits bone formation by osteoblasts.Sclerostin production by osteocytes is inhibited by parathyroid hormone, mechanical loading, estrogen and cytokines including prostaglandin E2, oncostatin M, cardiotrophin-1 and leukemia inhibitory factor. References
Further reading
External links
GeneReview/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on SOST-Related Sclerosing Bone Dysplasias Musculin is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MSC gene.The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor capable of binding an E-box element either as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with E2A in vitro. Selenoprotein S, also known as SELS, is a human gene.This gene encodes a selenoprotein, which contains a selenocysteine (Sec) residue at its active site. PGDS protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HPGDS gene.Prostaglandin-D synthase is a sigma class glutathione-S-transferase family member. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] In the first hours after fertilization, this zygote divides into identical totipotent cells, which can later develop into any of the three germ layers of a human (endoderm, mesoderm, or ectoderm), or into cells of the placenta (cytotrophoblast or syncytiotrophoblast). However, cell pluripotency is a continuum, ranging from the completely pluripotent cell that can form every cell of the embryo proper, e.g., embryonic stem cells and iPSCs, to the incompletely or partially pluripotent cell that can form cells of all three germ layers but that may not exhibit all the characteristics of completely pluripotent cells. Pluripotent
Embryonic stem cells of the inner cell mass are pluripotent, meaning they are able to differentiate to generate primitive ectoderm, which ultimately differentiates during gastrulation into all derivatives of the three primary germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm, and mesoderm. These germ layers generate each of the more than 220 cell types in the adult human body. Utilizations
According to a 2002 article in PNAS, "Human embryonic stem cells have the potential to differentiate into various cell types, and, thus, may be useful as a source of cells for transplantation or tissue engineering." For differentiation to occur, the human embryonic stem cell line is removed from the supporting cells to form embryoid bodies, is co-cultured with a serum containing necessary signals, or is grafted in a three-dimensional scaffold to result. After more than 6 months of undifferentiated proliferation, these cells demonstrated the potential to form derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers both in vitro and in teratomas. Amniotic epithelial cells have the ability to develop into any of the three germ layers: endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from the outer embryonic germ layer, but not the other two layers. [SEP] See also

Germ cell
Histogenesis
Neurulation
List of human cell types derived from the germ layers


== References == Not all stem cell research involves human embryos. This statement does not, however, make a distinction between adult, embryonic, or stem-cells. Pluripotent
Embryonic stem cells of the inner cell mass are pluripotent, meaning they are able to differentiate to generate primitive ectoderm, which ultimately differentiates during gastrulation into all derivatives of the three primary germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm, and mesoderm. Pluripotency distinguishes embryonic stem cells from adult stem cells, which are multipotent and can only produce a limited number of cell types. The use of human embryonic stem cells have opened many new possibilities for tissue engineering, however, there are many hurdles that must be made before human embryonic stem cell can even be utilized. Pluripotency in EpiSCs is essentially different from that of embryonic stem cells. The pluriblast is distinct from the trophoblast, and gives rise to the germ layers of the embryo, as well as extra embryonic endoderm and extra embryonic mesoderm. 
Human embryonic stem cells have the capacity to give rise to differentiated progeny representative of all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] pluripotentia, "ability for many [things]") refers to a stem cell that has the potential to differentiate into any of the three germ layers: endoderm (gut, lungs, yolk sac), mesoderm (muscle, skeleton, blood vascular, urogenital, dermis), or ectoderm (nervous, sensory, epidermis), but not into extra-embryonic tissues like the placenta. The epiblast cells are the functional progenitors of soma and germ cells which later differentiate into three layers: definitive endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm. Properties
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs), derived from the blastocyst stage of early mammalian embryos, are distinguished by their ability to differentiate into any embryonic cell type and by their ability to self-renew. Pluripotent
Embryonic stem cells of the inner cell mass are pluripotent, meaning they are able to differentiate to generate primitive ectoderm, which ultimately differentiates during gastrulation into all derivatives of the three primary germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm, and mesoderm. Utilizations
According to a 2002 article in PNAS, "Human embryonic stem cells have the potential to differentiate into various cell types, and, thus, may be useful as a source of cells for transplantation or tissue engineering." Techniques and conditions for derivation and culture
Derivation from humans
In vitro fertilization generates multiple embryos. For differentiation to occur, the human embryonic stem cell line is removed from the supporting cells to form embryoid bodies, is co-cultured with a serum containing necessary signals, or is grafted in a three-dimensional scaffold to result. After more than 6 months of undifferentiated proliferation, these cells demonstrated the potential to form derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers both in vitro and in teratomas. 
Hypocretin neurones suppress panicprone state in rats. [SEP] CRH antagonists thereby block the consequent secretions of ACTH and cortisol due to stress, among other effects. CRH antagonists are believed to work by blocking the consequent secretions of ACTH and cortisol that occur following activation of CRH and lowering the stress-induced rise of CRH in CSF. In monkeys, antalarmin has been successful in lowering the stress-induced CRF rise in CSF, suppressing anxiety-associated behaviors, and increased exploratory behavior in a stressful situation, but human trials are necessary to comprehend the clinical efficacy of antalarmin. The parvocellular neurosecretory cells include those that make:

Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), which regulates ACTH secretion from the anterior pituitary gland
Vasopressin, which also regulates ACTH secretion (vasopressin and CRH act synergistically to stimulate ACTH secretion)
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), which regulates TSH and prolactin secretion

Centrally-projecting neurons
As well as neuroendocrine neurons, the PVN contains interneurons and populations of neurons that project centrally (i.e., to other brain regions). Parvocellular CRH neurons, which are thought to be involved in stress-related behaviors. Inputs from glucose sensors within the brain stimulate release of vasopressin and corticotropin-releasing hormone from parvocellular neurosecretory cells. Preliminary clinical findings suggest that JNJ-61393215 may have anti-panic effects in humans. Neurotransmitters found in this area were oddly similar to the gut hormone, secretin, a member of the incretin family, so they named hypocretin to stand for a hypothalamic member of the incretin family. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is unrelated to energy balance. [SEP] In biochemistry, the glutamate–glutamine cycle is a cyclic metabolic pathway which maintains an adequate supply of the neurotransmitter glutamate in the central nervous system. Neurons are unable to synthesize either the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, or the inhibitory GABA from glucose. There is active reuptake into presynaptic neurons, but this mechanism appears to be less important than astrocytic transport. An alternate approach would be to convert glutamate into another compound, preferably a non-neuroactive species. Astrocytes readily convert glutamate to glutamine via the glutamine synthetase pathway and released into the extracellular space. Recent electrophysiological evidence suggests that active synapses require presynaptically localized glutamine glutamate cycle to maintain excitatory neurotransmission in specific circumstances. However, with regard to glutamate transport and metabolism, no such drugs have been developed, because glutamatergic synapses are abundant, and the neurotransmitter glutamate is an important metabolite in metabolism, making interference capable of adverse effects. The human brain, particularly the hypothalamus, plays a central role in regulating energy homeostasis and generating the sense of hunger by integrating a number of biochemical signals that transmit information about energy balance. 
IFI16 impedes STING phosphorylation and translocation, resulting in reduced activation of STING. [SEP] It thus plays an important role, for instance, in controlling norovirus infection.STING works as both a direct cytosolic DNA sensor (CDS) and an adaptor protein in Type I interferon signaling through different molecular mechanisms. Function
STING mediates the type I interferon production in response to intracellular DNA and a variety of intracellular pathogens, including viruses, intracellular bacteria and intracellular parasites. STING signaling mechanisms
STING mediates type I interferon immune response by functioning as both a direct DNA sensor and a signaling adaptor protein. Upon activation, STING stimulates TBK1 activity to phosphorylate IRF3 or STAT6. Phosphorylated IRF3s and STAT6s dimerize, and then enter nucleus to stimulate expression of genes involved in host immune response, such as IFNB, CCL2, CCL20, etc.Several reports suggested that STING is associated with the activation of selective autophagy. Cellular extracts were assayed for STING activation by detecting activated IRF3 dimers. Function
Upon binding of 2’-3’ cGAMP (and other bacterial CDNs), STING activates TBK1 to phosphorylate downstream transcription factors IRF3, which induces the type 1 IFN response, and STAT6, which induces chemokines such as CCL2 and CCL20 independently of IRF3. STING is also thought to activate the NF-κB transcription factor through the activity of the IκB kinase (IKK), though the mechanism of NF-κB activation downstream of STING remains to be determined. 
IFIT1 speeds viral replication by allowing for the proliferation of mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] Mutation or deletion of the RNA encapsidation (packaging) signal reduces RNA viral packaging, but still allows for the viral particle to be made. Both SL1 and SL2 are essential for proper RNA encapsidation and viral replication to occur. Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IFIT1 gene. The viral 3’ poly-A tail is added at the end of transcription by polymerase stuttering from the steric hindrance of the vRNA loop. The pestivirus IRES allows cap and end-independent translation of mRNA in the host cell. IFIT proteins (Interferon Induced proteins with Tetratricopeptide repeats) are produced in the human body and are supposed to confer immunity against viral infection. Anti viral mechanism of IFIT proteins
IFIT proteins are suggested to show anti viral activity in two ways; one, by binding specifically to viral nucleic acids and the other, by directly binding to eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) and preventing eIF3 from initiating the translational process. Experimental data and the three dimensional structure of IFIT1 reveals that the proteins bind to viral PPP RNA in a sequence specific manner. 
IL-10 production by monocytes inhibits CD4 + T cell response. [SEP] The anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 suppresses innate and adaptive immune signals by prohibiting T cell activation, in addition to IFN-γ and Th17 cytokine responses. In addition, their secretion of IL-10 can interfere with the phagocytosis, the activation of macrophages, and the production of cytokines and nitric oxide (NO). IL-10 production is regulated, as is the functioning of local macrophages and Ag-specific T cells. IL-10 can be produced by monocytes upon PD-1 triggering in these cells. Extensive IL-10 locus remodeling is observed in monocytes upon stimulation of TLR or Fc receptor pathways. Discovered in 1991, IL-10 was initially reported to suppress cytokine secretion, antigen presentation and CD4+ T cell activation. Role in disease
A study in mice has shown that IL-10 is also produced by mast cells, counteracting the inflammatory effect that these cells have at the site of an allergic reaction.IL-10 is capable of inhibiting synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-3, TNFα and GM-CSF made by cells such as macrophages and Th1 T cells. TLR10 engagement also has long-term effects on monocyte and B cell activation/differentiation by suppressing the transcription of activation markers. 
IL-6 signaling plays a major role in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Interleukin 6 (IL-6) is an interleukin that acts as both a pro-inflammatory cytokine and an anti-inflammatory myokine. IL-6's role as an anti-inflammatory myokine is mediated through its inhibitory effects on TNF-alpha and IL-1 and its activation of IL-1ra and IL-10. IL-6 is an important mediator of fever and of the acute phase response. IL-6 may exert a tonic suppression of body fat in mature mice, given that IL-6 gene knockout causes mature onset obesity. Role in disease
IL-6 stimulates the inflammatory and auto-immune processes in many diseases such as multiple sclerosis, neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), diabetes, atherosclerosis, depression, Alzheimer's disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple myeloma, prostate cancer, Behçet's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and intracerebral hemorrhage.Hence, there is an interest in developing anti-IL-6 agents as therapy against many of these diseases. STAT 6 protein is crucial in IL4 mediated biological responses. The concept of Interleukin-6 trans-signaling
The Hyper-IL-6 protein has also been used to explore the physiologic role of Interleukin-6 trans-signaling in vivo. Interleukin-6 trans-signaling mediates the pro-inflammatory activities of Interleukin-6 whereas Interleukin-6 classic signaling governs the protective and regenerative Interleukin-6 activities. 
ITAM phosphorylation allows for the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] An immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) is a conserved sequence of four amino acids that is repeated twice in the cytoplasmic tails of non-catalytic tyrosine-phosphorylated receptors, cell-surface proteins found mainly on immune cells. ITIM-containing receptors often serve to target Immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif(ITAM)-containing receptors, resulting in an innate inhibition mechanism within cells. ITIMs place phosphatases near ITAM-containing receptors, allowing phosphatases to dephosphorylate. The cytoplasmic tail of the TCR is extremely short, hence the CD3 adaptor proteins contain the signalling motifs needed for propagating the signal from the triggered TCR into the cell. The signalling motifs involved in TCR signalling are tyrosine residues in the cytoplasmic tail of these adaptor proteins that can be phosphorylated in the event of TCR-pMHC binding. This motif is very common in activator receptors of the non-catalytic tyrosine-phosphorylated receptor (NTR) family and is referred to as immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM). Once the TCR binds a specific pMHC, the tyrosine residues of the Immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) in its CD3 adaptor proteins are phosphorylated. Proximal TCR signaling
Phosphorylated ITAMs in the cytoplasmic tails of CD3 recruit protein tyrosine kinase Zap70 that can bind to the phosphorylated tyrosine residues with its SH2 domain. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 are scarce in the duodenal mucosa of celiac disease patients when the disease is active. [SEP] With idiopathic gluten sensitivity only antibody recognition to gliadin has been resolved. The involvement of class I responses may be minor, since antibodies to transglutaminase correlate with pathogenesis and recognition of extracellular matrix and cell surface transglutaminase can explain the destruction within coeliac disease. A high frequency of diabetes patients have anti-transglutaminase antibodies along with increased levels of gluten specific T-cells in T1D patients. Of note, selective IgA deficiency can complicate the diagnosis of one such condition, celiac disease, as the deficiency masks the high levels of certain IgA antibodies usually seen in celiac disease.As opposed to the related condition CVID, selective IgA deficiency is not associated with an increased risk of cancer.Patients with Selective IgA deficiency rarely have severe reactions to blood transfusions. Transglutaminase isoform reactivity
Anti-tissue transglutaminase
Antibodies to tissue transglutaminase (abbreviated as anti-tTG or anti-TG2) are found in patients with several conditions, including celiac disease, juvenile diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease,  and various forms of arthritis.In celiac disease, ATA are involved in the destruction of the villous extracellular matrix and target the destruction of intestinal villous epithelial cells
by killer cells. Deposits of anti-tTG in the intestinal epithelium predict celiac disease. Immunoglobin subclass
ATA IgA are more frequently found in Celiac Disease (CD); however, ATA IgG are found in CD and at higher levels when affected individual had the IgA-less phenotype. Associated conditions
Celiac disease
Most attention to anti-transglutaminase antibodies is given with respect to celiac disease. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of nuclear DNA. [SEP] Necrotic cell death culminates in leakage of cell contents into the extracellular space, in contrast to the organized disposal of cellular contents into apoptotic bodies. Process
As in all forms of necrotic cell death, cells undergoing necroptosis rupture and leak their contents into the intercellular space. Necrotic cells are cleared from the immune system by a mechanism called pinocytosis, or cellular drinking, which is mediated by macropinosomes, a subcellular component of macrophages. These dying cells can also activate NF-κB to express cytokines, recruiting macrophages. Its formation is triggered by the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria in response to an internal (intrinsic) or external (extrinsic) cell death stimulus. The formation of this complex was then believed to play a regulatory role in mammalian cell death. Consideration of the totality of biological effects from cell death in multiple studies led to the conceptualization of PANoptosis, a unique innate immune inflammatory cell death pathway regulated by multifaceted PANoptosome complexes that have been visualized in single cells to integrate components from other cell death pathways. PANoptosome formation and PANoptosis occur during pathogenic infections, including bacterial, viral, and fungal infections, as well as during inflammatory diseases and can be beneficial in the context of cancer.Inflammatory cell death is associated with activation of the immune system through the release of cytokines and damage-associated molecular patterns. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to sequestration of oxidized mitochondrial DNA. [SEP] Consideration of the totality of biological effects from cell death in multiple studies led to the conceptualization of PANoptosis, a unique innate immune inflammatory cell death pathway regulated by multifaceted PANoptosome complexes that have been visualized in single cells to integrate components from other cell death pathways. Mitotoxins are responsible for mediating cell death  by interfering with protein or DNA synthesis. Necroptosis is a programmed form of necrosis, or inflammatory cell death. Uncoupling of the mitochondrial electron transport chain leads to additional mitochondrial damage and opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, which releases mitochondrial proteins into the cytosol. A major contributor to tissue damage results from activation of regulated necroptosis, which could include contributions from both necroptosis and mitochondrial permeability transition. The formation of this complex was then believed to play a regulatory role in mammalian cell death. Circulating mitochondrial DNA is recognized by the immune system and activates inflammatory reactions. It is part of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis, also known as the mitochondrial pathway. 
Immune responses in immune cells are geographically segregated. [SEP] Splenocytes consist of a variety of cell populations such as T and B lymphocytes, dendritic cells and macrophages, which have different immune functions. An immune response is a physiological reaction which occurs within an organism in the context of inflammation for the purpose of defending against exogenous factors. These special forms of immune response are classified as hypersensitivity. Another special form of immune response is antitumor immunity. Components of the innate immune response include physical barriers like the skin and mucous membranes, immune cells such as neutrophils, macrophages, and monocytes, and soluble factors including cytokines and complement. In contrast to the adaptive immune response, the innate response is not specific to any one foreign invader and as a result, works quickly to rid the body of pathogens.Pathogens are recognized and detected via pattern recognition receptors (PRR). The cells of the adaptive immune system are extremely specific because during early developmental stages the B and T cells develop antigen receptors that are specific to only certain antigens. In this paradigm, immune system (both innate and adaptive) and non-immune system cellular and molecular components are organized to optimally respond to distinct exposome challenges. 
Improvements in OER catalysts show stable activity over several hundred hours. [SEP] This makes the complexes increasingly stable. The EPOC effect was firstly discovered by M. Stoukides and C. Vayenas in the early 1980s and have been widely studied by various research groups for more than 100 heterogeneous catalytic reactions of mostly gaseous molecules. NOx reduction and hydrocarbons oxidations), 2) the mechanistic investigation of the origin of the EPOC effects (mainly focusing on the system with oxygen-ion conducting electrolytes), 3) the large-scale application and commercialization of the chemical reactions promoted by the EPOC effects along with development of novel compact monolithic reactors and 4) the utilization and incorporation of the EPOC effect in high or low-temperature fuel cell systems. The EPOC effect was firstly discovered by M. Stoukides and C. Vayenas in the early 1980s and have been widely studied by various research groups for more than 100 heterogeneous catalytic reactions of mostly gaseous molecules. NOx reduction and hydrocarbons oxidations), 2) the mechanistic investigation of the origin of the EPOC effects (mainly focusing on the system with oxygen-ion conducting electrolytes), 3) the large-scale application and commercialization of the chemical reactions promoted by the EPOC effects along with development of novel compact monolithic reactors and 4) the utilization and incorporation of the EPOC effect in high or low-temperature fuel cell systems. The point reactor kinetics model assumes that the spatial flux shape does not change with time. In the limit of maximum catalytic performance, the surface of a catalyst is neither too strong nor too weak. The latter was found to enhance the current density (and thus catalytic activity) by up to 20 times compared to the potentiostatic conditions, with the optimal wave amplitude and frequency of 600 mV and 2000 Hz, respectively. 
In British Men, haplogroup I decreases risk of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Haplogroup I is a human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroup. Origin
Haplogroup I is a descendant (subclade) of haplogroup N1a1b and sibling of haplogroup N1a1b1 (Olivieri 2013). Eastern Europe
In Eastern Europe, the frequency of haplogroup I is generally lower than in Western Europe (1 to 3 percent), but its frequency is more consistent between populations with fewer places of extreme highs or lows. As haplogroup I is not observed in any ancient Italian, Spanish [contradicted by the recent research as have been found in pre-Neolithic Italy as well Neolithic Spain], British, central European populations, early central European farmers and Neolithic samples, according to the authors "Haplogroup I could, therefore, have been an ancient Southern Scandinavian type "diluted" by later immigration events" (Hofreiter 2010). Health
Studies have shown that haplogroup R1b could have a protective effect on the immune system. However, later studies have confirmed that the Y-chromosome has a very limited effect on coronary artery disease (CAD), for example, and that the previously purported link between Y-chromosome haplogroups and health is far from established scientifically. The Whitehall Studies investigated social determinants of health, specifically the cardiovascular disease prevalence and mortality rates among British civil servants. Explanations and implications
Subjects of Whitehall II in the lowest employment grades were more likely to have many of the established risk factors of coronary heart disease (CHD): a propensity to smoke, lower height-to-weight ratio, less leisure time, and higher blood pressure. 
In British Men, haplogroup I increases risk of cardiovascular disease by 50%. [SEP] Haplogroup I is a human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroup. The Whitehall Studies investigated social determinants of health, specifically the cardiovascular disease prevalence and mortality rates among British civil servants. The study also revealed a higher mortality rate specifically due to coronary heart disease for men in the lower employment grade when compared to men in higher grades. The primary health risks under investigation in the Whitehall studies include cardiovascular function, smoking, car ownership, angina, leisure and hobbies, ECG measurements, and diabetes. The higher blood pressure among the lowest grade servants was found to be related to the highest job stress score, whereas blood pressure at home was not related to job stress level.According to Whitehall study researchers, "a steep inverse association between social class, as assessed by grade of employment, and mortality from a wide range of diseases" has been demonstrated. Explanations and implications
Subjects of Whitehall II in the lowest employment grades were more likely to have many of the established risk factors of coronary heart disease (CHD): a propensity to smoke, lower height-to-weight ratio, less leisure time, and higher blood pressure. Clearly, stress is associated with a higher risk of coronary heart disease, but so are many other non-traditional factors. These ethnic groups have a rate of diabetes five times higher than the rest of the population. 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways causes sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] The PrrF RNAs are small non-coding RNAs involved in iron homeostasis and are encoded by all Pseudomonas species. Expression of the PrrF RNAs is repressed by the ferric uptake regulator (Fur) when cells are grown in iron-replete conditions. Under iron limitation, the PrrF RNAs are expressed and act to negatively regulate several genes encoding iron-containing proteins, including SodB and succinate dehydrogenase. Iron stress repressed RNA (IsrR) is a cis-encoded antisense RNA which regulates the expression of the photosynthetic protein isiA. When iron concentration is low, IRPs bind the IRE in the ferritin mRNA and cause reduced translation rates. When iron is present, it interacts with the protein to cause it to release the mRNA. Processes regulated by IREs
Many genes regulated by IREs have clear and direct roles in iron metabolism. HrrF RNA (Haemophilus regulatory RNA responsive to iron Fe) is a  small non-coding RNA involved in iron homeostasis in Haemophilus species. 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways reduces sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] Iron stress repressed RNA (IsrR) is a cis-encoded antisense RNA which regulates the expression of the photosynthetic protein isiA. The PrrF RNAs are small non-coding RNAs involved in iron homeostasis and are encoded by all Pseudomonas species. Expression of the PrrF RNAs is repressed by the ferric uptake regulator (Fur) when cells are grown in iron-replete conditions. Under iron limitation, the PrrF RNAs are expressed and act to negatively regulate several genes encoding iron-containing proteins, including SodB and succinate dehydrogenase. A comparative genomics target prediction approach suggests that the mRNAs of eleven additional iron containing proteins are controlled by RyhB in Escherichia coli. When iron concentration is low, IRPs bind the IRE in the ferritin mRNA and cause reduced translation rates. When iron is present, it interacts with the protein to cause it to release the mRNA. Transcriptional silencing in budding yeast
In transcriptional silencing, SIR2,3,4 are required in stoichiometric amounts to silence specific chromosomal regions. 
In a naive state, blocking Wingless-Int-1 secretion from mouse embryonic stem cells inhibits self-renewal of the mouse embryonic stem cells. [SEP] In female mice, R2d2 somehow displaces the chromosome that doesn’t contain it and it is preferentially incorporated into eggs. A counterregulatory hormone is a hormone that opposes the action of another. Blood Pressure Counterregulation
Similarly, the natriuretic peptides counterregulate against renin, angiotensin, and aldosterone which elevate blood pressure. Reproductive Counterregulation
In the reproductive system, inhibins and follistatin counterregulate activins, to control follicle-stimulating hormone and so the release of gonads. Cilastatin inhibits the human enzyme dehydropeptidase. Cilastatin can therefore be combined intravenously with imipenem in order to protect it from degradation, prolonging its antibacterial effect. Imipenem alone is an effective antibiotic and can be given without cilastatin. Nolatrexed is a thymidylate synthase inhibitor. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells promotes the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] cancers that develop from epithelial cells) in the breast. In situ ductal cancers (i.e. Presence of myoepithelial cells in a hyperplastic tissue proves the benignity of the gland and, when absent, indicates cancer. Myoepithelioma of the Breast- A usually benign or exceedingly rare malignant tumor of the breast which mimics IDC but with cells resembling adenoid cysts. If malignant, this is also known as a Myoepithelial Carcinoma. Ductal carcinoma is a type of tumor that primarily presents in the ducts of a gland.Types include:

Mammary
Ductal carcinoma in situ
Invasive ductal carcinoma
Pancreatic ductal carcinoma

References
External links

 Media related to Ductal carcinomas at Wikimedia Commons Invasive carcinoma, usually simply called cancer, has the potential to invade and spread to surrounding tissues and structures, and may eventually be lethal. Ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast is the most common precancer in women. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells slows the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] cancers that develop from epithelial cells) in the breast. In situ ductal cancers (i.e. Presence of myoepithelial cells in a hyperplastic tissue proves the benignity of the gland and, when absent, indicates cancer. Only rare cancers like adenoid cystic carcinomas contains myoepithelial cells as one of the malignant components. Epithelial-myoepithelial carcinoma of the lung- A malignant tumor composed of both epithelial and myoepithelial tissues whose pathology resemble salivary cells. Myoepithelioma of the Breast- A usually benign or exceedingly rare malignant tumor of the breast which mimics IDC but with cells resembling adenoid cysts. If malignant, this is also known as a Myoepithelial Carcinoma. In situ means "in place" and refers to the fact that the abnormal cells have not moved out of the mammary duct and into any of the surrounding tissues in the breast ("pre-cancerous" refers to the fact that it has not yet become an invasive cancer). 
In chronic viral infections or tumors, peptides that selectively inhibit PTPRS can be utilized to boost insufficient activity of pDCs. [SEP] Peptide T has several positive effects related to HIV disease and Neuro-AIDS. Elimination of viral reservoirs, such as the persistently infected monocytes or brain microglia, is an important treatment goal.Peptide T clinical development was stopped due to the propensity of the liquid nasal spray to lose potency upon storage and shifted to its shorter oral analog, the pentapeptide CCR2/CCR5 antagonist RAP-103 (Receptor Active Peptide) for neuropathic pain and neurodegeneration. Cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) are short peptides that facilitate cellular intake and uptake of molecules ranging from nanosize particles to small chemical compounds to large fragments of DNA. A third class of CPPs are the hydrophobic peptides, containing only apolar residues with low net charge
or hydrophobic amino acid groups that are crucial for cellular uptake.Transactivating transcriptional activator (TAT), from human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1), was the first CPP discovered. Since then, the number of known CPPs has expanded considerably, and small molecule synthetic analogues with more effective protein transduction properties have been generated.A recent discovery found that Papillomaviridae, such as the human papillomavirus, use CPPs to penetrate the intracellular membrane to trigger retrograde trafficking of the viral unit to the nucleus. CPP transduction is an area of ongoing research.Cell-penetrating peptides (CPP) are able to transport different types of cargo molecules across plasma membrane; thus, they act as molecular delivery vehicles. CPP strategies have been developed to deliver antisense oligomers such as PNA and PMO into cells. This may contribute to the potential capability of phosophopeptides to serve as tumor antigens in the treatment of colorectal cancer. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy is very common. [SEP] Aneuploids possess chromosome numbers that are not exact multiples of the haploid number and polysomy is a type of aneuploidy. Aneuploidy due to nondisjunction is a common feature in tumor cells. Most polysomic males produce normal sperm. Polysomy of Chromosome 13 has been observed in the Flor strains of the yeast species Saccharomyces cerevisiae. It has been shown that the larger and more homologous duplicated sequences lead to more sporadic segmental aneusomy events. Endoreplication and oncogenesis
Polyploidy and aneuploidy are common phenomena in cancer cells. Mating-type switching
In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mating-type is determined by two non-homologous alleles at the mating-type locus. It occurs relatively frequently—in at least one yeast species (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) the frequency of ectopic recombination is roughly on par with that of allelic (or traditional) recombination. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy occurs infrequently. [SEP] S. cerevisiae without this factor, known as the ρ-factor, is described by the development of small colonies when compared to the wild-type yeast. Other yeast species, such as Kluyveromyces lactis, Saccharomyces castellii, and Candida albicans have all shown to produce petite negative mutants. Suppressive petites of S. cerevisiae are the most commonly observed spontaneously created mutants, whereas in S. castellii, the most commonly observed spontaneous mutant is the neutral petite, further leading to speculation that the transference of this mutation differs between species. While it can be caused by deleted material on a chromosome, it is not, strictly speaking, the same entity as a segmental aneuploidy syndrome. A segmental aneuploidy syndrome is a subtype of CGS that regularly recur, usually due to non-allelic homologous recombination between low copy repeats in the region. It has been shown that the larger and more homologous duplicated sequences lead to more sporadic segmental aneusomy events. Recombination between homeologous chromosomes occurs rarely, if at all. It occurs relatively frequently—in at least one yeast species (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) the frequency of ectopic recombination is roughly on par with that of allelic (or traditional) recombination. 
In melanoma, anti-CTLA-4 treatment reinvigorates exhausted PD-1+Eomes+CD8 T cells. [SEP] CTLA-4 or CTLA4 (cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4), also known as CD152 (cluster of differentiation 152), is a protein receptor that functions as an immune checkpoint and downregulates immune responses. CTLA-4 is constitutively expressed in regulatory T cells but only upregulated in conventional T cells after activation – a phenomenon which is particularly notable in cancers. CTLA-4 is also found in regulatory T cells (Tregs) and contributes to their inhibitory function. T cell activation through the T cell receptor and CD28 leads to increased expression of CTLA-4. Antibodies to CTLA-4 may exert additional effects when used in vivo, by binding and thereby depleting regulatory T cells. Antagonists to increase immune activity
Conversely, there is increasing interest in the possible therapeutic benefits of blocking CTLA-4 (using antagonistic antibodies against CTLA such as ipilimumab—FDA approved for melanoma in 2011—as a means of inhibiting immune system tolerance to tumours and thereby providing a potentially useful immunotherapy strategy for patients with cancer). CTLA-4 expression  was a response indicator, which along with PD-L2 were likely expressed in tumor-infiltrating immune cells. They were able to demonstrate that CTLA-4 signaling in T cells inhibited T cell responses. 
In patients with congenital heart defects, β-blockers significantly improve clinical heart failure outcomes. [SEP] Beta blockers, also spelled β-blockers, are a class of medications that are predominantly used to manage abnormal heart rhythms, and to protect the heart from a second heart attack after a first heart attack (secondary prevention). Indications for beta blockers include:

Angina pectoris (contraindicated for Prinzmetal's angina)
Atrial fibrillation
Cardiac arrhythmia
Congestive heart failure
Essential tremor
Glaucoma (as eye drops, they decrease intraocular pressure by lowering aqueous humor secretion)
Hypertension, although they are generally not preferred as an initial treatment
Hyperthyroidism
Migraine prophylaxis
Mitral valve prolapse
Myocardial infarction
Phaeochromocytoma, in conjunction with α-blocker
Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome
Symptomatic control (tachycardia, tremor) in anxiety and hyperthyroidism
Theophylline overdoseBeta blockers have also been used for:
Acute aortic dissection
Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy
Long QT syndrome
Marfan syndrome (treatment with propranolol slows progression of aortic dilation and its complications)
Prevention of variceal bleeding in portal hypertension
Possible mitigation of hyperhidrosis
Social and other anxiety disorders
Controversially, for reduction of perioperative mortality in non-cardiac surgery, but the best evidence suggests that they increase mortality when used this way

Congestive heart failure
Although beta blockers were once contraindicated in congestive heart failure, as they have the potential to worsen the condition due to their effect of decreasing cardiac contractility, studies in the late 1990s showed their efficacy at reducing morbidity and mortality.Bisoprolol, carvedilol, and sustained-release metoprolol are specifically indicated as adjuncts to standard ACE inhibitor and diuretic therapy in congestive heart failure, although at doses typically much lower than those indicated for other conditions. Beta blockers are only indicated in cases of compensated, stable congestive heart failure; in cases of acute decompensated heart failure, beta blockers will cause a further decrease in ejection fraction, worsening the patient's current symptoms. Beta blockers are known primarily for their reductive effect on heart rate, although this is not the only mechanism of action of importance in congestive heart failure. It is, therefore, useful in patients with beta blocker cardiotoxicity. β-blockers, along with calcium channel blockers, reduce the workload of the heart and its oxygen requirement. The treatment with β-blockers reduces the incidence of sudden heart failure when the patient has already had a myocardial infarction. A β-blocker therapy is also useful in myocardial infarction, independent to heart failure. 
In pediatric tissue, most T cells are naive T cell emigrants from the thymus. [SEP] In immunology, a naive T cell (Th0 cell) is a T cell that has differentiated in the thymus, and successfully undergone the positive and negative processes of central selection in the thymus. Any naive T cell is considered immature and, unlike activated or memory T cells, has not encountered its cognate antigen within the periphery. After this encounter, the naive T cell is considered a mature T cell. While naive T cells are regularly regarded as a developmentally synchronized and fairly homogeneous and quiescent cell population, only differing in T cell receptor specificity, there is increasing evidence that naive T cells are actually heterogeneous in phenotype, function, dynamics and differentiation status, resulting in a whole spectrum of naive cells with different properties. Majority of human naive T cells are produced very early in life when infant's thymus is large and functional. T cells originate in the thymus. T cells begin as hematopoietic precursors from the bone-marrow, and migrate to the thymus, where they are referred to as thymocytes. Once mature, T cells emigrate from the thymus to provide vital functions in the immune system.Each T cell has a distinct T cell receptor, suited to a specific substance, called an antigen. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of emtricitabine are ineffective at protecting against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] Emtricitabine/tenofovir, sold under the brand name Truvada among others, is a fixed-dose combination antiretroviral medication used to treat and prevent HIV/AIDS. It contains the antiretroviral medications emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil. It does not cure HIV/AIDS. Medical uses
Emtricitabine/tenofovir is used both to treat and to prevent HIV/AIDS. HIV prevention
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends the use of emtricitabine/tenofovir for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for uninfected, HIV-1 negative individuals that may be at risk for HIV-1 infection. A Cochrane systematic review found a 51% relative risk reduction of contracting HIV with both tenofovir alone and the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination. Effectiveness of PrEP for prevention of infection is reliant on an individual's ability to take the medication consistently.Emtricitabine/tenofovir is also used for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis. HIV treatment
Emtricitabine/tenofovir has been approved in the United States as part of antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of tenofovir protects against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] It is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor and works by decreasing the ability of the viruses to replicate.Tenofovir was patented in 1996 and approved for use in the United States in 2001. For HIV-1 infection, tenofovir is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for people 2 years of age and older. HIV risk reduction
Tenofovir can be used for HIV prevention in people who are at high risk for infection through sexual transmission or injecting drug use. A Cochrane review examined the use of tenofovir for prevention of HIV before exposure and found that both tenofovir alone and the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination decreased the risk of contracting HIV for high risk patients. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also conducted a study in partnership with the Thailand Ministry of Public Health to ascertain the effectiveness of providing people who inject drugs illicitly with daily doses of tenofovir as a prevention measure. In 1997 researchers from Gilead and the University of California, San Francisco demonstrated that tenofovir exhibits anti-HIV effects in humans when dosed by subcutaneous injection.The initial form of tenofovir used in these studies had limited potential for widespread use because it poorly penetrated cells and was not absorbed when given by mouth. Medical uses
Emtricitabine/tenofovir is used both to treat and to prevent HIV/AIDS. A Cochrane systematic review found a 51% relative risk reduction of contracting HIV with both tenofovir alone and the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination. 
In the UK, drowning affects boys and girls equally. [SEP] Homelessness in the United Kingdom is measured and responded to in differing ways in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland but affects people living in every part of the UK's constituent countries. On April 7, 1993, three teenage boys died by drowning in a swimming pool at a Ramada Rolling Green Hotel in Andover, Massachusetts. Drownings
The tour buses arrived at the Ramada Rolling Green Hotel in Andover just off Route 133 at around 9:30 p.m. Yee took a shower, while the boys, who did not know how to swim, went to the pool. By the time they came to the pool, they found the boys already submerged. Drowning as a method of execution is attested very early in history, for a large variety of cultures and as the method of execution for many types of offences. In Cambodia, for example, drowning was the type of execution reserved for members of the royal family. Normalizing education about sexualities and genders can help prevent adolescents from resorting to suicide, drug abuse, homelessness, and many more psychological problems. In order to prevent suicide for LGBT adolescents, it needs to be the other way around. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, more than 50 percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] Translocated promoter region is a component of the tpr-met fusion protein. Gene expression
In cell biology and protein biochemistry, heterologous expression means that a protein is experimentally put into a cell that does not normally make (i.e., express) that protein. Typically the protein itself is not transferred, but instead the 'correctly edited' genetic material coding for the protein (the complementary DNA or cDNA) is added to the recipient cell. The genetic material that is transferred typically must be within a format that encourages the recipient cell to express the cDNA as a protein (i.e., it is put in an expression vector). Methods for transferring foreign genetic material into a recipient cell include transfection and transduction. The choice of recipient cell type is often based on an experimental need to examine the protein's function in detail, and the most prevalent recipients, known as heterologous expression systems, are chosen usually because they are easy to transfer DNA into or because they allow for a simpler assessment of the protein's function. In one lab breeding population, in a selective sweep, R2d2 increased from being in 50 percent of the lab mice's chromosomes to 85 percent in 10 generations. In female mice, R2d2 somehow displaces the chromosome that doesn’t contain it and it is preferentially incorporated into eggs. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] These problems may play a role in the high levels of depression, substance abuse, and relationship problems that affect adults with ADHD later in life. This may result in lower reports of rejection sensitivity.Other results of adult ADHD are higher reported incidences of traffic citations, missed workdays, and accidents. ADHD has a negative impact on patient health-related quality of life that may be further exacerbated by, or may increase the risk of, other psychiatric conditions such as anxiety and depression.ADHD management recommendations vary and usually involve some combination of medications, counseling, and lifestyle changes. Individuals with ADHD are at increased risk of substance abuse. Suicide risk
Systematic reviews conducted in 2017 and 2020 found strong evidence that ADHD is associated with increased suicide risk across all age groups, as well as growing evidence that an ADHD diagnosis in childhood or adolescence represents a significant future suicidal risk factor. Stimulants may also reduce the risk of unintentional injuries in children with ADHD. A 2022 meta-analysis found no statistically significant association between ADHD medications and the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) across age groups, although the study suggests further investigation is warranted for patients with preexisting CVD as well as long-term medication use. Children with ADHD have a higher risk of unintentional injuries. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is higher than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] The incidence rate of 10/66 dementia varied between 18.2 per 1000 person-years in Peru to 30.4 per 1000 person-years in Mexico. This was found to be 1.4–2.7 times higher than the incidence reported in DSM-IV dementia. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), has re-described dementia as either a mild or major neurocognitive disorder with varying degrees of severity and many causative subtypes. The symptoms of DLB are more frequent, more severe, and earlier presenting than in the other dementia subtypes. Around 7% of people over aged 65 have dementia, with slightly higher rates (up to 10% of those over 65) in places with relatively high life expectancy. The incidence of dementia increases exponentially with age, doubling with every 6.3-year increase in age. Among people aged 60 years and over, dementia is ranked the 9th most burdensome condition according to the 2010 Global Burden of Disease (GBD) estimates. If the patient was hospitalized for dementia, the mortality was even higher than in patients hospitalized for cardiovascular disease. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is lower than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] The 10/66 Dementia research group was founded in the year 1998 at the Alzheimer's Disease International Annual Conference in Cochin, India. The premise of the research group was that only less than 10% of the population based studies on dementia were being performed in developing countries where about 66% of population with dementia lived. The incidence rate of 10/66 dementia varied between 18.2 per 1000 person-years in Peru to 30.4 per 1000 person-years in Mexico. However, in "subcortical" dementia these high-level behaviours are less affected. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), has re-described dementia as either a mild or major neurocognitive disorder with varying degrees of severity and many causative subtypes. However, its use has not been shown to prevent the progression of dementia.While depression is frequently associated with dementia, the use of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) do not appear to affect outcomes. Around 7% of people over aged 65 have dementia, with slightly higher rates (up to 10% of those over 65) in places with relatively high life expectancy. A favorable lifestyle is associated with a lower dementia risk, regardless of genetic risk. 
Incidence of heart failure increased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] Overall, heart failure affects about 2% of adults, and more than 10% of those over the age of 70. For women with Coronary Heart disease (CHD), diabetes was the strongest risk factor for heart failure. While the annual incidence rate of heart failure for non-diabetic women with no risk factors is 0.4%, the annual incidence rate for diabetic women with elevated body mass index (BMI) and depressed creatinine clearance was 7% and 13%, respectively. United Kingdom
In the UK, despite moderate improvements in prevention, heart failure rates have increased due to population growth and ageing. As underdeveloped countries have become more affluent, the incidences of diabetes, hypertension, and obesity have increased, which have in turn raised the incidence of heart failure. Sex
Men have a higher incidence of heart failure, but the overall prevalence rate is similar in both sexes since women survive longer after the onset of heart failure. Women tend to be older when diagnosed with heart failure (after menopause), they are more likely than men to have diastolic dysfunction, and seem to experience a lower overall quality of life than men after diagnosis. Heart disease is the leading cause of death for women in the United States, killing 299,578 women in 2017—or about 1 in every 5 female deaths. 
Incidence of sepsis has fallen substantially from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] In 2011, The UK Sepsis Trust published evidence that use of the Sepsis Six was associated with a 50% reduction in mortality, a decreased length of stay in hospital, and fewer intensive care days. The purpose of the SSC is to create an international collaborative effort to improve the treatment of sepsis and reduce the high mortality rate associated with the condition. The Surviving Sepsis Campaign and the Institute for Healthcare Improvement have teamed up to achieve a 25 percent reduction in sepsis mortality by 2009. Approximately 1400 people die from sepsis each day throughout the world. In the U.S. there are approximately 750,000 new sepsis cases each year, with at least 210,000 fatalities and this is reported to be same throughout Europe. Sepsis is one of the complications of Coronavirus disease 2019. In 2010, public expenditure on healthcare was 3.4% of the GDP - among the lowest in southern Africa. Epidemiology
Sepsis has a worldwide incidence of more than 20 million cases a year, with mortality due to septic shock reaching up to 50 percent even in industrialized countries.According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, septic shock is the thirteenth leading cause of death in the United States and the most frequent cause of death in intensive care units. 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams does not alter the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] A study showed that 48% of patients had an adverse drug reaction to at least one drug, and pharmacist involvement helps to pick up adverse drug reactions.In 2012, McKinsey & Company concluded that the cost of the 50-100 million preventable error-related adverse drug events would be between US$18–115 billion.An article published in The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) in 2016 reported adverse drug event statistics from emergency departments around the United States in 2013-2014. Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as "pharmacist prescriber") and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions. In more modern times, pharmacists advise patients and health care providers on the selection, dosages, interactions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. Thus pharmacists have a significant role in assessing medication management in patients, and in referring patients to physicians. The number of full-time equivalent pharmacists working in Australia over the past decade has remained stable. The number of pharmacists has stayed stable over a number of years. These practices have been linked to decreases in the average number of drugs in prescriptions, drug costs and incidence of adverse drug events. Not only pharmacists, but also pharmaceutical technicians are allowed to dispense prescription medicines, except for narcotics, psychotropics and very potent medicines. 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams reduces the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] A study showed that 48% of patients had an adverse drug reaction to at least one drug, and pharmacist involvement helps to pick up adverse drug reactions.In 2012, McKinsey & Company concluded that the cost of the 50-100 million preventable error-related adverse drug events would be between US$18–115 billion.An article published in The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) in 2016 reported adverse drug event statistics from emergency departments around the United States in 2013-2014. Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as "pharmacist prescriber") and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions. In more modern times, pharmacists advise patients and health care providers on the selection, dosages, interactions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. In some jurisdictions, pharmacists have prescriptive authority to either independently prescribe under their own authority or in collaboration with a primary care physician through an agreed upon protocol called a collaborative practice agreement.Increased numbers of drug therapies, aging but more knowledgeable and demanding populations, and deficiencies in other areas of the health care system seem to be driving increased demand for the clinical counseling skills of the pharmacist. One of the most important roles that pharmacists are currently taking on is one of pharmaceutical care. Thus pharmacists have a significant role in assessing medication management in patients, and in referring patients to physicians. These practices have been linked to decreases in the average number of drugs in prescriptions, drug costs and incidence of adverse drug events. As a result, pharmacists had a cleaner picture of the patient's drug therapy and medical conditions. 
Increase of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] To this date, relationship between cancer and autophagy continues to be a main theme of autophagy research. Autophagy plays an important role in cancer – both in protecting against cancer as well as potentially contributing to the growth of cancer. There is evidence that emphasizes the role of autophagy as both a tumor suppressor and a factor in tumor cell survival. Therapeutic target
New developments in research have found that targeted autophagy may be a viable therapeutic solution in fighting cancer. This renders cancer cells vulnerable to intervention on regulators of autophagy. Also known as the ubiquitin-binding protein p62, it is an autophagosome cargo protein that targets other proteins that bind to it for selective autophagy. "Chaperone-mediated autophagy at a glance". Methods to monitor chaperone-mediated autophagy. 
Increased LDL receptors plays a role in the reduction of plasma Lp(a). [SEP] Function
LDL receptor mediates the endocytosis of cholesterol-rich LDL and thus maintains the plasma level of LDL. LDL Apheresis. Disease
High Lp(a) in blood correlates with coronary heart disease (CHD), cardiovascular disease (CVD), atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and stroke. Results using statin medications have been mixed in most trials, although a meta-analysis published in 2012 suggests that atorvastatin may be of benefit.Niacin (Vitamin B3) has been shown to reduce the levels of Lp(a) significantly in individuals with high levels of low-molecular weight Lp(a).High Lp(a) correlates with early atherosclerosis independently of other cardiac risk factors, including LDL. Lp(a) accumulates in the vessel wall and inhibits the binding of PLG to the cell surface, reducing plasmin generation, which increases clotting. Genetic data also support the theory that Lp(a) causes cardiovascular disease.The European Atherosclerosis Society currently recommends that patients with a moderate or high risk of cardiovascular disease should have their Lp(a) levels checked. In severe cases, such as familial hypercholesterolemia or treatment-resistant hypercholesterolemia, LDL apheresis may dramatically reduce Lp(a). Lp(a) levels should be considered in particular in children with a family history of early heart disease or high blood cholesterol levels. 
Increased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] Prostaglandin E synthase (EC 5.3.99.3, or PGE synthase) is an enzyme involved in eicosanoid and glutathione metabolism, a member of MAPEG family. It generates prostaglandin E (PGE) from prostaglandin H2.The synthase generating PGE2 is a membrane-associated protein. The phosphatidylethanolamine-bound 15-HETE may be converted to phosphatidylethanolamine-bound 15-oxo-ETE. 15(S)-HpETE and 15(S)-HETE bind to and activate the G protein-coupled receptor, Leukotriene B4 receptor 2, i.e. The decline in the level of 15(S)-HpETE-forming enzymes and consequential fall in cellular 15-HETE production that occurs in human prostate cancer cells may be one mechanism by which this and perhaps other human cancer cells (e.g. It also binds with and activates PPARγ and thereby can stimulate or inhibit cells independently of OXE1. The particular reaction catalyzed by PTGE2 is thought to be:
(5Z,13E)-(15S)-9-alpha,11-alpha-epidioxy-15-hydroxyprosta-5,13-dienoate = (5Z,13E)-(15S)-11-alpha,15-dihydroxy-9-oxoprosta-5,13-dienoate.The PTGE2 protein functions in part of the prostaglandin synthesis pathway, which forms a component of the overall lipid synthesis mechanism in the human body. Pro-opiomelanocortin converting enzyme (EC 3.4.23.17, prohormone converting enzyme, pro-opiomelanocortin-converting enzyme, proopiomelanocortin proteinase, PCE) is an enzyme. 
Increased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a localized enlargement of the abdominal aorta such that the diameter is greater than 3 cm or more than 50% larger than normal. However, as the abdominal aorta expands and/or ruptures, the aneurysm may become painful and lead to pulsating sensations in the abdomen or pain in the chest, lower back, legs, or scrotum. An aortic aneurysm is an enlargement (dilatation) of the aorta to greater than 1.5 times normal size. Aortic aneurysms result from a weakness in the wall of the aorta and increase the risk of aortic rupture. Once an aneurysm has ruptured, it presents with classic symptoms of abdominal pain which is severe, constant, and radiating to the back.The diagnosis of an abdominal aortic aneurysm can be confirmed by the use of ultrasound. Weekend admission for a ruptured aortic aneurysm is associated with increased mortality compared with admission on a weekday, and this is likely due to several factors including a delay in prompt surgical intervention. Risk factors
Coronary artery disease
Hypertension
Loeys-Dietz Syndrome
Hypercholesterolemia
Hyperhomocysteinemia
Elevated C-reactive protein
Tobacco use
Alcohol use
Peripheral vascular disease
Marfan syndrome
Ehlers-Danlos type IV
Bicuspid Aortic Valve
Syphilis
IgG4-related disease
Pregnancy
Chronic obstructive sleep apnea
Psoriasis

Pathophysiology
An aortic aneurysm can occur as a result of trauma, infection, or, most commonly, from an intrinsic abnormality in the elastin and collagen components of the aortic wall. Medical therapy
Medical therapy of aortic aneurysms involves strict blood pressure control. 
Increased flux of microbial products provokes immune responses. [SEP] Long-term close-knit interactions between symbiotic microbes and their host can alter host immune system responses to other microorganisms, including pathogens, and are required to maintain proper homeostasis. Microbes can promote the development of the host's immune system in the gut and skin, and may help to prevent pathogens from invading. This can neutralize pathogens and exotoxins, and promote the development of immune cells and mucosal immune response. These data suggest that commensal microbes aid in intestinal homeostasis and immune system development.To prevent constant activation of immune cells and resulting inflammation, hosts and bacteria have evolved to maintain intestinal homeostasis and immune system development. Protection against pathogens
Microbes can prevent growth of harmful pathogens by altering pH, consuming nutrients required for pathogen survival, and secreting toxins and antibodies that inhibit growth of pathogens. Allergic and immune disorders
The human microbiome modulates the host immune in positive ways to help defend itself from potential pathogens but can also lead to immune overreactions to foreign substances, even sometimes attacking the host itself. Active immunity is acquired through the exposure to a pathogen, which triggers the production of antibodies by the immune system. Thus, ideally, they stimulate an immune response effective against the original bacteria without the risk of an infection. 
Increased flux of microbial products suppresses immune responses. [SEP] According to the biodiversity hypothesis, reduced contact of people with natural environment and biodiversity may adversely affect the human commensal microbiota and its immunomodulatory capacity. The microbes in our surroundings influence our own microbiota which is further connected to our immune system. Microbiota trains immune system throughout the life: organs constantly process invasive particles and proteins. While increasing healthy exposure to microbes it is essential for achieving the benefits to acknowledge and reduce the risk of being exposed to [pathogens]. Vaginal birth and breastfeeding are influential ways to increase the exposure of baby to mother's microbes and therefore further the development of immune system.Immune system continues to develop throughout childhood and therefore regular microbial exposure is essential for children. References
External links
Suppressor+of+Cytokine+Signaling+Proteins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Live, attenuated vaccines are composed of micro-organisms that have been cultivated under conditions which disable their ability to induce disease. Thus, ideally, they stimulate an immune response effective against the original bacteria without the risk of an infection. 
Increased lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] PKA can phosphorylate lipases, perilipin 1A, and CGI-58 to increase the rate of lipolysis. p38α MAPK is mainly activated through MAPK kinase kinase cascades and exerts its biological function via downstream substrate phosphorylation. Furthermore, acetylation of p38 MAPK at lys-53 of the ATP-binding pocket also enhances p38 MAPK activity during cellular stress  Under basal conditions, p38α MAPK is detected in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. AdPLA regulates adipocyte lipolysis and release of fatty acids through a G-protein coupled pathway involving prostaglandin and EP3. Lipolysis is inversely related to AdPLA activity. Effects on obesity
Obesity has been attributed to adipocyte hypertrophy, where triacylglycerol synthesis exceeds lipolysis, resulting in elevated triacylglycerol storage. Studies on AdPLA deficient mice have shown that the enzyme increased lipolysis in WAT as a result of decreased lipolysis regulation. Adipocyte hypotrophy was attributed primarily to reduced triacylglyceride content in WAT from lipolysis, while adipocyte differentiation did not play a role in reduced adipose tissue despite the effects of prostaglandins on adipogenesis. 
Increased microtubule acetylation exacerbates LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] Function
The SKA2 is a part of the larger spindle and kinetochore complex which is a sub-complex of the outer kinetochore and binds to the microtubules. Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), also known as dardarin (from the Basque word "dardara" which means trembling) and PARK8 (from early identified association with Parkinson's disease), is a large, multifunctional kinase enzyme that in humans is encoded by the LRRK2 gene. LRRK2 is a member of the leucine-rich repeat kinase family. LRRK2 is also a substrate for chaperone-mediated autophagy. The Gly2019Ser mutation is one of a small number of LRRK2 mutations proven to cause Parkinson's disease. LRRTM1 is also critically involved in synapse formation within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) of mice. Tubulin polymers, called microtubules, that contain detyrosinated alpha-tubulin are usually referred to as Glu-microtubules while unmodified polymers are called Tyr-microtubules. Since the majority of microtubules are very dynamic, they do not contain much detyrosinated tubulin. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] Rabaptin is a key protein involved in regeneration of injured axons. Regeneration of injured axons at neuromuscular junctions is regulated by extra-cellular protein factors that promote neurite outgrowth. α1
α1-Chimerin is a  GTPase-activating protein in the brain that effects the ras related p21rac. α1-Chimerin is also able to regulate dendritic spinal density by binding to NMDA receptors at the NR2A subunit. Mutations found in  α-chi-merin lead to the Duane retraction syndrome 2. Changes in cytoskeletal organization are due to the action on Rac. Polyglycylation is a form of posttranslational modification of glutamate residues of the carboxyl-terminal region tubulin in certain microtubules (e.g.,  axonemal) originally discovered in Paramecium, and later shown in mammalian neurons as well. Neutrophil immunodeficiency syndrome is a condition caused by mutations in the Rac2 gene. 
Increased microtubule acetylation worsens interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] A deficit known as cortical astereognosis of the receptive type describes an inability to make use of tactile sensory information for identifying objects placed in the hand. Neutrophil immunodeficiency syndrome is a condition caused by mutations in the Rac2 gene. Tubulopathy is a disease affecting the renal tubules of the nephron.Tubulopathic processes may be inflammatory or noninflammatory, though inflammatory processes are often referred to specifically as tubulitis. Neuropilin is a protein receptor active in neurons. Neuropilins predominantly act as co-receptors as they have a very small cytoplasmic domain and thus rely upon other cell surface receptors to transduce their signals across a cell membrane. Both Neuropilin family members can also be found in soluble forms created by alternative splicing or by ectodomain shedding from the cell surface.The pleiotropic nature of the NRP receptors results in their involvement in cellular processes, such as axon guidance and angiogenesis, the immune response and remyelination. Associated conditions
Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH)

See also
Bruns ataxia


== References == Polyglycylation is a form of posttranslational modification of glutamate residues of the carboxyl-terminal region tubulin in certain microtubules (e.g.,  axonemal) originally discovered in Paramecium, and later shown in mammalian neurons as well. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons does not lead to mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] Retrotransposon proliferation may lead to insertional mutagenesis, disrupt the process of DNA repair, or cause errors during chromosomal crossover, and so it is advantageous for an organism to possess the means to suppress or "silence" retrotransposon activity. Inactivated, or silenced, transposons do not result in a phenotypic outcome and do not move around in the genome. Most retrotransposons in the maize genome are LTR, whereas in humans they are mostly non-LTR. Hence retrotransposons can be thought of as replicative, whereas DNA transposons are non-replicative. Retroviruses can move between cells whereas LTR retrotransposons can only move themselves into the genome of the same cell. This is because unlike LTR retrotransposons, non-LTR retrotransposons do not contain sequences that bind tRNA. Role in human disease
Retrotransposons ensure they are not lost by chance by occurring only in cell genetics that can be passed on from one generation to the next from parent gametes. LINE retrotransposition is also a feature of several cancers, but it is unclear whether retrotransposition itself causes cancer instead of just a symptom. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons is assosciated with mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] This may imply that retrotransposon induced  mutations may be more prevalent or more devastating in the male germline. Retrotransposons (also called Class I transposable elements or transposons via RNA intermediates) are a type of genetic component that copy and paste themselves into different genomic locations (transposon) by converting RNA back into DNA through the reverse transcription process using an RNA transposition intermediate.Through reverse transcription, retrotransposons amplify themselves quickly to become abundant in  eukaryotic genomes such as maize (49–78%) and humans (42%). Due to their replicative nature, retrotransposons can increase eukaryotic genome size quickly and survive in eukaryotic genomes permanently. These events occur from early embryogenesis and retrotransposition rate is substantially increased during colorectal tumourigenesis. LINE retrotransposition is also a feature of several cancers, but it is unclear whether retrotransposition itself causes cancer instead of just a symptom. Retrotransposons are regulated by RNA interference. Due to their retrotransposition mechanism, retrotransposons amplify in number quickly, composing 40% of the human genome. Predisposition to cancer
LINE1(L1) TE's and other retrotransposons have been linked to cancer because they cause genomic instability. 
Increased purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] Membrane glycoproteins are membrane proteins which play important roles in cell recognition. Examples include:

Fibronectin
Laminin
Osteonectin

See also
Glycocalyx

External links
 Media related to Membrane glycoproteins at Wikimedia Commons
Membrane+glycoproteins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) For the membrane coated vesicle used in transport, see here. eIF-2 is a kinase enzyme that phosphorylates eIF-2.There are four forms in mammals:

EIF2AK1: heme-regulated inhibitor kinase (HRI)
EIF2AK2: the double-stranded RNA-dependent kinase (PKR)
EIF2AK3: PEK/PERK
EIF2AK4: GCN2These are all responsible for the phosphorylation of the alpha subunit of eIF-2 at serine 51, one of the best-characterized mechanisms for down-regulating protein synthesis in eukaryotes in response to various cellular stress response's. There are two forms of Neuropilins, NRP-1 and NRP-2. Recent studies have shown that Neuropilins are multifunctional and can partner with a wide variety of transmembrane receptors. Although Neuropilins are commonly found at the cell surface, they have also been reported within the mitochondria and nucleus. Structure
Neuropilins contain the following four domains:

N-terminal CUB domain (for complement C1r/C1s, Uegf, Bmp1)
Coagulation factor 5/8 type, C-terminal (discoidin domain)
MAM domain (for meprin, A-5 protein, and receptor protein-tyrosine phosphatase mu)
C-terminal neuropilinThe structure of B1 domain (coagulation factor 5/8 type) of neuropilin-1 was determined through X-Ray Diffraction with a resolution of 2.90 Å. 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis improves the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] Dose-dense chemotherapy is a chemotherapy treatment plan in which drugs are given with less time between treatments than in a standard chemotherapy treatment plan.The Gompertzian model of tumor cell growth shows tumor cells growing fastest when the tumor is small. This would allow bone marrow and gastrointestinal tract recovery before the next treatment and would inhibit the tumor for a short time, but allow rapid growth for a short time before the next treatment.By decreasing the dose and increasing the frequency, the fast growth can be prevented, allowing for faster and more effective cure rate. Anti-angiogenesis
Angiogenesis supports tumor growth by ensuring sufficient oxygen and nutrient supply to the rapidly-proliferating tumor cells. It selectively inhibits the proliferation and induces apoptosis of tumor endothelial cells, without disrupting the endothelial cells of normal blood vessels. It assesses the tumor vascularity by measuring blood flow, fractional intravascular volume and other related parameters. See also
Chemotherapy


== References == As demonstrated in clinical trials, patients treated by PHP can tolerate much higher doses of chemotherapeutic agents than those receiving traditional systemic chemotherapy without increased toxicities. Results from the first year study found smaller volumes of gray and white matter in patients exposed to chemotherapy. 
Individuals with Alzheimers who participate in six months of physical activity improve cognitive function for up to 18 months. [SEP] The American Academy of Neurology's clinical practice guideline for mild cognitive impairment indicates that clinicians should recommend regular exercise (two times per week) to individuals who have been diagnosed with this condition. It may be that in older adults, individuals benefit cognitively by taking part in both aerobic and resistance type exercise of at least moderate intensity. This guidance is based upon a moderate amount of high-quality evidence which supports the efficacy of regular physical exercise (twice weekly over a 6-month period) for improving cognitive symptoms in individuals with mild cognitive impairment. Two meta-analytic systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials with durations of 3–12 months have examined the effects of physical exercise on the aforementioned characteristics of Alzheimer's disease. The reviews found beneficial effects of physical exercise on cognitive function, the rate of cognitive decline, and the ability to perform activities of daily living in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. One review suggested that, based upon transgenic mouse models, the cognitive effects of exercise on Alzheimer's disease may result from a reduction in the quantity of amyloid plaque.The Caerphilly Prospective study followed 2,375 male subjects over 30 years and examined the association between healthy lifestyles and dementia, among other factors. Analyses of the Caerphilly study data have found that exercise is associated with a lower incidence of dementia and a reduction in cognitive impairment. A subsequent systematic review of longitudinal studies also found higher levels of physical activity to be associated with a reduction in the risk of dementia and cognitive decline; this review further asserted that increased physical activity appears to be causally related with these reduced risks. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have decreased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] In several recent studies, higher vitamin D levels have been associated with lower risks of developing Alzheimer's disease. People with higher levels of vitamin D tend to have lower rates of diabetes, heart disease, and stroke and tend to have lower blood pressure. Getting enough vitamin D can help stave off "autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, many types of cancer, dementia, types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, and respiratory tract infections. Except for the prevention of rickets and osteomalacia in high-risk groups, any benefit of vitamin D supplements to musculoskeletal or general health may be small. Vitamin D supplements do not alter the outcomes for myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebrovascular disease, cancer, bone fractures or knee osteoarthritis.A US Institute of Medicine (IOM) report states: "Outcomes related to cancer, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and diabetes and metabolic syndrome, falls and physical performance, immune functioning and autoimmune disorders, infections, neuropsychological functioning, and preeclampsia could not be linked reliably with calcium or vitamin D intake and were often conflicting. In prospective studies, high versus low level of vitamin D was respectively associated with significant decrease in risk of type 2 diabetes, combined type 2 diabetes and prediabetes, and prediabetes. Cognition and dementia
A systematic review of clinical studies found an association between low vitamin D levels with cognitive impairment and a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. As of 2022, the role of vitamin D in the prevention and treatment of diabetes, glucose intolerance, hypertension, multiple sclerosis, and other medical conditions remains under preliminary research.Some preliminary studies link low vitamin D levels with disease later in life. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into cholangiocytic cells. [SEP] Differentiated airway epithelial cells can revert into stable and functional stem cells in vivo. Hepatocytes
Unlike current protocols for deriving hepatocytes from human fibroblasts, Saiyong Zhu et al., (2014) did not generate iPSCs but, using small molecules, cut short reprogramming to pluripotency to generate an induced multipotent progenitor cell (iMPC) state from which endoderm progenitor cells and subsequently hepatocytes (iMPC-Heps) were efficiently differentiated. After transplantation into an immune-deficient mouse model of human liver failure, iMPC-Heps proliferated extensively and acquired levels of hepatocyte function similar to those of human primary adult hepatocytes. These results establish the feasibility of significant liver repopulation of mice with human hepatocytes generated in vitro, which removes a long-standing roadblock on the path to autologous liver cell therapy. Hepatocyte-like cells (HLC) are generated from differentiated human amniotic epithelial cells (hAEC) that are abundant in the placenta. Cholangiocytes are the epithelial cells of the bile duct. Research has indicated the presence of intraorgan stem cells of the liver that can proliferate in disease states, so-called oval cells. Stem cells are by definition pluripotent, able to differentiate into several cell types such as neurons, cardiomyocytes, hepatocytes, etc. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into hepatocytic cells. [SEP] A hepatocyte is a cell of the main parenchymal tissue of the liver. In vitro model systems based on hepatocytes have been of great help to better understand the role of hepatocytes in (patho)physiological processes of the liver. Hepatocytes
Unlike current protocols for deriving hepatocytes from human fibroblasts, Saiyong Zhu et al., (2014) did not generate iPSCs but, using small molecules, cut short reprogramming to pluripotency to generate an induced multipotent progenitor cell (iMPC) state from which endoderm progenitor cells and subsequently hepatocytes (iMPC-Heps) were efficiently differentiated. After transplantation into an immune-deficient mouse model of human liver failure, iMPC-Heps proliferated extensively and acquired levels of hepatocyte function similar to those of human primary adult hepatocytes. These results establish the feasibility of significant liver repopulation of mice with human hepatocytes generated in vitro, which removes a long-standing roadblock on the path to autologous liver cell therapy. Stem cells are by definition pluripotent, able to differentiate into several cell types such as neurons, cardiomyocytes, hepatocytes, etc. were able to induce human liver cells to transdifferentiate into human beta cells.This approach has been demonstrated in mice, rat, xenopus and human tissues (Al-Hasani et al., 2013).Schematic model of the hepatocyte-to-beta cell transdifferentiation process. In one study, transdifferentiating tail-tip fibroblasts into hepatocyte-like cells using transcription factors Gata4, Hnf1α and Foxa3, and inactivation of p19(Arf) restored hepatocyte-like liver functions in only half of the mice using survival as a means of evaluation. 
Induction of urokinase receptor signaling in podocytes causes foot process effacement and proteinuria. [SEP] Podocin is a protein component of the filtration slits of podocytes. Mutations in the podocin gene NPHS2 can cause nephrotic syndrome, such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) or minimal change disease (MCD). Blurred vision
Azotemia (increased plasma Urea and Creatinine)
Oliguria (low urine output <400 ml/day)
Red blood cell casts (seen with urinalysis and microscopy)
Pyuria (white blood cells or pus in the urine)

Causes
Nephritic syndrome is caused by extensive inflammatory damage to the glomerulus capillaries, which is associated with a variety of medical conditions that we will discuss. In all cases, however, the inflammatory processes in the glomerulus cause the capillaries to swell and the pores between podocytes become large enough that inappropriate contents in the blood plasma (i.e. This causes a decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and, if left untreated over time, will eventually produce uremic symptoms and retention of sodium and water in the body, leading to both edema and hypertension. The kidney is responsible for excreting nitrogenous substances in the urine, so an elevated BUN usually indicates that the kidney is not functioning appropriately. Some findings on urinalysis that are consistent with nephritic syndrome include red blood cells (hematuria), red blood cell casts, proteinuria, and possibly white blood cells (pyuria).If nephritic syndrome is identified and diagnosed, then it is important for the physician to determine the underlying cause. Urokinase and cancer
Elevated expression levels of urokinase and several other components of the plasminogen activation system are found to be correlated with tumor malignancy. 
Inhibiting HDAC6 increases survival of mice with ARID1A mutated tumors. [SEP] HDAC6 has emerged as a highly promising candidate to selectively inhibit as a therapeutic strategy to combat several types of cancer and neurodegenerative disorders. As a result the enzyme encourages cancer cell metastasis.HDAC6 affects transcription and translation by regulating heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp90). HDAC6 also encourages metastasis of cancer cells.Since HDAC6 is dysregulated and/or implicated in several cancers and neurodegenerative disorders, pharmacological inhibition of this specific enzyme holds great therapeutic potential and could also limit side effects associated with pan-inhibitors of multiple HDAC enzymes. Selective inhibition of HDAC6 as a strategy to treat cancers is however also subject of debate, since some HDAC6 inhibitors exhibited anti-tumor activity in vitro and in vivo only when administered in high concentrations, which also produced off-target effects. Cancer treatment
Pan-HDAC inhibitors have shown anticancer potential in several in in vitro and in vivo studies, focused on Pancreatic, Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), Multiple myeloma, Prostate carcinoma, Gastric cancer, Leukemia, breast, Liver cancer, ovarian cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Neuroblastoma. Specifically, HDAC2 has been shown to play a role in cardiac hypertrophy, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, acute myeloid leukemia (AML), osteosarcoma, and stomach cancer. Cancer therapy
The role of HDAC2 in various forms of cancer such as osteosarcoma, gastric cancer, and acute myeloid leukemia have been studied. A recent study discovered decreased metastasis formation in mouse models that develop pancreatic cancer when the murine ortholog Hdac2 was genetically depleted. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation enables cells to convert mechanical strain into eventual scarring. [SEP] In cell biology, focal adhesions (also cell–matrix adhesions or FAs) are large macromolecular assemblies through which mechanical force and regulatory signals are transmitted between the extracellular matrix (ECM) and an interacting cell. More precisely, focal adhesions are the sub-cellular structures that mediate the regulatory effects (i.e., signaling events) of a cell in response to ECM adhesion.Focal adhesions serve as the mechanical linkages to the ECM, and as a biochemical signaling hub to concentrate and direct numerous signaling proteins at sites of integrin binding and clustering. Structure and function
Focal adhesions are integrin-containing, multi-protein structures that form mechanical links between intracellular actin bundles and the extracellular substrate in many cell types. This is the source of traction required for migration; the focal adhesion acts as a molecular clutch when it tethers to the ECM and impedes the retrograde movement of actin, thus generating the pulling (traction) force at the site of the adhesion that is necessary for the cell to move forward. This indicates that focal adhesions may function as mechanical sensors, and suggests that force generated from myosin fibers could contribute to maturing the focal complexes. For instance, preventing focal adhesion maturation by inhibiting myosin activity or stress fiber assembly does not prevent forces sustained by focal adhesions, nor does it prevent cells from migrating. The result is the formation of an inflexible, fibrous scar tissue. Furthermore, it has been shown that cell-cell adhesion formation not only restricts growth and proliferation by imposing physical constraints such as cell area, but also by triggering signaling pathways that downregulate proliferation. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation increases the rate at which cells convert mechanical strain into inflammation and fibrosis. [SEP] In cell biology, focal adhesions (also cell–matrix adhesions or FAs) are large macromolecular assemblies through which mechanical force and regulatory signals are transmitted between the extracellular matrix (ECM) and an interacting cell. More precisely, focal adhesions are the sub-cellular structures that mediate the regulatory effects (i.e., signaling events) of a cell in response to ECM adhesion.Focal adhesions serve as the mechanical linkages to the ECM, and as a biochemical signaling hub to concentrate and direct numerous signaling proteins at sites of integrin binding and clustering. Structure and function
Focal adhesions are integrin-containing, multi-protein structures that form mechanical links between intracellular actin bundles and the extracellular substrate in many cell types. This indicates that focal adhesions may function as mechanical sensors, and suggests that force generated from myosin fibers could contribute to maturing the focal complexes. This gains further support from the fact that inhibition of myosin-generated forces leads to slow disassembly of focal adhesions, by changing the turnover kinetics of the focal adhesion proteins.The relationship between forces on focal adhesions and their compositional maturation, however, remains unclear. For instance, preventing focal adhesion maturation by inhibiting myosin activity or stress fiber assembly does not prevent forces sustained by focal adhesions, nor does it prevent cells from migrating. This mechanical stress on the apical side of the endothelial cells leads to integrin signaling, which involves the recruitment of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), Shc, and Crk, and will lead to changes in cell-cell and cell-ECM adhesion. Alterations in cell adhesion can disrupt important cellular processes and lead to a variety of diseases, including cancer and arthritis. 
Inhibiting glucose-6-phospate dehydrogenase improves lipogenesis by deactivating LKB1-AMPK signaling. [SEP] In response to binding AMP and ADP, the net effect of AMPK activation is stimulation of hepatic fatty acid oxidation, ketogenesis, stimulation of skeletal muscle fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake, inhibition of cholesterol synthesis, lipogenesis, and triglyceride synthesis, inhibition of adipocyte lipogenesis, inhibition of adipocyte lipolysis, and modulation of insulin secretion by pancreatic β-cells.It should not be confused with cyclic AMP-activated protein kinase (protein kinase A). Function
When AMPK phosphorylates acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1) or sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP1c), it inhibits synthesis of fatty acids, cholesterol, and triglycerides, and activates fatty acid uptake and β-oxidation.AMPK stimulates glucose uptake in skeletal muscle by phosphorylating  Rab-GTPase-activating protein TBC1D1, which ultimately induces fusion of GLUT1 vesicles with the plasma membrane. AMPK stimulates glycolysis by activating phosphorylation of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 2/3 and activating phosphorylation of glycogen phosphorylase, and it inhibits glycogen synthesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of glycogen synthase. One of the key pathways in AMPK's regulation of fatty acid oxidation is the phosphorylation and inactivation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase. AMPK also plays an important role in lipid metabolism in the liver. AMPK also phosphorylates and inactivates 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), a key enzyme in cholesterol synthesis. AMPK, therefore, helps regulate fatty acid oxidation and cholesterol synthesis. Conversely, in adipose tissue, downregulated glyceroneogenesis may decrease de novo lipogenesis. 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] Prevention
To prevent homelessness the charity Crisis maintains the public sector should:
Build 100,500 social homes a year to address the needs of people experiencing homelessness and those on low income. Although there is no correlation between homelessness and mental health, those who are dealing with homelessness are struggling with psychological and emotional distress. Personal factors
Neurobiological determinants
The mental health of homeless populations is significantly worse than the general population, with the prevalence of mental disorders up to four times higher in the former. Within their study, these factors are specifically categorized into "unavailable low-cost housing, high poverty, poor economic conditions, and insufficient community and institutional support for the mentally ill.": 116  Through their correlational analysis, they reinforce the finding that areas with more spending on mental health care have "notably lower levels of homelessness. ": 122  Furthermore, their findings emphasize that among the analyzed correlates, "per capita expenditures on mental health care, and the supply of low-rent housing are by far the strongest predictors of homelessness rates. Incarcerations are due to lack of treatments such as psychiatric hospital beds. The following list includes practices currently being utilized to address the mental health needs of homeless individuals:
Integrated service system, between and within agencies in policy making, funding, governance and service delivery. (2012), Mental Health and Emerging Adulthood Among Homeless Young People, Psychology Press, ISBN 9781136910845

External links
Mental Health and Homelessness – Guidance for Practitioners
Mental disorders keep thousands of homeless on streets Mental disorders keep thousands of homeless on streets, USA Today
Rapid Evidence Review: What Housing-related Services and Supports Improve Health Outcomes among Chronically Homeless Individuals? 
Inside the body, falciparum parasites reproduce asexually. [SEP] Intracellular parasites are  microparasites that are capable of growing and reproducing inside the cells of a host. Facultative
Facultative intracellular parasites are capable of living and reproducing either inside or outside cells. Cryptococcus neoformans
Blastomyces dermatitidis

Obligate
Obligate intracellular parasites cannot reproduce outside their host cell, meaning that the parasite's reproduction is entirely reliant on intracellular resources. Plasmodium parasites maintain a single copy of their genome through much of the life cycle, doubling the genome only for a brief sexual exchange within the midgut of the insect host. P. falciparum in humans). In other hosts, Plasmodium infection can apparently be asymptomatic.Even when humans have such subclinical plasmodial infections, there can nevertheless be very large numbers of multiplying parasites concealed in, particularly, the spleen and bone marrow. All Plasmodium species are parasitic and must pass between a vertebrate host and an insect host to complete their life cycles. External links

Malaria Atlas Project
Plasmodium lifecycle animation
Asexual & sexual cycle of plasmodium 
Insulin decreases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] Complications of chronic failure also include heart disease, high blood pressure, and anaemia.Causes of acute kidney failure include low blood pressure, blockage of the urinary tract, certain medications, muscle breakdown, and hemolytic uremic syndrome. Causes of chronic kidney failure include diabetes, high blood pressure, nephrotic syndrome, and polycystic kidney disease. Depression is also common among patients with kidney failure, and is associated with poor outcomes including higher risk of kidney function decline, hospitalization, and death. Causes of acute kidney injury include accidents, injuries, or complications from surgeries in which the kidneys are deprived of normal blood flow for extended periods of time. People with acute kidney injury require supportive treatment until their kidneys recover function, and they often remain at increased risk of developing future kidney failure.Among the accidental causes of renal failure is the crush syndrome, when large amounts of toxins are suddenly released in the blood circulation after a long compressed limb is suddenly relieved from the pressure obstructing the blood flow through its tissues, causing ischemia. Chronic kidney failure
Chronic kidney failure has numerous causes. Insulin is a hormone that facilitates the transport of glucose from blood into cells, thereby reducing blood glucose (blood sugar). This causes high blood insulin (hyperinsulinemia) to compensate for the high blood glucose. 
Insulin effects appetite via ventral tegmental neurons. [SEP] NAPEs travel to the hypothalamus in the brain and suppress appetite. Ghrelin has receptors on NPY/AgRP neurons that stimulate the secretion of NPY and AgRP to increase appetite. Moreover, the firing rate of neurons in the mesolimbic pathway increases during anticipation of reward, which may explain craving. This can be a medication or a naturally occurring neuropeptide hormone, such as ghrelin, orexin or neuropeptide Y, which increases hunger and therefore enhances food consumption. Increased nesfatin-1 in the hypothalamus contributes to diminished hunger, a 'sense of fullness', and a potential loss of body fat and weight. Nesfatin-1-induced inhibition of feeding may be mediated through the inhibition of orexigenic neurons. Nesfatin-1-induced inhibition of feeding may be mediated through the inhibition of orexigenic NPY neurons. In addition, it is proposed that feeding-activated nesfatin-1 neurons in the PVN and SON could play an important role in the postprandial regulation of feeding behavior and energy homeostasis.Nesfatin-1 immunopositive neurons are also located in the arcuate nucleus (ARC). 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) increases levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Neurological disorders
Conversion of homocysteine to methionine requires folate and vitamin B12. Elevated plasma homocysteine and low folate are associated with cognitive impairment, dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Supplementing the diet with folic acid and vitamin B12 lowers plasma homocysteine. Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cells and prevent anemia, which causes fatigue, weakness, and inability to concentrate.Increased homocysteine levels suggest tissue folate deficiency, but homocysteine is also affected by vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, renal function, and genetics. Management
In common forms of MTHFR deficiency, elevated plasma homocysteine levels have sometimes been treated with Vitamin B12 and low doses of folic acid. Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. A normal dose of folic acid supplement and occasionally adding cysteine to the diet can be helpful, as glutathione is synthesized from cysteine (so adding cysteine can be important to reduce oxidative stress). Multi-vitamin dietary supplements contain folic acid as well as other B vitamins. 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) reduces levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Neurological disorders
Conversion of homocysteine to methionine requires folate and vitamin B12. Elevated plasma homocysteine and low folate are associated with cognitive impairment, dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Supplementing the diet with folic acid and vitamin B12 lowers plasma homocysteine. Both adults and children need folate to make normal red and white blood cells and prevent anemia, which causes fatigue, weakness, and inability to concentrate.Increased homocysteine levels suggest tissue folate deficiency, but homocysteine is also affected by vitamin B12 and vitamin B6, renal function, and genetics. Cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency may lead to folate deficiency, which, in turn, increases homocysteine levels and may result in the development of cardiovascular disease or birth defects. 5-fluorouracil
hydroxyurea
trimethoprim
sulfasalazine (used to control inflammation associated with Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis and rheumatoid arthritis)
triamterene (a diuretic)
birth control pills (also related to the duration use of birth control pills) may reduce serum folate levels but without  inducing  clinically  significant folate deficiency.When methotrexate is prescribed, folic acid supplements are sometimes given with the methotrexate. Multi-vitamin dietary supplements contain folic acid as well as other B vitamins. Management
In common forms of MTHFR deficiency, elevated plasma homocysteine levels have sometimes been treated with Vitamin B12 and low doses of folic acid. 
Integrated care is ineffective at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] Healthcare in Malawi and its limited resources are inadequate to fully address factors plaguing the population, including infant mortality and the very high burden of diseases, especially HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. treatment for the heart diseases or cancer are unavailable. Thus, combined therapy does not improve mortality and may slightly increase morbidity. Integrated care, also known as integrated health, coordinated care, comprehensive care, seamless care, or transmural care, is a worldwide trend in health care reforms and new organizational arrangements focusing on more coordinated and integrated forms of care provision. Integrated care may be seen as a response to the fragmented delivery of health and social services being an acknowledged problem in many health systems. While autonomy refers to the one end of a continuum with least co-operation, integration (the combination of parts into a working whole by overlapping services) refers to the end with most co-operation and co-ordination (the relation of parts) to a point in between.Distinction is also made between horizontal integration (linking similar levels of care like multiprofessional teams) and vertical integration (linking different levels of care like primary, secondary, and tertiary care).Continuity of care is closely related to integrated care and emphasizes the patient's perspective through the system of health and social services, providing valuable lessons for the integration of systems. Related ideas include: Integrated care, Primary Care Behavioral Health, Integrated care systems, and shared care. More and more people are dying from treatable diseases because of the weakened healthcare system. 
Integrated care is successful at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] Integrated care, also known as integrated health, coordinated care, comprehensive care, seamless care, or transmural care, is a worldwide trend in health care reforms and new organizational arrangements focusing on more coordinated and integrated forms of care provision. Integrated care may be seen as a response to the fragmented delivery of health and social services being an acknowledged problem in many health systems. Central concepts
The integrated care literature distinguishes between different ways and degrees of working together and three central terms in this respect are autonomy, co-ordination, and integration. Continuity of care is often subdivided into three components: 

continuity of information (by shared records),
continuity across the secondary-primary care interface (discharge planning from specialist to generalist care), and
provider continuity (seeing the same professional each time, with value added if there is a therapeutic, trusting relationship).Integrated care seems particularly important to service provision to the elderly, as elderly patients often become chronically ill and subject to co-morbidities and so have a special need of continuous care.The NHS Long Term Plan, and many other documents advocating integration, claim that it will produce reductions in costs or emergency admissions to hospital but there is no convincing evidence to support this. In Ireland, the Health Service Executive (HSE) is implementing an integrated care programme according to a 10-Step Framework. Related ideas include: Integrated care, Primary Care Behavioral Health, Integrated care systems, and shared care. There are many studies establishing the long-term clinical and cost-effectiveness of collaborative care for people with physical–mental comorbidity. See also
Integrated care


== References == 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning offers the best class performance. [SEP] While they exist today, with Web 3.0 they will gain enhanced features enabling more collaborative learning to take place. Classroom
Often, collaborative learning is used as an umbrella term for a variety of approaches in education that involve joint intellectual effort by students or students and teachers by engaging individuals in interdependent learning activities. Technology
Technology has become an important factor in collaborative learning. Collaborative learning in virtual worlds by their nature provide an excellent opportunity for collaborative learning. Participation of learner is a key component to collaborative learning as it functions as the method by which the learning process occurs. Application of online discussion and cooperative learning strategies to online and blended college courses. Blended learning methods can also result in high levels of student achievement more effective than face-to-face learning.By using a combination of digital instruction and one-on-one face time, students can work on their own with new concepts which frees teachers up to circulate and support individual students who may need individualized attention. "Proponents of blended learning argue that incorporating the "asynchronous Internet communication technology" into higher education courses serves to "facilitate a simultaneous independent and collaborative learning experience".This incorporation is a major contributor to student satisfaction and success in such courses. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 encourage West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] An interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) is a gene that can be expressed in response to stimulation by interferon. ISGs are commonly expressed in response to viral infection, but also during bacterial infection and in the presence of parasites.It's currently estimated that 10% of the human genome is regulated by interferons (INFs). ISGs induced by type I interferon are associated with viral replication suppression and increase expression of immune signaling proteins. Expression
ISGs are genes whose expression can be stimulated by interferon, but may also be stimulated by other pathways. IRF-1 regulates expression of target genes by binding to an interferon stimulated response element (ISRE) in their promoters. Interferome is an online bioinformatics database of interferon-regulated genes (IRGs). These Interferon Regulated Genes are also known as Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs). Several ISGs inhibit viral replication in the infected cells. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 inhibit West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] ISGs induced by type I interferon are associated with viral replication suppression and increase expression of immune signaling proteins. Expression
ISGs are genes whose expression can be stimulated by interferon, but may also be stimulated by other pathways. IFIT genes suppress viral infection primarily by limiting viral RNA and DNA replication. inhibition of viral RNA
There are 21 known ISGs that inhibit RNA virus replication. IRF-1 regulates expression of target genes by binding to an interferon stimulated response element (ISRE) in their promoters. These Interferon Regulated Genes are also known as Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs). IRF2 competitively inhibits the IRF1-mediated transcriptional activation of interferons alpha and beta, and presumably other genes that employ IRF1 for transcription activation. Interferon regulatory factors (IRF) are proteins which regulate transcription of interferons (see regulation of gene expression). 
Interleukin-18 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. [SEP] Interleukin-18 (IL-18), also known as interferon-gamma inducing factor is a protein which in humans is encoded by the IL18 gene. IL-18 can modulate both innate and adaptive immunity and its dysregulation can cause autoimmune or inflammatory diseases. IL-18 binds the ligand receptor IL-18Rα, inducing the recruitment of IL-18Rβ to form a high affinity complex, which signals through the toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain. IL-18 is a proinflammatory cytokine that facilitates type 1 responses. Clinical significance
Apart from its physiological role, IL-18 is also able to induce severe inflammatory reactions, which suggests its role in certain inflammatory disorders such as the chronic inflammation and the autoimmune disorders.Endometrial IL-18 receptor mRNA and the ratio of IL-18 binding protein to interleukin 18 are significantly increased in adenomyosis patients in comparison to normal people, indicating a role in its pathogenesis.IL-18 has been implicated as an inflammatory mediator of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the most common cause of autoimmune hypothyroidism. IL-18 is up regulated by interferon-gamma.IL-18 has also been found to increase the Alzheimer's disease-associated amyloid-beta production in human neuron cells.IL-18 is also associated with urine protein excretion what means that it can be marker for assessing the progression of diabetic nephropathy. Interleukin-18-binding protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL18BP gene.The protein encoded by this gene is an inhibitor of the proinflammatory cytokine IL18. The interleukin-18 receptor 1 (IL-18R1) is an interleukin receptor of the immunoglobulin superfamily. 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers increases expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] Neuropilin is a protein receptor active in neurons. Integrin beta-5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ITGB5 gene. α1-Chimerin was the first protein to be isolated from the brain. Alpha chain 5 undergoes post-translational cleavage in the extracellular domain to yield disulfide-linked light and heavy chains that join with beta 1 to form a fibronectin receptor. Nestin (acronym for neuroepithelial stem cell protein) is a type VI intermediate filament (IF) protein. These intermediate filament proteins are expressed mostly in nerve cells where they are implicated in the radial growth of the axon. Nestin is an intermediate filament protein expressed in dividing cells during the early stages of development in the central nervous system, peripheral nervous system and in myogenic and other tissues. neurofilaments and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers reduces expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] Neuropilin is a protein receptor active in neurons. Neuropilins are transmembrane glycoproteins, first documented to regulate neurogenesis and angiogenesis by complexing with Plexin receptors/class-3 semaphorin ligands and Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) receptors/VEGF ligands, respectively. Integrin beta-5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ITGB5 gene. α1-Chimerin was the first protein to be isolated from the brain. α1
α1-Chimerin is a  GTPase-activating protein in the brain that effects the ras related p21rac. Over expression of this protein in hippocampus tissue can inhibit the formation of new spines and remove existing spines. Beta-chimerin (Rho GTPase-activating protein 3, 468aa) is mainly found in the brain and pancreas and the expression is in the form of reduced malignant gliomas. Alpha chain 5 undergoes post-translational cleavage in the extracellular domain to yield disulfide-linked light and heavy chains that join with beta 1 to form a fibronectin receptor. 
Intramembrane cleavage by signal peptide peptidase aids in the degradation of proteins with a complex membrane orientation. [SEP] Signal peptidases are enzymes that convert secretory and some membrane proteins to their mature or pro forms by cleaving their signal peptides from their N-termini. The eukaryotic signal peptidase is an integral membrane protein complex. In molecular biology, the Signal Peptide Peptidase (SPP) is a type of protein that specifically cleaves parts of other proteins. SPP cleaves remnant signal peptides left behind in membrane by the action of signal peptidase and also plays key roles in immune surveillance and the maturation of certain viral proteins. At the end of the signal peptide there is typically a stretch of amino acids that is recognized and cleaved by signal peptidase and therefore named cleavage site. Signal peptidase may cleave either during or after completion of translocation to generate a free signal peptide and a mature protein. It is possible to determine the amino acid sequence of the N-terminal signal peptide by Edman degradation, a cyclic procedure that cleaves off the amino acids one at a time. Function
As a peptidase, this protein catalyzes the removal of transit peptides required for the targeting of proteins from the mitochondrial matrix, across the inner membrane, into the intermembrane space. 
It is not proven that moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) specifically. [SEP] Commonly consumed chocolate is high in fat and sugar, which are associated with an increased risk for obesity when consumed in excess. Clinical research studies are insufficient to confirm an effect of chocolate on long-term health. Throughout history, numerous beneficial effects have been attributed to chocolate consumption, although none has been substantiated. Lead content
Although research suggests that even low levels of lead in the body may be harmful to children, it is unlikely that chocolate consumption in small amounts causes lead poisoning. Addiction
Food, including chocolate, is not typically viewed as addictive. A 2019 review reported that chocolate consumption does not improve depressive mood. Heart and blood vessels
Reviews support a short-term effect of lowering blood pressure by consuming cocoa products, but there is no evidence of long-term cardiovascular health benefit. Diet
A diet high in fruits and vegetables decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease and death.A 2021 review found that plant-based diets can provide a risk reduction for CVD if a healthy plant-based diet is consumed. 
JMJD6 catalyzes the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine and supresses transcriptional activity. [SEP] Bifunctional arginine demethylase and lysyl-hydroxylase JMJD6 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the JMJD6 gene. Function
This gene encodes a nuclear protein with a JmjC domain. JmjC domain-containing proteins belong to the alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylase superfamily. On a physiological level JMJD6 has a role in angiogenesis, the process of vessel formation, whereas  further roles of JMJD6 in pathophysiological processes were implicated, such as mammary tumorigenesis. Here, elevated JMJD6 level were found in breast cancer associated with aggressiveness and metastasis in mice. In enzymology, a N6-hydroxylysine O-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.102) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

acetyl-CoA + N6-hydroxy-L-lysine 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   CoA + N6-acetyl-N6-hydroxy-L-lysineThus, the two substrates of this enzyme are acetyl-CoA and N6-hydroxy-L-lysine, whereas its two products are CoA and N6-acetyl-N6-hydroxy-L-lysine. This enzyme participates in lysine degradation. Lysyl hydroxylases (or procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenases) are alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylases enzymes that catalyze the hydroxylation of lysine to hydroxylysine. 
JMJD6 slows the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine [SEP] Bifunctional arginine demethylase and lysyl-hydroxylase JMJD6 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the JMJD6 gene. JmjC domain-containing proteins belong to the alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylase superfamily. On a physiological level JMJD6 has a role in angiogenesis, the process of vessel formation, whereas  further roles of JMJD6 in pathophysiological processes were implicated, such as mammary tumorigenesis. Lysyl hydroxylases (or procollagen-lysine 5-dioxygenases) are alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylases enzymes that catalyze the hydroxylation of lysine to hydroxylysine. References
External links
Lysyl+Hydroxylase at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Lysine 6-dehydrogenase (EC 1.4.1.18, L-lysine epsilon-dehydrogenase, L-lysine 6-dehydrogenase, LysDH) is an enzyme with systematic name L-lysine:NAD+ 6-oxidoreductase (deaminating). This enzyme catalyses the following chemical reaction

L-lysine + NAD+ 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   (S)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydropyridine-2-carboxylate + NADH + H+ + NH3 (overall reaction)
(1a) L-lysine + NAD+ + H2O 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   (S)-2-amino-6-oxohexanoate + NADH + H+ + NH3
(1b) (S)-2-amino-6-oxohexanoate 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   (S)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydropyridine-2-carboxylate + H2O (spontaneous)The enzyme is highly specific for L-lysine as substrate, although S-(2-aminoethyl)-L-cysteine can act as a substrate, but more slowly. References
External links
Lysine+6-dehydrogenase at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
KLF4 is necessary for VSMCs to gain genetic characteristics of other cell types within atherosclerotic lesions. [SEP] Additionally, KLF4 was shown to suppress EMT in epidermal cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, cisplatin-resistant nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells, and in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.KLF4 plays an important role in several vascular diseases where it was shown to regulate vascular inflammation by controlling macrophage polarization and plaque formation in atherosclerosis. Additionally, KLF-4 downregulates TNF-α-induced VCAM1 expression by targeting and blocking the binding site of NF-κB to the VCAM1 promoter.However, KLF4 may also suppress the activation of inflammatory signaling such as in endothelial cells in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli.KLF4 is essential for the cellular response to DNA damage. In the vascular system
Klf4 is upregulated in vascular injury. Furthermore, Klf4 has been identified as an anti-proliferative shear stress-responsive gene, and forced over-expression of Klf4 in VSMCs induces growth arrest. Klf4 also mediates the vascular response to nitric oxide (NO) by activating the promoters of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)  in endothelial cells and cGMP-dependent protein kinase 1α/protein kinase G 1α (PKG 1α) in VSMCs. Klf5 is itself regulated by the immediate early gene egr-1 in VSMCs, which, if similarly regulated in the cardiomyocyte, places Klf5 potentially in a position to co-ordinate the acute response to external stress and tissue remodelling in the myocardium. It is hypothesized that myeloid-specific KLF2 plays a protective role in atherosclerosis. Gene expression changes in endothelial cells induced by KLF2 have been demonstrated to be atheroprotective. 
KRT17 modulates the expression of the transcriptional regulator AIRE in diseased epithelia. [SEP] Keratin, type I cytoskeletal 17 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the KRT17 gene.Keratin 17 is a type I cytokeratin. The autoimmune regulator (AIRE) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the AIRE gene. AIRE is a transcription factor expressed in the medulla (inner part) of the thymus. Structure
AIRE is composed of a multidomain structure that is able to bind to chromatin and act as a regulator of gene transcription. DNA-PK phosphorylates AIRE in vitro at Thr68 and Ser156. Known mutations in AIRE include Arg139X, Arg257X, and Leu323SerfsX51.Disruption of AIRE results in the development of a range of autoimmune diseases, the most common clinical conditions in the syndrome are hypoparathyroidism, primary adrenocortical failure and chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis.A gene knockout of the murine homolog of Aire has created a transgenic mouse model that is used to study the mechanism of disease in human patients. KRT71 is a keratin gene. Krueppel-like factor 17 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the KLF17 gene. 
Kir7.1 modulates channel activity by the G protein-coupled melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. [SEP] Melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) is a melanocortin receptor that in humans is encoded by the MC4R gene. It encodes the MC4R protein, a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that binds α-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH). Interactions
The MC4 receptor has been shown to interact with proopiomelanocortin (POMC). The melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R), also known as melanocyte-stimulating hormone receptor (MSHR), melanin-activating peptide receptor, or melanotropin receptor, is a G protein–coupled receptor that binds to a class of pituitary peptide hormones known as the melanocortins, which include adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and the different forms of melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH). Melanocortin+Receptor+1 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Melanocortin receptors are members of the rhodopsin family of 7-transmembrane G protein-coupled receptors. There are five known members of the melanocortin receptor system each with differing specificities for melanocortins:
MC1R. See also
melanocortin

References
Further reading
External links
"Melanocortin Receptors: MC2". 
Klf2 is important for proper myeloid cell function. [SEP] KLF2 has a particularly interesting expression profile in erythroid cells. Embryonic erythropoiesis
KLF2 is now believed to play an important role in embryonic erythropoiesis, specifically in regulating embryonic and fetal β-like globin gene expression. It was found that KLF2 was important for ε-globin (found in embryonic hemoglobin) and γ-globin (found in fetal hemoglobin) gene expression. It is hypothesized that myeloid-specific KLF2 plays a protective role in atherosclerosis. T-cell differentiation
KLF2 has an important function in T-lymphocyte differentiation. T-cells are activated and more prone to apoptosis without KLF2, suggesting that KLF2 regulates T-cell quiescence and survival. KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. KLF1 is a very important factor in red blood cell biology. 
Klf4 is important for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. KLF4 is particularly important in preventing cell division when the DNA is damaged. KLF4 is also important in regulating centrosome number and chromosome number (genetic stability), and in promoting cell survival. In the intestinal epithelium, KLF4 is an important regulator of Wnt signaling pathway genes of genes regulating differentiation.KLF4 is expressed in a variety of tissues and organs such as: the cornea where it is required for epithelial barrier function and is a regulator of genes required for corneal homeostasis; the skin where it is required for the development of skin permeability barrier function; the bone and teeth tissues where it regulates normal skeletal development; epithelial cell of the mouse male and female reproductive tract where in the males it is important for proper spermatogenesis; vascular endothelial cells where it is critical in preventing vascular leakage in response to inflammatory stimuli; white blood cells where it mediates inflammatory responses cellular differentiation and proliferation; the kidneys where it is involved in the differentiation of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to renal lineage in vitro and its dysregulation has been linked to some renal pathologies. Recently a group investigated the role of KLF4 in a particular population of intestinal stem cells, the Bmi1+ stem cells. KLF2 has a particularly interesting expression profile in erythroid cells. It is hypothesized that myeloid-specific KLF2 plays a protective role in atherosclerosis. T-cell differentiation
KLF2 has an important function in T-lymphocyte differentiation. 
Klf4 is not required for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] KLF4 is involved in the regulation of proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and somatic cell reprogramming. In embryonic stem cells (ESCs), KLF4 has been demonstrated to be a good indicator of stem-like capacity. Function
KLF4 has diverse functions, and has been garnering attention in recent years because some of its functions are apparently contradicting, but mainly since the discovery of its integral role as one of four key factors that are essential for inducing pluripotent stem cells. KLF4 is highly expressed in non-dividing cells and its overexpression induces cell cycle arrest. KLF4 is particularly important in preventing cell division when the DNA is damaged. However, some studies have revealed that under certain conditions KLF4 may switch its role from pro-cell survival to pro-cell death.KLF4 is expressed in the cells that are non-dividing and are terminally differentiated in the intestinal epithelium, where KLF4 is important in the regulation of intestinal epithelium homeostasis (terminal cell differentiation and proper localization of the different intestinal epithelium cell types). In the intestinal epithelium, KLF4 is an important regulator of Wnt signaling pathway genes of genes regulating differentiation.KLF4 is expressed in a variety of tissues and organs such as: the cornea where it is required for epithelial barrier function and is a regulator of genes required for corneal homeostasis; the skin where it is required for the development of skin permeability barrier function; the bone and teeth tissues where it regulates normal skeletal development; epithelial cell of the mouse male and female reproductive tract where in the males it is important for proper spermatogenesis; vascular endothelial cells where it is critical in preventing vascular leakage in response to inflammatory stimuli; white blood cells where it mediates inflammatory responses cellular differentiation and proliferation; the kidneys where it is involved in the differentiation of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to renal lineage in vitro and its dysregulation has been linked to some renal pathologies. In vivo functional studies on the role of KLF4 in stem cells are rare. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes epithelial damage. [SEP] Causes include ingesting expired tetracyclines (where tetracycline changes to form epitetracycline and anhydrotetracycline which damage the proximal tubule), and as a side effect of tenofovir in cases of pre-existing renal impairment. The deduced amino acid sequences revealed that ALK was a novel receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), having an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain. The human ALK gene encodes a protein 1,620 amino acids long with a molecular weight of 180 kDa.Since the original discovery of the receptor in mammals, several orthologs of ALK have been identified: dAlk in the fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) in 2001, scd-2 in the nematode (Caenorhabditis elegans) in 2004, and DrAlk in the zebrafish (Danio rerio)  in 2013.The ligands of the human ALK/LTK receptors were identified in 2014: FAM150A (AUGβ) and FAM150B (AUGα), two small secreted peptides that strongly activate ALK signaling. Other reported downstream ALK targets include FOXO3a, CDKN1B/p27kip, cyclin D2, NIPA, RAC1, CDC42, p130CAS, SHP1, and PIKFYVE.Phosphorylated ALK activates multiple downstream signal transduction pathways, including MAPK-ERK, PI3K-AKT, PLCγ, CRKL-C3G, and JAK-STAT. In vitro functional studies have demonstrated that ALK activation promotes neuronal differentiation of PC12 or neuroblastoma cell lines.ALK is critical for embryonic development in Drosophila. ALK is also a candidate thinness gene, as its genetic deletion leads to resistance to diet- and leptin-mutation-induced obesity. In a smaller fraction of ALCL patients, the 3' half of ALK is fused to the 5' sequence of TPM3 gene, encoding for tropomyosin 3. IGFBP-3R acts as a cell death receptor for IGFBP3. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes fibrosis. [SEP] Genetics
This condition is caused by mutations in the (FAM111B) gene. Signaling
ACVR1 transduces signals of BMPs. Clinical significance
Gain-of-function mutations in the gene ACVR1/ALK2 is responsible for the genetic disease fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva. The deduced amino acid sequences revealed that ALK was a novel receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), having an extracellular ligand-binding domain, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain. The human ALK gene encodes a protein 1,620 amino acids long with a molecular weight of 180 kDa.Since the original discovery of the receptor in mammals, several orthologs of ALK have been identified: dAlk in the fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster) in 2001, scd-2 in the nematode (Caenorhabditis elegans) in 2004, and DrAlk in the zebrafish (Danio rerio)  in 2013.The ligands of the human ALK/LTK receptors were identified in 2014: FAM150A (AUGβ) and FAM150B (AUGα), two small secreted peptides that strongly activate ALK signaling. ALK is also a candidate thinness gene, as its genetic deletion leads to resistance to diet- and leptin-mutation-induced obesity. In a smaller fraction of ALCL patients, the 3' half of ALK is fused to the 5' sequence of TPM3 gene, encoding for tropomyosin 3. Modulation of cellular TTRAP level affects cell viability in the presence of TGF-β, suggesting that the protein is an important component of the TGF-β induced apoptotic process. 
L3MBTL2 binds to H2AK119Ub marked chromatin to form a PRC1 complex. [SEP] PRC1 inhibits the activated form of RNA polymerase II preinitiation complex with the use of H3K27me. PRC1 binds to three nucleosomes, this is believed to limit access  of  transcription factors to the chromatin, and therefore limit gene expression. PRC1 also mono-ubiquitinates histone H2A on lysine 119 (H2AK119Ub1). The mouse PRC2 has four subunits: Suz12 (zinc finger), Eed, Ezh1 or Ezh2 (SET domain with histone methyltransferase activity) and Rbbp4 (histone binding domain). PRC2 can bind to H3K27me3 and repress neighboring nucleosomes, thus spreading the repression.PRC2 has a role in X chromosome inactivation, in maintenance of stem cell fate, and in imprinting. Many other accessory components of PRC2 complex in Arabidopsis have been identified[1]. Heterochromatin protein 1, binding protein 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HP1BP3 gene. PRC1 binds directly to CYK-4 subunit of the centralspindlin complex to stabilise the central spindle. 
LDL cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Consensus
The medical consensus supports the lipid hypothesis as evidence from separate meta-analyses, prospective epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that elevated levels of LDL blood cholesterol are a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Too much LDL (called 'bad cholesterol') can lead to fatty deposits building up in the arteries which increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. A review from the Journal of the American College of Cardiology in 2018 concluded:

The causal effect of LDL and other apo B–containing lipoproteins on the risk of cardiovascular disease is determined by both the magnitude and the cumulative duration of exposure to these lipoproteins. Moreover, since the discovery of the role of LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, the two hypotheses have become tightly linked by a number of molecular and cellular processes. Implications for the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis
The role LDL plays suggests two different approaches to treatment and prevention. It has been demonstrated conclusively that elevated levels of LDL are associated with higher risk of mortality from coronary heart disease (CHD); it has also been shown that statins substantially lower the risk of mortality in patients with high LDL.A second approach would be to discourage the oxidation of LDL, thereby breaking the inflammatory cycle. The cholesterol was found to be responsible for the thickening of the arterial walls and thus decreasing the radius in the arteries which leads in most cases to hypertension and increased risk of occlusive vascular diseases.In the 1950s the Framingham heart study led by Dawber revealed the correlation between high blood cholesterol levels and coronary heart diseases. Dyslipidemia is a risk factor for the development of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). 
LRBA prevents CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] Pathogenesis
LBRA protein interacts with the protein CTLA4. The absence of LBRA increases the turnover of CTLA4 and interferes with vesicle trafficking. CTLA-4 or CTLA4 (cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4), also known as CD152 (cluster of differentiation 152), is a protein receptor that functions as an immune checkpoint and downregulates immune responses. CTLA-4 is also found in regulatory T cells (Tregs) and contributes to their inhibitory function. The mechanism by which CTLA-4 acts in T cells remains somewhat controversial. Antibodies to CTLA-4 may exert additional effects when used in vivo, by binding and thereby depleting regulatory T cells. CTLA-4 can also affect signalling indirectly via competing with CD28 for CD80/86 binding. Interactions
CTLA-4 has been shown to interact with:

AP2M1,
CD80,
CD86,
SHP-2, and
PPP2R5A. 
LRBA promotes CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] Lipopolysaccharide-responsive and beige-like anchor protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the LRBA gene.Patients with Chediak-Higashi syndrome (CHS1; MIM 214500) suffer from a systemic immunodeficiency involving defects in polarized trafficking of vesicles in a number of immune system cell types. The Electronic Waste Recycling Act of 2003 (2003 Cal ALS 526) (EWRA) is a California law to reduce the use of certain hazardous substances in certain electronic products sold in the state. See also
Computer recycling
Waste legislation
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive
Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS)
China RoHS
Turkey RoHS

External links
Integrated Waste Management Board
California’s Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Some Electronic Devices (RoHS) TLA+ is a formal specification language developed by Leslie Lamport. The current TLA+ reference is The TLA+ Hyperbook by Leslie Lamport. Lamport is engaged in creating an updated TLA+ reference, "The TLA+ Hyperbook". Tuples are included in TLA+. Leukotriene B4 receptor 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the LTB4R gene. 
LSD1-positive promoters are associated with RNA polymerase II [SEP] Lysine-specific histone demethylase 1A (LSD1) also known as lysine (K)-specific demethylase 1A (KDM1A) is a protein in humans that is encoded by the KDM1A gene. It's now known LSD1 complex mediates a coordinated histone modification switch through enzymatic activities as well as histone modification readers in the complex. Two molecules of this subunit are present in each RNA polymerase II. The construction of the polymerase complex takes place on the gene promoter. The TFIID-TFIIA-TFIIB (DAB)-promoter complex subsequently recruits RNA polymerase II and TFIIF. Like all core promoters, the DPE plays an important role in the initiation of gene transcription by RNA polymerase II. DNA-directed RNA polymerases I, II, and III subunit RPABC2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the POLR2F gene.This gene encodes the sixth largest subunit of RNA polymerase II, the polymerase responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA in eukaryotes, that is also shared by the other two DNA-directed RNA polymerases. See also
RNA polymerase II

References


== Further reading == 
Lack of FGF21 in mice increases life expectancy. [SEP] FGF21 is a potent, extracellularly acting metabolic regulator, whose action was discovered through in vitro phenotypic screening and diet manipulation studies in rodents.,  unlike canonical growth-stimulating FGFs known to stimulate mitosis, differentiation and angiogenesis in their target tissues,  FGF21 exerts its action by activating FGF21 receptors located in the cell membrane of target cells. Function
FGF21 is beneficially involved in the regulation of lipid, glucose, and energy metabolism. In a similar vein, FGF21 promotes glucose uptake in fat , whereas in liver, it stimulates gluconeogenesis.Although a unifying view on the physiological value of FGF21 for the survival of mammals may still be lacking, evidence indicates that, under dietary protein restriction, FGF21 plays a homeostatic role leading to extend lifespan and improve metabolic health; proof of concept for this view has been recently provided in experiments with mice. FGF21 also protects mice from diet-induced obesity when over expressed in transgenic mice and lowers blood glucose and triglyceride levels when administered to diabetic rodents. FGF21 treatment improves sensitivity to insulin in normal and high-fat fed wild mice. More recently, a report indicated that a single administration of FGF21 can affect the long term fertility in female mice despite the feeding of a high-fat diet. The anti-inflammatory effects of FGF21 may primarily be due to inhibition of NF-κB in macrophages. In mice, FGF21 has been shown to protect against high fat diet-induced inflammation and islet hyperplasia in the pancreas, a finding of possible clinical relevance. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] FGF21 is a potent, extracellularly acting metabolic regulator, whose action was discovered through in vitro phenotypic screening and diet manipulation studies in rodents.,  unlike canonical growth-stimulating FGFs known to stimulate mitosis, differentiation and angiogenesis in their target tissues,  FGF21 exerts its action by activating FGF21 receptors located in the cell membrane of target cells. In a similar vein, FGF21 promotes glucose uptake in fat , whereas in liver, it stimulates gluconeogenesis.Although a unifying view on the physiological value of FGF21 for the survival of mammals may still be lacking, evidence indicates that, under dietary protein restriction, FGF21 plays a homeostatic role leading to extend lifespan and improve metabolic health; proof of concept for this view has been recently provided in experiments with mice. FGF21 also protects mice from diet-induced obesity when over expressed in transgenic mice and lowers blood glucose and triglyceride levels when administered to diabetic rodents. Treatment of mice with FGF21 results in increased energy expenditure, fat utilization and lipid excretion.FGF21 enhances gluconeogenesis, fatty acid activation and  ketogenesis in the mouse liver under various conditions. FGF21 treatment improves sensitivity to insulin in normal and high-fat fed wild mice. The anti-inflammatory effects of FGF21 may primarily be due to inhibition of NF-κB in macrophages. In mice, FGF21 has been shown to protect against high fat diet-induced inflammation and islet hyperplasia in the pancreas, a finding of possible clinical relevance. In addition, injection of FGF21 was associated with decreased circulating insulin and free fatty acid levels. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to reduced lifespan. [SEP] FGF21 is a potent, extracellularly acting metabolic regulator, whose action was discovered through in vitro phenotypic screening and diet manipulation studies in rodents.,  unlike canonical growth-stimulating FGFs known to stimulate mitosis, differentiation and angiogenesis in their target tissues,  FGF21 exerts its action by activating FGF21 receptors located in the cell membrane of target cells. Loss of β-Klotho abolishes all effects of FGF21 in vitro and in vivo. Function
FGF21 is beneficially involved in the regulation of lipid, glucose, and energy metabolism. In a similar vein, FGF21 promotes glucose uptake in fat , whereas in liver, it stimulates gluconeogenesis.Although a unifying view on the physiological value of FGF21 for the survival of mammals may still be lacking, evidence indicates that, under dietary protein restriction, FGF21 plays a homeostatic role leading to extend lifespan and improve metabolic health; proof of concept for this view has been recently provided in experiments with mice. FGF21 also protects mice from diet-induced obesity when over expressed in transgenic mice and lowers blood glucose and triglyceride levels when administered to diabetic rodents. Treatment of mice with FGF21 results in increased energy expenditure, fat utilization and lipid excretion.FGF21 enhances gluconeogenesis, fatty acid activation and  ketogenesis in the mouse liver under various conditions. FGF21 treatment improves sensitivity to insulin in normal and high-fat fed wild mice. More recently, a report indicated that a single administration of FGF21 can affect the long term fertility in female mice despite the feeding of a high-fat diet. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice slows the rate of atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] FGF21 is a potent, extracellularly acting metabolic regulator, whose action was discovered through in vitro phenotypic screening and diet manipulation studies in rodents.,  unlike canonical growth-stimulating FGFs known to stimulate mitosis, differentiation and angiogenesis in their target tissues,  FGF21 exerts its action by activating FGF21 receptors located in the cell membrane of target cells. In a similar vein, FGF21 promotes glucose uptake in fat , whereas in liver, it stimulates gluconeogenesis.Although a unifying view on the physiological value of FGF21 for the survival of mammals may still be lacking, evidence indicates that, under dietary protein restriction, FGF21 plays a homeostatic role leading to extend lifespan and improve metabolic health; proof of concept for this view has been recently provided in experiments with mice. FGF21 also protects mice from diet-induced obesity when over expressed in transgenic mice and lowers blood glucose and triglyceride levels when administered to diabetic rodents. Treatment of mice with FGF21 results in increased energy expenditure, fat utilization and lipid excretion.FGF21 enhances gluconeogenesis, fatty acid activation and  ketogenesis in the mouse liver under various conditions. FGF21 treatment improves sensitivity to insulin in normal and high-fat fed wild mice. The anti-inflammatory effects of FGF21 may primarily be due to inhibition of NF-κB in macrophages. In mice, FGF21 has been shown to protect against high fat diet-induced inflammation and islet hyperplasia in the pancreas, a finding of possible clinical relevance. In obese mice, FGF21 treatment can also reduce circulating glucose and abnormal fat accumulation in the liver. 
Lamins are associated with nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] Lamins, also known as nuclear lamins are fibrous proteins in type V intermediate filaments, providing structural function and transcriptional regulation in the cell nucleus. Nuclear lamins interact with inner nuclear membrane proteins to form the nuclear lamina on the interior of the nuclear envelope. These complex structures allow nuclear lamins to perform their specialized functions in maintaining the shape of the nucleus as well as roles during mitosis and apoptosis. Function
Maintenance of nuclear shape
Due to their properties as a type of IF protein, lamins provide support for maintaining the shape of the nucleus. "Nuclear lamins: building blocks of nuclear architecture". Nuclear Lamins: Their Structure, Assembly and Interactions. Nuclear Lamins – Structural Proteins with fundamental functions. Intermediate filament proteins called lamins form a structure called the nuclear lamina on the inner aspect of the inner nuclear membrane and give structural support to the nucleus. 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the mitochondrial membrane of all cells. [SEP] History
Lamins were first identified in the cell nucleus, using electron-microscopy. Later in 1978, immunolabeling techniques revealed that lamins are localized at the nuclear envelope under the inner nuclear membrane. Structure
The structure of the inner mitochondrial membrane is extensively folded and compartmentalized. The translocase of the inner membrane (TIM) is a complex of proteins found in the inner mitochondrial membrane of the mitochondria. In the mitochondrion, the matrix is the space within the inner membrane. Mitochondria contain both an inner and outer membrane, separated by the inter-membrane space, or inner boundary membrane. Mitochondrial outer membrane
The outer mitochondrial membrane forms the border of mitochondria towards the cellular environment. It consists of a membrane arm, embedded inside the inner mitochondrial membrane, and a matrix arm, extending out of the membrane. 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the nuclear membrane of all cells. [SEP] Lamins, also known as nuclear lamins are fibrous proteins in type V intermediate filaments, providing structural function and transcriptional regulation in the cell nucleus. Nuclear lamins interact with inner nuclear membrane proteins to form the nuclear lamina on the interior of the nuclear envelope. Later in 1978, immunolabeling techniques revealed that lamins are localized at the nuclear envelope under the inner nuclear membrane. Nuclear Lamins – Structural Proteins with fundamental functions. Intermediate filament proteins called lamins form a structure called the nuclear lamina on the inner aspect of the inner nuclear membrane and give structural support to the nucleus. An internal network forms the nuclear lamina on the inner nuclear membrane. Inner membrane
The inner nuclear membrane encloses the nucleoplasm, and is covered by the nuclear lamina, a mesh of intermediate filaments which stabilizes the nuclear membrane as well as being involved in chromatin function. Such structures are nuclear lamina, which consist of proteins termed lamins which can be also found in the nuclear matrix. 
Lamins have no effect on nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] Lamins, also known as nuclear lamins are fibrous proteins in type V intermediate filaments, providing structural function and transcriptional regulation in the cell nucleus. Lamins are present in all animals but are not found in microorganisms, plants or fungi. Some studies have demonstrated that lamins A and C are not required for the formation of the nuclear lamina, yet disruptions in the LMNA gene can contribute to physical and mental limitations. Function
Maintenance of nuclear shape
Due to their properties as a type of IF protein, lamins provide support for maintaining the shape of the nucleus. Nuclei that lack lamins or have mutated versions have a deformed shape and do not function properly. This typical hierarchy raises the question whether the nuclear lamina at this stage has a stabilizing role or some regulative function, for it is clear that it plays no essential part in the nuclear membrane assembly around chromatin. Nuclear Lamins: Their Structure, Assembly and Interactions. Nuclear Lamins – Structural Proteins with fundamental functions. 
Less than 10% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] Assessing the risk of radiation at low doses (<100 mSv) and low dose rates (<0.1 mSv.min−1) is highly problematic and controversial. Apoptosis of radiation damaged cells that may undergo tumorigenesis is initiated at only few mSv. This is a reference to the fact that very low doses of radiation have only marginal impacts on individual health outcomes. Although examples of apparent stimulatory or protective effects can be found in cellular and animal biology, the preponderance of available experimental information does not support the contention that low levels of ionizing radiation have a beneficial effect. LNT, threshold and radiation hormesis.The first preliminary results of the effects of almost no-radiation on cell cultures was reported by two research groups in 2011 and 2012; researchers in the US studied cell cultures protected from radiation in a steel chamber 650 meters underground at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in Carlsbad, New Mexico and researchers in Europe proposed an experiment design to study the effects of almost no-radiation on mouse cells (pKZ1 transgenic chromosomal inversion assay), but did not carry out the experiment. Health Risks from Exposure to Low Levels of Ionizing Radiation: BEIR VII Phase 2. "Cancer risks attributable to low doses of ionizing radiation: Assessing what we really know". Also some later studies suggested that earliest stem cells may lack c-kit on the cell surface. 
Lice attenuated SIV vaccines induce a stronger antigen-specific T cell response in lymph node cells. [SEP] A T-cell vaccine is a vaccine designed to induce protective T-cells.T-cell vaccines are designed to induce cellular immunity. LTCI increases the production of CD-4+ T-cells and can subsequently overcome this immunosuppression. An attenuated vaccine (or a live attenuated vaccine, LAV) is a vaccine created by reducing the virulence of a pathogen, but still keeping it viable (or "live"). Attenuated vaccines stimulate a strong and effective immune response that is long-lasting. In comparison to inactivated vaccines, attenuated vaccines produce a stronger and more durable immune response with a quick immunity onset. Attenuated vaccines function by encouraging the body to create antibodies and memory immune cells in response to the specific pathogen which the vaccine protects against. Live attenuated vaccines tend to help with the production of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes and T-dependent antibody responses. Being able to produce a B-cell response as well as memory killer T cells is a key feature of attenuated virus vaccines that help induce a potent immunity. 
Lipopolysaccharides have an inflammation independent effect on kidney barrier function. [SEP] History
LPS is a known activator of innate immune responses. Conversely, it was also found that poly I:C treated TLR4 and caspase-11 double knockout mice do not develop toxic shock in response to LPS. Inhibition and activation of immune response
Many of the immune activating abilities of LPS can be attributed to the lipid A unit. Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) are large molecules consisting of a lipid and a polysaccharide that are bacterial toxins. Bacteria with rough LPS usually have more penetrable cell membranes to hydrophobic antibiotics, since a rough LPS is more hydrophobic. Alkaline phosphatase prevents intestinal inflammation (and
"leaky gut") from bacteria by dephosphorylating the Lipid A portion of LPS. Biosynthesis and transport
Biological effects on hosts infected with Gram-negative bacteria
Immune response
LPS acts as the prototypical endotoxin because it binds the CD14/TLR4/MD2 receptor complex in many cell types, but especially in monocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages and B cells, which promotes the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, nitric oxide, and eicosanoids. LPS also produces many types of mediators involved in septic shock. 
Lmna knock-in models are appropriate for testing therapeutic approaches against Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS). [SEP] Progeria is a specific type of progeroid syndrome, also known as Hutchinson–Gilford syndrome. Pathophysiology
Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome (HGPS) is an extremely rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder in which symptoms resembling aspects of aging are manifested at an early age. A genetic test for LMNA mutations can confirm the diagnosis of progeria. In 2020 BASE editing was used in a mouse model to target the LMNA gene mutation that causes the progerin protein instead of the healthy Lamin A while in 2023 a study designed a peptide that prevented progerin from binding to BubR1 which is known to regulate aging in mice. The condition was later named Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome. Defects in Lamin A/C
Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) and restrictive dermopathy (RD) are two PS caused by a defect in lamin A/C, which is encoded by the LMNA gene. When this farnesylation is prevented using farnesyltransferase inhibitor (FTI), the abnormalities in nuclear shape are significantly reduced.HGPS is considered autosomal dominant, which means that only one of the two copies of the LMNA gene needs to be mutated to produce this phenotype. External links
Hutchinson–Gilford Progeria Syndrome described in GeneReviews™
NIH Office of Rare Diseases Research (ORDR) - a National Institutes of Health branch which coordinates and supports rare diseases research
Orphanet, a reference portal for information on rare diseases and orphan drugs 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis requires VPS9a [SEP] PIN1/2/3/4/7 in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana) localize at the plasma membrane (PM) where they serve as secondary active transporters involved in the efflux of auxin. The PM-localized PIN proteins show asymmetrical localisations on the membrane and are therefore responsible for polar auxin transport. PIN5 and 8 in Arabidopsis) localize mostly at the ER-membrane or have a dual PM and ER localisation (e.g. PIN6 in Arabidopsis). These PIN proteins regulate the partitioning of auxin within the cell. The PM-localized PIN proteins physically interact with a few members of the large PGP family of transporters that also work as auxin efflux carriers (PGP1 and PGP19 in Arabidopsis). The activity and localization of the PM-localized PIN proteins is regulated by several phosphorylations on their large cytosolic hydrophilic loop carried out by kinases of the AGC family (e.g. reported that Pin1 has putative novel nuclear localization signal (NLS) and Pin1 interacts with importin α5 (KPNA1). 
Long - range chromatin interactions regulate transcription. [SEP] Bivalent chromatin domains are normally associated with promoters of transcription factor genes that are expressed at low levels. The LCR functions by recruiting chromatin-modifying, coactivator, and transcription complexes. Linking model
Transcription factors bind to DNA from the LCR to the promoter in an orderly fashion using non-DNA-binding proteins and chromatin modifiers. One class of transcription coregulators modifies chromatin structure through covalent modification of histones. Many of the histone tail modifications correlate very well to chromatin structure and both histone modification state and chromatin structure correlate well to gene expression levels. These recruited proteins then act to alter chromatin structure actively or to promote transcription. The hypothesis
The hypothesis is that chromatin-DNA interactions are guided by combinations of histone modifications. While it is accepted that modifications (such as methylation, acetylation, ADP-ribosylation, ubiquitination, citrullination, SUMO-ylation and phosphorylation) to histone tails alter chromatin structure, a complete understanding of the precise mechanisms by which these alterations to histone tails influence DNA-histone interactions remains elusive. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation has no significant effects on wheezing or asthma at 3 and 6 years. [SEP] In foods exposed to air, unsaturated fatty acids are vulnerable to oxidation and rancidity.There is no high-quality evidence that dietary supplementation with omega−3 fatty acids reduces the risk of cancer or cardiovascular disease. Subsequently, awareness of the health benefits of essential fatty acids has dramatically increased since the 1980s.On September 8, 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration gave "qualified health claim" status to EPA and DHA omega−3 fatty acids, stating, "supportive but not conclusive research shows that consumption of EPA and DHA [omega−3] fatty acids may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease". While omega−3 polyunsaturated fatty acids may be beneficial in preventing heart disease in humans, the level of omega−6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (and, therefore, the ratio) does not matter.Both omega−6 and omega−3 fatty acids are essential: humans must consume them in their diet. Cardiovascular disease
Moderate and high quality evidence from a 2020 review showed that EPA and DHA, such as that found in omega−3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplements, does not appear to improve mortality or cardiovascular health. There is weak evidence indicating that α-linolenic acid may be associated with a small reduction in the risk of a cardiovascular event or the risk of arrhythmia.A 2018 meta-analysis found no support that daily intake of one gram of omega−3 fatty acid in individuals with a history of coronary heart disease prevents fatal coronary heart disease, nonfatal myocardial infarction or any other vascular event. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. Atopic diseases
Results of studies investigating the role of LCPUFA supplementation and LCPUFA status in the prevention and therapy of atopic diseases (allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, atopic dermatitis, and allergic asthma) are controversial; therefore, as of 2013 it could not be stated either that the nutritional intake of n−3 fatty acids has a clear preventive or therapeutic role, or that the intake of n-6 fatty acids has a promoting role in the context of atopic diseases. Asthma
As of 2015, there was no evidence that taking omega−3 supplements can prevent asthma attacks in children. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation is associated with lower rates of atopic eczema at 1 year. [SEP] In the European Union and other major markets outside the US, omega-3 acid ethyl esters are indicated for hypertriglyceridemia by itself, or in combination with a statin for people with mixed dyslipidemia.Intake of large doses (2.0 to 4.0 g/day) of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids as prescription drugs or dietary supplements are generally required to achieve significant (> 15%) lowering of triglycerides, and at those doses, the effects can be significant (from 20% to 35% and even up to 45% in individuals with levels greater than 500 mg/dL). It appears that both eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) lower triglycerides, but DHA appears to raise LDL cholesterol  more than EPA, while DHA raises HDL cholesterol while EPA does not. Atopic dermatitis (AD), also known as atopic eczema, is a long-term type of inflammation of the skin (dermatitis). Those exposed to dogs while growing up have a lower risk of atopic dermatitis. A diet high in fruits seems to have a protective effect against AD, whereas the opposite seems true for heavily processed foods.Exposure to allergens, either from food or the environment, can exacerbate existing atopic dermatitis. Diet
The role of vitamin D on atopic dermatitis is not clear, but vitamin D supplementation may improve its symptoms.There is no clear benefit for pregnant mothers taking omega 3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) in preventing the development of AD in their child.Several probiotics seem to have a positive effect, with a roughly 20% reduction in the rate of AD. Alternative medicine
While several Chinese herbal medicines are intended for treating atopic eczema, no conclusive evidence shows that these treatments, taken by mouth or applied topically, reduce the severity of eczema in children or adults. "HOME core outcomes for eczema". 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation reduces wheezing and asthma. [SEP] all-cis-8,11,14,17-eicosatetraenoic acid is an ω-3 fatty acid. In the European Union and other major markets outside the US, omega-3 acid ethyl esters are indicated for hypertriglyceridemia by itself, or in combination with a statin for people with mixed dyslipidemia.Intake of large doses (2.0 to 4.0 g/day) of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids as prescription drugs or dietary supplements are generally required to achieve significant (> 15%) lowering of triglycerides, and at those doses, the effects can be significant (from 20% to 35% and even up to 45% in individuals with levels greater than 500 mg/dL). Omega-3 carboxylic acids (Epanova). This causes them to relax and prevent the onset and worsening of symptoms of asthma. The product is marketed by GSK under the Allen & Hanburys brand in the UK.In November 2005, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released a health advisory, alerting the public to findings that show the use of long-acting β2 agonists could lead to a worsening of symptoms, and in some cases death.While the use of inhaled LABAs are still recommended in asthma guidelines for the resulting improved symptom control, further concerns have been raised. References
External links
Link to the GINA asthma website Docosatetraenoic acid designates any straight chain 22:4 fatty acid. This is a naturally occurring polyunsaturated fatty acid formed through a 2-carbon chain elongation of arachidonic acid. 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] In molecular biology mir-M7 microRNA is a short RNA molecule. miR-720 is significantly downregulated following child delivery, thus suggesting a role in pregnancy as well as a possible placental derivation. Applications
In serous ovarian cancer, miR-31 is frequently deleted and is the most underexpressed microRNA in this cancer type. mir-126* is less abundantly found in organisms than mir-126 and fewer roles in regulating gene expression have been identified. Targets of mir-126
miRNA binds to target sequences reducing the expression of the target gene. Transcription of both occur, however mature mir-126 binds to a complementary sequence within EGFL7 preventing translation of the mRNA resulting in a decrease of EGFL7 protein levels. mir-126 expression is reduced in lung cancer cell lines. mir-126 expression is reduced in breast cancer. 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in testis. [SEP] mir-126* is less abundantly found in organisms than mir-126 and fewer roles in regulating gene expression have been identified. This has been observed in cancers which benefit from the silencing of both EGFL7 and mir-126, resulting in neither being expressed.Only one Single-nucleotide polymorphism within mir-126 has been identified. Targets of mir-126
miRNA binds to target sequences reducing the expression of the target gene. Transcription of both occur, however mature mir-126 binds to a complementary sequence within EGFL7 preventing translation of the mRNA resulting in a decrease of EGFL7 protein levels. mir-126 expression is reduced in gastric cancer. mir-126 expression is reduced in lung cancer cell lines. mir-126 expression is reduced in prostate cancer and bladder cancer. Short-term overexpression of miR-744 in mouse cell lines has been seen to enhance cell proliferation, whilst chromosomal instability and in vivo suppression are concurrent with a prolonged expression. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with high methylation levels across species. [SEP] Decreased  DNA Methylation I (DDM1), is a plant gene that encodes a nucleosome remodeler which facilitates DNA methylation. In virtually every organism analyzed, methylation in promoter regions correlates negatively with gene expression. This low level of methylation appears to reside in genomic sequence patterns that are very different from patterns seen in humans, or in other animal or plant species to date. In fungi
Many fungi have low levels (0.1 to 0.5%) of cytosine methylation, whereas other fungi have as much as 5% of the genome methylated. DNA methylation is not impervious to external conditions. DNA methylation is associated with cell differentiation and proliferation. Methylation sites
CoRSIVs are Correlated Regions of Systemic Interindividual Variation in DNA methylation. Prominent among these, was DNA methylation, or lack thereof. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil polarization by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. Lipid rafts influence membrane fluidity and membrane protein trafficking, thereby regulating neurotransmission and receptor trafficking. References
External links
Ly-49+antigen at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Leukocyte polarization is an important requirement for migration, activation and apoptosis in the adaptive and innate immune systems; most leukocytes, including monocytes, granulocytes, and T and B lymphocytes migrate to and from primary and secondary lymphoid organs to tissues to initiate immune responses to pathogens. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a higher inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell. The intermediate monocyte expresses high levels of CD14 and low levels of CD16 (CD14++CD16+ monocytes).While in humans the level of CD14 expression can be used to differentiate non-classical and intermediate monocytes, the slan (6-Sulfo LacNAc) cell surface marker was shown to give an unequivocal separation of the two cell types.Ghattas et al. Inflammatory monocytes (CX3CR1low, CCR2pos, Ly6Chigh, PD-L1neg), which are equivalent to human classical CD14++ CD16− monocytes and resident monocytes (CX3CR1high, CCR2neg, Ly6Clow, PD-L1pos), which are equivalent to human non-classical CD14+ CD16+ monocytes. Depending on which tissues they are expressed in, LY6 family members  have different roles. Many Ly6 family members are expressed in hematopoietic precursors and differentiated hematopoietic cells in a lineage-specific manner and making them useful cell surface markers for leukocytes, facilitating identification of distinct leukocyte sub-population.Further, the Ly6 family proteins are also expressed, for example, by sperm, neurons, keratinocytes and epithelial cells. Function
Ly6 family proteins have different functions depending on expression in different tissues. Increased expression of Ly6E is associated with poor survival outcome in multiple malignancies as determined by a survey of more than 130 published clinical studies of gene expression studies on cancer tissue samples and adjacent normal tissues. Ly6E is associated with drug resistance and tumor immune escape in breast cancer. 
Lysine histone demethylase inhibitor JIB 04 is inactive against KDM5A. [SEP] Lysine-specific demethylase 5B also known as histone demethylase JARID1B is a demethylase enzyme that in humans is encoded by the KDM5B gene. Jarid1B is a multidomain enzyme that is part of the subfamily KDM5. Therefore, the inhibition of KDM1A may be a possible treatment for cancer. H3K9me2 can be removed by a wide range of histone lysine demethylases (KDMs) including KDM1, KDM3, KDM4 and KDM7 family members. Function
Flavin-dependent histone demethylases, such as KDM1B, regulate histone lysine methylation, an epigenetic mark that regulates gene expression and chromatin function. Lysine-specific demethylase 4B is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the KDM4B gene. Lysine-specific demethylase 5D is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the KDM5D gene. KDM5D belongs to the alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylases superfamily. 
M. stadtmanae does not induce ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] Additionally, without stimuli like LPS to induce macrophage maturation to M1 or M2, mice accumulate a large pool of monocytes, the precursor cells to macrophages, which are less helpful for macrophage-specific research


== References == They are the first developmental stage in the monocyte series leading to a macrophage. These cytokines induce the activation of transcription factors which push completion of the monoblast's myeloid cell fate. Compared to other myeloid blasts, monoblasts have more cytoplasm. Development
The monoblast is the first stage of monocyte-macrophage maturation. Additional images

See also
Monocyte
Macrophage
Agranulocyte
White blood cell


== References == A monokine is a type of cytokine produced primarily by monocytes and macrophages. Some monokines are:

interleukin 1
tumor necrosis factor-alpha
alpha and beta interferon
colony stimulating factors

Functions
Monokines released from macrophages can attract neutrophils, via the process chemotaxis. 
M. stadtmanae induces ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] Monocytopoiesis is the process which leads to the production of monocytes (and, subsequently, macrophages). A monokine is a type of cytokine produced primarily by monocytes and macrophages. Cholesterol sulfate, which is present in the skin, is a cause of sterile inflammation through agonizing Mincle signalling. They are the first developmental stage in the monocyte series leading to a macrophage. These cytokines induce the activation of transcription factors which push completion of the monoblast's myeloid cell fate. Development
The monoblast is the first stage of monocyte-macrophage maturation. The development of monoblasts occurs when certain transcription factors are activated, crucial ones being PU.1 and GATA1. Additional images

See also
Monocyte
Macrophage
Agranulocyte
White blood cell


== References == 
MEK inhibitors are effective treatments in RAS-driven mouse models of cancer. [SEP] A MEK inhibitor is a chemical or drug that inhibits the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase enzymes MEK1 and/or MEK2. Hence MEK inhibitors have potential for treatment of some cancers, especially BRAF-mutated melanoma, and KRAS/BRAF mutated colorectal cancer. Pre-clinical investigation
Clinically approved MEK inhibitor Cobimetinib has been investigated in combination with PI3K inhibition in pre-clinical models of lung cancer, where the combined treatment approach lead to a synergistic anti-cancer response. It is a MEK inhibitor drug with anti-cancer activity. Binimetinib is a selective inhibitor of MEK, a central kinase in the tumor-promoting MAPK pathway. MEK is part of the RAS pathway, which is involved in cell proliferation and survival. MEK is upregulated in many forms of cancer. MEK1/2 are dual-specificity threonine/tyrosine kinases that play key roles in the activation of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway and are often upregulated in a variety of tumor cell types. 
MFGE8 regulates fat absorption by binding to av-Beta3 and av-Beta5 integrins. [SEP] Milk fat globule-EGF factor 8 protein (Mfge8), also known as lactadherin, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MFGE8 gene. Species distribution
Mfge8 is a secreted protein found in vertebrates, including mammals as well as birds. Function
MFGE8 may function as a cell adhesion protein to connect smooth muscle to elastic fibers in arteries. MFGE8 in the vasculature of adults can induce recovery from ischemia by facilitating angiogenesis. It has been suggested that antagonizing MFGE8-induced angiogenesis could be a way of fighting cancer.MFGE8 contains a phosphatidylserine (PS) binding domain, as well as an arginine-glycine-aspartic acid motif, which enables the binding to integrins. Major facilitator superfamily domain containing 8 also called MFSD8 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MFSD8 gene. Function
MFSD8 is a ubiquitous integral membrane protein which contains a transporter domain and a major facilitator superfamily (MFS) domain. Integrin alpha-8 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ITGA8 gene. 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics in many cell types. [SEP] Actin remodeling is the biochemical process that allows for the dynamic alterations of cellular organization. The cell's signaling pathways cause actin to affect intracellular organization of the cytoskeleton and often consequently, the cell membrane. The dynamic function of actin remodeling is directly correlated to the immense variability of cell shape, structure, and behavior. Myosin, primarily Myosin II, is also essential to the generation of contractile forces amongst the actin filaments.Membrane attachment to actin network
Attachment of the actin-orthogonal network to the cell's membrane proves essential to the locomotion, shape, and mechanical function of the cell. The dynamic nature of a cell remains directly related to the actin-filament network's ability to respond to the contractile forces that result from environmental and internal cues.Actin filament disassembly
The immobilization by interpenetration of actin filaments results from two distinct ABP families. See also
Actin


== References == Function
Along with two other Rab proteins, Rab6 and Rab8, MICAL3 work together in the process of docking and fusing of vesicles that are involved in exocytosis. The members of the Rho GTPase family have been shown to regulate many aspects of intracellular actin dynamics, and are found in all eukaryotic kingdoms, including yeasts and some plants. 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics. [SEP] Microtubule-associated monoxygenase, calponin and LIM domain containing 3, also known as MICAL3, is a human gene. Function
Along with two other Rab proteins, Rab6 and Rab8, MICAL3 work together in the process of docking and fusing of vesicles that are involved in exocytosis. Actin remodeling is the biochemical process that allows for the dynamic alterations of cellular organization. The cell's signaling pathways cause actin to affect intracellular organization of the cytoskeleton and often consequently, the cell membrane. Structural composition of actin
Actin remains one of the most abundant proteins in all of Eukarya and is an enzyme (ATPase) that gradually hydrolyzes ATP. The dynamic function of actin remodeling is directly correlated to the immense variability of cell shape, structure, and behavior. Myosin, primarily Myosin II, is also essential to the generation of contractile forces amongst the actin filaments.Membrane attachment to actin network
Attachment of the actin-orthogonal network to the cell's membrane proves essential to the locomotion, shape, and mechanical function of the cell. See also
Actin


== References == 
MT binding domain drives amyloid structure formation. [SEP] This encoded protein could play an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is a neuronal adaptor protein that interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP). Amyloid beta A4 precursor protein-binding family B member 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APBB3 gene.The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the APBB protein family. It is found in the cytoplasm and binds to the intracellular domain of the Alzheimer's disease beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) as well as to other APP-like proteins. It is a neuronal adaptor protein that interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP). Amyloid beta A4 precursor protein-binding family A member 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APBA3 gene. It is an adapter protein that interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein. Interactions
APBA3 has been shown to interact with Amyloid precursor protein. 
MUC1-C activates the NF-κB p65 signaling pathway by interacting with IκB kinase ß. [SEP] IKK-α and IKK-β phosphorylate the IκB proteins, marking them for degradation via ubiquitination  and allowing NF-κB transcription factors to go into the nucleus.Once activated, NF-κB transcription factors regulate genes that are implicated in many important cellular processes, including immune response, inflammation, cell death, and cell proliferation. IκBα inhibits NF-κB by masking the nuclear localization signals (NLS) of NF-κB proteins and keeping them sequestered in an inactive state in the cytoplasm. The IκBα (inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B) protein inactivates the NF-κB transcription factor by masking the nuclear localization signals (NLS) of NF-κB proteins and keeping them sequestered in an inactive state in the cytoplasm. Function
IκB kinase activity is essential for activation of members of the nuclear factor-kB (NF-κB) family of transcription factors, which play a fundamental role in lymphocyte immunoregulation. Degradation of IκBα releases the prototypical p50-p65 dimer for translocation to the nucleus, where it binds to κB sites and directs NF-κB-dependent transcriptional activity. NF-κB plays a key role in regulating the immune response to infection. NF-κB turns on expression of its own repressor, IκBα. In addition,  NF-κB is a key player in the inflammatory response. 
MafA phosphorylation decreases its ubiquitination. [SEP] Ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs) are a family of small proteins involved in post-translational modification of other proteins in a cell, usually with a regulatory function. The UBL protein family derives its name from the first member of the class to be discovered, ubiquitin (Ub), best known for its role in regulating protein degradation through covalent modification of other proteins. The best known function of ubiquitin is identifying proteins to be degraded by the proteasome, but ubiquitination can play a role in other processes such as endocytosis and other forms of protein trafficking, transcription and transcription factor regulation, cell signaling, histone modification, and DNA repair. Small Maf (musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma) proteins are basic region leucine zipper-type transcription factors that can bind to DNA and regulate gene regulation. Human MAFF is induced by proinflammatory cytokines. Mouse Mafg gene is induced by oxidative stresses (e.g. The basic region of each Maf family protein contains a tyrosine residue, which is critical for the unique DNA-binding modes of these proteins (see below for details). This is due to the important role of the USP9X enzyme, which reverses protein ubiquitylation, thereby decreasing the enzymatic degradation and increasing the longevity of those proteins. 
MafA phosphorylation enhances its ubiquitination. [SEP] Ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs) are a family of small proteins involved in post-translational modification of other proteins in a cell, usually with a regulatory function. The process of ubiquitination is a tightly regulated three-step sequence: activation, performed by ubiquitin-activating enzymes (E1); conjugation, performed by ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2); and ligation, performed by ubiquitin ligases (E3). Cellular functions
UBLs as a class are involved in a very large variety of cellular processes. The best known function of ubiquitin is identifying proteins to be degraded by the proteasome, but ubiquitination can play a role in other processes such as endocytosis and other forms of protein trafficking, transcription and transcription factor regulation, cell signaling, histone modification, and DNA repair. UBL regulatory systems - including UBLs themselves and the cascade of enzymes that interact with them - are believed to share a common evolutionary origin with prokaryotic biosynthesis pathways for the cofactors thiamine and molybdopterin; the bacterial sulfur transfer proteins ThiS and MoaD from these pathways share the beta-grasp fold with UBLs, while sequence similarity and a common catalytic mechanism link pathway members ThiF and MoeB to ubiquitin-activating enzymes. Probable ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase FAF-X is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the USP9X gene. MaMF, or Mammalian Motif Finder, is an algorithm for identifying motifs to which transcription factors bind.The algorithm takes as input a set of promoter sequences, and a motif width(w), and as output, produces a ranked list of 30 predicted motifs(each motif is defined by a set of N sequences, where N is a parameter). Relationships
A ubiquitin-activating enzyme, or E1, first activates the ubiquitin by covalently attaching the molecule to its active site cysteine residue. 
MafA ubiquitination decreases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] The ubiquitination process covalently attaches ubiquitin, a short protein of 76 amino acids, to a lysine residue on the target protein. Relationships
A ubiquitin-activating enzyme, or E1, first activates the ubiquitin by covalently attaching the molecule to its active site cysteine residue. Prokaryotic ubiquitin-like protein (Pup) is a functional analog of ubiquitin found in the prokaryote Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Ubiquitin bacterial
Ubiquitin Bacterial (UBact) is a protein that is homologous to Prokaryotic ubiquitin-like protein (Pup). Small Maf (musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma) proteins are basic region leucine zipper-type transcription factors that can bind to DNA and regulate gene regulation. Human MAFF is induced by proinflammatory cytokines. Protein Structure
All members of the Maf family including sMafs have a bZIP structure that consists of the basic region for DNA binding and the leucine zipper structure for dimer formation (Fig. The basic region of each Maf family protein contains a tyrosine residue, which is critical for the unique DNA-binding modes of these proteins (see below for details). 
MafA ubiquitination increases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] Transcription factor MafA is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MAFA gene. These phosphorylations activate MAFA transcription and trigger its degradation in the proteasome. MAFA assists in insulin regulation
An in vivo study on mice proved MafA binds to the promoter in an insulin gene to regulate insulin transcription in response to serum glucose levels. MafA is a  β cell-specific activator, which differentiates it from other transcription factors involved with insulin gene expression. The amount of MafA in the β cells is regulated by levels of glucose and oxidative stress. MafA works with Pdx1 to activate the insulin gene. UbiX is a flavin prenyltransferase, catalysing the addition of dimethylallyl-monophosphate (DMAP) (or dimethylallyl-pyrophosphate (DMAPP) ) onto the N5 and C6 positions of FMN culminating in the formation of the prenylated FMN (prFMN) cofactor. This confirmed that UbiX catalyses the formation of the C6-C3' bond through phosphate (and pyrophosphate) acid-base catalysis. 
Major antigen-induced signals from the T cell receptor and secondary signals from costimulatory receptors are required for T cell activation. [SEP] In the case of T cells, two stimuli are required to fully activate their immune response. T cell co-stimulation
T cells require two signals to become fully activated. A first signal, which is antigen-specific, is provided through the T cell receptor (TCR) which interacts with peptide-MHC molecules on the membrane of an antigen presenting cell (APC). But effective co-stimulation is essential only for some T cell activation. Each locus can produce a variety of polypeptides with constant and variable regions.When the TCR engages with antigenic peptide and MHC (peptide/MHC), the T lymphocyte is activated through signal transduction, that is, a series of biochemical events mediated by associated enzymes, co-receptors, specialized adaptor molecules, and activated or released transcription factors. The signal transduction mechanism by which a T cell elicits this response upon contact with its unique antigen is termed T-cell activation. Signal 1 is provided by the T-cell receptor when recognising a specific antigen on a MHC molecule. There are other activation signals which play a role in immune responses. 
Major vault protein (MVP) leads to more aggressive tumors by regulating the sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into extracellular vesicles (EVs). [SEP] Major vault protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MVP gene. Interactions
Major vault protein has been shown to interact with Estrogen receptor alpha, PTEN and PARP4. The vault complex comprises the major vault protein (MVP), two minor vault proteins (VPARP and TEP1), and a variety of small untranslated RNA molecules known as vault RNAs (vRNAs, vtRNAs) only found in higher eukaryotes. Overall, the current belief is that the vtRNAs do not have a structural role in the vault protein, but rather play some kind of functional role. Biological applications
Drug resistance
Vault RNAs, in conjunction with the vault complex, have been associated with drug resistance. Through recent discoveries, it has been shown that the vault non-coding RNAs produce small vault RNAs through a DICER mechanism. These small vault RNAs then operate in similar manner to miRNAs: An svRNA binds an argonaute protein and down-regulates expression of CYP3A4, an enzyme involved in drug metabolism. The reason being that vault RNAs generally have two very well conserved sequences, surrounded by regions of high variability. 
Major vault protein regulates sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into EVs. [SEP] Biological applications
Drug resistance
Vault RNAs, in conjunction with the vault complex, have been associated with drug resistance. These small vault RNAs then operate in similar manner to miRNAs: An svRNA binds an argonaute protein and down-regulates expression of CYP3A4, an enzyme involved in drug metabolism. The reason being that vault RNAs generally have two very well conserved sequences, surrounded by regions of high variability. MiR-125 family members are involved in cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis as a result of targeting messenger RNAs related to these cellular processes. The same family members of miR-125 can play different roles in different pathological processes. Effects of miR-125 in cancer are cell type dependent. MiR-125 is defined either as an oncogene or as a tumor suppressor and can promote or prevent tumor growth at various stages. In terms of tumor suppressive functions and mechanisms, miR-125 family has been described to directly or indirectly silence several oncogenic pathways, such as KRAS. 
Malaria has a high vectorial capacity. [SEP] Anopheles dirus is a vector of malaria in Asian forested zones. Hence, its geographical distribution is overlapping with areas of high malaria prevalence rates and the occurrence of drug resistant Plasmodium falciparum. This species complex is of high medical importance for malaria control, in view of the biological specificities of the members of this complex. Malaria has had a significant impact on the history of the Caribbean, due to its effects on the colonization of the islands and the corresponding impact on society and economy. Due to their genetics, African slaves had greater immunity to falciparum malaria, and this was one reason why slaves were brought in great numbers from Africa. Creoles felt that diseases such as malaria were tools preventing their territories being invaded by Europeans.The Caribbean countries most affected by malaria were the Greater Antilles islands and other humid islands like Martinique and Trinidad and Tobago. Modern research tools will be applied to malaria research. Avoiding areas which have high mosquito populations, specifically for quartan fever the P. malariae strain. 
Many cytokines that are produced by cancer cells also contribute to carcinogenesis. [SEP] Carcinogenesis, also called oncogenesis or tumorigenesis, is the formation of a cancer, whereby normal cells are transformed into cancer cells. In addition, environmental factors such as carcinogens and radiation cause mutations that may contribute to the development of cancer. In either case, expression of these genes promotes the malignant phenotype of cancer cells. It is important to note that a gene possessing a growth-promoting role may increase the carcinogenic potential of a cell, under the condition that all necessary cellular mechanisms that permit growth are activated. Cytokines hinder tumor cell development mostly through antiproliferative or proapoptotic pathways but can also interrupt development indirectly by eliciting immune cells to have cytotoxic effects against tumor cells. Carcinogenesis publishes articles in four sections: cancer biology covers the cell and molecular biology of cancer, as well as mutation and DNA repair; molecular epidemiology includes genetic predisposition to cancer; cancer prevention covers chemoprophylaxis as well as dietary factors; and carcinogenesis covers all forms of carcinogens, including their metabolism and detection in the environment. Abstracting and indexing
Carcinogenesis is abstracted and indexed in Biological Abstracts, BIOSIS Previews, CAB Abstracts, Chemical Abstracts, Current Contents/Life Sciences, BIOBASE – Current Awareness in Biological Sciences, EMBASE, Excerpta Medica, Global Health, MEDLINE, ProQuest, and the Science Citation Index. Many of these genes participate in pathways known to be involved in carcinogenesis, namely DNA repair, inflammation, the cell division cycle, cellular stress responses, and chromatin remodeling. 
Many transmembrane receptors transmit signals by long-range conformational changes in the association of alpha-helices across the plasma membrane. [SEP] Structure and mechanism
Many membrane receptors are transmembrane proteins. In other receptors, the transmembrane domains undergo a conformational change upon binding, which affects intracellular conditions. G protein-coupled receptors are integral membrane proteins that possess seven transmembrane helices. G protein-coupled receptors
G protein-coupled receptors comprise a large protein family of transmembrane receptors. Receptor structure
GPCRs are integral membrane proteins that possess seven membrane-spanning domains or transmembrane helices. Conformational change
The transduction of the signal through the membrane by the receptor is not completely understood. The translocon channel provides a highly heterogeneous environment for the nascent transmembrane α-helices. See also
Membrane protein
Membrane topology
Transmembrane domain
Transmembrane receptors


== References == 
Marmosets have a brain region homologous to Broca's area. [SEP] Broca's area, or the Broca area (, also UK: , US: ), is a region in the frontal lobe of the dominant hemisphere, usually the left, of the brain with functions linked to speech production. Broca's area is now typically defined in terms of the pars opercularis and pars triangularis of the inferior frontal gyrus, represented in Brodmann's cytoarchitectonic map as Brodmann area 44 and Brodmann area 45 of the dominant hemisphere.Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has shown language processing to also involve the third part of the inferior frontal gyrus the pars orbitalis, as well as the ventral part of BA6 and these are now often included in a larger area called Broca's region.Studies of chronic aphasia have implicated an essential role of Broca's area in various speech and language functions. However, there is evidence to demonstrate that Broca's area also plays a significant role in language comprehension. Here the results showed that under rTMS stimulation: 

Semantic tasks only showed a decrease in reaction times when stimulation was aimed at the anterior part of Broca's area (where a decrease of 10% (50 ms) was seen compared to a no-TMS control group)
Phonological tasks showed a decrease in reaction times when stimulation was aimed at the posterior part of Broca's area (where a decrease of 6% (30 ms) was seen compared to control)To summarise, the work above shows anatomical specialisation in Broca's area for language comprehension, with the anterior part of Broca's area responsible for understanding the meaning of words (semantics) and the posterior part of Broca's area responsible for understanding how words sound (phonology). This suggests that Broca's area is not dedicated to sentence processing alone, but supports a function common to both. The study, therefore, claims that Broca's area is the "motor center for speech", which assembles and decodes speech sounds in the same way it interprets body language and gestures. More recently, the neocortical distribution of activity-dependent gene expression in marmosets provided direct evidence that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, which comprises Broca's area in humans and has been associated with auditory processing of species-specific vocalizations and orofacial control in macaques, is engaged during vocal output in a New World monkey. This brain region was described by the French neuroanatomist Paul Broca. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have only a modest impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] Artemisinin () and its semisynthetic derivatives are a group of drugs used in the treatment of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum. Combination therapies, featuring artemisinin or its derivatives alongside some other antimalarial drug, constitute the contemporary standard-of-care treatment regimen for malaria. Medical use
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends artemisinin or one of its derivatives ― typically in combination with a longer-lasting partner drug ― as frontline therapy for all cases of malaria. Adverse effects
Artemisinins are generally well tolerated at the doses used to treat malaria. Adverse effects in patients with acute P. falciparum malaria treated with artemisinin derivatives tend to be higher. A 2012 review reported that artemisinin-based therapies were the most effective drugs for treatment of malaria at that time; it was also reported to clear malaria parasites from patients' bodies faster than other drugs. In 2006, after artemisinin had become the treatment of choice for malaria, the WHO called for an immediate halt to single-drug artemisinin preparations in favor of combinations of artemisinin with another malaria drug, to reduce the risk of parasites developing resistance.In 2011, Tu Youyou was awarded the Lasker-DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award for her role in the discovery and development of artemisinin. Artemisinin has proven to be the most effective anti-malarial drug ever produced. 
MeCP2 influences the synaptic maturation of neurons. [SEP] MECP2 (methyl CpG binding protein 2) is a gene that encodes the protein MECP2. MECP2 appears to be essential for the normal function of nerve cells. Recent work has shown that MECP2 can also activate other genes. MECP2 is an important reader of DNA methylation. MeCP2 has been implicated in regulation of imprinted genes and loci that include UBE3A and DLX5.Reduced expression of MECP2 in Mecp2+/- neural stem cells causes an increase in senescence, impairment of proliferative capacity and accumulation of unrepaired DNA damage. This forms part of a homeostatic mechanism that could regulate MECP2 levels in the brain. MeCP2 and Hormones
MeCP2 in the developing rat brain regulates important social development in a sexually dimorphic manner. Decreased functioning of the MeCP2 protein thus upregulates the neuronal stress response. 
Measuring routine outcomes is more beneficial to clinical practice than assessing treatment adherence. [SEP] In medicine and psychology, clinical significance is the practical importance of a treatment effect—whether it has a real genuine, palpable, noticeable effect on daily life. Practical significance
In broad usage, the "practical clinical significance" answers the question, how effective is the intervention or treatment, or how much change does the treatment cause. In terms of testing clinical treatments, practical significance optimally yields quantified information about the importance of a finding, using metrics such as effect size, number needed to treat (NNT), and preventive fraction. Specific usage
In contrast, when used as a technical term within psychology and psychotherapy, clinical significance yields information on whether a treatment was effective enough to change a patient’s diagnostic label. In terms of clinical treatment studies, clinical significance answers the question "Is a treatment effective enough to cause the patient to be normal [with respect to the diagnostic criteria in question]?" Like blood pressure, cholesterol and other routine lab work that helps to guide and inform general medical practice, the use of routine measurement in behavioral health is proving to be invaluable in assisting therapists to deliver better quality care. Macro-context
In behavioral healthcare (mental health and substance abuse treatment) routine health outcomes measurement has expanded beyond aggregating measurements for quality improvement studies and has placed equal emphasis on the therapeutic gain delivered by real-time patient-level outcome feedback. Percent of patient documenting reliable improvement. 
Medications to treat obesity are highly effective. [SEP] Anti-obesity medication or weight loss medications are pharmacological agents that reduce or control weight. Mechanisms of action
Anti-obesity medications may operate through one or more of the following mechanisms:

Catecholamine releasing agents such as amphetamine, phentermine, and related substituted amphetamines (e.g., bupropion) which act as appetite suppressants are the main tools used for the treatment of obesity. Based on its effectiveness for hypothyroidism, thyroid hormone became a popular treatment for obesity in euthyroid people. Pharmacotherapy of obesity: options and alternatives. External links
 Media related to Anti-obesity medication at Wikimedia Commons
Prescription Medications for the Treatment of Obesity Management of obesity can include lifestyle changes, medications, or surgery. "The most effective treatment for obesity is bariatric surgery. Medication
Anti-obesity medications currently approved by the FDA for weight loss
Several anti-obesity medications are currently approved by the FDA for long term use. 
Medications to treat obesity do not have side effects. [SEP] Although many studies have sought effective interventions, there is currently no evidence-based, well-defined, and efficient intervention to prevent obesity.The main treatment for obesity consists of weight loss via healthy nutrition and increasing physical exercise. Medication
Anti-obesity medications currently approved by the FDA for weight loss
Several anti-obesity medications are currently approved by the FDA for long term use. This condition is, however, rare and this treatment is not effective for inducing weight loss in the majority of people with obesity. Anti-obesity medication or weight loss medications are pharmacological agents that reduce or control weight. In the United States, orlistat (Xenical) and semaglutide (Wegovy) are approved by the FDA for long-term use.Because of potential side effects, and limited evidence of small benefits in weight reduction for children and adolescents with obesity, it is recommended that anti-obesity medications only be prescribed for obesity where it is hoped that the benefits of the treatment outweigh its risks. Mechanisms of action
Anti-obesity medications may operate through one or more of the following mechanisms:

Catecholamine releasing agents such as amphetamine, phentermine, and related substituted amphetamines (e.g., bupropion) which act as appetite suppressants are the main tools used for the treatment of obesity. Pharmacotherapy of obesity: options and alternatives. External links
 Media related to Anti-obesity medication at Wikimedia Commons
Prescription Medications for the Treatment of Obesity 
Medications to treat obesity have unwanted side effects. [SEP] Anti-obesity medication or weight loss medications are pharmacological agents that reduce or control weight. These medications alter one of the fundamental processes of the human body, weight regulation, by altering either appetite, or absorption of calories. Mechanisms of action
Anti-obesity medications may operate through one or more of the following mechanisms:

Catecholamine releasing agents such as amphetamine, phentermine, and related substituted amphetamines (e.g., bupropion) which act as appetite suppressants are the main tools used for the treatment of obesity. Medical complications included fatal pulmonary hypertension and heart valve damage due to Redux and Fen-phen, and hemorrhagic stroke due to phenylpropanolamine.Since the introduction of medicines for the management of obesity in the 1930s, many compounds have been tried. Medication
Some patients find that diet and exercise is not a viable option; for these patients, anti-obesity medications can be a last resort. Side effects
Some anti-obesity medications can have severe, even, lethal side effects, fen-phen being a famous example. Pharmacotherapy of obesity: options and alternatives. External links
 Media related to Anti-obesity medication at Wikimedia Commons
Prescription Medications for the Treatment of Obesity 
Men are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to women. [SEP] Diseases
Men are more likely to suffer from heart disease, cancer, and stroke more than women do. These diseases are the main cause of the gender gap in life expectancy.Despite men having more fatal conditions such as ischemic heart disease, lung cancer, liver cirrhosis, traffic accidents, and suicide, women have more non-fatal acute and chronic conditions. While women report more symptoms and experience higher incidence of musculoskeletal and autoimmune disease, men have earlier and higher rates of cardiovascular diseases, after adjusting the data for the gap in life expectancy. While men have nearly twice the incidence of coronary heart disease and related mortality, women experience more incidence at increasing age.Women also have higher rates of autoimmune disorders than men; one hypothesis for this is that testosterone facilitates immunosuppression in men, decreasing the likelihood men create autoantibodies that can target their own bodies, leading to autoimmune disease.Most countries report higher rates of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in women compared to men. Male morbidity advantage
Although males experience greater mortality, they appear to have the advantage of lower morbidity. The mortality due to COVID-19 is higher in men. Sex differences in mortality
More men than women die after being affected by COVID-19. However, in a few countries like India, Nepal, Vietnam, and Slovenia the fatality cases are higher in women than men.The higher mortality rate in men is consistent with other respiratory diseases, which show a similar disparity. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in similar efficacy and better quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] FOLFOX is a chemotherapy regimen for treatment of colorectal cancer, made up of the drugs folinic acid (leucovorin, FOL), fluorouracil (5-FU, F), and oxaliplatin (Eloxatin, OX). The recommended dose schedule is as follows:
Day 1: Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 intravenous (IV) infusion in 250-500 mL D5W and leucovorin 200 mg/m2 IV infusion in D5W administered concurrently over 120 minutes in separate bags using a Y-line, followed by fluorouracil (5-FU) 400 mg/m2 IV bolus given over 2–4 minutes, followed by 5-FU 600 mg/m2 IV infusion in 500 mL D5W (recommended) as a 22-hour continuous infusion. "A randomized controlled trial of fluorouracil plus leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin combinations in patients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer". FOLFOXIRI is a chemotherapy regimen for The treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. The role of FOLFOXIRI in colorectal cancer has been reviewed.The chemotherapy regimen is made up of the following four drugs:

FOL – folinic acid (leucovorin), a vitamin B derivative that modulates/potentiates/reduces the side effects of fluorouracil;
F –   fluorouracil (5-FU), a pyrimidine analog and antimetabolite which incorporates into the DNA molecule and stops DNA synthesis;
OX – oxaliplatin (Eloxatin), a platinum-based antineoplastic agent, which inhibits DNA repair and/or DNA synthesis;
IRI – irinotecan (Camptosar), a topoisomerase inhibitor, prevents DNA from uncoiling and duplicating.It is usually given with bevacizumab, unlike FOLFIRINOX for treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer. Also, the doses (Day 1: irinotecan 165 mg/m2 IV, plus oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 IV; Day 1: leucovorin 400 mg/m2; Days 1–3: fluorouracil 1,600 mg/m2/day × 2 days (total 3,200 mg/m2 over 48 hours) continuous infusion starting on day 1; Day 1: bevacizumab 5 mg/kg IV; repeat cycle every 2 weeks) are slightly dissimilar to  FOLFIRINOX. The quality of life and survival rates of individuals that receive continuous hepatic artery infusion of floxuridine for colorectal cancer metastases is significantly higher than control groups. Floxuridine can also be prescribed for the treatment of kidney and stomach cancers. 
Mice are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] Chikungunya is a mosquito-borne alpha virus that was first isolated after a 1952 outbreak in modern-day Tanzania. Chikungunya is an infection caused by the Chikungunya virus (CHIKV). Transmission
Chikungunya is generally transmitted from mosquitoes to humans. It appears that in vitro, Chikungunya virus is able to replicate in human epithelial and endothelial cells, primary fibroblasts, and monocyte-derived macrophages. Mouse studies also suggest that chikungunya evades host defenses and counters the type-I interferon response by producing NS2, a nonstructural protein that degrades RBP1 and turns off the host cell's ability to transcribe DNA. Even with a vaccine, mosquito population control and bite prevention will be necessary to control chikungunya disease. No antiviral treatment for Chikungunya virus is currently available, though testing has shown several medications to be effective in vitro. Insect-specific flaviviruses, such as Binjari virus, are unable to replicate in vertebrate cells. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] The reduction in POLA1 expression is accompanied by marked reduction in cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrid molecules and a concomitant hyperactivation of the IRF3 pathway, with consequent overproduction of type I interferons.Moreover, POLA1 deficiency, typical for XLPDR, also impair direct cytotoxicity of NK cells. Radioresistance is the level of ionizing radiation that organisms are able to withstand. Ionizing-radiation-resistant organisms (IRRO) were defined as organisms for which the dose of acute ionizing radiation (IR) required to achieve 90% reduction (D10) is greater than 1,000 gray (Gy) Radioresistance is surprisingly high in many organisms, in contrast to previously held views. Radioresistance may be induced by exposure to small doses of ionizing radiation. Several cellular radioprotection mechanisms may be involved, such as alterations in the levels of some cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins and increased gene expression, DNA repair and other processes. Exposure to gamma radiation leads to cellular DNA damage including alterations in nitrogenous base-pairing, sugar-phosphate backbone damage, and double-stranded DNA lesions. The extraordinarily efficient cellular repair mechanisms that Deinoccocus species like D. radiodurans have evolved to repair heat-damage are likely also capable of reversing the effects of DNA damage wrought by ionizing radiation, such as by piecing back together any components of their genome that have been fragmented by the radiation.Bacillus sp. Radioresistance of cancer cells may be intrinsic or induced by the radiation therapy itself. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] A DNA repair-deficiency disorder is a medical condition due to reduced functionality of DNA repair. DNA repair defects can cause an accelerated aging disease or an increased risk of cancer, or sometimes both. Human disorders with accelerated aging
Ataxia-telangiectasia
Bloom syndrome
Cockayne syndrome
Fanconi anemia
Progeria (Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome)
Rothmund–Thomson syndrome
Trichothiodystrophy
Werner syndrome
Xeroderma pigmentosum

Examples
Some examples of DNA repair defects causing progeroid syndromes in humans or mice are shown in Table 1. DNA repair defects distinguished from "accelerated aging"
Most of the DNA repair deficiency diseases show varying degrees of "accelerated aging" or cancer (often some of both). DNA repair defects and increased cancer risk
Individuals with an inherited impairment in DNA repair capability are often at increased risk of cancer. Such DNA damages can cause errors during DNA synthesis leading to mutations, some of which may give rise to cancer. Germ-line DNA repair mutations that increase the risk of cancer are listed in the Table. Pol (DNA polymerase) refers to a gene in retroviruses, or the protein produced by that gene. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] Interactions
DNA dependent polymerase alpha (Pol α) has been shown to interact with MCM4 and GINS1, Retinoblastoma protein, PARP1 and RBMS1. Radioresistance is the level of ionizing radiation that organisms are able to withstand. Radioresistance may be induced by exposure to small doses of ionizing radiation. Several cellular radioprotection mechanisms may be involved, such as alterations in the levels of some cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins and increased gene expression, DNA repair and other processes. Inheritance of radioresistance
There is strong evidence that radioresistance can be genetically determined and inherited, at least in some organisms. Exposure to gamma radiation leads to cellular DNA damage including alterations in nitrogenous base-pairing, sugar-phosphate backbone damage, and double-stranded DNA lesions. The extraordinarily efficient cellular repair mechanisms that Deinoccocus species like D. radiodurans have evolved to repair heat-damage are likely also capable of reversing the effects of DNA damage wrought by ionizing radiation, such as by piecing back together any components of their genome that have been fragmented by the radiation.Bacillus sp. Radioresistance of cancer cells may be intrinsic or induced by the radiation therapy itself. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons are immune to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] SIRT2 is expressed in a wide range of tissues and organs and has been detected particularly in metabolically relevant tissues, including the brain, muscle, liver, testes, pancreas, kidney, and adipose tissue of mice. Cytosolic functions of SIRT2 include the regulation of microtubule acetylation, control of myelination in the central and peripheral nervous system and gluconeogenesis. Animal studies
Metabolic actions
SIRT2 suppresses inflammatory responses in mice through p65 deacetylation and inhibition of NF-κB activity. Neurodegeneration
Several studies in cell and invertebrate models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD) suggested potential neuroprotective effects of SIRT2 inhibition, in striking contrast with other sirtuin family members. In addition, recent evidence shows that inhibition of SIRT2 protects against MPTP-induced neuronal loss in vivo. Clinical significance
Metabolic actions
Several SIRT2 deacetylation targets play important roles in metabolic homeostasis. SIRT2 inhibits adipogenesis by deacetylating FOXO1 and thus may protect against insulin resistance. SIRT2 sensitizes cells to the action of insulin by physically interacting with and activating Akt and downstream targets. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons have increased susceptibility to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] SIRT2 is expressed in a wide range of tissues and organs and has been detected particularly in metabolically relevant tissues, including the brain, muscle, liver, testes, pancreas, kidney, and adipose tissue of mice. Cytosolic functions of SIRT2 include the regulation of microtubule acetylation, control of myelination in the central and peripheral nervous system and gluconeogenesis. Animal studies
Metabolic actions
SIRT2 suppresses inflammatory responses in mice through p65 deacetylation and inhibition of NF-κB activity. Neurodegeneration
Several studies in cell and invertebrate models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD) suggested potential neuroprotective effects of SIRT2 inhibition, in striking contrast with other sirtuin family members. In addition, recent evidence shows that inhibition of SIRT2 protects against MPTP-induced neuronal loss in vivo. Clinical significance
Metabolic actions
Several SIRT2 deacetylation targets play important roles in metabolic homeostasis. SIRT2 inhibits adipogenesis by deacetylating FOXO1 and thus may protect against insulin resistance. SIRT2 sensitizes cells to the action of insulin by physically interacting with and activating Akt and downstream targets. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] There is compelling evidence that autoimmunity against this class of G protein-coupled receptors results in a variety of pathologies:
Cardiovascular diseases and events:
Circulating autoantibodies to adrenergic receptors have been identified in numerous heart diseases and cardiac symptoms. Autoantibodies to beta1-adrenergic receptors are linked to chronic heart failure. Cardiomyopathy due to autoimmune dysregulation and production of autoantibodies has been seen in humans and reproduced in animal models. HIV) have been considered causes of eosinophilic endocarditis, a study of 20 patients concluded that viral myocarditis lacks the characteristic of eosinophil-induced damage in hearts taken during cardiac transplantation. Mice made hypereosinophilic by the forced overexpression of an interleukin-5 transgene (interleukin 5 stimulates eosinophil proliferation, activation, and migration) develop eosinophilic myocarditis. A similar eosinophilic endocarditis occurs in mice immunized with the cardiac muscle protein, mouse myosin. Finally, certain eosinophil-attracting agents, viz., eotaxins, are elevated in the cardiac tissue of myosin-immunized mice that are concurrently depleted of interferon gamma and interleukin-17A. These findings suggest that eosinophilic myocarditis is caused by the abnormal proliferation and activation of eosinophils and that their directional migration into the heart is evoked by a set of cytokines and chemoattractants in mice and possibly humans. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] An acute monophasic illness, it has been suggested that EAE is far more similar to ADEM than to MS.

Types of EAE
EAE can be induced in a number of species, including mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits and primates. It may also be induced by the passive transfer of T cells specifically reactive to these myelin antigens.Depending on the antigen used and the genetic make-up of the animal, rodents can display a monophasic bout of EAE, a relapsing-remitting form, or chronic EAE. Some key differences between EAE in mice, and MS in humans include:

B-cells: Some research points to anti-CD20 B-cells being the basis of the autoimmune attacks. Human Anti-MOG in mice
Anti-MOG associated encephalomyelitis can be passed from humans to mice, inducing MS type II demyelination (pattern II)

Immunogenetic interactions
Deficiency of TBX21 or STAT4 provides resistance against EAE, while interferon-γ-, interferon-γ-receptor-, interleukin-12 subunit α-, interleukin 12 receptor, β 2 subunit-, and interleukin 18-deficiency exacerbated disease. A conditional knockout mouse line, called Ifitm3tm1Masu was generated as part of the International Knockout Mouse Consortium program — a high-throughput mutagenesis project to generate and distribute animal models of disease to interested scientists — at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute.Male and female animals underwent a standardized phenotypic screen to determine the effects of deletion. Depending on the mouse and viral strain, viral pathogenesis can range from negligible, to chronic or acute encephalomyelitis. This is the proposed course of disease in TMEV infection in mice.Many bacteria and viruses infect humans without pathology in normal individuals. It may be an important link between the study of mouse TMEV-induced encephalomyelitis and human multiple sclerosis.The majority of mouse strains are not susceptible to the pathology associated with TMEV infection. 
Microcin J25 encourages nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] An NTP binding site is a type of binding site found in nucleoside monophosphate (NMP) kinases, N can be adenosine or guanosine. A P-loop is one of the structural motifs common for nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding sites, it interacts with the bound nucleotide's phosphoryl groups. NTP binding sites play a role in poliovirus RNA replication. Hydrolysis of nucleoside triphosphates (NTPs) such as ATP and GTP yields energy, inorganic phosphate (Pi or PPi), and either NDP or NMP. NTP phosphorylates a histidine, which in turn phosphorylates NDP. NDPK are involved in the synthesis of nucleoside triphosphates (NTP), such as guanosine triphosphate (GTP), cytidine triphosphate (CTP) and uridine triphosphate (UTP), thymidine triphosphate (TTP). NDPK + NTP ↔ NDPK~NTP ↔ NDPK-P~NDP ↔ NDPK-P + NDPNDPK's roles in these NTPs differ; generally, kinases bring in NTPs for nucleic acid synthesis. Nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity involves the transfer of the γ-phosphate of nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) to nucleoside diphosphate (NDP), where N1 and N2 can be ribo- or deoxyribonucleosides. 
Microcin J25 inhibits nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] An NTP binding site is a type of binding site found in nucleoside monophosphate (NMP) kinases, N can be adenosine or guanosine. A P-loop is one of the structural motifs common for nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding sites, it interacts with the bound nucleotide's phosphoryl groups. NTP binding sites play a role in poliovirus RNA replication. Neopluramycin is an antibiotic that inhibits nucleic acid synthesis. Mechanism of action
Activation of nucleoside and nucleotide reverse-transcriptase inhibitors is primarily dependent on cellular entry by passive diffusion or carrier-mediated transport. Acyclic nucleotide – the only approved NtRTI
Nucleotide analogues require only two phosphorylation steps whereas nucleoside analogues require three steps. Hydrolysis of nucleoside triphosphates (NTPs) such as ATP and GTP yields energy, inorganic phosphate (Pi or PPi), and either NDP or NMP. NTPs can be hydrolyzed at the phosphodiester bonds between phosphates, releasing energy and one or more of the three phosphate groups. 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the central nervous system. [SEP] Microglia are the primary immune cells of the central nervous system, similar to peripheral macrophages. Microglia are a type of neuroglia (glial cell) located throughout the brain and spinal cord. Microglia are key cells in overall brain maintenance—they are constantly scavenging the CNS for plaques, damaged or unnecessary neurons and synapses, and infectious agents. Microglia in this state are able to search for and identify immune threats while maintaining homeostasis in the CNS. Clinical significance
Microglia are the primary immune cells of the central nervous system, similar to peripheral macrophages. In the central nervous system (CNS), including the brain and spinal cord, microglia are the resident innate immune cells that are activated in response to these cues. Neuroimmune response
Glial cells
Microglia are recognized as the innate immune cells of the central nervous system. Microglia
Microglia are specialized macrophages capable of phagocytosis that protect neurons of the central nervous system. 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] Microglia are the primary immune cells of the central nervous system, similar to peripheral macrophages. Microglia are a type of neuroglia (glial cell) located throughout the brain and spinal cord. Microglia are key cells in overall brain maintenance—they are constantly scavenging the CNS for plaques, damaged or unnecessary neurons and synapses, and infectious agents. Microglia and macrophages both contribute to the immune response by acting as antigen presenting cells, as well as promoting inflammation and homeostatic mechanisms within the body by secreting cytokines and other signaling molecules.In their downregulated form, microglia lack the MHC class I/MHC class II proteins, IFN-γ cytokines, CD45 antigens, and many other surface receptors required to act in the antigen-presenting, phagocytic, and cytotoxic roles that distinguish normal macrophages. Clinical significance
Microglia are the primary immune cells of the central nervous system, similar to peripheral macrophages. In the central nervous system (CNS), including the brain and spinal cord, microglia are the resident innate immune cells that are activated in response to these cues. Neuroimmune response
Glial cells
Microglia are recognized as the innate immune cells of the central nervous system. Microglia
Microglia are specialized macrophages capable of phagocytosis that protect neurons of the central nervous system. 
Migraine with aura is associated with ischemic stroke. [SEP] A migrainous infarction is a rare type of ischaemic stroke which occurs in correspondence with migraine aura symptoms. However, migrainous infarction can also occur in those with migraine without aura, although this is less common with only 20% of migrainous infarction patients never having experienced aura. A diagnosis is confirmed when neuroimaging of the patient's brain exhibits an ischaemic infarction in an area associated with the migraine.Overall, only 18% of patients with MA will experience any aura symptoms for longer than 60 minutes. Migraine with aura, or "classic migraine", usually involves migraine headaches accompanied by aura. The report classifies severe migraine alongside severe depression, active psychosis, quadriplegia, and terminal-stage cancer.Migraine with aura appears to be a risk factor for ischemic stroke doubling the risk. Preventative therapy of migraines in those with migraine with aura may prevent associated strokes. The visual field data suggests that there is a higher incidence of end arteriolar distribution infraction and a higher incidence of permanent visual field defects in retinal migraine than in clinically manifest cerebral infarctions in migraine with aura. Migraine
The aura of migraine is visual in the vast majority of cases, because dysfunction starts from the visual cortex. 
Misunderstandings between doctors and patients can lead to non-adherence. [SEP] In a poor doctor–patient relationship, the physician's ability to make a full assessment may be compromised and the patient may be more likely to distrust the diagnosis and proposed treatment. The downstream effects of this mistrust may include decreased patient adherence to the physician's medical advice, which could result in poorer health outcomes for the patient. There can be issues with how to handle informed consent in a doctor–patient relationship; for instance, with patients who do not want to know the truth about their condition. Doctors may lie to patients to displace culpability for poor outcomes and say they avoid giving patients information because it may confuse patients, cause pain, or undermine hope. Medical mistrust negatively impacts the doctor–patient relationship, as a patient who has little faith in their physician is less likey to listen to their advice, follow their treatment plans, and feel comfortable disclosing information about themselves. The cost of prescription medication also plays a major role.Compliance can be confused with concordance, which is the process by which a patient and clinician make decisions together about treatment.Worldwide, non-compliance is a major obstacle to the effective delivery of health care. Major barriers to compliance are thought to include the complexity of modern medication regimens, poor "health literacy" and not understanding treatment benefits, the occurrence of undiscussed side effects, poor treatment satisfaction, cost of prescription medicine, and poor communication or lack of trust between a patient and his or her health-care provider. Both patient and health-care provider affect compliance, and a positive physician-patient relationship is the most important factor in improving compliance.As of 2003, US health care professionals more commonly used the term "adherence" to a regimen rather than "compliance", because it has been thought to reflect better the diverse reasons for patients not following treatment directions in part or in full. 
Mitochondria play a major role in apoptosis. [SEP] Apoptosis-inducing factor, mitochondria-associated 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the AIFM3 gene. Apoptosis is a specialized sequence of events that a cell can induce for programmed death. MAC activity is detected by patch clamping mitochondria from apoptotic cells at the time of cytochrome c release.Members of the Bcl-2 protein family regulate apoptosis by controlling the formation of MAC: the pro-apoptotic members Bax and/or Bak form MAC, whereas the anti-apoptotic members like Bcl-2 or Bcl-xL prevent MAC formation. Apoptosis-inducing factor 1, mitochondrial is a protein that in humans is encoded by the AIFM1 gene on the X chromosome. This protein localizes to the mitochondria, as well as the nucleus, where it carries out nuclear fragmentation as part of caspase-independent apoptosis. The apoptosome triggers the activation of caspases in the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis. In animals, apoptosis can be catalyzed in one of two ways; the extrinsic pathway involves binding of extracellular ligands to transmembrane receptors, while the intrinsic pathway take place in the mitochondria. While apoptosis is required for natural body function, mutations of the apoptosome pathway cause catastrophic effects and changes in the body. 
Mitochondria play a major role in energy production. [SEP] In addition to supplying cellular energy, mitochondria are involved in other tasks, such as signaling, cellular differentiation, and cell death, as well as maintaining control of the cell cycle and cell growth. Function
The most prominent roles of mitochondria are to produce the energy currency of the cell, ATP (i.e., phosphorylation of ADP), through respiration and to regulate cellular metabolism. However, the mitochondrion has many other functions in addition to the production of ATP. Energy conversion
A dominant role for the mitochondria is the production of ATP, as reflected by the large number of proteins in the inner membrane for this task. When the energy needs of a cell are high, mitochondria grow and divide. The dynamic nature of mitochondria is critical for function. Mitochondria are the organelles that generate energy for the cell and are found in every cell of the human body except red blood cells. The mitochondrion is a key regulator of the metabolic activity of the cell, and is also an important organelle in both production and degradation of free radicals. 
Mitochondria play a trivial role in calcium homeostasis. [SEP] Balancing calcium concentration is necessary to increase the cell's energy supply and regulate cell death. The MCU has a very low affinity for calcium, so the cytosolic calcium concentration needs to be approximately 5-10 uM for significant transport of calcium into the mitochondria. Mitochondria are closely associated with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), at contact sites, which contains stores of cellular calcium ions for calcium signaling. This is important in the ER-mitochondria calcium signaling and is involved in the transfer of lipids between the ER and mitochondria. Mitochondria can transiently store calcium, a contributing process for the cell's homeostasis of calcium. The calcium is taken up into the matrix by the mitochondrial calcium uniporter on the inner mitochondrial membrane. Calcium signaling
A critical role for the ER in calcium signaling was acknowledged before such a role for the mitochondria was widely accepted, in part because the low affinity of Ca2+ channels localized to the outer mitochondrial membrane seemed to contradict this organelle's purported responsiveness to changes in intracellular Ca2+ flux. The ability of mitochondria to serve as a Ca2+ sink is a result of the electrochemical gradient generated during oxidative phosphorylation, which makes tunneling of the cation an exergonic process. 
Moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). [SEP] The health effects of chocolate are the possible effects on health of consuming chocolate, mainly over the long term. Commonly consumed chocolate is high in fat and sugar, which are associated with an increased risk for obesity when consumed in excess. Heart and blood vessels
Reviews support a short-term effect of lowering blood pressure by consuming cocoa products, but there is no evidence of long-term cardiovascular health benefit. There has also been an association between consumption of sweetened beverages and health risks such as coronary heart disease and diabetes. Scientific evidence increasingly backed up claims for the health benefits of chocolate. For example, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans have demonstrated that chocolate consumption can reduce the risk of heart disease. Chocolate is also a source of polyphenols that have antioxidant properties, which may also have health benefits. Recently a lot of research has been conducted to determine any potential health benefits of chocolate. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages castration resistance. [SEP] Abituzumab is a humanized IgG2 monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeted at CD51 (an integrin) currently in development by Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany in an attempt to prevent bone lesion metastases in castration-resistant prostate cancer. Randomized Phase II PERSEUS Trial
Based on the positive results of the Phase I trial, an additional Phase II clinical trial investigating Abituzumab's ability to extend progression free survival (PFS) in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer was conducted. This trial utilized Abituzumab in combination with luteinizing hormone antagonist/agonist treatment every three weeks in patients with confirmed bone lesions in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. However, further study is warranted to determine the efficacy of Abituzumab in treating bone lesions in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. It binds to FAPIn 2003 it failed a phase II clinical trial for metastatic colorectal cancer. Duvortuxizumab (INN) is a chimeric/humanized monoclonal antibody designed for the treatment of B-cell malignancies.This drug was developed by Janssen Global Services. Enoticumab (REGN421, INN) is a human monoclonal antibody that binds to DLL4. It acts as an immunomodulator. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages metastasis. [SEP] Abituzumab is a humanized IgG2 monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeted at CD51 (an integrin) currently in development by Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany in an attempt to prevent bone lesion metastases in castration-resistant prostate cancer. Cetixumab, a monoclonal antibody, that targets epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and irinotecan, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, can be used in combination as standard of care for treating colorectal cancer. This trial utilized Abituzumab in combination with luteinizing hormone antagonist/agonist treatment every three weeks in patients with confirmed bone lesions in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. Nesvacumab is an experimental monoclonal antibody originally designed for the treatment of cancer. Intetumumab is a human monoclonal antibody targeting integrins that was being studied for the treatment of solid tumors.Intetumumab was developed by Centocor, Inc. Tigatuzumab (CS-1008) is a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of cancer. As of October 2009, a clinical trial for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, Phase II trials for colorectal cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and ovarian cancer have been completed. Ascrinvacumab (PF-03446962) is a monoclonal antibody designed for the treatment of cancer.This drug was developed by Pfizer Inc.


== References == 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits castration resistance. [SEP] Abituzumab is a humanized IgG2 monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeted at CD51 (an integrin) currently in development by Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany in an attempt to prevent bone lesion metastases in castration-resistant prostate cancer. This trial utilized Abituzumab in combination with luteinizing hormone antagonist/agonist treatment every three weeks in patients with confirmed bone lesions in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. However, further study is warranted to determine the efficacy of Abituzumab in treating bone lesions in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. Enoticumab (REGN421, INN) is a human monoclonal antibody that binds to DLL4. It acts as an immunomodulator. By blocking the CDR2 domain of the CD4 receptor of the virus, it prevents initial viral attachment to the host T cell and entry into the host immune cell via a competitive inhibition mechanism. Furthermore, the antibody has shown long term suppression, which requires the patient to be treated less often, which improves treatment adherence. UB-421 theoretically avoids this possibility by blocking a stable human protein that HIV uses to infect T cells. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits growth. [SEP] Panobacumab (proposed INN) is a monoclonal antibody designed as an antibacterial against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.It is a fully human pentameric IgM antibody with a mouse J chain. Development
Panobacumab is being developed by Aridis Pharmaceuticals. Mavrilimumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits human granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (GM-CSF-R).Mavrilimumab was discovered as CAM-3001 by Cambridge Antibody Technology and is being developed by MedImmune, Inc. as an investigational drug for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis
Mavrilimumab has been studied in a phase 1 dose-ranging trial and a phase 2a clinical trial, both sponsored by Medimmune. Nesvacumab is an experimental monoclonal antibody originally designed for the treatment of cancer. It targets the protein angiopoietin 2. It blocks vascular adhesion protein 1. Rinucumab (REGN2176) is a monoclonal antibody designed for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration.This drug was developed by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.


== References == Ascrinvacumab (PF-03446962) is a monoclonal antibody designed for the treatment of cancer.This drug was developed by Pfizer Inc.


== References == 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are dictated by initiation patterns. [SEP] Pathways
Two pathways have been proposed to process Okazaki fragments: the short flap pathway and the long flap pathway. Flap endonuclease 1
Flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) is responsible for processing Okazaki fragments. Dna2 endonuclease is responsible for the removal of the initiator RNA segment on Okazaki Fragments. For Okazaki maturation to occur, RNA primers must create segments on the fragments to be ligated. Once the template becomes discontinuous, it will create an Okazaki fragment. These lagging strands are synthesized by the production of Okazaki fragments that are soon joined. Mechanisms of termination
In polymer chemistry, there are several mechanisms by which a polymerization reaction can terminate depending on the mechanism and circumstances of the reaction. There are different types of initiation, with the two main ways being thermal initiation and photo-initiation (light). 
Mouse models can be generated using "artificial spermatids." [SEP] For this example, we use blastocysts from a grey mouse. Some of the newborn chimera mice will have gonads derived from knocked-out stem cells, and will therefore produce eggs or sperm containing the knocked-out gene. These two spermbot designs are hybrid microdevices, they consist of a living cell combined with synthetic attachments. Other approaches exist to create purely synthetic microdevices inspired by the swimming of natural sperm cells, i.e. Applications
Spermbots hold promise for potential application in single cell manipulation and assisted reproduction, but also for targeted drug delivery. Mouse stem cells were grown into cells resembling spermatids in 2016. These spermatids, when injected into mouse eggs, were able to produced pups. A humanised mouse can also be created by direct addition of human genes, thereby creating a murine form of human-animal hybrid. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have severely reduced ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] Ascorbic acid protects the mitochondrial genome and membrane. Ascorbate and ascorbic acid are both naturally present in the body, since the forms interconvert according to pH. Pharmacology
Pharmacodynamics
Vitamin C – specifically, in the form of ascorbate – performs numerous physiological functions in the human body by serving as an enzyme substrate or cofactor and an electron donor. SVCT1 and SVCT2 import the reduced form of ascorbate across plasma membranes. For example, the ascorbic acid content of pituitary and adrenal glands can exceed 2,000 µmol/L, and muscle is at 200-300 µmol/L. The known coenzymatic functions of ascorbic acid do not require such high concentrations, so there may be other, as yet unknown functions. There is feedback regulation in place, in that the presence of ascorbic acid inhibits enzymes in the synthesis pathway. "Ascorbic acid". 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB1 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB1 gene. Interactions
GNB1 has been shown to interact with GNG4. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB2 gene.Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit beta-like protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB1L gene.This gene encodes a G-protein beta-subunit-like polypeptide which is a member of the WD repeat protein family. Function
The Gβγ complex is an essential element in the GPCR signaling cascade. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB3 gene.Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins ( G proteins), which integrate signals between  receptors and  effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit beta-4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB4 gene.Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. Protein geranylgeranyltransferase type I subunit beta is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PGGT1B gene. 
Mutations in RIM1 decrease levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] Regulating synaptic membrane exocytosis protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RIMS1 gene. Intron-mediated enhancement (IME) is the ability of an intron sequence to enhance the expression of a gene containing that intron. Further experiments can specifically point to IME as the cause of expression enhancement - one of the most common is to move the intron upstream of the transcription start site, removing it from the transcript. If the intron can no longer enhance expression, then inclusion of the intron in the transcript is important, and the intron probably causes IME. The IMES-1 RNA motif is a conserved RNA structure that was identified in marine environmental sequences by two studies based on metagenomics and bioinformatics, the first analyzing metatranscriptome (RNA) data and the second using metagenome (DNA) data. IMES-1 RNAs make up  a significant portion of marine RNA transcripts and are exceptionally abundant in that over five times as many IMES-1 RNAs were found as ribosomes in RNAs sampled from the Pacific Ocean. IMES-1 RNAs were also detected in abundance in Block Island Sound in the Atlantic Ocean. Stem loop1 has been shown to be the most important secondary structure within the 5′UTR as mutating or removing this stem loop structure significantly decreases translation efficiency and this effect can be overcome by compensatory mutations.The secondary structures within the 5′UTR was shown to also play a role in RNA stability. 
Mutations in RIM1 raise levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] Regulating synaptic membrane exocytosis protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RIMS1 gene. The RIM family of active zone proteins likely function as protein scaffolds that help regulate vesicle exocytosis during short-term plasticity. Interactions
RIMS1 has been shown to interact with:

ERC2,
RAB3A,
UNC13A,
UNC13B,  and
YWHAH. Intron-mediated enhancement (IME) is the ability of an intron sequence to enhance the expression of a gene containing that intron. Further experiments can specifically point to IME as the cause of expression enhancement - one of the most common is to move the intron upstream of the transcription start site, removing it from the transcript. If the intron can no longer enhance expression, then inclusion of the intron in the transcript is important, and the intron probably causes IME. The serine/threonine-protein kinase/endoribonuclease inositol-requiring enzyme 1 α  (IRE1α) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ERN1 gene. Upon activation, IRE1α oligomerizes and carries out an unconventional RNA splicing activity, removing an intron from the X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA, and allowing it to become translated into a functional transcription factor, XBP1s. 
Myelin sheaths are lipid-rich cellular structures. [SEP] In most vertebrates (including humans), myelin is a lipid-rich material that surrounds nerve cell axons (the nervous system's "wires") to insulate them and increase the rate at which electrical impulses (called action potentials) are passed along the axon. The primary lipid of myelin is a glycolipid called galactocerebroside. Cholesterol is an essential lipid component of myelin, without which myelin fails to form. Cholesterol is a necessary nutrient for the myelin sheath, along with vitamin B12. These myelin-like sheaths share several structural features with the sheaths found in vertebrates including multiplicity of membranes, condensation of membrane, and nodes. The myelin sheath is a multi-layered membrane, unique to the nervous system, that functions as an insulator to greatly increase the efficiency of axonal impulse conduction.In humans, point mutations in PLP are the cause of Pelizaeus–Merzbacher disease (PMD), a neurologic disorder of myelin metabolism. The myelin sheath is a multi-layered membrane, unique to the nervous system, that functions as an insulator to greatly increase the velocity of axonal impulse conduction. Function
Myelination
Mammalian nervous systems depend crucially on myelin sheaths, which reduce ion leakage and decrease the capacitance of the cell membrane, for rapid signal conduction. 
Myelin sheaths play a role in action potential propagation. [SEP] In most vertebrates (including humans), myelin is a lipid-rich material that surrounds nerve cell axons (the nervous system's "wires") to insulate them and increase the rate at which electrical impulses (called action potentials) are passed along the axon. Function
The main purpose of myelin is to increase the speed at which electrical impulses (known as action potentials) propagate along the myelinated fiber. In unmyelinated fibers, action potentials travel as continuous waves, but, in myelinated fibers, they "hop" or propagate by saltatory conduction. Overview
Many vertebrate axons are surrounded by a myelin sheath, allowing rapid and efficient saltatory ("jumping") propagation of action potentials. As a result, the action potential signal jumps along the axon, from node to node, rather than propagating smoothly, as they do in axons that lack a myelin sheath. The myelin sheath is a multi-layered membrane, unique to the nervous system, that functions as an insulator to greatly increase the velocity of axonal impulse conduction. Energy efficiency
In addition to increasing the speed of the nerve impulse, the myelin sheath helps in reducing energy expenditure over the axon membrane as a whole, because the amount of sodium and potassium ions that need to be pumped to bring the concentrations back to the resting state following each action potential is decreased. The myelin sheath is a multi-layered membrane, unique to the nervous system, that functions as an insulator to greatly increase the efficiency of axonal impulse conduction.In humans, point mutations in PLP are the cause of Pelizaeus–Merzbacher disease (PMD), a neurologic disorder of myelin metabolism. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] A resistance mutation is a mutation in a virus gene that allows the virus to become resistant to treatment with a particular antiviral drug. As a result, mutations in the viral DNA polymerase that make it resistant to these drugs are selected for, which ultimately can cause complete resistance of the treatment. Like HEPT and TIBO, nevirapine blocked viral RT activity by non-competitive inhibition (with respect to dNTP binding). The 2,6-dichlorophenyl part of R100943 which corresponds chemically to the wing II 2,6-dibromophenyl part of the α-APA occupied the wing I part in the NNIBP whereas the 4-cyanoanilino part of R100943 occupies the wing II position in the NNIBP.R100943 inhibited HIV-1 and was considerably effective against a number of key NNRTI-resistant mutants like G190A mutation, which caused high-level resistance to loviride (α-APA) and nevirapine. Drug resistant HIV-strains emerge if the virus is able to replicate in the presence of the antiretroviral drugs.NNRTI-resistant HIV-strains have the occurring mutations mainly in and around the NNIBP affecting the NNRTI binding directly by altering the size, shape and polarity on different areas of the pocket or by affecting, indirectly, the access to the pocket. The most frequent mutations observed in viruses isolated from patients who have been on a failing NNRTI containing chemotherapy are Lys-103N and Tyr-181C. NNRTI resistance has been linked to over 40 amino acid substitutions in vitro and in vivo.Antiretroviral drugs are never used in monotherapy due to rapid resistance development. The drug has also shown activity against viruses with common NNRTI resistance associated mutations and cross-resistance mutations. 
N348I mutations reduce resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] A resistance mutation is a mutation in a virus gene that allows the virus to become resistant to treatment with a particular antiviral drug. Like HEPT and TIBO, nevirapine blocked viral RT activity by non-competitive inhibition (with respect to dNTP binding). The 2,6-dichlorophenyl part of R100943 which corresponds chemically to the wing II 2,6-dibromophenyl part of the α-APA occupied the wing I part in the NNIBP whereas the 4-cyanoanilino part of R100943 occupies the wing II position in the NNIBP.R100943 inhibited HIV-1 and was considerably effective against a number of key NNRTI-resistant mutants like G190A mutation, which caused high-level resistance to loviride (α-APA) and nevirapine. Drug resistant HIV-strains emerge if the virus is able to replicate in the presence of the antiretroviral drugs.NNRTI-resistant HIV-strains have the occurring mutations mainly in and around the NNIBP affecting the NNRTI binding directly by altering the size, shape and polarity on different areas of the pocket or by affecting, indirectly, the access to the pocket. The most frequent mutations observed in viruses isolated from patients who have been on a failing NNRTI containing chemotherapy are Lys-103N and Tyr-181C. NNRTI resistance has been linked to over 40 amino acid substitutions in vitro and in vivo.Antiretroviral drugs are never used in monotherapy due to rapid resistance development. The treatment regimen combines three drugs from at least two different classes of antiretroviral drugs.The advance of etravirine over other NNRTIs is that multiple mutations are required for the development of drug resistance. The drug has also shown activity against viruses with common NNRTI resistance associated mutations and cross-resistance mutations. 
NAC destabilizes NO to increase the effect of contrast agents on renal functions. [SEP] Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a purported form of kidney damage in which there has been recent exposure to medical imaging contrast material without another clear cause for the acute kidney injury. Despite extensive speculation, the actual occurrence of contrast-induced nephropathy has not been demonstrated in the literature. Risk factors
There are multiple risk factors of contrast-induced nephropathy, whereof a 2016 review emphasized chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, reduced intravascular volume, and old age. Other factors
European guidelines include the following procedure-related risk factors:
Large doses of contrast given intra-arterially with first-pass renal exposure
Use of contrast agents with high osmolality (limited use today)
Multiple contrast injections within 48–72 h. Swedish guidelines also include gadolinium MRI contrast agents in this aspect.Swedish guidelines list the following additional risk factors:
Hypoxia
Cirrhosis
NSAID or nephrotoxic medication
Individuals on dialysis with residual renal function of at least 400 ml urine/24h
Individuals having undergone kidney transplantation

Prevention
The main alternatives in people with a risk of contrast-induced nephropathy are:
Adjustment of the radiocontrast dose
Treating or mitigating risk factors
Using no intravenous contrast for the investigation. Treating or mitigating risk factors
Hydration by drinking or intravenous volume expander, either before or after contrast administration, decreases the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy. Oral hydration may be as effective as the intravenous route for volume expansion to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy, according to a review in 2013. The AKIN criteria states that the diagnosis is made if within 48 hours from intravascular contrast medium exposure one of the following occurs:
Absolute serum creatinine increase of ≥0.3 mg/dl (>26.4 µmol/L)
Relative serum creatinine increase of ≥50 % (≥1.5-fold above baseline)
Urine output reduced to ≤0.5 mL/kg/hour for at least 6 hours

Mechanism
The mechanism of contrast-induced nephropathy is not entirely understood, but is thought to include direct damage from reactive oxygen species, contrast-induced increase in urine output, increased oxygen consumption, changes in dilation and narrowing of the blood vessels to the kidneys, and changes in urine viscosity. Several studies have shown that intravenous contrast material administration was not associated with excess risk of acute kidney injury, dialysis, or death, even among patients with comorbidities reported to predispose them to nephrotoxicity. 
NAC inhibits the generation of angiotensin-converting enzyme. [SEP] Angiotensin-converting enzyme (EC 3.4.15.1), or ACE, is a central component of the renin–angiotensin system (RAS), which controls blood pressure by regulating the volume of fluids in the body. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor in a substrate concentration-dependent manner. The discovery of an orally inactive peptide from snake venom established the unimportant role of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in regulating blood pressure. It inhibits both neprilysin (neutral endopeptidase, NEP) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). ACE cleaves angiotensin I hormone into the vasoconstricting  angiotensin II which causes a cascade of hormonal reactions which is part of the body's harmful phase of RAAS, which ultimately leads to an increase in the body's blood pressure. ACE2 has an opposing effect to ACE, degrading angiotensin II into angiotensin (1-7), thereby lowering blood pressure.sACE2, as part of RAAS's protective phase, cleaves the carboxyl-terminal amino acid phenylalanine from angiotensin II (Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe) and hydrolyses it into the vasodilator angiotensin (1-7) (H-Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-OH), which binds to Mas Receptors and ultimately leads to a decrease in blood pressure. N-Acetylcarnosine (NAC) (Not to confuse with N-Acetylcysteine) is a naturally occurring compound chemically related to the dipeptide carnosine. A Cochrane review summarizing research up to June 2016 has concluded that there is "no convincing evidence that NAC reverses cataract, nor prevents progression of cataract". 
NR5A2 does not play a role in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] The liver receptor homolog-1 (LRH-1) also known as totipotency pioneer factor NR5A2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5, group A, member 2) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the NR5A2 gene. References
Further reading
External links
NR5A2+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) The mammalian members of the MAGE (melanoma-associated antigen) gene family were originally described as completely silent in normal adult tissues, with the exception of male germ cells and, for some of them, placenta. RU-57073 is a nonsteroidal antiandrogen which was never marketed. NLRP5, short for NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 5, is an intracellular protein that plays a role in early embryogenesis. NLRP5 is also known as NACHT, LRR and PYD domains-containing protein 5 (NALP5), Mater protein homolog (MATER), PYPAF8, PAN11, and CLR19.8, and is one of 14 pyrin domain containing members of the NOD-like receptor family of cytoplasmic receptors known to mammals. In humans, the NLRP5 protein is encoded by the NLRP5 gene. ORG-47241 is a progestin which was under development by Organon for the treatment of "female genital diseases" and as a hormonal contraceptive for the prevention of pregnancy but was never marketed. 
NR5A2 is important in reverse cholesterol transport in humans. [SEP] Reverse cholesterol transport is a multi-step process resulting in the net movement of cholesterol from peripheral tissues back to the liver first via entering the lymphatic system, then the bloodstream.Cholesterol from non-hepatic peripheral tissues is transferred to HDL by the ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette transporter). Adiponectin induces ABCA1-mediated reverse cholesterol transport from macrophages by activation of PPAR-γ and LXRα/β.Uptake of HDL2 is mediated by hepatic lipase, a special form of lipoprotein lipase found only in the liver. This is carried to the liver to release all the esterified cholesterol into the liver. The liver receptor homolog-1 (LRH-1) also known as totipotency pioneer factor NR5A2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5, group A, member 2) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the NR5A2 gene. References
Further reading
External links
NR5A2+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) The human gene SRD5A2 encodes the 3-oxo-5α-steroid 4-dehydrogenase 2 enzyme, also known as 5α-reductase type 2 (5αR2), one of three isozymes of 5α-reductase. 5αR2 is a microsomal protein expressed at high levels in androgen-sensitive tissues such as the prostate. 116 kDa U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein component is a protein that in humans is encoded by the EFTUD2 gene. 
Natriuretic peptides increase susceptibility to diabetes. [SEP] A natriuretic peptide is a hormone molecule that plays a crucial role in the regulation of the cardiovascular system. Applications
Mechanism
Natriuretic peptides and their receptors have many different effects on the body, such as controlling blood pressure and helping bones grow. Scientists have observed these effects by studying mice with specific natriuretic peptides or receptors removed.Natriuretic peptides have a wide range of physiological effects that include the regulation of blood pressure, fluid and electrolyte balance, and cardiovascular function. One of the major clinical applications of natriuretic peptides is the diagnosing and managing of heart failure. These findings indicate that ANP and its receptor NPR-A are essential in regulating mice's blood pressure and fluid balance.Recent advances in the biology of natriuretic peptides (NPs) have led to the developing of "designer" NPs. Natriuretic peptides can block the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS), which regulates blood pressure. Additionally, natriuretic peptides suppress the sympathetic nervous system (SNS), which controls the body's "fight or flight" response. Natriuretic peptides (ANP, BNP, and CNP) are a family of hormone/paracrine factors that are structurally related. 
Natriuretic peptides protect against diabetes. [SEP] A natriuretic peptide is a hormone molecule that plays a crucial role in the regulation of the cardiovascular system. De Bold and colleagues linked these studies and discovered the first natriuretic peptide that works by stimulating renal sodium and water secretion. Applications
Mechanism
Natriuretic peptides and their receptors have many different effects on the body, such as controlling blood pressure and helping bones grow. Scientists have observed these effects by studying mice with specific natriuretic peptides or receptors removed.Natriuretic peptides have a wide range of physiological effects that include the regulation of blood pressure, fluid and electrolyte balance, and cardiovascular function. One of the major clinical applications of natriuretic peptides is the diagnosing and managing of heart failure. These findings indicate that ANP and its receptor NPR-A are essential in regulating mice's blood pressure and fluid balance.Recent advances in the biology of natriuretic peptides (NPs) have led to the developing of "designer" NPs. Natriuretic peptides can block the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS), which regulates blood pressure. See also
Nesiritide
Carperitide
CD-NP
Ularitide

References
External links
Natriuretic+peptides at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) antigens may contain the targeted autoantigens PR3 and MPO. [SEP] Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are networks of extracellular fibers, primarily composed of DNA from neutrophils, which bind pathogens. Upon in vitro activation with the pharmacological agent phorbol myristate acetate (PMA), Interleukin 8 (IL-8) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS), neutrophils release granule proteins and chromatin to form an extracellular fibril matrix known as NET through an active process. References
External links
Frontiers in Molecular Innate Immunity research topic about NET
"Molecular mechanisms involved in neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation", PhD thesis, Jyaysi Desai, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. p-ANCA, or MPO-ANCA, or perinuclear anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, are antibodies that stain the material around the nucleus of a neutrophil. c-ANCAs, or PR3-ANCA, or antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, are a type of autoantibody, an antibody produced by the body that acts against one of its own proteins. This pattern results from binding of ANCAs to antigen targets throughout the neutrophil cytoplasm, the most common protein target being proteinase 3 (PR3). For example, PR3 is the most common antigen target of ANCA in patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis. See also
P-ANCA
Anti-Neutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody (ANCA)


== References == 
Neutrophils produce IL-1β in response to large particles. [SEP] Consequently, microglia release interleukin-1β among other cytokines. During the beginning (acute) phase of inflammation, particularly as a result of bacterial infection, environmental exposure, and some cancers, neutrophils are one of the first responders of inflammatory cells to migrate toward the site of inflammation. Neutrophils express and release cytokines, which in turn amplify inflammatory reactions by several other cell types. In addition to recruiting and activating other cells of the immune system, neutrophils play a key role in the front-line defense against invading pathogens. Phagocytosis
Neutrophils are phagocytes, capable of ingesting microorganisms or particles. Neutrophils are professional phagocytes: they are ferocious eaters and rapidly engulf invaders coated with antibodies and complement, as well as damaged cells or cellular debris. Neutrophils can secrete products that stimulate monocytes and macrophages; these secretions increase phagocytosis and the formation of reactive oxygen compounds involved in intracellular killing.Neutrophils have two types of granules; primary (azurophilic) granules (found in young cells) and secondary (specific) granules (which are found in more mature cells). Neutrophils make up the majority of circulating white blood cells and serve as the primary defense against infections by destroying bacteria, bacterial fragments and immunoglobulin-bound viruses in the blood. 
Nigerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] The West African College of Physicians is a professional society, founded in 1976, for medical specialists in the West African sub-region. History
Established in 1976, the West African College of Physicians has its headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria. It also has strategic partnerships with the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria, the Ghana College of Physicians and Surgeons and the Medical Research Council in The Gambia. There is educational and scientific collaboration between the West African College of Physicians and Britain’s Royal Medical Colleges especially the Royal College of Physicians of London, the American College of Physicians and the South African Medical College. The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) is the professional association and registered  for Nigerian doctors and dentists. This creates an unbalanced  doctor-to-population distribution which is one of the challenges of the Nigerian health system that the association and the Federal Government are trying to address. See also
Healthcare in Nigeria

References
External links
Nigerian Medical Association Conceived in no spirit of racial exclusiveness, fostering no ethnic antagonism, but born of the exigencies of the American environment, the National Medical Association has for its object the banding together for mutual cooperation and helpfulness, the men and women of African descent who are legally and honorably engaged in the practice of the cognate professions of medicine, surgery, pharmacy and dentistry.— C.V. Roman, M.D. 
Nonhuman primates are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] Eilat virus (EILV) is a unique Alphavirus which is known mainly for its host range restriction generally to insects (primarily to mosquitoes) by means of RNA replication. However, the Eilat virus can replicate consummately in an insect host and fails completely to even enter the cells of vertebrates. [1]

Areas of infection
When tested on four different mosquito species the Eilat virus had similar effects on certain organs of the mosquitos and did not infect other organs. Oral transmission
The Eilat virus is unable to infect its host in low doses orally. When a few species of mosquito were fed ( a blood meal) containing the Eilat virus in high doses, all test species did in fact get infected; however, when the dose range was lowered, the species would fail to get infected. Anopheles coustani's aid in natural maintenance
The Eilat virus was first isolated from the specified species Anopheles coustani (mosquito species) located at the Negrev desert. The EILV is not just restricted to the genomic RNA replication level but it also is unable to gain entry into vertebrate cells. Non-human primates are not classified as persons in most jurisdictions, which largely means their individual interests have no formal recognition or protection. 
Nonhypertensive people who are 55 years old have a 90% chance of developing hypertension during their lifetime. [SEP] Eighty percent of people with systolic hypertension are over the age of 65 years old. Prevalence of essential hypertension increases with age, and individuals with relatively high blood pressure at younger ages are at increased risk for the subsequent development of hypertension. In individuals older than 50 years, hypertension is considered to be present when a person's blood pressure is consistently at least 140 mmHg systolic or 90 mmHg diastolic. Classification in adults
In people aged 18 years or older, hypertension is defined as either a systolic or a diastolic blood pressure measurement consistently higher than an accepted normal value (this is above 129 or 139 mmHg systolic, 89 mmHg diastolic depending on the guideline). Blood pressure rises with age in childhood and, in children, hypertension is defined as an average systolic or diastolic blood pressure on three or more occasions equal or higher than the 95th percentile appropriate for the sex, age and height of the child. Elderly
Treating moderate to severe hypertension decreases death rates and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in people aged 60 and older. Average age who have labile hypertension is 64±13 years. Moreover, a meta-analysis on the longitudinal and cross-sectional studies showed that hypertensives are 59% more likely to develop vascular dementia compared to those that are normotensive. 
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation is not predictive of acute respiratory failure after solid organ transplantation. [SEP] While there are similarities with regard to the interface, NIV is not the same as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), which applies a single level of positive airway pressure throughout the whole respiratory cycle; CPAP does not deliver ventilation but is occasionally used in conditions also treated with NIV.Non-invasive ventilation is used in acute respiratory failure caused by a number of medical conditions, most prominently chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); numerous studies have shown that appropriate use of NIV reduces the need for invasive ventilation and its complications. COPD
The most common indication for acute non-invasive ventilation is for acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. History
Non-invasive ventilation has been used since 1940s for various indications, but its present-day use for chronic breathing problems arose in the 1980s for people with chronic respiratory muscle weakness, and in the 1990s on intensive care units and other acute care settings for acute respiratory failure.Since 2000 acute NIV has been used widely in the treatment of acute respiratory failure, particularly in people with COPD, including on general wards rather than the intensive care unit setting. In some cases, positive external pressure may be applied to the torso to further stimulate exhalation.Another form of NPV device (such as the Pulmotor) is placed at the patient's airway, and alternates negative pressure with positive pressure to pump air into their lungs (inhale under positive pressure), then suck it back out (exhale under negative pressure). Usage
Negative pressure ventilators, while widely used in the early-to-mid 20th Century (particularly for victims of the Polio epidemics), are now largely replaced by Positive-pressure airway ventilators, which force air (or oxygen) directly into the patient's airway.However, researchers and clinicians still find some uses for NPVs, owing to their specific advantages.Research and developments in artificial ventilation, both negative-pressure and  positive-pressure, result in evolving assessments of the benefits and hazards of negative-pressure ventilators (NPVs). Continuous external negative pressure ventilation (CENPV) was found in a 2015 study to "[improve] oxygenation under [a greater number of] physiological conditions", concurrent with lower "airway," "transpulmonary," and "intra-abdominal" pressures, than experienced with continuous positive pressure ventilation (CPPV), in study of Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) patients, possibly reducing high ARDS mortality. Medical uses
The main indications for positive airway pressure are congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Ventilation
Pressure support improves patient ventilation. 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are ineffective as cancer treatments. [SEP] Revici's Guided Chemotherapy is an ineffective cancer treatment devised by Emanuel Revici (1896–1997).Revici's early work on experimental chemical-based treatments for cancer between 1920–1941 attracted a degree of support. The group concluded that the treatment has no value. The American Cancer Society notes that Revici's Guided "chemotherapy" is different from modern conventional chemotherapy, and states: "Available scientific evidence does not support claims that Revici's guided chemotherapy is effective in treating cancer or any other disease. See also
List of ineffective cancer treatments

References
Further reading
American Cancer Society (1 March 1989). "Unproven methods of cancer management: Revici Method". Tissue-agnostic cancer drugs are antineoplastic drugs that treat cancers based on the mutations that they display, instead of the tissue type in which they appear. It was also studied in clinical trials for non-small-cell lung cancer. Those plant chemicals that are selectively more toxic to cancer cells than normal cells have been discovered in screening programs and developed as chemotherapy drugs

Research and development process
Some plants that indicate potential as an anticancer agent in laboratory-based in vitro research – for example, Typhonium flagelliforme, and Murraya koenigii are currently being studied. 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs show potential anticancer indications. [SEP] Apricoxib is an experimental anticancer drug and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). It was also studied in clinical trials for non-small-cell lung cancer. Cell-cycle nonspecific antineoplastic agents (CCNS) refer to a class of pharmaceuticals that act as antitumor agents at all or any phases of the cell cycle.Alkylating antineoplastic agent and anthracyclins are two examples. Tissue-agnostic cancer drugs are antineoplastic drugs that treat cancers based on the mutations that they display, instead of the tissue type in which they appear. Tissue-agnostic cancer drugs that are under development as of May 2022 include Selitrectinib (Loxo-195) and anti-ERBB3 antibodies. A nonsteroidal compound is a drug that is not a steroid nor a steroid derivative. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are distinguished from corticosteroids as a class of anti-inflammatory agents. They have provided one of the first molecular targets for rational drug development in the treatment of cancer. 
Normal expression of RUNX1 causes tumorsupressing effects. [SEP] Mutations in RUNX1 are implicated in cases of breast cancer. In addition to hair follicle development, Runx1 is also implicated in skin and epithelial cancer development. RUNX1 in Pancreatic Cancer
High expression of RUNX1 is associated with adverse survival of pancreatic cancer patients and has tumor promoting potential in pancreatic cancer. Genetic suppression of the NOXA gene is mediated by the transcription factor RUNX1. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of RUNX1 de-represses the NOXA gene and induces apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells. Runx2 suppresses pre-osteoblast proliferation by affecting cell cycle progression in the G1 phase. Runx2 plays a role as a tumor suppressor of osteoblasts by halting cell cycle progression at G1. Most of this literature used RUNX3 promoter methylation status in various cancers as a proxy for its expression. 
Normal granulomas form in the absence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] Aquarium granuloma (also known as fish tank granuloma and swimming pool granuloma) is a rare skin condition caused by a non-tubercular mycobacterium known as Mycobacterium marinum. Signs and symptoms
Aquarium granuloma presents as a slow-growing, inflamed red bump (nodule or plaque) at the site of infection. Hence, this infection is commonly seen in individuals who clean fish tanks, handle ornamental fish and work in wet fields.Aquatic systems with a high density of fish and warm waters appear to be conditions particularly favorable to this infectious agent, and increase the chances to contract fish tank granuloma. Diagnosis
Aquarium granuloma is relatively nonspecific in clinical presentation. Examples of noninfectious granulomatous diseases are sarcoidosis, Crohn's disease, berylliosis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, pulmonary rheumatoid nodules, and aspiration of food and other particulate material into the lung.An important feature of granulomas is whether or not they contain necrosis, which refers to dead cells that, under the microscope, appear as a mass of formless debris with no nuclei present. Aquarium granuloma
The other Mycobacterium species, Mycobacterium marinum can cause a rare infection known as "aquarium granuloma." Sperm granulomas in animals
Additionally, sperm granulomas can exist in non-human species such as rats, dogs, horses, fish, etc. See also
Granuloma


== References == 
Normal granulomas form in the presence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] A granuloma is an aggregation of macrophages that forms in response to chronic inflammation. Aquarium granuloma
The other Mycobacterium species, Mycobacterium marinum can cause a rare infection known as "aquarium granuloma." Aquarium granuloma (also known as fish tank granuloma and swimming pool granuloma) is a rare skin condition caused by a non-tubercular mycobacterium known as Mycobacterium marinum. Signs and symptoms
Aquarium granuloma presents as a slow-growing, inflamed red bump (nodule or plaque) at the site of infection. Hence, this infection is commonly seen in individuals who clean fish tanks, handle ornamental fish and work in wet fields.Aquatic systems with a high density of fish and warm waters appear to be conditions particularly favorable to this infectious agent, and increase the chances to contract fish tank granuloma. Poor water quality and various nutritional deficiencies are also possible contributing factors.Swimming pool granuloma can occur when there is inadequate chlorination of swimming pools. Diagnosis
Aquarium granuloma is relatively nonspecific in clinical presentation. Clinical signs and diagnosis
At first, fish develop red spots on the skin. 
Notch signaling occurs between tumor cells and stromal cells. [SEP] Notch and most of its ligands are transmembrane proteins, so the cells expressing the ligands typically must be adjacent to the notch expressing cell for signaling to occur. Ligand interactions
Notch signaling is initiated when Notch receptors on the cell surface engage ligands presented in trans on opposing cells. Function
The Notch signaling pathway is important for cell-cell communication, which involves gene regulation mechanisms that control multiple cell differentiation processes during embryonic and adult life. Role in embryogenesis
The Notch signaling pathway plays an important role in cell-cell communication, and further regulates embryonic development. Several key components of the Notch signaling pathway help coordinate key steps in this process. Angiogenesis
Endothelial cells use the Notch signaling pathway to coordinate cellular behaviors during the blood vessel sprouting that occurs sprouting angiogenesis.Activation of Notch takes place primarily in "connector" cells and cells that line patent stable blood vessels through direct interaction with the Notch ligand, Delta-like ligand 4 (Dll4), which is expressed in the endothelial tip cells. Urothelial bladder cancer
Loss of Notch activity is a driving event in urothelial cancer. The interaction between stromal cells and tumor cells is known to play a major role in cancer growth and progression. 
Nuclear transfer from adult human fibroblasts to human oocytes can give rise to blastocysts containing expandable pluripotent cells. [SEP] Altered nuclear transfer is an alternative method of obtaining embryonic-like, pluripotent stem cells without the creation and destruction of human embryos. The aim of carrying out this procedure is to obtain pluripotent cells from a cloned embryo. Using MII oocytes from volunteers and their improved SCNT procedure, human clone embryos were successfully produced. Methods to reprogram normal body cells into pluripotent stem cells were developed in humans in 2007. Human embryos reach the blastocyst stage 4–5 days post fertilization, at which time they consist of 50–150 cells. Utilizations
According to a 2002 article in PNAS, "Human embryonic stem cells have the potential to differentiate into various cell types, and, thus, may be useful as a source of cells for transplantation or tissue engineering." The use of human embryonic stem cells have opened many new possibilities for tissue engineering, however, there are many hurdles that must be made before human embryonic stem cell can even be utilized. Human embryonic stem cells can be derived from these donated embryos or additionally they can also be extracted from cloned embryos created using a cell from a patient and a donated egg through the process of somatic cell nuclear transfer. 
Oat tolerant coeliac patients may have oat specific inflammatory cells in their small bowel mucosa. [SEP] Oat allergy in gluten-sensitive enteropathy can explain an avenin-sensitive individual with no histological abnormality, no T-cell reaction to avenin, bearing the rarer DQ2.5trans phenotype, and with anaphylactic reaction to avenin. Anti-avenin antibodies declined in treated celiacs on an oat diet in 136 individuals, suggesting oats can be involved in celiac disease when wheat is present, but are not involved when wheat is removed from the diet. This study found that four patients had symptoms after oat ingestion, and three had elevated Marsh scores for histology and avenin responsive T-cells, indicating avenin-sensitive enteropathy (ASE). Two studies to date have looked at the ability of different oat strains to promote various immunochemical aspects of celiac disease. Coeliac disease (British English) or celiac disease (American English) is a long-term autoimmune disorder, primarily affecting the small intestine, where individuals develop intolerance to gluten, present in foods such as wheat, rye and barley. Cause
Coeliac disease is caused by an inflammatory reaction to gliadins and glutenins (gluten proteins) found in wheat and to similar proteins found in the crops of the tribe Triticeae (which includes other common grains such as barley and rye) and to the tribe Aveneae (oats). Wheat subspecies (such as spelt, durum, and Kamut) and wheat hybrids (such as triticale) also cause symptoms of coeliac disease.A small number of people with coeliac disease react to oats. Oat toxicity in coeliac people depends on the oat cultivar consumed because the prolamin genes, protein amino acid sequences, and the immunoreactivities of toxic prolamins are different in different oat varieties. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] Obesity in Greece is a growing health concern with health officials stating that it is one of the leading causes of preventable deaths in Greece. Obesity brings on health concerns such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. It results in a decreased life expectancy of 12–15 years primarily due to its association with obesity, little exercise, and smoking, while an increased rate of suicide plays a lesser role. Physical health
Several studies have shown that obese men tend to have a lower sperm count, fewer rapidly mobile sperm and fewer progressively motile sperm compared to normal-weight men.Obesity in Germany has created a cholesterol problem. Obesity causes an increased risk for colon cancer and breast cancer. Intelligence
Obesity in seniors shows that it makes seniors less intelligent. Obesity in France is a growing health issue. Social correlations
Obesity affects disproportionately low income individuals and is one marker of social inequality. 
Obesity raises life quality. [SEP] Obesity in Germany has been increasingly cited as a major health issue in recent years. Obesity causes an increased risk for colon cancer and breast cancer. Costs
Health costs because of obesity has increased and accounts for 20% of health costs. Intelligence
Obesity in seniors shows that it makes seniors less intelligent. Obesity in Greece is a growing health concern with health officials stating that it is one of the leading causes of preventable deaths in Greece. Obesity brings on health concerns such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Obesity in France is a growing health issue. Recent history
Obesity in France has been increasingly cited as a major health issue in recent years. 
Occipital activation levels are associated with auditory spatial performance in parietal regions of the brain. [SEP] Recent neuroimaging research has provided insight into the processes behind audiospatial attention, suggesting functional overlap with portions of the brain previously shown to be responsible for visual attention. Current research suggests that auditory spatial attention overlaps functionally with many areas previously shown to be associated with visual attention. Comparing the pitch and spatial judgements revealed increased activation in primary auditory cortices and right inferior frontal gyrus during the pitch task, and increased activation in bilateral posterior temporal areas, and inferior and superior parietal cortices during the spatial task. In the auditory domain, comparing activation following peripheral right and left cues to central cues revealed significant activation in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC,) frontal eye fields (FEF), and supplementary motor area (SMA.) The comparison of the spatial location task to the temporal order task showed greater activation in areas previously found to be associated with attention in the visual domain, including the bilateral temporal parietal junction, bilateral superior frontal areas near FEF, bilateral intraparietal sulcus, and bilateral occipital temporal junction, suggesting an attentional network that operates supra-modally across vision and audition. additionally observed that audiospatial attention was associated with increased activation in areas thought to process visual information, namely the cuneus and lingual gyrus, despite participants having completed the task with eyes closed. It has also been shown that activation of the ventral occipitotemporal cortex, including the lingual gyrus, is related to the processing of visual information about parts of human faces. Clinical Significance
There is a strong association between the cerebral cortex and auditory function. 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] Generally individuals, including strict vegetarians, synthesize enough L-carnitine in vivo.Carnitine exists as one of two stereoisomers (the two enantiomers d-carnitine (S-(+)-) and l-carnitine (R-(−)-)). Adults eating mixed diets of red meat and other animal products ingest some 60–180 mg of carnitine per day, while vegans consume about 10–12 mg per day. One study found that vegans showed no signs of carnitine deficiency. Vegans get noticeably less (about 10–12 mg) since their diets lack these carnitine-rich animal-derived foods. "vegans do not participate in the omnivore based diet.") The main difference between a vegan and vegetarian diet is that vegans exclude dairy products and eggs. A 2018 meta-analysis of observational studies concluded that "In most countries, a vegan diet is associated with a more favourable cardio-metabolic profile compared to an omnivorous diet". Studies are mixed on this point.Proponents of ethical omnivorism may themselves concede that "vegetarian and vegan diets tend to be more environmentally friendly", while still seeing ethical omnivorism as a means to increase dietary sustainability to those unwilling or unable to give up meat. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] Adults eating mixed diets of red meat and other animal products ingest some 60–180 mg of carnitine per day, while vegans consume about 10–12 mg per day. Red meats tend to have higher levels of l-carnitine. Vegans get noticeably less (about 10–12 mg) since their diets lack these carnitine-rich animal-derived foods. In general, omnivorous humans each day consume between 2 and 12 µmol kg−1 of body weight, accounting for 75% of carnitine in the body. Obtaining energy and nutrients from plant and animal matter, omnivores digest carbohydrates, protein, fat, and fiber, and metabolize the nutrients and energy of the sources absorbed. "vegans do not participate in the omnivore based diet.") Ethical omnivorism, omnivorism or compassionate carnivorism, (as opposed to obligatory carnivorism, the view that it is obligatory for people to eat animals) is a human diet involving the consumption of meat, eggs, dairy and produce that can be traced back to an organic farm. Studies are mixed on this point.Proponents of ethical omnivorism may themselves concede that "vegetarian and vegan diets tend to be more environmentally friendly", while still seeing ethical omnivorism as a means to increase dietary sustainability to those unwilling or unable to give up meat. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] Adults eating mixed diets of red meat and other animal products ingest some 60–180 mg of carnitine per day, while vegans consume about 10–12 mg per day. Red meats tend to have higher levels of l-carnitine. In general, omnivorous humans each day consume between 2 and 12 µmol kg−1 of body weight, accounting for 75% of carnitine in the body. Obtaining energy and nutrients from plant and animal matter, omnivores digest carbohydrates, protein, fat, and fiber, and metabolize the nutrients and energy of the sources absorbed. Being omnivores gives these animals more food security in stressful times or makes possible living in less consistent environments. Studies are mixed on this point.Proponents of ethical omnivorism may themselves concede that "vegetarian and vegan diets tend to be more environmentally friendly", while still seeing ethical omnivorism as a means to increase dietary sustainability to those unwilling or unable to give up meat. Carnivorous diet
Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are called hypercarnivores or obligate carnivores, while those that also consume non-animal food are called mesocarnivores, or facultative carnivores, or omnivores (there are no clear distinctions). Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food, and apart from their more general definition, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant vs. animal material that distinguishes a facultative carnivore from an omnivore. 
One in five surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] The investigators running the clinical trial will wish to stop the trial early for ethical reasons if the treatment group clearly shows evidence of benefit. The many reasons underlying when to stop a clinical trial for benefit were discussed in his editorial from 2005. Statistical methods
The design of many clinical trials includes some strategy for early stopping if an interim analysis reveals large differences between treatment groups, or shows obvious futility such that there is no chance that continuing to the end would show a clinically meaningful effect. After inclusion of 1,232 patients, the MADIT II study was terminated when interim analysis showed significant (31%) reduction in all-cause death in patients assigned to ICD therapy. These results have been mirrored in trials in surgery, where although industry funding did not affect the rate of trial discontinuation it was however associated with a lower odds of publication for completed trials. Ethically it may be necessary to abort the RCT prematurely, and getting ethics approval (and patient agreement) to withhold the innovation from the control group in future RCT's may not be feasible. Gelband H. The impact of randomized clinical trials on health policy and medical practice: background paper. Its research and development was discontinued on March 06, 1995. 
One in two surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] External links
PLOS Clinical Trials homepage Archived 2008-08-28 at the Wayback Machine The investigators running the clinical trial will wish to stop the trial early for ethical reasons if the treatment group clearly shows evidence of benefit. The many reasons underlying when to stop a clinical trial for benefit were discussed in his editorial from 2005. 2collab was a scientific social network launched by Elsevier in November 2007 and discontinued on 15 April 2011. A run-in period is sometimes called a washout period if treatments that participants were using before entering the clinical trial are discontinued. If a treatment can be proven to be clearly beneficial or harmful compared to the concurrent control, or to be obviously futile, based on a pre-defined analysis of an incomplete data set while the study is on-going, the investigators may stop the study early. Statistical methods
The design of many clinical trials includes some strategy for early stopping if an interim analysis reveals large differences between treatment groups, or shows obvious futility such that there is no chance that continuing to the end would show a clinically meaningful effect. After inclusion of 1,232 patients, the MADIT II study was terminated when interim analysis showed significant (31%) reduction in all-cause death in patients assigned to ICD therapy. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. As of 2010, dengue fever is believed to infect 50 to 100 million people worldwide a year with 1/2 million life-threatening infections. This figure has exceeded the numbers of Singapore's previously worst dengue fever outbreak.Dengue fever occurs widely in the tropics, including the southern United States, northern Argentina, northern Australia, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Belize, Brazil, Cambodia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, French Polynesia, Guadeloupe, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Laos, Malaysia, Melanesia, Mexico, Micronesia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Samoa, Western Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Taiwan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela and Vietnam, and increasingly in southern China.A 2010 outbreak in Puerto Rico resulted in 5382 confirmed infections and 20 deaths. The 2009 and 2010 dengue outbreaks in Key West Florida are similar to the 2005 Texas (25 cases) and 2001 Hawaii (122 cases) outbreaks, which were locally sustained on American soil and not a result of travelers returning from endemic areas.American visitors to and visitors from dengue-endemic regions will continue to present a potential pathway for the dengue virus to enter the United States and infect populations that have not been exposed to the virus for several decades. The health risks and rapidly escalating costs to the United States of unmonitored, unvaccinated and disease carrying travelers, legal and illegal, has been recently considered.An outbreak of dengue fever was declared in Cairns, located in the tropical north of Queensland, Australia on 1 December 2008. There were information campaigns concerning prevention of the dengue fever; and the government is fumigating with insecticide in order to control the mosquito population.One of the South Asian countries still suffering highly from this problem is Sri Lanka.An outbreak caused by serotype DENV-1 occurred in 2002 on Easter Island. 2017
A Dengue fever outbreak in the Indian state of Kerala in May and June 2017 had caused 6808 confirmed infections and 13 deaths by June 16.In Sri Lanka, there were 180,000 reported cases in 2017. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] Dengue virus (DENV) is the cause of dengue fever. Mechanism of infection
Dengue virus' (DENV) E envelope protein binds to a cellular receptor. The health risks and rapidly escalating costs to the United States of unmonitored, unvaccinated and disease carrying travelers, legal and illegal, has been recently considered.An outbreak of dengue fever was declared in Cairns, located in the tropical north of Queensland, Australia on 1 December 2008. There were information campaigns concerning prevention of the dengue fever; and the government is fumigating with insecticide in order to control the mosquito population.One of the South Asian countries still suffering highly from this problem is Sri Lanka.An outbreak caused by serotype DENV-1 occurred in 2002 on Easter Island. 2017
A Dengue fever outbreak in the Indian state of Kerala in May and June 2017 had caused 6808 confirmed infections and 13 deaths by June 16.In Sri Lanka, there were 180,000 reported cases in 2017. The 2019–2020 dengue fever epidemic was an epidemic of the infectious disease dengue fever in several countries of Southeast Asia, including the Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam, and Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, Thailand, Singapore, and Laos. revealed the appearance of autochthonous dengue in Europe along with the increase in imported dengue and dengue severity. It is detectable before the appearance of IgM antibodies.DENV by NS1 antigen is laboratory confirmation of dengue in people also assessing clinical aspects (as well as, taking into account where the individual may have traveled recently). 
Osteocytes have an essential role in G-CSF induced HSPC mobilization. [SEP] Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF or GCSF), also known as colony-stimulating factor 3 (CSF 3), is a glycoprotein that stimulates the bone marrow to produce granulocytes and stem cells and release them into the bloodstream.Functionally, it is a cytokine and hormone, a type of colony-stimulating factor, and is produced by a number of different tissues. White blood cells
The G-CSF-receptor is present on precursor cells in the bone marrow, and, in response to stimulation by G-CSF, initiates proliferation and differentiation into mature granulocytes. G-CSF stimulates the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and function of neutrophil precursors and mature neutrophils. G-CSF regulates them using Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) and Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) signal transduction pathway.Hematopoietic System
G-CSF is also a potent inducer of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization from the bone marrow into the bloodstream, although it has been shown that it does not directly affect the hematopoietic progenitors that are mobilized.Neurons
G-CSF can also act on neuronal cells as a neurotrophic factor. G-CSF stimulates the production of granulocytes, a type of white blood cell. The treatment was well tolerated and a dose-dependent rise in circulating neutrophils was noted.A study in mice has shown that G-CSF may decrease bone mineral density.G-CSF administration has been shown to attenuate the telomere loss associated with chemotherapy. G-CSF-R is a cell-surface receptor for the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a glycoprotein that stimulates proliferation of neutrophil progenitor cells and leads to the maturation of neutrophils. 
Osteoparthritis (OA) is characterized by degeneration of articular cartilage, joint edge, and subchondral bone hyperplasia. [SEP] Osteoarthritis (OA) is a type of degenerative joint disease that results from breakdown of joint cartilage and underlying bone which affects 1 in 7 adults in the United States. The pain in an osteoarthritic joint has been related to thickened synovium and to subchondral bone lesions. References
External links

"Osteoarthritis". Osteoarthritis is age-related loss of the smooth surface of the bone where it moves against another bone (cartilage of the joint). In reaction to the loss of cartilage, the bones thicken at the joint surface, resulting in subchondral sclerosis. Wrist osteoarthritis is a group of mechanical abnormalities resulting in joint destruction, which can occur in the wrist. Osteoarthritis is a common condition of cartilage failure that can lead to limited range of motion, bone damage and invariably, pain. Osteochondropathy refers to a disease ("-pathy") of the bone and cartilage. 
Over half of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] "Disorders of iron metabolism". The condition is called Waldenström macroglobulinemia because the abnormal cells generate excessive levels of IgM which is the biggest immunoglobulin protein, and is also one of the causes of the condition. The fifth type of hyper-IgM syndrome has been characterized in three patients from France and Japan. In hyper-IgM syndromes, patients are deficient in the immunoglobulins, IgG, IgE and IgA types since the antibody producing B cells can not carry out the gene recombination steps necessary to class switch from immunoglobulin M (IgM) to the other three immunoglobulins types. Hyper IgM syndromes
Hyper IgM syndromes is a group of primary immune deficiency disorders characterized by defective CD40 signaling; via B cells affecting class switch recombination (CSR) and somatic hypermutation. Two homozygous missense mutations, T109M and G113C, were found in TGM5, which encodes transglutaminase 5 (TG5), in all affected persons in two unrelated families. Splicing factor, arginine/serine-rich 5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SFRS5 gene. Tropical Splenomegaly Syndrome is characterized by massive splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, marked elevations in levels of serum IgM and anti-malarial antibodies. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants exacerbates the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] Copy number variation (CNV) is a phenomenon in which sections of the genome are repeated and the number of repeats in the genome varies between individuals. It was thought that these large-scale chromosomal rearrangements give rise to normal variation and genetic diseases, including copy number variations. It was found that the copy number variation of the AMY1 gene was significantly different from the copy number variation in other genes or regions of the genome, suggesting that the AMY1 gene was under a strong selective pressure that had little or no influence on the other copy number variations. Cyclin E/CDK2 plays a critical role in the G1 phase and in the G1-S phase transition. Proteosome caused defected degradation is another mechanism. Cellular nucleic acid-binding protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CNBP gene. A CCTG expansion in intron 1 of the ZNF9 gene results in myotonic dystrophy type 2 (MIM 602668). [supplied by OMIM]

References
Further reading
External links
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Myotonic Dystrophy Type 2
ZNF9+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Human CNBP genome location and CNBP gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser.This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants rescues the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] Translocated promoter region is a component of the tpr-met fusion protein. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Cellular nucleic acid-binding protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CNBP gene. A CCTG expansion in intron 1 of the ZNF9 gene results in myotonic dystrophy type 2 (MIM 602668). [supplied by OMIM]

References
Further reading
External links
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Myotonic Dystrophy Type 2
ZNF9+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Human CNBP genome location and CNBP gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser.This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Copy number variation (CNV) is a phenomenon in which sections of the genome are repeated and the number of repeats in the genome varies between individuals. It was thought that these large-scale chromosomal rearrangements give rise to normal variation and genetic diseases, including copy number variations. It was found that the copy number variation of the AMY1 gene was significantly different from the copy number variation in other genes or regions of the genome, suggesting that the AMY1 gene was under a strong selective pressure that had little or no influence on the other copy number variations. 
Oxidative DNA damage activates STING signalling. [SEP] The cGAS–STING pathway is a component of the innate immune system that functions to detect the presence of cytosolic DNA and, in response, trigger expression of inflammatory genes that can lead to senescence or to the activation of defense mechanisms. The cGAS – STING pathway acts to detect cytosolic DNA and induce an immune response. The signaling pathways activated by STING combine to induce an innate immune response to cells with ectopic DNA in the cytosol. Transfection of DNA into these cells also triggered Rae1 expression that was dependent on STING. It thus plays an important role, for instance, in controlling norovirus infection.STING works as both a direct cytosolic DNA sensor (CDS) and an adaptor protein in Type I interferon signaling through different molecular mechanisms. STING signaling mechanisms
STING mediates type I interferon immune response by functioning as both a direct DNA sensor and a signaling adaptor protein. Upon activation, STING stimulates TBK1 activity to phosphorylate IRF3 or STAT6. Phosphorylated IRF3s and STAT6s dimerize, and then enter nucleus to stimulate expression of genes involved in host immune response, such as IFNB, CCL2, CCL20, etc.Several reports suggested that STING is associated with the activation of selective autophagy. 
Oxidative DNA damage inhibits STING signalling. [SEP] The cGAS–STING pathway is a component of the innate immune system that functions to detect the presence of cytosolic DNA and, in response, trigger expression of inflammatory genes that can lead to senescence or to the activation of defense mechanisms. The signaling pathways activated by STING combine to induce an innate immune response to cells with ectopic DNA in the cytosol. Transfection of DNA into these cells also triggered Rae1 expression that was dependent on STING. It thus plays an important role, for instance, in controlling norovirus infection.STING works as both a direct cytosolic DNA sensor (CDS) and an adaptor protein in Type I interferon signaling through different molecular mechanisms. Other
STING may be an important molecule for protective immunity against infectious organisms. STING signaling mechanisms
STING mediates type I interferon immune response by functioning as both a direct DNA sensor and a signaling adaptor protein. Upon activation, STING stimulates TBK1 activity to phosphorylate IRF3 or STAT6. Phosphorylated IRF3s and STAT6s dimerize, and then enter nucleus to stimulate expression of genes involved in host immune response, such as IFNB, CCL2, CCL20, etc.Several reports suggested that STING is associated with the activation of selective autophagy. 
Oxidative phosphorylation is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] Oxidative phosphorylation (UK , US  ) or electron transport-linked phosphorylation or terminal oxidation is the metabolic pathway in which cells use enzymes to oxidize nutrients, thereby releasing chemical energy in order to produce adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Almost all aerobic organisms carry out oxidative phosphorylation. Oxidative phosphorylation uses these molecules and O2 to produce ATP, which is used throughout the cell whenever energy is needed. Although oxidative phosphorylation is a vital part of metabolism, it produces reactive oxygen species such as superoxide and hydrogen peroxide, which lead to propagation of free radicals, damaging cells and contributing to disease and, possibly, aging and senescence. Oxidative phosphorylation in the eukaryotic mitochondrion is the best-understood example of this process. In E. coli, for example, oxidative phosphorylation can be driven by a large number of pairs of reducing agents and oxidizing agents, which are listed below. In enzymology, a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (phosphorylating) (EC 1.2.1.12) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate + phosphate + NAD+ 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   3-phospho-D-glyceroyl phosphate + NADH + H+The 3 substrates of this enzyme are D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, phosphate, and NAD+, whereas its 3 products are 3-phospho-D-glyceroyl phosphate, NADH, and H+. When the body needs glucose for energy, glycogen phosphorylase, with the help of an orthophosphate, can cleave away a molecule from the glycogen chain. 
PCSK9 inhibitors decrease plasma Lp(a) levels. [SEP] Therefore, blocking PCSK9 can lower blood LDL-particle concentrations.PCSK9 has medical importance because it acts in lipoprotein homeostasis. Agents that block PCSK9 can lower LDL particle concentrations. Thus, PCSK9 lowers cell surface expression of LDLR and thereby decreases metabolism of LDL-particles, which in turn may lead to hypercholesterolemia. Accordingly, it is now very clear that PCSK9 has pro-atherosclerotic effects and regulates lipoprotein synthesis.As PCSK9 binds to LDLR, which prevents the removal of LDL-particles from the blood plasma, several studies have determined the potential use of PCSK9 inhibitors in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemia (commonly called hypercholesterolemia). Inhibitors
Several studies have determined the potential use of PCSK9 inhibitors in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemia (commonly called hypercholesterolemia). Furthermore, loss-of-function mutations in the PCSK9 gene result in lower levels of LDL and protection against cardiovascular disease.PCSK9 inhibitor drugs are now approved by the FDA to treat familial hypercholesterolemia. As a drug target
Drugs can inhibit PCSK9, leading to lowered circulating LDL particle concentrations. PCSK9 inhibitors are promising therapeutics for the treatment of people who exhibit statin intolerance, or as a way to bypass frequent dosage of statins for higher LDL concentration reduction.A review published in 2015 concluded that these agents, when used in patients with high LDL-particle concentrations (thus at greatly elevated risk for cardiovascular disease) seem to be safe and effective at reducing all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and heart attacks. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes enhances IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] In 1999, the same group demonstrated that mice where PD-1 was knocked down were prone to autoimmune disease and hence concluded that PD-1 was a negative regulator of immune responses. PD-1 is expressed on the surface of activated T cells, B cells, and macrophages, suggesting that compared to CTLA-4, PD-1 more broadly negatively regulates immune responses. Function
Several lines of evidence suggest that PD-1 and its ligands negatively regulate immune responses. Triggering PD-1, expressed on monocytes and up-regulated upon monocytes activation, by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function.In mice, expression of this gene is induced in the thymus when anti-CD3 antibodies are injected and large numbers of thymocytes undergo apoptosis. Immune blockade of PD-1 resulted in restoration of T cell inflammatory phenotype necessary to combat the progression of disease. IL-10 can be produced by monocytes upon PD-1 triggering in these cells. IL-10 expression is tightly regulated at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level. Extensive IL-10 locus remodeling is observed in monocytes upon stimulation of TLR or Fc receptor pathways. 
PGE 2 suppresss intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] Fezf2
Fezf2 (forebrain embryonic zinc-finger-like protein 2) was recently discovered as the second regulator of PGE. Functions
The proteins encoded by most tumor suppressor genes inhibit cell proliferation or survival. Certain genes can also act as tumor suppressors and oncogenes. Dubbed Proto-oncogenes with Tumor suppressor function, these genes act as “double agents” that both positively and negatively regulate transcription. This is why tumor suppressor genes have commonly been studied and used for gene therapy. Growth inhibition (GI) is a medical term pertaining to cancer therapy and the specific reduction in growth of tumors and oncogene cells by a chemical compound, mechanical therapy (e.g. Background
The treatment of cancer usually aims to destroy and/or stop the growth of the primary tumor. KAI1, PEBP1 and RECK expression correlate with improved survival in multiple tumor types, including colorectal cancer. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] This receptor is the least selective of the prostanoid receptors in that both PGD2 and PGE2 bind to and stimulate it with potencies close to that of PGF2α. Activation of IP is associated with the promotion of capillary permeability in inflammation and allergic responses as well as partial suppression of experimental arthritis in animal models. Genes and proteins
PKG are serine/threonine kinases that are present in a variety of eukaryotes ranging from the unicellular organism Paramecium to humans. Two PKG genes, coding for PKG type I (PKG-I) and type II (PKG-II), have been identified in mammals. Tissue distribution
In general, PKG-I and PKG-II are expressed in different cell types. PKG-II has been detected in renal cells, zona glomerulosa cells of the adrenal cortex, club cells in distal airways, intestinal mucosa, pancreatic ducts, parotid and submandibular glands, chondrocytes, and several brain nuclei, but not in cardiac and vascular myocytes.Specifically, in smooth muscle tissue, PKG promotes the opening of calcium-activated potassium channels, leading to cell hyperpolarization and relaxation, and blocks agonist activity of phospholipase C, reducing liberation of stored calcium ions by inositol triphosphate. PKG expression levels account for differences in forR and forS allele frequency and therefore behavior as Rover individuals show higher PKG expression than Sitter individuals, and the Sitter phenotype can be converted to Rover by over-expression of the dg2 gene. In a neuropathic pain model, LF22-0542 reversed the thermal hyperalgesia, but not the mechanical hyperalgesia. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] PKMζ
PKMζ is thought to be responsible for maintaining the late phase of long-term potentiation (LTP). Subsequent work showed that inhibiting PKMζ reversed LTP maintenance when applied up to 5 hours after LTP was induced in hippocampal slices, and after 22 hours in vivo. Although results from PKCζ/PKMζ-null mice demonstrate LTP and memory appear largely the same as wild-type mice, the normal function of PKMζ in LTP and long-term memory storage was shown to be compensated by the other atypical PKC isoform, PKCι/λ in the knock-out.Alteration in PKMζ may be involved in neurodegeneration Alzheimer's disease. Genes and proteins
PKG are serine/threonine kinases that are present in a variety of eukaryotes ranging from the unicellular organism Paramecium to humans. Two PKG genes, coding for PKG type I (PKG-I) and type II (PKG-II), have been identified in mammals. Tissue distribution
In general, PKG-I and PKG-II are expressed in different cell types. PKG-II has been detected in renal cells, zona glomerulosa cells of the adrenal cortex, club cells in distal airways, intestinal mucosa, pancreatic ducts, parotid and submandibular glands, chondrocytes, and several brain nuclei, but not in cardiac and vascular myocytes.Specifically, in smooth muscle tissue, PKG promotes the opening of calcium-activated potassium channels, leading to cell hyperpolarization and relaxation, and blocks agonist activity of phospholipase C, reducing liberation of stored calcium ions by inositol triphosphate. Role in cancer
Cancerous colon cells stop producing PKG, which apparently limits beta-catenin, thus allowing the VEGF enzyme to solicit angiogenesis. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] The importance of PKCζ in the creation and maintenance of long-term potentiation was first described by Todd Sacktor and his colleagues at the SUNY Downstate Medical Center in 1993. PKMζ
PKMζ is thought to be responsible for maintaining the late phase of long-term potentiation (LTP). Although results from PKCζ/PKMζ-null mice demonstrate LTP and memory appear largely the same as wild-type mice, the normal function of PKMζ in LTP and long-term memory storage was shown to be compensated by the other atypical PKC isoform, PKCι/λ in the knock-out.Alteration in PKMζ may be involved in neurodegeneration Alzheimer's disease. cGMP-dependent protein kinase or protein kinase G (PKG) is a serine/threonine-specific protein kinase that is activated by cGMP. Genes and proteins
PKG are serine/threonine kinases that are present in a variety of eukaryotes ranging from the unicellular organism Paramecium to humans. Two PKG genes, coding for PKG type I (PKG-I) and type II (PKG-II), have been identified in mammals. Tissue distribution
In general, PKG-I and PKG-II are expressed in different cell types. PKG-II has been detected in renal cells, zona glomerulosa cells of the adrenal cortex, club cells in distal airways, intestinal mucosa, pancreatic ducts, parotid and submandibular glands, chondrocytes, and several brain nuclei, but not in cardiac and vascular myocytes.Specifically, in smooth muscle tissue, PKG promotes the opening of calcium-activated potassium channels, leading to cell hyperpolarization and relaxation, and blocks agonist activity of phospholipase C, reducing liberation of stored calcium ions by inositol triphosphate. 
PRC1-bound plasmids sediment at a slower rate in unbound plasmids than in sucrose gradients. [SEP] A plasmid partition system is a mechanism that ensures the stable inheritance of plasmids during bacterial cell division. This metabolic burden is lower for low-copy plasmids, but those have a higher probability of plasmid loss after a few generations. ParA proteins from different plasmids and bacterial species show 25 to 30% of sequence identity to the protein ParA of the plasmid P1. This system represents the first evidence for a mechanistic interplay between plasmid segregation and conjugation processes. Plasmids are transmitted from one bacterium to another (even of another species) mostly through conjugation. Low-copy-number plasmids that exist only as one or a few copies in each bacterium are, upon cell division, in danger of being lost in one of the segregating bacteria. See also
Plasmid


== References == The processivity of PcrA is increased in the presence of plasmid replication initiation protein. 
PTEN is a regulator for the transcriptional activity of SRF [SEP] PTEN acts as a tumor suppressor gene through the action of its phosphatase protein product. PTEN also has weak protein phosphatase activity, but this activity is also crucial for its role as a  tumor suppressor. PTEN's protein phosphatase activity may be  involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, preventing cells from growing and dividing too rapidly. Clinical significance
Cancer
PTEN is one of the most commonly lost tumor suppressors in human cancer; in fact, up to 70% of men with prostate cancer are estimated to have lost a copy of the PTEN gene at the time of diagnosis. PTEN is inhibited by sarcopoterium. This pathway is regulated in part by PTEN. which has a partial reactivated function as a competing endogenous RNA regulating  the tumor suppressor gene PTEN. The major stationary phase regulator RpoS is transcriptionally regulating SraL and directly binds to the sraL gene  promoter. 
Participants who quit smoking reduce lung cancer risk by approximately 50%. [SEP] A major conclusion of the study is, for example, that smoking decreases life span up to 10 years, and that more than 50% of all smokers die of a disease known to be smoking-related, although the excess mortality depends on amount of smoking, specifically, on average, those who smoke until age 30 have no excess mortality, those who smoke until age 40 lose 1 year, those who smoke until 50 lose 4 years, and those who smoke until age 60 lose 7 years. Since the overwhelming majority of smokers smoked cigarettes and more cigarette users inhale, this was thought to be a factor in developing lung cancer at a higher rate.Most importantly, the study proved a dose-dependent relationship. Harm reduction is likely of substantial benefit to these smokers and public health. "In the United States, a study based on National Health Interview Survey data found that 73% of smokers who switched to smokeless tobacco as part of their latest quit attempt were successful in quitting smoking. Since currently approved smoking cessation methods have a 90% failure rate, the use of e-cigarettes as a prominent THR modality is likely to substantially reduce tobacco-related illness in the United States, with the potential to save 4.8 million lives over the next 20 years.A survey of UK adults found that over two thirds of ex-smokers and over one third of current smokers report that one of the main reasons they use e-cigarettes is to help them stop smoking completely. The bill aimed to reduce the mortality rate of lung cancer by 50 percent by 2020. Smoking tobacco cigarettes is considered the leading risk factor of lung cancer in Australia, and Government-led public health schemes have aimed to reduce smoking and minimise its lung cancer risk. Smoking
Smoking contributes to 90% of lung cancer diagnosis. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a slower progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] Infection via sharing personal objects was the most cited vector of HIV transmission, and that little association amongst respondents was made between HIV and sexual activity. Following infection with HIV-1, the rate of clinical disease progression varies between individuals. Factors such as host susceptibility, genetics and immune function, health care and co-infections as well as viral genetic variability may affect the rate of progression to the point of needing to take medication in order not to develop AIDS. In these individuals, it seems that HIV-infection has been halted with regard to disease progression over an extended period of time. Multiple studies of HIV-infected persons have shown that presence of one copy of this mutation, named CCR5-Δ32 (CCR5 delta 32) delays progression to the condition of AIDS by about 2 years.The National Institute of Health (NIH) has funded research studies to learn more about this genetic mutation. Ironically, exposure to dengue virus seems to slow HIV progression rates temporarily. In 2009, a Cochrane review which included the results of the three randomized controlled trials found "strong" evidence that the acquisition of HIV by a man during sex with a woman was decreased by 54% (95% confidence interval, 38% to 66%) over 24 months if the man was circumcised. In 2020, a review including post-study follow up from the three randomized controlled trials, as well as newer observational studies, found a 59% relative reduction in HIV incidence, and 1.31% absolute decrease across the three randomized controlled trials, as well as continued protection for up to 6 years after the studies began. 
Patients in stable partnerships progress from HIV to death at the same rate as patients not in partnerships. [SEP] The risk of death in HIV/TB infected patients is twice that of HIV-infected patients without TB, with most deaths caused by progressive HIV infection, rather than TB. Rapid progressors
A small percentage of HIV-infected individuals rapidly progress to AIDS if they fail to take the medication within four years after primary HIV-infection and are termed Rapid Progressors (RP). The common belief is that once you have HIV you are destined to die. HIV transmission is most likely in the first few weeks after infection, and is therefore increased when people have more than one sexual partner in the same time period. It is overwhelmingly possible to live with the virus and never acquire AIDS. The two diseases have been "inextricably bound together" since the beginning of the HIV epidemic. Without treatment, average survival time after infection with HIV is estimated to be 9 to 11 years, depending on the HIV subtype.In most cases, HIV is a sexually transmitted infection and occurs by contact with or transfer of blood, pre-ejaculate, semen, and vaginal fluids. The studies demonstrating U=U are: Opposites Attract, PARTNER 1, PARTNER 2, (for male-male couples) and HPTN052 (for heterosexual couples) when "the partner living with HIV had a durably suppressed viral load." 
Patients with common epithelial cancers  are more likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] Limited access to emergency room services, as well as medical specialists, leads to increases in mortality rates and long-term health problems, such as heart disease and diabetes. Regions with higher rates of Medicaid and Medicare patients, as well patients who are uninsured are less likely to live within an hour's drive of a hospital emergency room.Since 1975, over 1,000 hospitals, many in rural regions, have closed their doors, unable to bear the cost of care of uninsured patients, resulting in some patients in every state needing to drive at least an hour to a hospital emergency room, a problem that poses an even greater danger during the COVID-19 pandemic, when patients in respiratory distress urgently need oxygen and can ill afford an hour-long ambulance ride to reach a hospital. According to the survey, the suburbs, receiving a fraction of public health care funding compared to cities, are home to 17 million Americans who struggle in poverty, exceeding the numbers in urban centers and rural areas and straining hospitals with aging infrastructure. Oncological emergencies are a group of conditions that occur as a direct or indirect result of cancer or its treatment that are potentially life-threateningThese include:

Hypercalcaemia
Neutropaenic sepsis
Tumour lysis syndrome
Leukostasis
Raised intracranial pressure
Spinal cord compression
Cauda equina syndrome
Superior vena cava obstruction
Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)
Disseminated intravascular coagulation


== References == In some countries, emergency departments have become important entry points for those without other means of access to medical care. As patients can arrive at any time and with any complaint, a key part of the operation of an emergency department is the prioritization of cases based on clinical need. Emergencies are life-threatening illnesses or accidents which require immediate, intensive treatment. Services that should be accessed in an emergency include ambulance (via 999) and emergency departments. 
Patients with common epithelial cancers are less likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] Regions with higher rates of Medicaid and Medicare patients, as well patients who are uninsured are less likely to live within an hour's drive of a hospital emergency room.Since 1975, over 1,000 hospitals, many in rural regions, have closed their doors, unable to bear the cost of care of uninsured patients, resulting in some patients in every state needing to drive at least an hour to a hospital emergency room, a problem that poses an even greater danger during the COVID-19 pandemic, when patients in respiratory distress urgently need oxygen and can ill afford an hour-long ambulance ride to reach a hospital. Fewer than half of rural women live within a thirty-minute drive of the nearest hospital able to provide obstetric services, and 12% do not live within a sixty-minute drive of the nearest such hospital, resulting in babies sometimes being born on the side of the road and increased maternal and infant mortality rates.Rural residents may live on farms, ranches and Indian reservations far from a hospital, forcing residents to take several hours or an entire day off work to drive to a doctor's appointment or follow up care, making rural residents less likely to seek treatment. In West LA, 12 percent of adults are uninsured compared to 30 percent in South LA.Even as health care delivery models shift from hospitals to community clinics offering Urgent Care in once-vacant retail spaces, poor neighborhoods face inequities with the distribution of community clinics in predominantly wealthier suburban neighborhoods. These regions often consist of a larger percentage of medically underserved individuals, in conjunction with fewer physicians, nurses, and other healthcare workers. Healthcare systems in rural communities generally have fewer personnel and infrastructure, creating substantial healthcare disparities among the United States population. Population factors
Providers in rural areas face many disadvantages, including the fact that the United States population living in rural areas tend to be older, poorer, and uninsured in comparison to their urban counterparts. Lack of resources
Rural hospitals tend to have fewer resources than urban hospitals and usually have a fewer number of beds. Insufficient access to capital
A lack of capital means that rural hospitals often do not have the means to meet patient’s needs. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count are more vulnerable to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] Since malaria infects red blood cells, these genetic changes are most common alterations to molecules essential for red blood cell function (and therefore parasite survival), such as hemoglobin or other cellular proteins or enzymes of red blood cells. These blood disorders cause increased morbidity and mortality in areas of the world where malaria is less prevalent. There is a significant correlation between severity of PK deficiency and extent of protection against malaria. In Gambians, it was estimated that AS heterozygotes have 90% protection against P. falciparum-associated severe anemia and cerebral malaria, whereas in the Luo population of Kenya it was estimated that AS heterozygotes have 60% protection against severe malarial anemia. Thalassemia can cause microcytosis. Although P. malariae alone has a low morbidity rate, it does contribute to the total morbidity caused by all Plasmodium species, as manifested in the incidences of anemia, low birth rate and reduced resistance to other infections.Due to a similarity in the appearances of the pathogens, P. knowlesi infections are often misdiagnosed as P. malariae infections. In contrast, in microcytic anemia, the erythrocytes are smaller than normal. In a macrocytic anemia, the larger red cells are always associated with insufficient numbers of cells and often also insufficient hemoglobin content per cell. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count were more resistant to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] Since malaria infects red blood cells, these genetic changes are most common alterations to molecules essential for red blood cell function (and therefore parasite survival), such as hemoglobin or other cellular proteins or enzymes of red blood cells. These alterations generally protect red blood cells from invasion by Plasmodium parasites or replication of parasites within the red blood cell. Mechanisms of protection
The mechanisms by which erythrocytes containing abnormal hemoglobins, or are G6PD deficient, are partially protected against P. falciparum infections are not fully understood, although there has been no shortage of suggestions. Binding of parasitized sickle erythrocytes to endothelial cells and blood monocytes is significantly reduced due to an altered display of Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP-1), the parasite's major cytoadherence ligand and virulence factor on the erythrocyte surface.Protection also derives from the instability of sickle hemoglobin, which clusters the predominant integral red cell membrane protein (called band 3) and triggers accelerated removal by phagocytic cells. There is a significant correlation between severity of PK deficiency and extent of protection against malaria. Adhesion of P. falciparum-infected red blood cells to CD36 is enhanced by the cerebral malaria-protective SAO trait . In Gambians, it was estimated that AS heterozygotes have 90% protection against P. falciparum-associated severe anemia and cerebral malaria, whereas in the Luo population of Kenya it was estimated that AS heterozygotes have 60% protection against severe malarial anemia. These (and probably other) consequences of the SAO mutations lead to the following erythrocyte abnormalities:
A greater robustness of cells to a variety of external forces, including:
Reduction in cellular sensitivity to osmotic pressures
Reduction in fragility related to temperature change
greater general rigidity of the cell membrane
Loss of sensitivity to substances that cause spiculation of cells
Reduced anion exchange 
Partial intracellular depletion of ATP
A reduction in expression of multiple antigensThese changes are thought to give rise to the scientifically and clinically interesting phenomenon that those with SAO exhibit: a marked in vivo resistance to infection by the causative pathogen of malaria, Plasmodium falciparum. 
Patients with panic anxiety show decreased CSF levels of hypocretin. [SEP] Hypofrontality is a state of decreased cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the prefrontal cortex of the brain. These lesions or generalized processes disrupt the hypocretin neurons and their pathways. One study concluded that the neurochemical hypocretin, also known as orexin, which is regulated by the hypothalamus, was significantly reduced in study participants with symptoms of cataplexy. Hypocretin regulates sleep and states of arousal. Hypocretin deficiency is further associated with decreased levels of histamine and epinephrine, chemicals important in promoting wakefulness, arousal and alertness. A Corticotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (CRH antagonist) is a specific type of receptor antagonist that blocks the receptor sites for corticotropin-releasing hormone, also known as corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), which synchronizes the behavioral, endocrine, autonomic, and immune responses to stress by controlling the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA axis). CRH antagonists thereby block the consequent secretions of ACTH and cortisol due to stress, among other effects. In monkeys, antalarmin has been successful in lowering the stress-induced CRF rise in CSF, suppressing anxiety-associated behaviors, and increased exploratory behavior in a stressful situation, but human trials are necessary to comprehend the clinical efficacy of antalarmin. 
Pediatric SCD patients with vaso-occlusive crisis show increased morphine use after breathing 80 ppm iNO for 4 hours. [SEP] Chlorodihydrocodide is an opioid. "The Halogeno-Morphides and -Codides, and the Mechanism of the Morphine-Apomorphine Transformation1". Propofol infusion syndrome (PRIS) is a rare syndrome which affects patients undergoing long-term treatment with high doses of the anaesthetic and sedative drug propofol. It is  associated with high doses and long-term use of propofol (> 4 mg/kg/h for more than 24 hours). It occurs more commonly in children, and critically ill patients receiving catecholamines and glucocorticoids are at high risk. The association between PRIS and propofol infusions is generally noted at infusions higher than 4 mg.kg for greater than 48 hours. It is generally associated with high doses (>4 mg/kg per  hour or >67 mcg/kg per minute) and prolonged use (>48 hours)  though it has been reported with high-dose short-term infusions.Additional proposed risk factors include a young age, critical illness, high fat and low carbohydrate intake, inborn errors of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation, and concomitant catecholamine infusion or steroid therapy. Risk Factors
Predisposing factors seem to include young age, severe critical illness of central nervous system or respiratory origin, exogenous catecholamine or glucocorticoid administration, inadequate carbohydrate intake and subclinical mitochondrial disease. 
Perigenital skin is not the primary site of HIV acquisition. [SEP] "Newly-circumcised HIV infected men who are not taking antiretroviral therapy can shed the HIV virus from the circumcision wound, thus increasing the immediate risk of HIV transmission to female partners. It is not known whether the effect of male circumcision differs by HIV-1 variant. Circumcision has not been included in their HIV prevention recommendations. Hence the sub-preputial space displays a pro-inflammatory environment, conducive to HIV infection.Langerhans cells (part of the human immune system) under the foreskin may be a source of entry for the HIV virus. Oral sex has little to no risk of transmitting the virus. While the risk of transmission from oral sex is relatively low, it is still present. It is not possible for mosquitoes or other insects to transmit HIV. But no citation was provided regarding people who did not previously have HIV. 
Peroxynitrite is required for induction of T cell tolerance. [SEP] Importantly, lymphocytes can only develop tolerance towards antigens that are present in the bone marrow (for B cells) and thymus (for T cells). Induction of anergy (a state of non-reactivity)

T cell tolerance
T cell central tolerance occurs in the thymus. Short Course Immune Induction Therapy or SCIIT, is a therapeutic strategy employing rapid, specific, short term-modulation of the immune system using a therapeutic agent to induce T-cell non-responsiveness, also known as operational tolerance. In this context, manipulating the immune system to recognize the transplanted organ as self for the induction of immunological tolerance would be beneficial for the establishment of transplant tolerance.As autoimmunity and organ transplant rejection are inextricably linked to T-cell activation and differentiation, it is apposite that T-cells are the primary target of modern tolerance induction strategies. SCIIT aims to achieve this by targeting receptor-ligand interactions that provide signals that are critical for the survival, activation, and function of T-cells in the periphery. T-Cell Receptor Targeting
T-cell receptor stimulation is the primary signal required for the activation and differentiation of T-cells. However, treatment with FcR-binding anti-CD3 antibody such as OKT3 induced strong stimulation of T-cells, leading to T-cell cytokine release, which resulted in a number of symptoms when administered to patients. Anti-TCR αβ antibody treatment induces tolerance through a number of mechanisms including the functional blockade of T cells at the site of inflammation, transient T-cell depletion, upregulation of Th2 cytokines, and an increase in the regulatory NKT cell population. 
Persister cells provide relapse resistance in cancer patients. [SEP] Persister cells are subpopulations of cells that resist treatment, and become antimicrobial tolerant by changing to a state of dormancy or quiescence. The tolerance shown in persister cells  differs from antimicrobial resistance in that the tolerance is not inherited and is reversible. Most persister cells are bacterial, and there are also fungal persister cells, yeast persister cells, and cancer persister cells that show tolerance for cancer drugs. Relevance to chronic infections
Antimicrobial tolerance is achieved by a small subpopulation of microbial cells termed persisters. Persisters are not mutants, but rather are dormant cells that can survive the antimicrobials that effectively eliminate their much greater number. Persister cells have entered a non-growing, or extremely slow-growing physiological state which makes them tolerant (insensitive or refractory) to the action of antimicrobials. Such cells are hypothesized to persist in tumors as a distinct population and cause relapse and metastasis by giving rise to new tumors. Resistant cancer or refractory cancer is the cancer that does not respond to medical treatment. 
Persistor cells are one reason for incomplete responses to Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy in cancer patients. [SEP] A tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) is a pharmaceutical drug that inhibits tyrosine kinases. Bcr-Abl tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKI) are the first-line therapy for most patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). In the presence of TKI the binding of ATP is blocked, phosphorylation is prevented and Bcr-Abl expressing cells either have a selective growth disadvantage or undergo apoptotic cell death.Due to increasing resistance and intolerance to imatinib efforts were made to develop new drugs that could inhibit the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase. Persister cells are subpopulations of cells that resist treatment, and become antimicrobial tolerant by changing to a state of dormancy or quiescence. Most persister cells are bacterial, and there are also fungal persister cells, yeast persister cells, and cancer persister cells that show tolerance for cancer drugs. Persisters are not mutants, but rather are dormant cells that can survive the antimicrobials that effectively eliminate their much greater number. Persister cells have entered a non-growing, or extremely slow-growing physiological state which makes them tolerant (insensitive or refractory) to the action of antimicrobials. These data strongly suggests number of tumors with an activated PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway that does not respond to mTOR inhibitors. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds increases adverse events in wards. [SEP] Medication errors such as overdose, and misuse and abuse of a drug as well as drug exposure during pregnancy and breastfeeding, are also of interest, even without an adverse event, because they may result in an adverse drug reaction.Information received from patients and healthcare providers via pharmacovigilance agreements, as well as other sources such as the medical literature, plays a critical role in providing the data necessary for pharmacovigilance to take place. Adverse event reporting
The activity that is most commonly associated with pharmacovigilance (PV), and which consumes a significant number of resources for drug regulatory authorities (or similar government agencies) and drug safety departments in pharmaceutical companies, is that of adverse event reporting. Activities involved in pharmacovigilance
1- Case-control study (Retrospective study). Pharmacoepidemiology
Pharmacoepidemiology is the study of the incidence of adverse drug reactions in patient populations using drug agents. A second study by AHRQ found that in 2011, the most common specifically identified causes of adverse drug events that originated during hospital stays in the U.S. were steroids, antibiotics, opiates/narcotics, and anticoagulants. A study showed that 48% of patients had an adverse drug reaction to at least one drug, and pharmacist involvement helps to pick up adverse drug reactions.In 2012, McKinsey & Company concluded that the cost of the 50-100 million preventable error-related adverse drug events would be between US$18–115 billion.An article published in The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) in 2016 reported adverse drug event statistics from emergency departments around the United States in 2013-2014. Rounding with an attending physician is an important part of medical on-the-job training and education, but its primary focus is immediate care for the patients on the ward. Purpose
The aim of the society is to support the professional practice of pharmacists in hospitals and health systems. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds reduces adverse events in wards. [SEP] Rounding with an attending physician is an important part of medical on-the-job training and education, but its primary focus is immediate care for the patients on the ward. Pharmacists often serve as primary care providers in the community, and may offer other services such as health screenings and immunizations. The most common pharmacist positions are that of a community pharmacist (also referred to as a retail pharmacist, first-line pharmacist or dispensing chemist), or a hospital pharmacist, where they instruct and counsel on the proper use and adverse effects of medically prescribed drugs and medicines. Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may contribute to prescribing (also referred to as "pharmacist prescriber") and administering certain medications (e.g., immunizations) in some jurisdictions. In more modern times, pharmacists advise patients and health care providers on the selection, dosages, interactions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. Pharmacists monitor the health and progress of patients to ensure the safe and effective use of medication. Thus pharmacists have a significant role in assessing medication management in patients, and in referring patients to physicians. These practices have been linked to decreases in the average number of drugs in prescriptions, drug costs and incidence of adverse drug events. 
Phase information is useful for predicting donor-recipient matches in organ transplantation. [SEP] : 263  Cross-matching is also used to determine compatibility between a donor and recipient in organ transplantation. Electronic cross-matching
Electronic cross-matching is a computer-assisted analysis using data, from the donor unit (where a donor's blood is tested prior to donation) and testing done on blood samples from the intended recipient. This is the required cross-match prior to release of a unit of packed cell from blood bank. While focus has been on infant heart transplants, the principles generally apply to other forms of solid organ transplantation. Some organs are more conducive to adult ABOi transplant than others, such as liver and kidney. Mismatched donor and recipient tissues can lead to rejection of the tissues. When donor and recipient HLA are matched, donor tissues are significantly more likely to be accepted by the recipient's immune system. This is to a likely organ donor taken from a similar population. 
Physical activity does not improve cognitive function in individuals with Alzheimers. [SEP] The reviews found beneficial effects of physical exercise on cognitive function, the rate of cognitive decline, and the ability to perform activities of daily living in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. Analyses of the Caerphilly study data have found that exercise is associated with a lower incidence of dementia and a reduction in cognitive impairment. A subsequent systematic review of longitudinal studies also found higher levels of physical activity to be associated with a reduction in the risk of dementia and cognitive decline; this review further asserted that increased physical activity appears to be causally related with these reduced risks. The lack of services also fails to point them to effective ways to prevent dementia such as exercise and social contact. Good nutrition, physical activity, and engaging socially are known to be of benefit generally in aging, and these may help in reducing the risk of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's; in 2019 clinical trials were underway to look at these possibilities. Lifestyle
Certain lifestyle activities, such as physical and cognitive exercises, higher education and occupational attainment, cigarette smoking, stress, sleep, and the management of other comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension, may affect the risk of developing Alzheimer's.Physical exercise is associated with a decreased rate of dementia, and is effective in reducing symptom severity in those with AD. Meeting the WHO recommendations for physical activity is associated with a lower risk of AD.Higher education and occupational attainment, and participation in leisure activities, contribute to a reduced risk of developing Alzheimer's, or of delaying the onset of symptoms. The use of these drugs in mild cognitive impairment has not shown any effect in a delay of the onset of Alzheimer's disease. 
Physical activity level has no association with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] For example, running a long distance at a moderate pace is an aerobic exercise, but sprinting is not. It is distinct from sedentary behavior. Maximal oxygen consumption reflects cardiorespiratory fitness and endurance capacity in exercise performance. However, most elite runners do not have a high body fat percentage. The high oxygen level allows athletes to better perform aerobic exercises. Physical activity  is defined as any voluntary bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles that requires energy expenditure. Terminology misconception
"Exercise" and "physical activity" are frequently used interchangeably and generally refer to physical activity performed during leisure time with the primary purpose of improving or maintaining physical fitness, physical performance, or health. However, physical activity is not exactly the same concept as exercise. 
Physical activity level is associated with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] Maximal oxygen consumption reflects cardiorespiratory fitness and endurance capacity in exercise performance. The high oxygen level allows athletes to better perform aerobic exercises. Impacts of exercise
Physical exercise leads to an increase in the arteriovenous oxygen difference in all individuals. "Effects of exercise intensity and duration on the excess post-exercise oxygen consumption". "The effect of exercise intensity and duration on the oxygen deficit and excess post-exercise oxygen consumption". "Cardiorespiratory fitness level correlates inversely with excess post-exercise oxygen consumption after aerobic-type interval training". "Differences in oxygen uptake but equivalent energy expenditure between a brief bout of cycling and running". "Metabolic bases of excess post-exercise oxygen consumption: a review". 
Physical injury represses transgultaminase activity. [SEP] It can degrade aggrecan, a major proteoglycan of cartilage, brevican, a brain-specific extracellular matrix protein, neurocan and versican. The cleavage of aggrecan and brevican suggests key roles of this enzyme in arthritic disease and in the central nervous system, potentially, in the progression of glioma. The TSR is important for binding of the enzyme to the extracellular matrix and hence its substrate specificity. Like ADAMTS5, it can be effectively inhibited by tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP3) and this inhibition can be enhanced in the presence of aggrecan. Which of these aggrecanases is more important in cartilage degradation appears to be species-specific, with ADAMTS4 more important in human disease (but ADAMTS5 more important in mouse models of osteoarthritis). A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 8 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ADAMTS8 gene. In enzymology, an UDP-2-acetamido-4-amino-2,4,6-trideoxyglucose transaminase (EC 2.6.1.34) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

UDP-2-acetamido-4-amino-2,4,6-trideoxyglucose + 2-oxoglutarate 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   UDP-2-acetamido-4-dehydro-2,6-dideoxyglucose + L-glutamateThus, the two substrates of this enzyme are UDP-2-acetamido-4-amino-2,4,6-trideoxyglucose and 2-oxoglutarate, whereas its two products are UDP-2-acetamido-4-dehydro-2,6-dideoxyglucose and L-glutamate. This enzyme belongs to the family of transferases, specifically the transaminases, which transfer nitrogenous groups. 
Piezo1 channels are sensors for cell migration in epithelial cells. [SEP] PIEZO1 is a mechanosensitive ion channel protein that in humans is encoded by the gene PIEZO1. Tissue distribution
PIEZO1 is expressed in the lungs, bladder and skin, where mechanosensation has important biological roles. Clinical significance
PIEZO1 is also found in red blood cells, and gain of function mutations in the channels are associated with hereditary xerocytosis or stomatocytosis. PIEZO1 channels are pivotal integrators in vascular biology.An allele of PIEZO1, E756del, results in a gain-of-function mutation, resulting in dehydrated RBCs and conveying resistance to Plasmodium. This acts to prevent excess proliferation of skin tissue, and has been implicated in cancer biology as a contributing factor to metastases by assisting living cells in escaping from a monolayer.Expression of murine PIEZO1 in mouse innate immune cells is essential for their function, a role mediated by sensing mechanical cues. Piezo-type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PIEZO2 gene. The PIEZO2 protein has a role in rapidly adapting mechanically activated (MA) currents in somatosensory neurons. However, live cell extrusion is activated by crowding dependent activation of the stretch-activated cation channel Piezo1. 
Pioglitazone use is not associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] In doing so, it prevents the effects of these hormones in prostate cancer.Abiraterone acetate was described in 1995, and approved for medical use in the United States and the European Union in 2011. It also inhibits CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4 and likewise should not be taken concurrently with substrates of any of these enzymes that have a narrow therapeutic index.Spironolactone generally exerts anti-androgenic effects, but experimental evidence exists that it acts as an androgen receptor agonist in an androgen-depleted environment, capable of inducing prostate cancer proliferation. Prostate cancer
In people previously treated with docetaxel survival is increased by 3.9 months (14.8 months versus 10.9 months for placebo).In people with castration-refractory prostate cancer but who had not received chemotherapy those who received abiraterone acetate had a progression-free survival of 16.5 months rather than 8.3 months with placebo. Measuring PSA levels helps to monitor how patients with prostate cancer are responding to treatment.Unlike GnRH agonists, which cause an initial stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis (HPGA), leading to a surge in testosterone levels, and under certain circumstances, a flare-up of the tumour, GnRH antagonists do not cause a surge in testosterone or clinical flare. As testosterone surge does not occur with GnRH antagonists, there is no need for patients to receive an antiandrogen as flare protection during prostate cancer treatment. One double-blind randomized clinical trial comparing muraglitazar and pioglitazone found that the effects of the former were favourable in terms of HDL-C increase, decrease in total cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, triglycerides and a greater reduction in HbA1c (p <0.0001 for all comparisons). ERA-45 induced prostate cancer development in preclinical models when it was given in combination with testosterone, whereas testosterone alone did not do so. In contrast, the selective ERβ agonist ERB-26 was protective against the development of prostate cancer produced by these two drugs. 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer. [SEP] However, the muraglitazar group had a higher all-cause mortality, greater incidence of edema and heart failure and more weight gain compared to the pioglitazone group. A meta-analysis of the phase II and III clinical trials of muraglitazar revealed that it was associated with a greater incidence of myocardial infarction, stroke, transient ischemic attacks and congestive heart failure (CHF) when compared to placebo or pioglitazone.By calling attention to adverse events made public through the FDA advisory committee process, Dr Nissen came upon a mechanism to steer FDA from the outside. Two meta-analyses of real life cohort studies found a higher risk of heart failure compared to pioglitazone. In June 2010, they published a retrospective study comparing roziglitazone to pioglitazone, the other thiazolidinedione marketed in the United States and concluded rosiglitazone was associated with "an increased risk of stroke, heart failure, and all-cause mortality and an increased risk of the composite of AMI, stroke, heart failure, or all-cause mortality in patients 65 years or older". A 2011 drug class review found an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events.A meta-analysis of 16 observational studies released in March, 2011, compared rosiglitazone to pioglitazone, finding support for greater cardiovascular safety for pioglitazone. The study suggests 170 excess myocardial infarctions, 649 excess cases of heart failure, and 431 excess deaths for every 100 000 patients who receive rosiglitazone rather than pioglitazone. Two meta-analyses of cohort studies found excess deaths against pioglitazone. Stroke
An retrospective observational study performed using Medicare data found that patients treated with rosiglitazone had a 27% higher risk of stroke compared to those treated with pioglitazone. 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] One double-blind randomized clinical trial comparing muraglitazar and pioglitazone found that the effects of the former were favourable in terms of HDL-C increase, decrease in total cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, triglycerides and a greater reduction in HbA1c (p <0.0001 for all comparisons). However, the muraglitazar group had a higher all-cause mortality, greater incidence of edema and heart failure and more weight gain compared to the pioglitazone group. A meta-analysis of the phase II and III clinical trials of muraglitazar revealed that it was associated with a greater incidence of myocardial infarction, stroke, transient ischemic attacks and congestive heart failure (CHF) when compared to placebo or pioglitazone.By calling attention to adverse events made public through the FDA advisory committee process, Dr Nissen came upon a mechanism to steer FDA from the outside. Prostate cancer
In people previously treated with docetaxel survival is increased by 3.9 months (14.8 months versus 10.9 months for placebo).In people with castration-refractory prostate cancer but who had not received chemotherapy those who received abiraterone acetate had a progression-free survival of 16.5 months rather than 8.3 months with placebo. Relation to prostate cancer
There are several reasons why PIN is the most likely prostate cancer precursor. PIN is more common in men with prostate cancer. Molecular analysis has shown that high grade PIN and prostate cancer share many genetic abnormalities.The risk for men with high grade PIN of being diagnosed with prostate cancer after repeat biopsy has decreased since the introduction of biopsies at more than six locations (traditional sextant biopsies). Only high grade PIN has been shown to be a risk factor for prostate cancer. 
Pioneer factor OCT3/4 interacts with major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] Pioneer factors are transcription factors that can directly bind condensed chromatin. Active rearrangement
Pioneer factors can also actively affect transcription by directly opening up condensed chromatin in an ATP-independent process. In a direct role pioneer factors can bind an enhancer and recruit activation complex that will modify the chromatin directly. The change in the chromatin changes the affinity, decreasing the affinity of the pioneer factor such that it is replaced by a transcription factor that has a higher affinity. Repressive pioneer factors can inhibit transcription by recruiting factors that modify histones that further tighten the chromatin. Pioneer factors can also be associated with recruiting transcription-activating histone modifications. Enzymes that modify H3K4 with mono and di-methylation are associated with increasing transcription and have been shown to bind pioneer factors. DNA methylation
Pioneer factors can also affect transcription and differentiation through the control of DNA methylation. 
Polymeal nutrition increases cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] The Polymeal is a diet-based approach to combatting heart disease, proposed in December 2004 by Oscar Franco, a Colombian public health scientist at the University Medical Centre in Rotterdam, Netherlands. Franco and his colleagues suggest the "Polymeal" as a natural alternative to the "Polypill", a multi-drug-based strategy for reducing heart disease. History
The study claims that adherence to the polymeal diet would delay the average onset of heart attack by nine years among men and by eight years among women. Since the Polymeal is based on principles of combating inflammation, this diet could be extended to the following foods:
fruits and vegetables (as the staple)
ginger root
potatoes
fish (other than catfish and tilapia)
grass-fed beef (as opposed to grain-fed)
chicken and eggs
herbs and spices
olive oil
butter (ghee)
coconut oil
nuts
dark chocolate (at least 85% chocolate)
much water
green tea
red wine (dry and aged)
turmeric (Curcuma longa)

References
Franco OH, Bonneux L, de Laet C, Peeters A, Steyerberg EW, Mackenbach JP. The Polymeal: a more natural, safer, and probably tastier (than the Polypill) strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%. Preventive nutrition may assist in prolonging the onset of non-communicable diseases (such as Type 2 diabetes or cardiovascular disease) and may allow adults to experience more "healthy living years" later in life. With this popularization these type of foods also increased the digestions of high amounts of sugar, sodium and high fatty foods which have a lower nutrient-density value that can have great adverse effects on health. A healthy cardiac diet "allows for an estimated 25–30% of total calories from fat" mostly from mono and polyunsaturated fats. 
Post-transcriptional handling of mitochondrial transcripts occurs in mitochondrial RNA granules. [SEP] RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease, also known as RMRP, is a human gene.Mitochondrial RNA-processing endoribonuclease cleaves mitochondrial RNA complementary to the light chain of the displacement loop at a unique site (Chang and Clayton, 1987). The RNA component is the first RNA encoded by a single-copy gene in the nucleus and imported into mitochondria. The mitochondrial ribosome, or mitoribosome, is a protein complex that is active in mitochondria and functions as a riboprotein for translating mitochondrial mRNAs encoded in mtDNA. While mitochondrial rRNAs are encoded in the mitochondrial genome, the proteins that make up mitoribosomes are encoded in the nucleus and assembled by cytoplasmic ribosomes before being implanted into the mitochondria. Most mitochondrial proteins are synthesized via cytoplasmic ribosomes. "Structure and Function of the Mitochondrial Ribosome". Conversely, it has also been argued that stress granules are not important sites for mRNA storage nor do they serve as an intermediate location for mRNAs in transit between a state of storage and a state of degradation.Efforts to identify all RNAs within stress granules (the stress granule transcriptome) in an unbiased way by sequencing RNA from biochemically purified stress granule "cores" have shown that RNAs are not recruited to stress granules in a sequence-specific manner, but rather generically, with longer and/or less-optimally translated transcripts being enriched. There is also evidence that RNA within stress granules is more compacted, compared to RNA in the cytoplasm, and that the RNA is preferentially post-translationally modified by N6-methyladenosine (m6A) on its 5' ends. 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are less stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] Assembly and activity of the spliceosome occurs during transcription of the pre-mRNA. Displacement of a splice site, leading to inclusion or exclusion of more RNA than expected, resulting in longer or shorter exons.Although many splicing errors are safeguarded by a cellular quality control mechanism termed nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), a number of splicing-related diseases also exist, as suggested above.Allelic differences in mRNA splicing are likely to be a common and important source of phenotypic diversity at the molecular level, in addition to their contribution to genetic disease susceptibility. The spliceosome removes introns from a transcribed pre-mRNA, a type of primary transcript. The pre-mRNA introns contains specific sequence elements that are recognized and utilized during spliceosome assembly. Transcriptome instability is a genome-wide, pre-mRNA splicing-related characteristic of certain cancers. In general, pre-mRNA splicing is dysregulated in a high proportion of cancerous cells. Transcriptome instability correlates significantly with reduced expression level of splicing factor genes. "A reappraisal of non-consensus mRNA splice sites". 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are more stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] RNA splicing is a process in molecular biology where a newly-made precursor messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) transcript is transformed into a mature messenger RNA (mRNA). Assembly and activity of the spliceosome occurs during transcription of the pre-mRNA. The secondary structure of the pre-mRNA transcript also plays a role in regulating splicing, such as by bringing together splicing elements or by masking a sequence that would otherwise serve as a binding element for a splicing factor. Unexpressed introns are removed by the spliceosome complex in order to create a more concise mRNA transcript. Role in splicing
Pre-mRNA splicing involves two trans-esterification reactions and attacks by hydroxyl groups within the spliceosome. The spliceosome removes introns from a transcribed pre-mRNA, a type of primary transcript. The pre-mRNA introns contains specific sequence elements that are recognized and utilized during spliceosome assembly. U12 minor spliceosomal RNA is formed from U12 small nuclear (snRNA), together with U4atac/U6atac, U5, and U11 snRNAs and associated proteins, forms a spliceosome that cleaves a divergent class of low-abundance pre-mRNA introns. 
Prescribed exercise training improves quality of life. [SEP] Some studies indicate that exercise may increase life expectancy and the overall quality of life. Physical exercise can improve health and well-being, as well as enhance community ties and appreciation of natural beauty. Regular physical exercise has several beneficial effects on overall health. Overall, exercise significantly reduced CVD-related mortality, decreased risk of MI, and improved quality of life. What are the benefits of exercising regularly? Exercising regularly has many benefits for both your physical and mental health. Regular exercise can help improve your cardiovascular health, reduce stress and anxiety, and strengthen your muscles and bones. Benefits of exercise include stress reduction, reduced risk of heart disease, lowers blood pressure, helps control weight and aids insulin in improving management of diabetes. 
PrimPol degrades short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] PrimPol is a eukaryotic protein with both DNA polymerase and DNA Primase activities involved in translesion DNA synthesis. Function
PrimPol is a DNA primase and DNA polymerase involved in DNA replication. PrimPol preferentially initiates replication using deoxynucleotides, rather than ribonucleotides and will only extend from a nascent DNA chain using deoxynucleotides. PrimPol plays an as yet unidentified role in unperturbed replication, PrimPol depleted cells slow replication fork progression, proliferate slower and show an increased RPA foci. Translesion DNA Synthesis
PrimPol is predicted to play a role in translesion DNA synthesis. PrimPol is one of a number of polymerases that can be recruited to replicate past sites of DNA damage. PrimPol localises to chromatin following UV irradiation. PrimPol is actively recruited to damaged sites through its interaction with RPA, an adapter protein that facilitates DNA replication and repair. 
PrimPol generates short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] PrimPol is a eukaryotic protein with both DNA polymerase and DNA Primase activities involved in translesion DNA synthesis. Function
PrimPol is a DNA primase and DNA polymerase involved in DNA replication. Unlike the other known DNA polymerases, PrimPol can initiate replication without the need of an RNA primer and can extend from primers produced by PrimPol. PrimPol preferentially initiates replication using deoxynucleotides, rather than ribonucleotides and will only extend from a nascent DNA chain using deoxynucleotides. PrimPol plays an as yet unidentified role in unperturbed replication, PrimPol depleted cells slow replication fork progression, proliferate slower and show an increased RPA foci. Translesion DNA Synthesis
PrimPol is predicted to play a role in translesion DNA synthesis. PrimPol is one of a number of polymerases that can be recruited to replicate past sites of DNA damage. PrimPol is actively recruited to damaged sites through its interaction with RPA, an adapter protein that facilitates DNA replication and repair. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has lower longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] Cervical cancer screening is a medical screening test designed to identify abnormal, potentially precancerous cells within the cervix as well as cells that have progressed to early stages of cervical cancer. An additional goal is to decrease mortality from cervical cancer by identifying cancerous lesions in their early stages and providing treatment prior to progression to more invasive disease.Currently available screening tests fall into three categories: molecular, cytologic and visual inspection. types 16, 18, 31, 45) are more likely to develop Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia, due to the effects that HPV has on DNA.The screening process utilizes nucleic acid amplification testing to look for DNA or RNA of the virus present within cervical cells. Some tests can identify up to 14 different types of high risk strains.Accuracy of HPV testing report:

sensitivity 88% to 91% (for detecting CIN 3 or higher) to 97% (for detecting CIN2+)
specificity 73% to 79% (for detecting CIN 3 or higher) to 93% (for detecting CIN2+)

Cytologic
Conventional Pap smear
In the conventional Pap smear, the collected cells are smeared on a microscope slide, and a fixative is applied. Primary testing for oncogenic HPV can be used in a population-based programme for cervical cancer screening. Cervical cancer usually takes time to develop, so delaying the start of screening a few years poses little risk of missing a potentially precancerous lesion. Sensitivity analysis captures the ability of Pap smears to correctly identify women with cervical cancer. Background
Knowing that human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the main cause of cervical cancer, the second most common cancer in women living in low-resource settings, has led to the development of vaccines that protect people from HPV associated diseases, and HPV tests that detect presence of the virus. 
Primary cervical cytology screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity to detect severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia than conventional cytology. [SEP] Cervical cancer screening is a medical screening test designed to identify abnormal, potentially precancerous cells within the cervix as well as cells that have progressed to early stages of cervical cancer. One goal of cervical screening is to allow for intervention and treatment so the abnormal lesions can be removed prior to progression to cancer. An additional goal is to decrease mortality from cervical cancer by identifying cancerous lesions in their early stages and providing treatment prior to progression to more invasive disease.Currently available screening tests fall into three categories: molecular, cytologic and visual inspection. types 16, 18, 31, 45) are more likely to develop Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia, due to the effects that HPV has on DNA.The screening process utilizes nucleic acid amplification testing to look for DNA or RNA of the virus present within cervical cells. HPV molecular testing recommended as primary screening, with or without triage, in all women. Primary testing for oncogenic HPV can be used in a population-based programme for cervical cancer screening. Sensitivity analysis captures the ability of Pap smears to correctly identify women with cervical cancer. Primary prevention
HPV vaccination is the approach to primary prevention of both CIN and cervical cancer. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines suppress secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] An  inflammatory cytokine or proinflammatory cytokine is a type of signaling molecule (a cytokine) that is secreted from immune cells like helper T cells (Th) and macrophages, and certain other cell types that promote inflammation. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. A balance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines is necessary to maintain health. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by T helper cells (Th) and macrophages and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. Proinflammatory mediators cause inflammation after ligands  in the heart vasculature activate immune cells. Clinical implications
Reducing the biological activity of proinflammatory cytokine can reduce the brunt of attack from diseases.Blocking IL-1 or TNF-α has been highly successful in helping patients with rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, or graft-vs-host disease (GvHD). Ligand receptor signaling does suppress production of anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10). 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up regulated during tumor development. [SEP] An  inflammatory cytokine or proinflammatory cytokine is a type of signaling molecule (a cytokine) that is secreted from immune cells like helper T cells (Th) and macrophages, and certain other cell types that promote inflammation. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Excessive chronic production of inflammatory cytokines contribute to inflammatory diseases, that have been linked to different diseases, such as atherosclerosis and cancer. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by T helper cells (Th) and macrophages and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Some inflammatory cytokines have additional roles such as acting as growth factors. Cytokines hinder tumor cell development mostly through antiproliferative or proapoptotic pathways but can also interrupt development indirectly by eliciting immune cells to have cytotoxic effects against tumor cells. It is produced by immune cells, most of which are relevant to the immune inflammation response. Experiments also show that certain cancer strains correspond to changes in IL-37 expression levels. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up repressed during tumor development. [SEP] It is produced by immune cells, most of which are relevant to the immune inflammation response. Tumor-Controlled Expression
IL-37 functions are active at low IL-37 concentrations. Cytokines hinder tumor cell development mostly through antiproliferative or proapoptotic pathways but can also interrupt development indirectly by eliciting immune cells to have cytotoxic effects against tumor cells. TNF is known to exert its antitumor effect through stromal cells in the tumor microenvironment. An  inflammatory cytokine or proinflammatory cytokine is a type of signaling molecule (a cytokine) that is secreted from immune cells like helper T cells (Th) and macrophages, and certain other cell types that promote inflammation. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by T helper cells (Th) and macrophages and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. 
Progerin induces premature aging in stem cells. [SEP] Progerin activates genes that regulate stem cell differentiation via the Notch signaling pathway. Premature Aging
The defective gene in HGPS Progerin has effects on accelerated aging effects due to the conformational stress Progerin has on the cell membrane. The insertion of Progerin protein rather than the normal functioning matured Lamin A results in DNA damage along the cellular membrane causing stress which activates the protein p53 resulting in premature cellular senescence causing the rapid aging effects you see in HGPS. Other Information
Recently, rapamycin has been shown to prevent Progerin aggregates in cells and hence delay premature aging. "Emerging Models and Paradigms for stem cell ageing". "Aging stem cells, latexin, and longevity". "Stem cells and aging: expanding the possibilities". Progerin may also play a role in normal human aging, since its production is activated in typical senescent cells.Unlike other "accelerated aging diseases" (such as Werner syndrome, Cockayne syndrome or xeroderma pigmentosum), progeria may not be directly caused by defective DNA repair. 
Propriospinal interneurons that play a role in the plastic reorganization of spinal circuits are integral for recovery from spinal cord injury. [SEP] Spinal locomotion results from intricate dynamic interactions between a central program in lower thoracolumbar spine and proprioceptive feedback from body in the absence of central control by brain as in complete spinal cord injury (SCI). Rehabilitation
The injured spinal cord is an “altered” spinal cord. A spinal interneuron, found in the spinal cord, relays signals between (afferent) sensory neurons, and (efferent) motor neurons. Different classes of spinal interneurons are involved in the process of sensory-motor integration. The versatile properties of these spinal interneurons cover a wide range of activities. Interneurons (also called internuncial neurons, relay neurons, association neurons, connector neurons, intermediate neurons or local circuit neurons) are neurons that connect to brain regions, i.e. Interneurons are the central nodes of neural circuits, enabling communication between sensory or motor neurons and the central nervous system (CNS). Interneurons main function is to provide a neural circuit, conducting flow of signals or information between a sensory neuron and or motor neuron. 
Pseudogene PTENP1 encodes a transcript that regulates PTEN expression. [SEP] Phosphatase and tensin homolog (mutated in multiple advanced cancers 1), pseudogene 1, also known as PTENP1, is a human pseudogene. which has a partial reactivated function as a competing endogenous RNA regulating  the tumor suppressor gene PTEN. LINE-1 type transposase domain containing 1 pseudogene 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the L1TD1P1 gene. Tetratricopeptide repeat domain 3 pseudogene 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TTC3P1 gene. Aliases for TTC3P1 Gene
GeneCards Symbol: TTC3P1 2
Tetratricopeptide Repeat Domain 3 Pseudogene 1 2 3 5
RNF105L 2 3 5
TTC3L 3 5
Tetratricopeptide Repeat Domain 3-Like 2
External Ids for TTC3P1 Gene
HGNC: 23318 NCBI Entrez Gene: 286495 Ensembl: ENSG00000215105
Previous HGNC Symbols for TTC3P1 Gene
TTC3L
Previous GeneCards Identifiers for TTC3P1 Gene
GC0XM074961

Summaries for TTC3P1 Gene
GeneCards Summary for TTC3P1 Gene
TTC3P1 (Tetratricopeptide Repeat Domain 3 Pseudogene 1) is a Pseudogene. Pituitary tumor-transforming 3, pseudogene is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PTTG3P gene. Gametogenetin binding protein 1 (pseudogene) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GGNBP1 gene. Oral cancer overexpressed 1 pseudogene 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ORAOV1P1 gene. 
Pseudoknots are not evolutionarily conserved in most eukaryotes. [SEP] A pseudoknot is a nucleic acid secondary structure containing at least two stem-loop structures in which half of one stem is intercalated between the two halves of another stem. Pseudoknots fold into knot-shaped three-dimensional conformations but are not true topological knots. Prediction and identification
The structural configuration of pseudoknots does not lend itself well to bio-computational detection due to its context-sensitivity or "overlapping" nature. The base pairing in pseudoknots is not well nested; that is, base pairs occur that "overlap" one another in sequence position. It is possible to identify a limited class of pseudoknots using dynamic programming, but these methods are not exhaustive and scale worse as a function of sequence length than non-pseudoknotted algorithms. Mutagenesis and chemical probing were used to determine the secondary structure of this pseudoknot and it has been proposed that this pseudoknot is formed by interactions between an apical loop and internal loop. Pseudoknots are commonly found in viral genomes, especially RNA viruses, where they incorporate an RNA splice site and can have a wide range of functions. Both pseudoknots have the possibility of alternating between hairpin loop and pseudoknot conformations, which place splicing regulatory motifs in different structural contexts. 
Pure neural progenitor cell (NPC) populations can only be obtained from cell cultures that undergo passaging, filtration, or other isolation and cell sorting methods. [SEP] Immunomagnetic cell sorting has shown to be beneficial when used with NPC (neural progenitor cell) cultures in particular, as it is easier to manage and causes minimal damage to live cells.NPC cultures are especially difficult to work with because live brain cells are sensitive and tend to contaminate each other. In order to get clearer results, labs need cleaner materials, meaning more pure NPC lines. Methods and maintenance
Isolating cells and starting a culture
All primary cells (cells derived directly from a subject) must first be removed from a subject, isolated (using digestion enzymes), and suspended in media before being cultured. Neurogenesis is the process by which nervous system cells, the neurons, are produced by neural stem cells (NSCs). Types of NSCs include neuroepithelial cells (NECs), radial glial cells (RGCs), basal progenitors (BPs), intermediate neuronal precursors (INPs), subventricular zone astrocytes, and subgranular zone radial astrocytes, among others.Neurogenesis is most active during embryonic development and is responsible for producing all the various types of neurons of the organism, but it continues throughout adult life in a variety of organisms. Neurogenesis in mammals
Developmental neurogenesis
During embryonic development, the mammalian central nervous system (CNS; brain and spinal cord) is derived from the neural tube, which contains NSCs that will later generate neurons. However, neurogenesis doesn't begin until a sufficient population of NSCs has been achieved. More specific terms include organotypic culture, tissue slices and explants.Neuronal primary cell cultures are cells collected from the brain of an organism. 
Pyridostatin decreases telomere fragility in BRCA2-deficient cells. [SEP] Telomestatin is a macrocyclic chemical compound that acts by inhibiting the telomerase activity of in vitro cancer cells. Clinical implications
Aging
Telomerase restores short bits of DNA known as telomeres, which are otherwise shortened after repeated division of a cell via mitosis. That is to say, the cell has an activated telomerase, eliminating the process of death by chromosome instability or loss, absence of apoptosis-induction pathways, and continued mitosis activation. Telomerase activation has been observed in ~90% of all human tumors, suggesting that the immortality conferred by telomerase plays a key role in cancer development. Telomerase activity is necessary to preserve many cancer types and is inactive in somatic cells, creating the possibility that telomerase inhibition could selectively repress cancer cell growth with minimal side effects. If a drug can inhibit telomerase in cancer cells, the telomeres of successive generations will progressively shorten, limiting tumor growth.Telomerase is a good biomarker for cancer detection because most human cancers cells express high levels of it. The lack of telomerase does not affect cell growth until the telomeres are short enough to cause cells to “die or undergo growth arrest”. A 2012 study found that targeting TERC with an siRNA reduced telomerase activity by more than 50% and resulted in decreased viability of immortal cancer cells. 
Pyridostatin deregulates G2/M progression. [SEP] G2 phase, Gap 2 phase, or Growth 2 phase, is the third subphase of interphase in the cell cycle directly preceding mitosis. G2 phase is a period of rapid cell growth and protein synthesis during which the cell prepares itself for mitosis. One hypothesis is that the growth in G2 phase is regulated as a method of cell size control. Biochemically, the end of G2 phase occurs when a threshold level of active cyclin B1/CDK1 complex, also known as Maturation promoting factor (MPF) has been reached. The activity of this complex is tightly regulated during G2. First, the G2/M transition signals the initiation of several events, such as chromosome condensation and nuclear envelope breakdown, that markedly change the morphology of the cell and are only viable in dividing cells. G2/M DNA damage arrest
Cells respond to DNA damage or incompletely replicated chromosomes in G2 phase by delaying the G2/M transition so as to prevent attempts to segregate damaged chromosomes. Medical relevance
Mutations in several genes involved in the G2/M transition are implicated in many cancers. 
Pyridostatin encourages proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] See also
Homologous recombination

References
Further reading
Regulation of DNA double-strand break repair pathway choice (Full Free PDF Article) Mitotic recombination is a type of genetic recombination that may occur in somatic cells during their preparation for mitosis in both sexual and asexual organisms. Additionally, mitotic recombination can result in the expression of recessive genes in an otherwise heterozygous individual. Later experiments uncovered when mitotic recombination occurs in the cell cycle and the mechanisms behind recombination. In addition, non-homologous mitotic recombination is a possibility and can often be attributed to non-homologous end joining. Alternately, a cell may become a homozygous mutant for a tumor-suppressing gene, leading to the same result. This mutation leads to high rates of mitotic recombination in mice, and this recombination rate is in turn responsible for causing tumor susceptibility in those mice. At the same time, mitotic recombination may be beneficial: it may play an important role in repairing double stranded breaks, and it may be beneficial to the organism if having homozygous dominant alleles is more functional than the heterozygous state. 
Pyridostatin induces checkpoint activation. [SEP] These ssDNA structures attract ATR and eventually activates the checkpoint pathway. Another regulator of checkpoint activation is kinetochore tension. Usually the various checkpoints in the cell cycle take care of genomic integrity via highly conserved redundant mechanisms that are important for maintaining cellular homeostasis and preventing tumorigenesis. Key tumor suppressors such as p53 also play a role in the spindle checkpoint. Absence of p53, the most commonly mutated gene in human cancer, has a major effect on cell cycle checkpoint regulators and has been shown to act at the G1 checkpoint in the past, but now appears to be important in regulating the spindle checkpoint as well. Early signaling proteins in the checkpoint pathway are members of a family of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases, rad3 in yeast and ATR in vertebrates, that are believed to localize to sites of DNA damage. p53 mutations can result in a significant checkpoint deficit, which has important implications in the treatment of cancer. Many therapies focus on inactivating the checkpoint in order to force cells with excess DNA damage to proceed through mitosis and induce cell death. 
Pyridostatin induces double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] Advantages
Use of biotinylated DNA linkers designed to specifically recognize double-stranded DNA breaks allows for a less biased, more direct survey of the breakome without the need to rely on native and/or DSB-proxy proteins, such as the phosphorylated histone variant H2A.X (γH2A.X), in the cell. Applications
While double-stranded breaks in the DNA can be caused by various sources of disruption, they are often observed at high frequency during apoptosis and can contribute to genome instability, resulting in oncogenic mutations. These topoisomerase-DNA-inhibitor complexes are cytotoxic agents, as the un-repaired single- and double stranded DNA breaks they cause can lead to apoptosis and cell death. Treatment with TopI inhibitors stabilizes the intermediate cleavable complex, preventing DNA re-ligation, and inducing lethal DNA strand breaks. Alternatively, TopoII poisons generate lethal DNA strand breaks by either promoting the formation of covalent TopII-DNA cleavage complexes, or by inhibiting re-ligation of the cleaved strand. Some poisons, such as doxorubicin, have been proposed to intercalate in the strand break between the base pairs that flank the TopII-DNA intermediate. Pyrimidine dimers are molecular lesions formed from thymine or cytosine bases in DNA via photochemical reactions, commonly associated with direct DNA damage. The dimerization reaction can also occur among pyrimidine bases in dsRNA (double-stranded RNA)—uracil or cytosine. 
Pyridostatin prevents double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] Topoisomerase plays important roles in cellular reproduction and DNA organization, as they mediate the cleavage of single and double stranded DNA to relax supercoils, untangle catenanes, and condense chromosomes in eukaryotic cells. Some topoisomerase inhibitors prevent topoisomerases from performing DNA strand breaks while others, deemed topoisomerase poisons, associate with topoisomerase-DNA complexes and prevent the re-ligation step of the topoisomerase mechanism. These topoisomerase-DNA-inhibitor complexes are cytotoxic agents, as the un-repaired single- and double stranded DNA breaks they cause can lead to apoptosis and cell death. TopI then re-ligates the cleaved strand to reestablish duplex DNA. Treatment with TopI inhibitors stabilizes the intermediate cleavable complex, preventing DNA re-ligation, and inducing lethal DNA strand breaks. Alternatively, TopoII poisons generate lethal DNA strand breaks by either promoting the formation of covalent TopII-DNA cleavage complexes, or by inhibiting re-ligation of the cleaved strand. Some poisons, such as doxorubicin, have been proposed to intercalate in the strand break between the base pairs that flank the TopII-DNA intermediate. This is to prevent double-stranded RNA formation of one or two separate RNA strand that have complementary regions. 
Pyridostatin reduces proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] "An optimized RAD51 inhibitor that disrupts homologous recombination without requiring Michael acceptor reactivity". "RI-1: a chemical inhibitor of RAD51 that disrupts homologous recombination in human cells". Mitotic recombination is a type of genetic recombination that may occur in somatic cells during their preparation for mitosis in both sexual and asexual organisms. Additionally, mitotic recombination can result in the expression of recessive genes in an otherwise heterozygous individual. In addition, non-homologous mitotic recombination is a possibility and can often be attributed to non-homologous end joining. This mutation leads to high rates of mitotic recombination in mice, and this recombination rate is in turn responsible for causing tumor susceptibility in those mice. At the same time, mitotic recombination may be beneficial: it may play an important role in repairing double stranded breaks, and it may be beneficial to the organism if having homozygous dominant alleles is more functional than the heterozygous state. The WRN protein helicase is important in homologous recombinational DNA repair and also has roles in non-homologous end joining DNA repair and base excision DNA repair.A 2006 retrospective study, with long clinical follow-up, was made of colon cancer patients treated with the topoisomerase inhibitor irinotecan. 
Pyridostatin stabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] Telomestatin induces the formation of basket-type G-quadruplex (G4) structures from hybrid-type G-quadruplexes in the telomeric region. With the abundance of G-quadruplexes in vivo, these structures hold a biologically relevant role through interactions with the promoter regions of oncogenes and the telomeric regions of DNA strands. Telomeres, rich in guanine and with a propensity to form g-quadruplexes, are located at the terminal ends of chromosomes and help maintain genome integrity by protecting these vulnerable terminal ends from instability. The formation of these quadruplexes in telomeres has been shown to decrease the activity of the enzyme telomerase, which is responsible for maintaining length of telomeres and is involved in around 85% of all cancers. The potential positive and negative roles of quadruplexes in telomere replication and function remains controversial. T-loops and G-quadruplexes are described as the two tertiary DNA structures that protect telomere ends and regulate telomere length. Promoter Regions
Along with the association of G-quadruplexes in telomeric regions of DNA, G-quadruplex structures have been identified in various human proto-oncogene promoter regions. Therapeutics
Telomeres are generally made up of G-quadruplexes and remain important targets for therapeutic research and discoveries. 
R2D2 stops miRNA production by increasing the selectivity of Dcr2 for long dsRNA. [SEP] DCL2 (an abbreviation of Dicer-like 2) is a gene in plants that codes for the DCL2 protein, a ribonuclease III enzyme involved in processing exogenous double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) into 22 nucleotide small interference RNAs (siRNAs).Diverse sources of dsRNAs have been characterized, broadly classified as exogenous or endogenous. The PAZ and RNase III domains are essential for dsRNA cleavage via the recognition of dsRNA ends by PAZ domain, the RNase III domains cuts one of the strands of dsRNA.DCL2 plays an essential role in transitive silencing of transgenes by processing secondary siRNAs, including trans-acting siRNA. miRNAs come from hairpin precursors generated by the RNaseIII enzymes Drosha and Dicer. By binding to specific sites within the 3'-UTR, miRNAs can decrease gene expression of various mRNAs by either inhibiting translation or directly causing degradation of the transcript. S2 cells were then transfected with Drosophila cyclin E dsRNA. Function in RNA interference
Incorporation of siRNA/miRNA
The RNase III Dicer is a critical member of RISC that initiates the RNA interference process by producing double-stranded siRNA or single-stranded miRNA. Dicer is an RNase III endonuclease which generates the dsRNA fragments to be loaded that direct RNAi. Argonaute 2 is an RNase and is the catalytic centre of RISC.Dicer associates with TRBP and Argonaute 2 to facilitate the transfer of the dsRNA fragments generated by Dicer to Argonaute 2.More recent research has shown the human RNA helicase A could help facilitate the RLC. 
RA activation of DIF2 and NB4 cells induces hallmarks of transcriptionally active promoters. [SEP] In addition,  NCOR2 appears to recruit histone deacetylases to DNA promoter regions. Hence NCOR2 assists nuclear receptors in the down regulation of target gene expression. In this regard, NCOR2/SMRT functions as a platform protein, facilitating the recruitment of histone deacetylases to the DNA promoters bound by its interacting transcription factors. A screen of ncRNA sequences identified in EST sequencing projects discovered a 'ncRNA repressor of the nuclear factor of activated T cells' called NRON.NFAT-dependent promoters and enhancers tend to have 3-5 NFAT binding sites which indicates that higher order synergistic interactions between relevant proteins in a cooperative complex is needed for effective transcription. In B cells mainly NFATc1 and after activation also NFATc2 and NFAT2/αA are expressed and fulfil important functions like antigen presentation, proliferation, and apoptosis. Before the start of transcription, the transcription Factor II D (TFIID) complex binds to the core promoter DNA of the gene through specific recognition of promoter sequence motifs, including the TATA box, Initiator, Downstream Promoter, Motif Ten, or Downstream Regulatory elements. Signaling
Effect of activation
NF-κB is important in regulating cellular responses because it belongs to the category of "rapid-acting" primary transcription factors, i.e., transcription factors that are present in cells in an inactive state and do not require new protein synthesis in order to become activated (other members of this family include transcription factors such as c-Jun, STATs, and nuclear hormone receptors). In addition, it has been shown that canonical NF-κB is a Fas transcription activator and the alternative NF-κB is a Fas transcription repressor. 
RAD52 is involved in break-induced DNA replication (BIR). [SEP] RAD52 homolog (S. cerevisiae), also known as RAD52, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the RAD52 gene. Function
The protein encoded by this gene shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad52, a protein important for DNA double-strand break repair and homologous recombination. It was also found to interact with DNA recombination protein RAD51, which suggested its role in RAD51-related DNA recombination and repair. Role in DNA recombination repair
RAD52 mediates RAD51 function in homologous recombinational repair (HRR) in both yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in mammalian cells of mice and humans. Human RAD52 also has an important role in repair of DNA double-strand breaks at active transcription sites during the G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle. Repair of these double-strand breaks appears to use an RNA template-based recombination mechanism dependent on RAD52. DNA repair and recombination protein RAD54-like is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RAD54L gene.The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the DEAD-like helicase superfamily, and shares similarity with Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rad54, a protein known to be involved in the homologous recombination and repair of DNA. Antitumor mechanism
RAD51 is a eukaryote gene, encoding RAD51 protein that participates in DNA damage induction and complex signal pathway of cell cycle checkpoint of homologous recombination in cells. 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling has no known association with development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] However, this claim does not mean that mTECsLo don't contribute to PGE, mTECsHi, especially that expressing Aire, are just much more efficient in this process.There is evidence that mTECsLo serve as precursors of mTECsHi in the embryonic thymus Nevertheless, situation changes after birth, where only part of mTECsLo pool represents immature mTECsHi reservoir and another part is constituted by mature mTECs which are specialized for expression of chemokine CCL21, discussed above. Maturation
Medullary thymic epithelial cells' maturation
Maturation of mTEC leads to expression of high levels of MHCII, CD80, autoimmune regulator Aire and tissue restricted antigens (TRAs). AIRE is a transcription factor expressed in the medulla (inner part) of the thymus. They showed that AIRE protein is mainly expressed in the thymic medullary epithelial cells using immunohistochemistry. Function
In the thymus, the AIRE causes transcription of a wide selection of organ-specific genes that create proteins that are usually only expressed in peripheral tissues, creating an "immunological self-shadow" in the thymus. Furthermore, it has been found that AIRE is expressed in a population of stromal cells located in secondary lymphoid tissues, however these cells appear to express a distinct set of TRAs compared to mTECs.Research in knockout mice has demonstrated that AIRE functions through initiating the transcription of a diverse set of self-antigens, such as insulin, in the thymus. This expression then allows maturing thymocytes to become tolerant towards peripheral organs, thereby suppressing autoimmune disease.The AIRE gene is expressed in many other tissues as well. Maturation
Medullary thymic epithelial cells' maturation
Maturation of mTEC leads to expression of high levels of MHCII, CD80, autoimmune regulator Aire and tissue restricted antigens (TRAs). 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling is linked to development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] AIRE is a transcription factor expressed in the medulla (inner part) of the thymus. They showed that AIRE protein is mainly expressed in the thymic medullary epithelial cells using immunohistochemistry. Function
In the thymus, the AIRE causes transcription of a wide selection of organ-specific genes that create proteins that are usually only expressed in peripheral tissues, creating an "immunological self-shadow" in the thymus. Furthermore, it has been found that AIRE is expressed in a population of stromal cells located in secondary lymphoid tissues, however these cells appear to express a distinct set of TRAs compared to mTECs.Research in knockout mice has demonstrated that AIRE functions through initiating the transcription of a diverse set of self-antigens, such as insulin, in the thymus. This expression then allows maturing thymocytes to become tolerant towards peripheral organs, thereby suppressing autoimmune disease.The AIRE gene is expressed in many other tissues as well. Maturation
Medullary thymic epithelial cells' maturation
Maturation of mTEC leads to expression of high levels of MHCII, CD80, autoimmune regulator Aire and tissue restricted antigens (TRAs). Later studies indicate that Hassall's corpuscles differentiate from medullary thymic epithelial cells after they  lose autoimmune regulator (AIRE) expression. Maturation
Medullary thymic epithelial cells' maturation
Maturation of mTEC leads to expression of high levels of MHCII, CD80, autoimmune regulator Aire and tissue restricted antigens (TRAs). 
RTEL1 interacts with TRF2 through a C4C4 motif [SEP] Trf4p is present throughout the nucleus while Trf5p is mainly found mainly in nucleolus. TNF receptor-associated factor 4 (TRAF4) also known as RING finger protein 83 (RNF83) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TRAF4 gene.TRAF4 is a member of the TNF receptor associated factor (TRAF) family, a family of scaffold proteins. Both proteins carry a C-terminus Myb motif and large TERF1-related dimerization domains near their N-terminus. This TRFH domain also allows TERF2 to bind to and act as a dock for many other types of proteins. The TRFH domain is responsible for other binding events, including RTEL1, and proteins that contain a TBD site. TERF2 promotes t-loop formation by preferentially binding to a telomeric double-stranded DNA duplex containing a 3’ TTAGGG single-stranded overhang. The TRFH domain contains a F120 residue, which is the binding site of TERF2 where it recruits client proteins. TERF1 also demonstrates similar client protein recruitment mechanism as TERF2, except that it diverges at two concepts: 1) the TRFH of TERF1 contains a F142 residue, 2) the client proteins specific for TERF1 contain the TRFH binding motif sequence of FxLxP, where the amino acid Y (tyrosine) is replaced with F (phenylalanine). 
RUNX is not expressed in skin tissue. [SEP] Runt-related transcription factor 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RUNX3 gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.In melanocytic cells RUNX3 gene expression may be regulated by MITF. On the basis of the original study by Li and co-workers (2002), the majority of later literature citing Li and co-workers (2002) assumed that RUNX3 was expressed in the normal gut epithelium and that it is therefore likely to act as a tumor suppressor in the particular epithelial cancer investigated. Most of this literature used RUNX3 promoter methylation status in various cancers as a proxy for its expression. Others used poorly characterized (or fully invalidated) antibodies to detect the RUNX3 protein, or used RT-PCR or validated antibodies and failed to detect RUNX3 in the gut epithelium but still did not question the original finding by Li and co-workers (2002). See also
Core binding factor
RUNX1
RUNX2

References
Further reading
External links
RUNX3+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)

This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. HOXA10-HOXA9 readthrough is a gene that is unlikely to produce a protein product. The read-through transcript is a candidate for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), and is unlikely to produce a protein product. 
RUNX1 is downregulated or mutated in TLX1 T-ALL. [SEP] Chromosomal translocations involving the RUNX1 gene are associated with several types of leukemia including M2 AML. Mutations in RUNX1 are implicated in cases of breast cancer. Runx1 was purified as a sequence-specific DNA-binding protein that regulated the disease specificity of the Moloney murine Leukemia virus. purified Runx2, the homolog of Runx1. Role in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL)
Around 15% of T-ALL patients have RUNX1 mutations which are clustered around the DNA binding domain of RUNX1. Genetic suppression of the NOXA gene is mediated by the transcription factor RUNX1. Interactions
RUNX1 has been shown to interact with:

C-Fos,
C-jun,
SUV39H1
TLE1, and
VDR. One study proposes that this phenotype arises partly due to the Runx2 dosage insufficiencies. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre increases thyroid volume. [SEP] Clinical use
Thyroid conditions
Iodine-131 (131I) is the most common RNT worldwide and uses the simple compound sodium iodide with a radioactive isotope of iodine. Both benign conditions like thyrotoxicosis and certain malignant conditions like papillary thyroid cancer can be treated with the radiation emitted by radioiodine. It is a common cause of hyperthyroidism in which there is excess production of thyroid hormones from functionally autonomous thyroid nodules, which do not require stimulation from thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH).Toxic multinodular goiter is the second most common cause of hyperthyroidism (after Graves' disease) in the developed world, whereas iodine deficiency is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in developing-world countries where the population is iodine-deficient. However, iodine deficiency can cause goiter (thyroid enlargement); within a goitre, nodules can develop. Signs and symptoms
Symptoms of toxic multinodular goitre are similar to that of hyperthyroidism, including:
heat intolerance
muscle weakness/wasting
hyperactivity
fatigue
tremor
irritability
weight loss
osteoporosis
increased appetite
non-painful goitre (swelling of the thyroid gland)
tachycardia (high heart rate - above 100 beats per minute at rest in adults)
tracheal compression
exophthalmos

Causes
Sequence of events:
Iodine deficiency leading to decreased T4 production. Treatments
Toxic multinodular goiter can be treated with antithyroid medications such as propylthiouracil or methimazole, radioactive iodine, or with surgery. In this review it was found that the recombinant human thyrotropin-aided radioactive iodine appeared to lead to a greater of thyroid volume at the increased risk of hypothyroidism. Nontoxic nodular goiter is an enlarged thyroid without hyperthyroidism. 
Rapamycin delays aging in fruit flies. [SEP] The Methuselah-like proteins are a family of G protein-coupled receptors found in insects that play a role in aging and reproduction. Mutant versions of this gene have doubled the average life span of fruit flies in at least one set of experiments, but this result has been subject to controversy. Sh-mutant flies have a shorter lifespan than regular flies; in their larvae, the repetitive firing of action potentials as well as prolonged exposure to neurotransmitters at neuromuscular junctions occurs. D. melanogaster is also used in studies of aging. This longer life span may be associated with the reduced amount of tryptophan converted to kynurenine in vermilion flies. The fly is also being used to study mechanisms underlying aging and oxidative stress, immunity, diabetes, and cancer, as well as drug abuse. These molecules were shown to be also involved in synaptic plasticity in Aplysia and mammals.The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 2017 was awarded to Jeffrey C. Hall, Michael Rosbash, Michael W. Young for their works using fruit flies in understanding the "molecular mechanisms controlling the circadian rhythm".Male flies sing to the females during courtship using their wings to generate sound, and some of the genetics of sexual behavior have been characterized. "How a Fly Detects Poison"—WhyFiles.org article describes how the fruit fly tastes a larva-killing chemical in food. 
Rapamycin increases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] Drosocin is regulated by the NF-κB Imd signalling pathway in the fly. However, early testing revealed that rapamycin also had potent immunosuppressive and cytostatic anti-cancer activity. Rapamycin inhibits mTOR by associating with its intracellular receptor FKBP12. mTOR in plants
Plants express the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) and have a TOR kinase complex. Inhibition by rapamycin
Rapamycin inhibits mTORC1, and this appears to provide most of the beneficial effects of the drug (including life-span extension in animal studies). Rapamycin has a more complex effect on mTORC2, inhibiting it only in certain cell types under prolonged exposure. Glycogen storage disease
Some articles reported that rapamycin can inhibit mTORC1 so that the phosphorylation of GS (glycogen synthase) can be increased in skeletal muscle. Interactions
Mechanistic target of rapamycin has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
Saxton RA, Sabatini DM (March 2017). 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates are correlated with histidine kinase regulator specificity. [SEP] Histidine phosphotransfer domains and histidine phosphotransferases (both often abbreviated HPt) are protein domains involved in the "phosphorelay" form of two-component regulatory systems. In phosphorelays, the "hybrid" histidine kinase contains an internal aspartate-containing receiver domain to which the phosphoryl group is transferred, after which an HPt protein containing a phosphorylatable histidine receives the phosphoryl group and finally transfers it to the response regulator. More recently, the widespread existence of protein histidine phosphorylation distinct from that of two-component histidine kinases has been recognised in human cells. In marked contrast to Ser, Thr and Tyr phosphorylation, the analysis of phosphorylated Histidine using standard biochemical and mass spectrometric approaches is much more challenging, and special procedures and separation techniques are required for their preservation alongside classical Ser, Thr and Tyr phosphorylation on proteins isolated from human cells.In terms of enzymology, a histidine kinase (EC 2.7.13.3, EnvZ, histidine protein kinase, protein histidine kinase, protein kinase (histidine), HK1, HP165, Sln1p) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

ATP + protein L-histidine 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   ADP + protein N-phospho-L-histidine.Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are ATP and protein L-histidine, whereas its two products are ADP and protein N-phospho-L-histidine. The histidine phosphorylation site is located at His-260. Response regulators are coupled to specific histidine kinases which serve as sensors of environmental changes. In two-component signaling, a histidine kinase responds to environmental changes by autophosphorylation on a histidine residue, following which the response regulator receiver domain catalyzes transfer of the phosphate group to its own recipient aspartate residue. In a common variation on this theme, called a phosphorelay, a hybrid histidine kinase possesses its own receiver domain, and a histidine phosphotransfer protein performs the final transfer to a response regulator.In many cases, histidine kinases are bifunctional and also serve as phosphatases, catalyzing the removal of phosphate from response regulator aspartate residues, such that the signal transduced by the response regulator reflects the balance between kinase and phosphatase activity. 
Recognition of start codons depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] In molecular biology, translation initiation factor IF-3 (gene infC) is one of the three factors required for the initiation of protein biosynthesis in bacteria. IF-3 is thought to function as a fidelity factor during the assembly of the ternary initiation complex which consists of the 30S ribosomal subunit, the initiator tRNA and the messenger RNA. Eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) is a multiprotein complex that functions during the initiation phase of eukaryotic translation. Function
eIF3 stimulates nearly all steps of translation initiation. The start codon is the first codon of a messenger RNA (mRNA) transcript translated by a ribosome. The prokaryotic initiation factor, IF3, assists with start site specificity, as well as mRNA binding. This switch helps to regulate the affinity of the ribosome for the initiation factor.A eukaryotic initiation factor eIF3 plays an important role in translational initiation. The initiation factor interacts with the eIF1 and eIF5 factors used for scanning and selection of the start codons. 
Reduced levels of lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] The most important regulatory hormone in lipolysis is insulin; lipolysis can only occur when insulin action falls to low levels, as occurs during fasting. Furthermore, acetylation of p38 MAPK at lys-53 of the ATP-binding pocket also enhances p38 MAPK activity during cellular stress  Under basal conditions, p38α MAPK is detected in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Abnormal activity (higher or lower than physiological) of p38 has been implicated in pathological stresses in several tissues,  that  include  neuronal,
bone,  lung,  cardiac and skeletal muscle,    red blood cells, and fetal tissues. AdPLA regulates adipocyte lipolysis and release of fatty acids through a G-protein coupled pathway involving prostaglandin and EP3. Lipolysis is inversely related to AdPLA activity. Effects on obesity
Obesity has been attributed to adipocyte hypertrophy, where triacylglycerol synthesis exceeds lipolysis, resulting in elevated triacylglycerol storage. Studies on AdPLA deficient mice have shown that the enzyme increased lipolysis in WAT as a result of decreased lipolysis regulation. Adipocyte hypotrophy was attributed primarily to reduced triacylglyceride content in WAT from lipolysis, while adipocyte differentiation did not play a role in reduced adipose tissue despite the effects of prostaglandins on adipogenesis. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A increases HDAC4 dephosphorylation by enhancing PP2A-HDAC4 interaction. [SEP] Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a major intracellular protein phosphatase that regulates multiple aspects of cell growth and metabolism. As such, it plays an important role in gene expression by facilitating the formation of transcription repressor complexes and for this reason is often considered an important target for cancer therapy.Though the functional role of the class to which HDAC2 belongs has been carefully studied, the mechanism by which HDAC2 interacts with histone deacetylases of other classes has yet to be elucidated. HDAC2 is broadly regulated by protein kinase 2 (CK2) and protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), but biochemical analysis suggests its regulation is more complex (evinced by the coexistence of HDAC1 and HDAC2 in three distinct protein complexes). One suggested mechanism puts forth casein kinase dependent phosphorylation of HDAC2, while a more recent mechanism suggests acetylation regulated by p300/CBP-associated factor and HDAC5. Protein phosphatase 2 (PP2), also known as PP2A,  is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PPP2CA gene. The PP2A heterotrimeric protein phosphatase is ubiquitously expressed, accounting for a large fraction of phosphatase activity in eukaryotic cells. HDACs 1 and 2 have been found to express regulatory roles in key cell cycle genes including p21.Activity of these HDACs can be affected by phosphorylation. An increased amount of phosphorylation (hyperphosphorylation) leads to increased deacetylase activity, but degrades complex formation between HDACs 1 and 2 and between HDAC1 and mSin3A/YY1. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A suppresses HDAC4 dephosphorylation. [SEP] Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a major intracellular protein phosphatase that regulates multiple aspects of cell growth and metabolism. Function
Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a major intracellular protein phosphatase that regulates multiple aspects of cell growth and metabolism such as DNA replication, transcription,
translation, cell cycle, development, and apoptosis. As such, it plays an important role in gene expression by facilitating the formation of transcription repressor complexes and for this reason is often considered an important target for cancer therapy.Though the functional role of the class to which HDAC2 belongs has been carefully studied, the mechanism by which HDAC2 interacts with histone deacetylases of other classes has yet to be elucidated. HDAC2 is broadly regulated by protein kinase 2 (CK2) and protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), but biochemical analysis suggests its regulation is more complex (evinced by the coexistence of HDAC1 and HDAC2 in three distinct protein complexes). One suggested mechanism puts forth casein kinase dependent phosphorylation of HDAC2, while a more recent mechanism suggests acetylation regulated by p300/CBP-associated factor and HDAC5. Protein phosphatase 2 (PP2), also known as PP2A,  is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PPP2CA gene. The PP2A heterotrimeric protein phosphatase is ubiquitously expressed, accounting for a large fraction of phosphatase activity in eukaryotic cells. Cantharidic acid is a selective inhibitor of PP2A (protein phosphatase 2) and PP1 (protein phosphatase 1).It is the hydrolysis product of cantharidin. 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] Regulatory T cells actively suppress activation of the immune system and prevent pathological self-reactivity, i.e. The critical role regulatory T cells play within the immune system is evidenced by the severe autoimmune syndrome that results from a genetic deficiency in regulatory T cells (IPEX syndrome – see also below). A related suggestion with regard to interleukin 2 is that activated regulatory T cells take up interleukin 2 so avidly that they deprive effector T cells of sufficient to avoid apoptosis. While the immunosuppressive function of regulatory T cells prevents the development of autoimmune disease, it is not desirable during immune responses to infectious microorganisms. This immune cell infiltration can result in the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells of the islets, which plays a major role in the pathogenesis, the disease development, of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Studying non-obese diabetic mice has revealed a correlation between insulitis progression and quantity of insulin autoantibodies production in the blood circulation, as well as a link between certain combinations of present autoantibodies and risk for developing type 1 diabetes and insulitis.Insulitis, which is present in roughly 19% of type 1 diabetes patients, most prominently occurs in the first year after diagnosis in patients aged 0 to 14 years with a prevalence of 68% (32/47 patients studied). Diabetes mellitus type 2, in contrast, is now thought to result from autoimmune attacks on the pancreas and/or insulin resistance. T-cell immunodeficiencies tend to be associated with autoimmune diseases or hyperreactivity and increased IgE production. 
Reducing H3k4me3 methylation induces mouse epiblast stem cells to naive pluripotency efficiently. [SEP] H3K4me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3 that indicates tri-methylation at the 4th lysine residue of the histone H3 protein and is often involved in the regulation of gene expression. H3K4me3 also plays an important role in the genetic regulation of stem cell potency and lineage. H3K4me3 is one of the least abundant histone modifications; however, it is highly enriched at active promoters near transcription start sites (TSS)  and positively correlated with transcription. Role in stem cells and embryogenesis
Regulation of gene expression through H3K4me3 plays a significant role in stem cell fate determination and early embryo development. Pluripotent cells have distinctive patterns of methylation that can be identified through ChIP-seq. A way of finding indicators of successful pluripotent induction is through comparing the epigenetic pattern to that of embryonic stem cells.In bivalent chromatin, H3K4me3 is co-localized with the repressive modification H3K27me3 to control gene regulation. H3K4me3 in embryonic cells is part of a bivalent chromatin system, in which regions of DNA are simultaneously marked with activating and repressing histone methylations. See also
Induced stem cells
Epigenome editing


== References == 
Reduction of Rpl38 alters the composition of the Hox gene mRNAs translation in mice without lowering overall protein synthesis. [SEP] Post-translational regulation refers to the control of the levels of active protein. See also
Post-translational modification


== References == Poly(A)-binding protein interacting protein 2B, Paip2b, which represses mRNA translation, is mainly expressed in the oocytes and fertilized eggs in mice.Paip2b is a PAIP2 family protein, with 3 amino acids longer than its homologous Paip2a. 60S ribosomal protein L38 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RPL38 gene. Gene
The human RPL38 gene resides on the long arm of chromosome 17 at 17q25.1. Genetics
An ~18kbp deletion, encompassing the entire Rpl38 locus underlies the phenotype in the Tail-short (Ts) mutant mouse. HR is a gene encoding Protein hairless.This gene encodes a protein whose function has been linked to hair growth. The resulting mRNA encodes a truncated protein product that is inactive. 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpA in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] Membrane glycoproteins are membrane proteins which play important roles in cell recognition. For the membrane coated vesicle used in transport, see here. OmpA-like transmembrane domain  is an evolutionarily conserved domain of bacterial outer membrane proteins. OmpA is the predominant cell surface antigen in enterobacteria found in about 100,000 copies per cell. The expression of OmpA is tightly regulated by a variety of mechanisms. One mechanism by which OmpA expression is regulated in Vibrio species is by an antisense non-coding RNA called VrrA. Function
Numerous OmpA-like membrane-spanning domains contribute to bacterial virulence by a variety of mechanisms such as binding to host cells or immune regulators such as Factor H. Notable examples include E. coli OmpA and Yersinia pestis Ail. E. coli OmpA was shown to make specific interactions with the human glycoprotein Ecgp on brain microvascular endothelial cells. 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] For the membrane coated vesicle used in transport, see here. Membrane glycoproteins are membrane proteins which play important roles in cell recognition. Examples include:

Fibronectin
Laminin
Osteonectin

See also
Glycocalyx

External links
 Media related to Membrane glycoproteins at Wikimedia Commons
Membrane+glycoproteins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) eIF-2 is a kinase enzyme that phosphorylates eIF-2.There are four forms in mammals:

EIF2AK1: heme-regulated inhibitor kinase (HRI)
EIF2AK2: the double-stranded RNA-dependent kinase (PKR)
EIF2AK3: PEK/PERK
EIF2AK4: GCN2These are all responsible for the phosphorylation of the alpha subunit of eIF-2 at serine 51, one of the best-characterized mechanisms for down-regulating protein synthesis in eukaryotes in response to various cellular stress response's. Treatment of that product with phenacyl bromide produces fanetizole (3). These repeats are found in a variety of non-homologous proteins, including bacterial ribonucleases, sulphite oxidases, reelin, netrins, sialidases, neuraminidases, some lipoprotein receptors, and a variety of glycosyl hydrolases.Members of this family contain multiple BNR (bacterial neuraminidase repeat) repeats or Asp-boxes. See also
Post-translational modification


== References == There are two isomers of propanol. 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases decreases reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] H3K9me2 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K9me2 is strongly associated with transcriptional repression. H3K9me2 represses gene expression both passively, by prohibiting acetylation as therefore binding of RNA polymerase or its regulatory factors, and actively, by recruiting transcriptional repressors. H3K9me2 can be removed by a wide range of histone lysine demethylases (KDMs) including KDM1, KDM3, KDM4 and KDM7 family members. More specifically, H3K4me3 is found to positively regulate transcription by bringing histone acetylases and nucleosome remodelling enzymes (NURF). The H3K4me3 modification is created by a lysine-specific histone methyltransferase (HMT) transferring three methyl groups to histone H3. Mechanistically, the demethylation of H3K4me3 is used required for specific protein binding and recruitment to DNA damage

Epigenetic implications
The post-translational modification of histone tails by either histone modifying complexes or chromatin remodelling complexes are interpreted by the cell and lead to complex, combinatorial transcriptional output. H3K9me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases improves reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] H3K9me2 is strongly associated with transcriptional repression. H3K9me2 can be removed by a wide range of histone lysine demethylases (KDMs) including KDM1, KDM3, KDM4 and KDM7 family members. More specifically, H3K4me3 is found to positively regulate transcription by bringing histone acetylases and nucleosome remodelling enzymes (NURF). The H3K4me3 modification is created by a lysine-specific histone methyltransferase (HMT) transferring three methyl groups to histone H3. Mechanistically, the demethylation of H3K4me3 is used required for specific protein binding and recruitment to DNA damage

Epigenetic implications
The post-translational modification of histone tails by either histone modifying complexes or chromatin remodelling complexes are interpreted by the cell and lead to complex, combinatorial transcriptional output. Molecular stages
Three molecular stages are required for reprogramming the DNA methylome. The enzymes needed for reprogramming are recruited to genome sites that require demethylation or methylation. The epigenetic memory of a cell is reset by the changes in DNA methylation, using activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), TET enzymes (TET), and DNA methyltransferase (DMNTs), starting in the maturation phase and into the stabilization stage. 
Removal of H3K9me3 improves reprogramming efficiency in human somatic cell nuclear transfer experiments. [SEP] H3K9me2 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K9me2 is strongly associated with transcriptional repression. H3K9me2 can be removed by a wide range of histone lysine demethylases (KDMs) including KDM1, KDM3, KDM4 and KDM7 family members. H3K9me2 is important for various biological processes including cell lineage commitment, the reprogramming of somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells, regulation of the inflammatory response, and addiction to drug use. Yamanaka was the first to demonstrate (in 2006) that this somatic cell nuclear transfer or oocyte-based reprogramming process (see below), that Gurdon discovered, could be recapitulated (in mice) by defined factors (Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc) to generate induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Somatic cell nuclear transfer
An oocyte can reprogram an adult nucleus into an embryonic state after somatic cell nuclear transfer, so that a new organism can be developed from such cell.Reprogramming is distinct from development of a somatic epitype, as somatic epitypes can potentially be altered after an organism has left the developmental stage of life. During somatic cell nuclear transfer, the oocyte turns off tissue specific genes in the somatic cell nucleus and  turns back on embryonic specific genes. H3K9me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 has the ability to reprogram human cells. [SEP] GATA3 is a transcription factor that in humans is encoded by the GATA3 gene. However, a group of researchers concluded that the primary role of Sox2 in embryonic stem cells is controlling Oct4 expression, and they both perpetuate their own expression when expressed concurrently.In an experiment involving mouse embryonic stem cells, it was discovered that Sox2 in conjunction with Oct4, c-Myc and Klf4 were sufficient for producing induced pluripotent stem cells. Initial epigenetic activation phase approach
Somatic cells are first transfected with pluripotent reprogramming factors temporarily (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, etc.) Regulation of GATA2 expression is highly complex. With the same principle used in mouse reprogramming, Yamanaka's group successfully transformed human fibroblasts into iPSCs with the same four pivotal genes, Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and cMyc, using a retroviral system, while Thomson and colleagues used a different set of factors, Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, and Lin28, using a lentiviral system. The Yamanaka group successfully reprogrammed mouse cells by transfection with two plasmid constructs carrying the reprogramming factors; the first plasmid expressed c-Myc, while the second expressed the other three factors (Oct4, Klf4, and Sox2). Yamanaka was the first to demonstrate (in 2006) that this somatic cell nuclear transfer or oocyte-based reprogramming process (see below), that Gurdon discovered, could be recapitulated (in mice) by defined factors (Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc) to generate induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Oct4 and Sox2 work together to regulate hundreds of genes utilized in pluripotency. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 is not capable of reprogramming human cells. [SEP] The human gene is also expressed in endothelium, some non-hematological stem cells, the central nervous system, and, to lesser extents, prostate, endometrium, and certain cancerous tissues.The Gata2 gene in mice has a structure similar to its human counterpart, Deletion of both parental Gata2 genes in mice is lethal by day 10 of embryogenesis due to a total failure in the formation of mature blood cells. Inactivation of one mouse Gata2 gene is neither lethal nor associated with most of the signs of human GATA2 deficiency; however, these animals do show a ~50% reduction in their hematopoietic stem cells along with a reduced ability to repopulate the bone marrow of mouse recipients. The role of GATA2 deficiency in leading to any of the leukemia types is not understood. The human gene is also expressed in endothelium, some non-hematological stem cells, the central nervous system, and, to lesser extents, prostate, endometrium, and certain cancerous tissues.Scores of different types of inactivating GATA mutations have been associated with GATA2 deficiency; these include frameshift, point, insertion, splice site and deletion mutations scattered throughout the gene but concentrated in the region encoding the GATA2 transcription factor's ZF1, ZF2, and 9.5 kb sites. Inactivation of one mouse Gata2 gene is neither lethal nor associated with most of the signs of human GATA2 deficiency; however, these animals do show a ~50% reduction in their hematopoietic stem cells along with a reduced ability to repopulate the bone marrow of mouse recipients. This reprogramming effect has also been seen with the Thomson reprogramming factors, reverting human fibroblast cells to iPSCs through Oct-4, along with Sox2, Nanog, and Lin28. Moreover, while Sox2, Klf4, and cMyc could be replaced by their respective family members, Oct4's closer relatives, Oct1 and Oct6, fail to induce pluripotency, thus demonstrating the exclusiveness of Oct4 among POU transcription factors. Initial epigenetic activation phase approach
Somatic cells are first transfected with pluripotent reprogramming factors temporarily (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, etc.) 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z accelerates gene activation in yeasts by destabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] Histone H2A.Z is a protein that in humans is encoded by the H2AZ1 gene. Positioning of H2A.Z containing nucleosomes around transcription start sites has now been shown to affect the downstream gene expression.Recent evidence also points to a role for H2A.Z in repressing a subset of ncRNAs, derepressing CUTs, as well as mediation higher order chromatin structure formation. Histone H2A type 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AM gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H1.2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H1C gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins responsible for nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A type 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AG gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A type 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AI gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A type 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AK gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A type 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AL gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. 
Repressing IL-18 has negative effects on atherosclerotic lesion composition and progression. [SEP] Interleukin-18 (IL-18), also known as interferon-gamma inducing factor is a protein which in humans is encoded by the IL18 gene. IL-18 can modulate both innate and adaptive immunity and its dysregulation can cause autoimmune or inflammatory diseases. Furthermore, similar to IL-1β, IL-18 is produced as a biologically inactive precursor. The activity of IL-18 can be suppressed by extracellular interleukin 18 binding protein (IL-18BP) that binds soluble IL-18 with a higher affinity than IL-18Rα thus prevents IL-18 binding to IL-18 receptor. IL-37 is another endogenous factor that suppresses the action of IL-18. IL-18 is a proinflammatory cytokine that facilitates type 1 responses. Clinical significance
Apart from its physiological role, IL-18 is also able to induce severe inflammatory reactions, which suggests its role in certain inflammatory disorders such as the chronic inflammation and the autoimmune disorders.Endometrial IL-18 receptor mRNA and the ratio of IL-18 binding protein to interleukin 18 are significantly increased in adenomyosis patients in comparison to normal people, indicating a role in its pathogenesis.IL-18 has been implicated as an inflammatory mediator of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the most common cause of autoimmune hypothyroidism. IL-18 is up regulated by interferon-gamma.IL-18 has also been found to increase the Alzheimer's disease-associated amyloid-beta production in human neuron cells.IL-18 is also associated with urine protein excretion what means that it can be marker for assessing the progression of diabetic nephropathy. 
Retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγ) is a therapeutic target for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) [SEP] RAR-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγ) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RORC (RAR-related orphan receptor C) gene. RORγ is a member of the nuclear receptor family of transcription factors. LYC-55716 is an oral, selective RORγ (RORgamma) agonist in clinical trials on patients with solid tumors. The RAR-related orphan receptors (RORs) are members of the nuclear receptor family of intracellular transcription factors. Retinoic acid receptor gamma (RAR-γ), also known as NR1B3 (nuclear receptor subfamily 1, group B, member 3) is a nuclear receptor encoded by the RARG gene. Interactions
Retinoic acid receptor gamma has been shown to interact with NCOR1. Retinoid X receptor gamma (RXR-gamma), also known as NR2B3 (nuclear receptor subfamily 2, group B, member 3) is a nuclear receptor that in humans is encoded by the RXRG gene. Function
This gene encodes a member of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) family of nuclear receptors which are involved in mediating the antiproliferative effects of retinoic acid (RA). 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in gluconeogenesis. [SEP] This cycle of post-translational phosphorylation suggest that temporal phosphorylation of CLK helps in the timing mechanism of the circadian clock.A similar model is found in mice, in which BMAL1 dimerizes with CLOCK to activate per and cryptochrome (cry) transcription. PER and CRY proteins accumulate and dimerize during subjective night, and translocate into the nucleus to interact with the CLOCK:BMAL1 complex, directly inhibiting their own expression. Harsh climate conditions in the early history of the Earth’s formation, such as UV irradiation, may have led to the diversification of clock genes in prokaryotes in response to drastic changes in climate.Cryptochromes, light-sensitive proteins regulated by Cry genes, are most likely descendents of kaiC resulting from a genome duplication predating the Cambrian explosion and are responsible for negative regulation of circadian clocks. Additionally, KaiB sequesters KaiA, which promotes KaiC dephosphorylation.In addition, “In Vitro Regulation of Circadian phosphorylation rhythm of cyanobacterial clock protein KaiC, KaiA, and KaiB,” shows the entrainment mechanism of cellular circadian clock with circadian rhythm in response to intracellular levels of KaiA and the other Kai proteins. In flies, CLK–CYC binds to the promoters of circadian-regulated genes only at the time of transcription. PER1 is a gene that plays an important role in such a circadian mechanism. In Drosophila, CRY1 and CRY2 bind to TIM, a circadian gene that is a component of the transcription-translation negative feedback loop, in a light dependent fashion and blocks its function. In mammals, CRY1 and CRY2 are light independent and function to inhibit the CLOCK-BMAL1 dimer of the circadian clock which regulates cycling of Per1 transcription. 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in hepatic glucose metabolism. [SEP] This cycle of post-translational phosphorylation suggest that temporal phosphorylation of CLK helps in the timing mechanism of the circadian clock.A similar model is found in mice, in which BMAL1 dimerizes with CLOCK to activate per and cryptochrome (cry) transcription. The key role that Clock plays in metabolic and circadian loops highlights the close relationship between metabolism and circadian clocks. Nascent research in the expression of circadian genes in adipose tissue suggests that suppression of the CLOCK gene may causally correlate not only with obesity, but also with type 2 diabetes, with quantitative physical responses to circadian food intake as potential inputs to the clock system. Circadian oscillators are ubiquitous in tissues of the body where they are synchronized by both endogenous and external signals to regulate transcriptional activity throughout the day in a tissue-specific manner. The circadian clock is intertwined with most cellular metabolic processes and it is affected by organism aging. In Drosophila, CRY1 and CRY2 bind to TIM, a circadian gene that is a component of the transcription-translation negative feedback loop, in a light dependent fashion and blocks its function. In mammals, CRY1 and CRY2 are light independent and function to inhibit the CLOCK-BMAL1 dimer of the circadian clock which regulates cycling of Per1 transcription. In the liver circadian clock, NPAS2 and SHP engage in a TTFL: NPAS2 controls the circadian rhythms of SHP by rhythmically binding to its promoter, while SHP inhibits transcription of Npas2 when present. 
Ribosomal protein (RP) expression is controlled in part by stress-activated regulators. [SEP] Ribosomal protein S6 (rpS6 or eS6) is a component of the 40S ribosomal subunit and is therefore involved in translation. RpoS is a central regulator of the general stress response and operates in both a retroactive and a proactive manner: it not only allows the cell to survive environmental challenges, but it also prepares the cell for subsequent stresses (cross-protection). Transcriptional control of rpoS
Transcription of rpoS in E. coli is mainly regulated by the chromosomal rpoSp promoter. In exponential phase, crp mutants exhibit high levels of rpoS expression, suggesting that cAMP-CRP inhibits rpoS transcription. sRNAs (small noncoding RNAs) sense environmental changes and in turn increase rpoS mRNA translation to allow the cell to accordingly adjust to external stress. Another sRNA, RprA, stimulates rpoS translation in response to cell surface stress signaled via the RcsC sensor kinase. The RpoS regulon
Consistent with its role as the master controller of the bacterial stress response, RpoS regulates the expression of stress-response genes that fall into various functional categories: stress resistance, cell morphology, metabolism, virulence and lysis. They are used as an autoregulatory mechanism to control the concentration of ribosomal proteins L19, and are located in the 5′ untranslated regions of mRNAs encoding ribosomal protein L19 (rplS). 
Ribosome-inactivating protein-2 (RIP-2) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] A ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) is a protein synthesis inhibitor that acts at the eukaryotic ribosome. ricin, agglutinin, and abrin) ribosome inactivating proteins (RIPs). Nuclear receptor-interacting protein 1 (NRIP1) also known as receptor-interacting protein 140 (RIP140) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the NRIP1 gene. In terms of cell death, RIPK1 plays a role in apoptosis and necroptosis. RIP interacts with TRAF2 via the kinase domain. Overexpression of RIP lacking kinase activity can activate NF-kB. Overexpression of RIP can induce apoptosis and can activate NF-kB, but overexpression of the RIP death domain can block NF-kB activation by TNF-R1. Via the intermediate domain, RIP can interact with TRAF2, NEMO, RIPK3, ZBP1, OPTN and other small molecules and proteins, depending on cellular context..

Function
Although, RIPK1 has been primarily studied in the context of TNFR signaling, RIPK1 is also activated in response to diverse stimuli.The kinase domain, while important for necroptotic (programmed necrotic) functions, appears dispensable for pro-survival roles. 
Ribosomopathies have a high degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] Ribosomopathies are diseases caused by abnormalities in the structure or function of ribosomal component proteins or rRNA genes, or other genes whose products are involved in ribosome biogenesis. Ribosomopathies can arise from abnormalities of either rRNA or the various RPs.The nomenclature of rRNA subunits is derived from each component's Svedberg unit, which is an ultracentrifuge sedimentation coefficient, that is affected by mass and also shape. Diseases
Abnormal ribosome biogenesis is linked to several human genetic diseases.Ribosomopathy has been linked to skeletal muscle atrophy, and underpins most Diamond–Blackfan anemia (DBA), the X-linked subtype of dyskeratosis congenita (DKCX),  Treacher Collins syndrome  (TCS), Shwachman–Diamond syndrome (SDS) and 5q- myelodysplastic syndrome. (5q- MDS),(cite)(cite) North American Indian childhood cirrhosis (NAIC), isolated congenital asplenia (ICAS), and Bowen–Conradi syndrome (BWCNS), CHARGE syndrome and ANE syndrome (ANES).The associated chromosome, OMIM genotype, phenotype, and possible disruption points are shown:

Several ribosomopathies share features such as inherited bone marrow failure, which is characterized a reduced number of blood cells and by a predisposition to cancer. p53
The p53 pathway is central to the ribosomopathy phenotype. Cancer
Cancer cells have irregularly shaped, large nucleoli, which may correspond ribosomal gene transcription up-regulation, and hence high cell proliferation. Ribosomopathy has been linked to the pathology of various malignancies. Several ribosomopathies are associated with an increased rate of cancer. 
Risedronate increases risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures. [SEP] Risedronic acid, often used as its sodium salt risedronate sodium, is a bisphosphonate. Judge Crotty wrote that "Roche was clearly entitled to respond with its own data, provided that the data was truthfully and accurately presented".In 2006, P&G faced controversy over its handling of clinical research involving risedronate (News Reports and discussion).In common with other bisphosphonate drugs, risedronate appears to be associated with the rare side effect osteonecrosis of the jaw, often preceded by dental procedures inducing trauma to the bone. References
External links
"Risedronic acid". "Risedronate sodium". Bisphosphonates are beneficial in reducing the risk of vertebral fractures. In 2008, the EMA's Pharmacovigilance Working Party (PhVWP) noted that alendronic acid was associated with an increased risk of atypical fracture of the femur that developed with low or no trauma. In one, there was a 73% lower risk of vertebral fracture after one year, and the benefit was maintained after a second year of taking denosumab. Risedronate has heterocyclic structure containing nitrogen. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming increases risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] Infectious diseases whose transmission can be impacted by climate change include dengue fever, malaria, tick-borne diseases, leishmaniasis and Ebola virus disease. For example, climate change is altering the geographic range and seasonality of the mosquito that can carry dengue. Dengue incidence has increased in the last few decades and is projected to continue to do so with changing climate conditions. Climate change has created conditions favorable to the spread of the dengue virus. The recent spread of this primary vector of dengue is attributed to globalization, trade, travel, demographic trends, and warming temperatures.Dengue is ranked as the most important vector-borne viral disease in the world. Another influence is the changing El Nino effects that are affecting the climate to change in different areas of the world, causing dengue fever to be able to spread. In addition to Zika virus transmission, mosquito-borne diseases such as yellow fever and dengue fever are also predicted to be more prevalent due to climate change. One major reason that change in climate increases the prevalence of vector borne disease is that temperature and rainfall play a key role in the distribution, magnitude, and viral capacity of mosquitoes, who are primary vectors for many vectors borne diseases. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming lowers the risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] Infectious diseases whose transmission can be impacted by climate change include dengue fever, malaria, tick-borne diseases, leishmaniasis and Ebola virus disease. For example, climate change is altering the geographic range and seasonality of the mosquito that can carry dengue. Mosquitoes are sensitive to temperature changes and the warming of their environment will boost their rates of production. Dengue incidence has increased in the last few decades and is projected to continue to do so with changing climate conditions. Climate change has created conditions favorable to the spread of the dengue virus. The recent spread of this primary vector of dengue is attributed to globalization, trade, travel, demographic trends, and warming temperatures.Dengue is ranked as the most important vector-borne viral disease in the world. Another influence is the changing El Nino effects that are affecting the climate to change in different areas of the world, causing dengue fever to be able to spread. In addition to Zika virus transmission, mosquito-borne diseases such as yellow fever and dengue fever are also predicted to be more prevalent due to climate change. 
Risk of cardiovascular events can be cut by a third by using antihypertensive drug therapy among hemodialysis patients. [SEP] The AURORA trial (A Study to Evaluate the Use of Rosuvastatin in Subjects on Regular Hemodialysis: An Assessment of Survival and Cardiovascular Events) was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study investigating the use of rosuvastatin in the prevention of cardiovascular disease among patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis.The trial was undertaken because although patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are at high risk of adverse cardiovascular events, no large clinical trial had confirmed the benefit of lipid-lowering agents. These medications not only control blood pressure but also delay or prevent the development of kidney disease in diabetes. Antihypertensive therapy seeks to prevent the complications of high blood pressure, such as stroke, heart failure, kidney failure and myocardial infarction. There are many classes of antihypertensives, which lower blood pressure by different means. A subsequent smaller study (ANBP2) did not show the slight advantages in thiazide diuretic outcomes observed in the ALLHAT study, and actually showed slightly better outcomes for ACE-inhibitors in older white male patients.Thiazide diuretics are effective, recommended as the best first-line drug for hypertension, and are much more affordable than other therapies, yet they are not prescribed as often as some newer drugs. The ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers have been shown to prevent the kidney and retinal complications of diabetes mellitus. Background
By the mid-1990s, there was increasing awareness of the relative reduction of risks for stroke and CHD with lowering blood pressure, and the main drugs in use were initially diuretics and beta-blockers. Randomized trial evidence suggests that a maximum tolerable dose prevents cardiovascular events and death in patients with diabetic kidney disease. 
Risk-adjusted mortality rates are similar in teaching and non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] The risk adjusted mortality rate (RAMR) is a mortality rate that is adjusted for predicted risk of death. It is usually utilized to observe and/or compare the performance of certain institution(s) or person(s), e.g., hospitals or surgeons. For example, for a group of patients first we need to find the observed mortality rates for all the hospitals of interest. Then we can build/construct a model or use an existing model to predict mortality rates for each of the hospitals. It is expected that the number of patients in each hospital will be different and hence we need an overall (weighted) mortality rate for all these hospitals. Once we have the above three rates, then we can utilize the above formula to find the risk adjusted mortality rate which will reflect the actual mortality rate of a particular hospital without being biased from the observed mortality. In the English NHS the Summary Hospital-level Mortality Indicator, the Hospital Standardised Mortality Rate and the Risk Adjusted Mortality Index are all used. The BBC produced a table in 2011 comparing mortality on various measures across all NHS acute trusts. 
Rotator cuff exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] Because strengthening the serratus anterior improves shoulder stability, the exercise is recommended for people suffering from shoulder pain or bad posture and is recommended in one treatment protocol as non-surgical treatment for a rotator cuff tear. The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and their tendons that act to stabilize the human shoulder and allow for its extensive range of motion. Function
The rotator cuff muscles are important in shoulder movements and in maintaining glenohumeral joint (shoulder joint) stability. Pain management
Treatment for a rotator cuff tear can include rest, ice, physical therapy, and/or surgery. Since injuries of the rotator cuff often tend to inhibit motion without first experience discomfort and pain, other methods can be done to help accommodate that. Manual therapy
A systematic review and Meta-analysis study shows manual therapy may help to reduce pain for patient with Rotator cuff tendiopathy, based on low- to moderate-quality evidence. If a surgical option is selected, the rehabilitation of the rotator cuff is necessary in order to regain maximum strength and range of motion within the shoulder joint. Orthotherapy exercises
Patients that suffer from pain in the rotator cuff may consider utilizing orthotherapy into their daily lives. 
Roughly 55% of women with chronic pelvic pain have no underlying pathology. [SEP] Nearly half of those affected have chronic pelvic pain, while in 70% pain occurs during menstruation. About 25% of individuals have no symptoms and 85% of those seen with infertility in a tertiary center have no pain. Presence of pain symptoms are associated with the type of endometrial lesions as 50% of women with typical lesions, 10% of women with cystic ovarian lesions, and 5% of women with deep endometriosis do not have pain. Epidemiology
In the general population, chronic pelvic pain syndrome occurs in about 0.5% of men in a given year. If the pain lasts for more than six months, it is deemed to be chronic pelvic pain. Diagnosis
Females
The absence of visible pathology in chronic pain syndromes should not form the basis for either seeking psychological explanations or questioning the reality of the patient’s pain. Males
Epidemiology
Female
Most women, at some time in their lives, experience pelvic pain. Chronic pelvic pain is a common condition with rate of dysmenorrhoea between 16.8 and 81%, dyspareunia between 8-21.8%, and noncyclical pain between 2.1 and 24%.According to the CDC, Chronic pelvic pain (CPP) accounted for approximately 9% of all visits to gynecologists in 2007. 
Satellite cell dysfunction is a key factor in sarcopenia development. [SEP] Sarcopenia is considered a component of frailty syndrome. Sarcopenia can lead to reduced quality of life, falls, fracture, and disability.Sarcopenia is a factor in changing body composition associated with aging populations; and certain muscle regions are expected to be affected first, specifically the anterior thigh and abdominal muscles. Sarcopenia may also cause reduced strength, functional decline and increased risk of falling. Other factors that can increase rate of progression of sarcopenia include decreased nutrient intake, low physical activity, or chronic disease. Pathophysiology
There are multiple theories proposed to explain the mechanisms of muscle changes of sarcopenia including changes in satellite cell recruitment, changes in anabolic signalling, protein oxidation, inflammation, and developmental factors. Sarcopenia is a predictor of many adverse outcomes including increased disability, falls and mortality. Immobility or bed rest in populations predisposed to sarcopenia can cause dramatic impact on functional outcomes. Satellite cells are precursors to skeletal muscle cells, able to give rise to satellite cells or differentiated skeletal muscle cells. 
ScPif1p has higher binding ability to G-rich ssDNA than to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] Single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP), or single-strand chain polymorphism,  is defined as a conformational difference of single-stranded nucleotide sequences of identical length as induced by differences in the sequences under certain experimental conditions. Applications in molecular biology
SSCP used to be a way to discover new DNA polymorphisms apart from DNA sequencing but is now being supplanted by sequencing techniques on account of efficiency and accuracy. These days, SSCP is most applicable as a diagnostic tool in molecular biology. ATP/GTP binding protein 1 is gene that encodes the protein known as cytosolic carboxypeptidase 1 (CCP1), originally named NNA1. Replication protein A (RPA) is the major protein that binds to single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) in eukaryotic cells. In vitro, RPA shows a much higher affinity for ssDNA than RNA or double-stranded DNA. RPA also binds to ssDNA during the initial phase of homologous recombination, an important process in DNA repair and prophase I of meiosis. The stain preferentially binds to double-stranded DNA, but will stain single-stranded (ss) DNA with lower performance. 
ScPif1p has reduced binding ability to G-rich ssDNA compared to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] Single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP), or single-strand chain polymorphism,  is defined as a conformational difference of single-stranded nucleotide sequences of identical length as induced by differences in the sequences under certain experimental conditions. The difference in shape between two single-stranded DNA strands with different sequences can cause them to migrate differently through an electrophoresis gel, even though the number of nucleotides is the same, which is, in fact, an application of SSCP. Applications in molecular biology
SSCP used to be a way to discover new DNA polymorphisms apart from DNA sequencing but is now being supplanted by sequencing techniques on account of efficiency and accuracy. These days, SSCP is most applicable as a diagnostic tool in molecular biology. ATP/GTP binding protein 1 is gene that encodes the protein known as cytosolic carboxypeptidase 1 (CCP1), originally named NNA1. Single-strand DNA-binding protein (SSB) is a protein found in Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria, that binds to single-stranded regions of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). As well as stabilizing this single-stranded DNA, SSB proteins bind to and modulate the function of numerous proteins involved in all of these processes. See also
DNA-binding protein
Single-stranded binding protein
Comparison of nucleic acid simulation software

References
External links
Single-Stranded+DNA+Binding+Proteins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
SSB in PFAM 
Scapular stabilizer exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] Because strengthening the serratus anterior improves shoulder stability, the exercise is recommended for people suffering from shoulder pain or bad posture and is recommended in one treatment protocol as non-surgical treatment for a rotator cuff tear. It performs the functions of downward rotation and depression of the scapulae combined with adduction and extension of the shoulder joint. However, the supraspinatus is more effective for general shoulder abduction because of its moment arm. Active exercises allow an increase in strength and further range of motion by permitting the movement of the shoulder joint without the support of a physical therapist. Manual therapy
A systematic review and Meta-analysis study shows manual therapy may help to reduce pain for patient with Rotator cuff tendiopathy, based on low- to moderate-quality evidence. Passive exercises include internal and external rotation of the shoulder joint, as well as flexion and extension of the shoulder.A 2019 Cochrane Systematic Review found with a high degree of certainty that subacromial decompression surgery does not improve pain, function, or quality of life compared with a placebo surgery. Orthotherapy exercises
Patients that suffer from pain in the rotator cuff may consider utilizing orthotherapy into their daily lives. Orthotherapy is an exercise program that aims to restore the motion and strength of the shoulder muscles. 
Self-advocacy training is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] The Supported Accommodation Assistance Program (SAAP) is aimed at reducing homelessness in Australia. These programs were aimed to provide transitional supported accommodation and related support services, in order to help people who were homeless to achieve the maximum possible degree of self-reliance and independence. The concept of street outreach to individuals that are experiencing homelessness is a classic example of a form of outreach. Although this model has been criticized as a "housing only" model, meaning that in some cases individuals are not provided with enough support or resources once they are housed, it is generally regarded as an effective solution to homelessness. It is often the state provision towards homeless street outreach because it gives tangible results, gets people off the streets, and is overall beneficial for a cities economy. The Housing First model only works when outreach workers are able to redirect homeless individuals to adequate housing resources. As such, it is difficult to refer to outreach as a concrete solution to homelessness. After seeing the impact of first-rate legal advocacy on the lives of homeless people, Maria left the firm with a new goal; to end homelessness in America. 
Sepsis related mortality has remained stable between 2009-2014. [SEP] Relevance
Mortality associated with severe sepsis remains high at 30-50%. Approximately 1400 people die from sepsis each day throughout the world. Each hospital's sepsis protocol may be customized, but it must meet the standards created by the bundle. Sepsis affected about 49 million people in 2017, with 11 million deaths (1 in 5 deaths worldwide). In the developed world, approximately 0.2 to 3 people per 1000 are affected by sepsis yearly, resulting in about a million cases per year in the United States. Other
Treating fever in sepsis, including people in septic shock, has not been associated with any improvement in mortality over a period of 28 days. Case-fatality rates are similar for culture-positive and culture-negative severe sepsis. A study of U.S. states found approximately 651 hospital stays per 100,000 population with a sepsis diagnosis in 2010. 
Sepsis related mortality has risen from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] Relevance
Mortality associated with severe sepsis remains high at 30-50%. Approximately 1400 people die from sepsis each day throughout the world. In the U.S. there are approximately 750,000 new sepsis cases each year, with at least 210,000 fatalities and this is reported to be same throughout Europe. As medicine becomes more advanced, with invasive procedures and immunosuppression, the incidence of sepsis is likely to increase even more. Sepsis is one of the complications of Coronavirus disease 2019. Epidemiology
Sepsis has a worldwide incidence of more than 20 million cases a year, with mortality due to septic shock reaching up to 50 percent even in industrialized countries.According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, septic shock is the thirteenth leading cause of death in the United States and the most frequent cause of death in intensive care units. There has been an increase in the rate of septic shock deaths in recent decades, which is attributed to an increase in invasive medical devices and procedures, increases in immunocompromised patients, and an overall increase in elderly patients.Tertiary care centers (such as hospice care facilities) have 2-4 times the rate of bacteremia than primary care centers, 75% of which are hospital-acquired infections.The process of infection by bacteria or fungi may result in systemic signs and symptoms that are variously described. It is significantly greater when sepsis is left untreated for more than seven days. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a high-accuracy predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] In evolutionary biology, conserved sequences are identical or similar sequences in nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) or proteins across species (orthologous sequences), or within a genome (paralogous sequences), or between donor and receptor taxa (xenologous sequences). Identification
Conserved sequences are typically identified by bioinformatics approaches based on sequence alignment. The conservation of a sequence may then be inferred by detection of highly similar homologs over a broad phylogenetic range. Genome alignment
Whole genome alignments (WGAs) may also be used to identify highly conserved regions across species. The GERP (Genomic Evolutionary Rate Profiling) framework scores conservation of genetic sequences across species. Conserved non-coding sequences can be important sites of evolutionary divergence as mutations in these regions may alter the regulation of conserved genes, producing species-specific patterns of gene expression. In comparative genomics
The conservation of both functional and nonfunctional noncoding regions provides an important tool for comparative genomics, though conservation of cis-regulatory elements has proven particularly useful. Thus, sequence similarity is often used as a parameter to limit the search space when trying to identify regulatory elements conserved across species, though this is most useful in analyzing distantly related organisms, since closer relatives have sequence conservation among nonfunctional elements as well.Orthologues with high sequence similarity may not share the same regulatory elements. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a poor predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] However, sequence conservation in ncRNAs is generally poor compared to protein-coding sequences, and base pairs that contribute to structure or function are often conserved instead. Conserved non-coding sequences can be important sites of evolutionary divergence as mutations in these regions may alter the regulation of conserved genes, producing species-specific patterns of gene expression. Though these regions can be seen as unique, the distinction between regions with a high degree of sequence conservation and those with perfect sequence conservation is not necessarily one of biological significance. One study in Science found that all extremely conserved noncoding sequences have important regulatory functions regardless of whether the conservation is perfect, making the distinction of ultraconservation appear somewhat arbitrary. In comparative genomics
The conservation of both functional and nonfunctional noncoding regions provides an important tool for comparative genomics, though conservation of cis-regulatory elements has proven particularly useful. Thus, sequence similarity is often used as a parameter to limit the search space when trying to identify regulatory elements conserved across species, though this is most useful in analyzing distantly related organisms, since closer relatives have sequence conservation among nonfunctional elements as well.Orthologues with high sequence similarity may not share the same regulatory elements. Orthologues with high sequence similarity may not share the same regulatory elements. These differences may account for different expression patterns across species.The regulatory functions commonly associated with conserved non-coding regions are thought to play a role in the evolution of eukaryotic complexity. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants do not represent a mortality risk to postmenopausal women. [SEP] Antidepressants are a class of medications used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety disorders, chronic pain, and addiction.Common side effects of antidepressants include dry mouth, weight gain, dizziness, headaches, sexual dysfunction, and emotional blunting. While a 2018 study found that the 21 most commonly prescribed antidepressant medications were slightly more effective than placebos for the short-term (acute) treatments of adults with major depressive disorder, other research has found that the placebo effect may account for most or all of the drugs' observed efficacy.In addition, other researchers also conclude that anti-depressants ultimately do more harm than good, indicating that they cause permanent neuronal damage, apoptosis and disrupt numerous adaptive processes regulated by serotonin. Although antidepressants consistently out-perform a placebo in meta-analyses, the difference is modest and it is not clear that their statistical superiority results in clinical efficacy. Long-term use and stopping
The effects of antidepressants typically do not continue once the course of medication ends. Another study found no increase in cardiovascular birth defects and a 27% increased risk of major malformations in SSRI exposed pregnancies. Antidepressant treatment has a protective effect against suicidality among those aged 65 and over (OR=0.37). Risk of death
A 2017 meta-analysis found that antidepressants were associated with a significantly increased risk of death (+33%) and new cardiovascular complications (+14%) in the general population. Differences in effectiveness between different antidepressants are small and not clinically meaningful. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants increases risk of stroke. [SEP] Post-stroke depression (PSD) is considered the most frequent and important neuropsychiatric consequence of stroke. stroke patients show a higher rate of depression compared to orthopedic patients with disabilities of comparable severity. Risk of developing depression post-stroke in women is partly linked to a history of psychological disorders as well as limitations involving cognition as a result of their stroke. Antidepressants are a class of medications used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety disorders, chronic pain, and addiction.Common side effects of antidepressants include dry mouth, weight gain, dizziness, headaches, sexual dysfunction, and emotional blunting. Adverse effects
Antidepressants can cause various adverse effects, depending on the individual and the drug in question.Almost any medication involved with serotonin regulation has the potential to cause serotonin toxicity (also known as serotonin syndrome) — an excess of serotonin that can induce mania, restlessness, agitation, emotional lability, insomnia, and confusion as its primary symptoms. Suicide
Studies have shown that the use of antidepressants is correlated with an increased risk of suicidal behavior and thinking (suicidality) in those aged under 25 years old. Risk of death
A 2017 meta-analysis found that antidepressants were associated with a significantly increased risk of death (+33%) and new cardiovascular complications (+14%) in the general population. Some studies have shown that the use of certain antidepressants correlate with an increased risk of suicide in some patients relative to other antidepressants. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants lower risk of myocardial infarction. [SEP] Some studies have shown that the use of certain antidepressants correlate with an increased risk of suicide in some patients relative to other antidepressants. Subsequent follow-up studies have supported the hypothesis that antidepressant drugs reduce suicide risk. Antidepressants are a class of medications used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety disorders, chronic pain, and addiction.Common side effects of antidepressants include dry mouth, weight gain, dizziness, headaches, sexual dysfunction, and emotional blunting. While a 2018 study found that the 21 most commonly prescribed antidepressant medications were slightly more effective than placebos for the short-term (acute) treatments of adults with major depressive disorder, other research has found that the placebo effect may account for most or all of the drugs' observed efficacy.In addition, other researchers also conclude that anti-depressants ultimately do more harm than good, indicating that they cause permanent neuronal damage, apoptosis and disrupt numerous adaptive processes regulated by serotonin. Risk of death
A 2017 meta-analysis found that antidepressants were associated with a significantly increased risk of death (+33%) and new cardiovascular complications (+14%) in the general population. This is supported by meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials of antidepressants for depression, which consistently show that placebo groups in trials improve about 80 to 90% as much as antidepressant groups on average and that antidepressants are only marginally more effective for depression than placebos. The small advantage of antidepressants over placebo is often statistically significant and is the basis for their regulatory approval, but is sufficiently modest that its clinical significance is doubtful. Moreover, the small advantage of antidepressants over placebo may simply be a methodological artifact caused by unblinding due to the psychoactive effects and side effects of antidepressants, in turn resulting in enhanced placebo effects and apparent antidepressant efficacy. 
Sildenafil worsens erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] A 2020 study in which 610 young adult individuals were surveyed found that childhood SSRI use among female participants was strongly correlated with reduced sexual desire and activity; childhood SSRI use among male participants was correlated with reduced frequency of partnered sexual activity as an adult. Animal studies on the long-term effects of adolescent SSRI administration have indicated that SSRIs may produce deficits in sexual functioning that persist well after cessation of SSRI treatment and into adulthood, including significantly reduced ejaculation frequency and increased mount latency. Medical uses
Sexual dysfunction
The primary indication of sildenafil is treatment of erectile dysfunction (inability to sustain a satisfactory erection to complete sexual intercourse). Antidepressant-associated sexual dysfunction
Tentative evidence suggests that sildenafil may help men who experience antidepressant-induced erectile dysfunction. Protease inhibitors inhibit the metabolism of sildenafil, effectively multiplying the plasma levels of sildenafil, increasing the incidence and severity of side effects. Without sexual stimulation, and therefore lack of activation of the NO/cGMP system, sildenafil should not cause an erection. Health care providers may prescribe generic sildenafil for erectile dysfunction. In 1994, Pfizer scientists discovered that sildenafil, which also inhibits the PDE5 enzyme, caused penile erection in men participating in a clinical study of a heart medicine. 
Smc5/6 engagment halts the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] SUMOylation is a post-translational modification involved in various cellular processes, such as nuclear-cytosolic transport, transcriptional regulation, apoptosis, protein stability, response to stress, and progression through the cell cycle.SUMO proteins are similar to ubiquitin and are considered members of the ubiquitin-like protein family. Function
SUMO modification of proteins has many functions. In many cases, SUMO modification of transcriptional regulators correlates with inhibition of transcription. It is thought that the E3 ligase promotes the efficiency of SUMOylation and in some cases has been shown to direct SUMO conjugation onto non-consensus motifs. E3 enzymes can be largely classed into PIAS proteins, such as Mms21 (a member of the Smc5/6 complex) and Pias-gamma and HECT proteins. SUMO enzymatic cascade catalyzes the dynamic posttranslational modification process of sumoylation (i.e. The Small Ubiquitin-related Modifier, SUMO-1, is a ubiquitin-like family member that is conjugated to its substrates through three discrete enzymatic steps (see the figure on the right): activation, involving the E1 enzyme (SAE1/SAE2); conjugation, involving the E2 enzyme (UBE2I); substrate modification, through the cooperation of the E2 and E3 protein ligases.SUMO pathway modifies hundreds of proteins that participate in diverse cellular processes. These functions include acting as E3 SUMO-protein ligases during SUMOylation, which is an important process in transcriptional regulation. 
Sn is present on mature DCs during inflammation in vivo. [SEP] The TRIF-dependent pathway is induced by macrophages and DCs after TLR3 and TLR4 stimulation. DC‑associated C‑type lectin 1 (Dectin1) subfamily includes dectin 1/CLEC7A, DNGR1/CLEC9A, Myeloid C‑type lectin‑like receptor (MICL) (CLEC12A), CLEC2 (also called CLEC1B)- the platelet activation receptor for podoplanin on lymphatic endothelial cells and invading front of some carcinomas, and CLEC12B; while DC immunoreceptor (DCIR) subfamily includes DCIR/CLEC4A, Dectin 2/CLEC6A, Blood DC antigen 2 (BDCA2) ( CLEC4C), and Mincle i.e. The TLRs are expressed on most cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and they play a crucial role in sterile inflammation. NOS2 is expressed primarily in macrophages after induction by cytokines and microbial products, notably interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS).Reactive nitrogen species act together with reactive oxygen species (ROS) to damage cells, causing nitrosative stress. DCs are absent from cells under normal culture conditions, but form in response to specific environmental triggers. The detention of numerous proteins in DCs is believed to reduce metabolic activity and promote survival under unfavorable conditions. DCs form at the center of nucleoli and therefore disrupt the normal organization of these organelles. Presepsin in the circulation is an indicator of monocyte-macrophage activation in response to pathogens. 
Specialized functional cell types can be derived from human pluripotent stem cells. [SEP] Stem cells are by definition pluripotent, able to differentiate into several cell types such as neurons, cardiomyocytes, hepatocytes, etc. Source material
Directed differentiation is primarily applied to pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) of mammalian origin, in particular mouse and human cells for biomedical research applications. Drug discovery and toxicology
Cell types differentiated from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) are being evaluated as preclinical in vitro models of Human diseases. "Pluripotent stem cells hold promise in the field of regenerative medicine. The most well-known type of pluripotent stem cell is the embryonic stem cell. A more recent study on motor functional recovery after spinal cord injuries in mice showed that after human-induced pluripotent stem cells were transplanted into the mice, the cells differentiated into three neural lineages in the spinal cord. With this platform Lineage develops and manufactures specialized, terminally differentiated human cells from its pluripotent and progenitor cell starting materials. From this platform Lineage develops and manufactures specialized, terminally differentiated human cells from its pluripotent and progenitor cell starting materials. 
Splenomegaly is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] Expression
SHP-1 gene has two promoters: P-1, active in epithelial cells, and P-2, active in hemopoietic cells. Splenomegaly is an enlargement of the spleen. Splenomegaly is one of the four cardinal signs of hypersplenism which include: some reduction in number of circulating blood cells affecting granulocytes, erythrocytes or platelets in any combination; a compensatory proliferative response in the bone marrow; and the potential for correction of these abnormalities by splenectomy. It is therefore not surprising that splenomegaly is associated with any disease process that involves abnormal red blood cells being destroyed in the spleen. Splenomegaly and hypersplenism should not be confused. Causes
The most common causes of splenomegaly in developed countries are infectious mononucleosis, splenic infiltration with cancer cells from a hematological malignancy and portal hypertension (most commonly secondary to liver disease, and sarcoidosis). Splenomegaly also occurs in mammals parasitized by Cuterebra fontinella.The possible causes of moderate splenomegaly (spleen <1000 g) are many, and include:

The causes of massive splenomegaly (spleen >1000 g) are

chronic myelogenous leukemia
myelofibrosis
malaria
splenic marginal zone lymphoma

Pathophysiology
Splenomegaly can be classified based on its pathophysiologic mechanism:

Congestive, by pooled blood (e.g., portal hypertension)
Infiltrative, by invasion by cells foreign to the splenic environment (e.g., metastases, myeloid neoplasms, lipid storage diseases)
Immune, by an increase in immunologic activity and subsequent hyperplasia (e.g., endocarditis, sarcoidosis, rheumatoid arthritis)
Neoplastic, when resident immune cells originate a neoplasm (e.g., lymphoma). See also
References
External links
Splenomegaly and hypersplenism at patient.info 
Stacking is more stable when a purine is present in the +5 position (C1698). [SEP] In chemistry, pi stacking (also called π–π stacking) refers to the presumptive attractive, noncovalent pi interactions (orbital overlap) between the pi bonds of aromatic rings. In staggered stacking, one of the two aromatic rings is offset sideways so that the carbon atoms with partial negative charge in the first ring are placed above hydrogen atoms with partial positive charge in the second ring so that the electrostatic interactions become attractive. An alternative explanation for the preference for staggered stacking is due to the balance between van der Waals interactions (attractive dispersion plus Pauli repulsion).These staggered stacking and π-teeing interactions between aromatic rings are important in nucleobase stacking within DNA and RNA molecules, protein folding, template-directed synthesis, materials science, and molecular recognition. Their results indicate that more electron-withdrawing substituents have less repulsive pi stacking interactions. They used meta- and para-substituted N-benzyl-2-(2-fluorophenyl)-pyridinium bromides, which stack in a parallel displaced conformation, as a model system for pi stacking interactions. Requirement of aromaticity
The conventional understanding of pi stacking involves quadrupole interactions between delocalized electrons in p-orbitals. Pi stacking is prevalent in protein crystal structures, and also contributes to the interactions between small molecules and proteins. "The physical basis of nucleic acid base stacking in water". 
Stiff substrates encourage mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] mesenchymal–epithelial transition. Catenins play roles in cellular organization and polarity long before the development and incorporation of Wnt signaling pathways and cadherins.The primary mechanical role of catenins is to connect cadherins to actin filaments, such as the adhesion junctions of epithelial cells. α-catenin participates in the formation and stabilization of adherens junctions by binding to β-catenin-cadherin complexes in the cell. Mice engineered to specifically have vascular endothelium cells deficient in β-catenin showed disrupted adhesion between vascular endothelial cells. Keratinocytes engineered to not express alpha-catenin have disrupted cell adhesion and activated NF-κB. Stimulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, and its role in promoting malignant tumor formations and metastases, has also been implicated in cancers.The role of catenin in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (or EMT) has also received a lot of recent attention for its contributions to cancer development. For instance, higher levels of collagen XXIII have been associated with higher levels of catenins in cells. Mutations associated with aberrant epithelial cell layer growth due to lack of adhesions and contact inhibition
Down-regulated levels of α-catenin
Up-regulated levels of β-catenin
Stimulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway
Catenin alteration (and Wnt/β-catenin pathway up-regulation) may help stimulate epithelial-mesenchymal transition (or EMT)
Mutations or aberrant regulation of catenins may also associate with other factors that promote metastasis and tumorigenesis
Treatments focus on correcting aberrant catenin levels or regulating catenin pathways that are associated with cancer development and progression

References
External links
Catenins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Stiff substrates inhibit mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] Catenins play roles in cellular organization and polarity long before the development and incorporation of Wnt signaling pathways and cadherins.The primary mechanical role of catenins is to connect cadherins to actin filaments, such as the adhesion junctions of epithelial cells. β-catenin acts by anchoring the actin cytoskeleton to the junctions, and may possibly aid in contact inhibition signaling within the cell. α-catenin participates in the formation and stabilization of adherens junctions by binding to β-catenin-cadherin complexes in the cell. Mice engineered to specifically have vascular endothelium cells deficient in β-catenin showed disrupted adhesion between vascular endothelial cells. Keratinocytes engineered to not express alpha-catenin have disrupted cell adhesion and activated NF-κB. Through the interaction of β-catenin and α-catenin, actin and E-cadherin are linked, providing the cell with a means of stable cell adhesion. Stimulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, and its role in promoting malignant tumor formations and metastases, has also been implicated in cancers.The role of catenin in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (or EMT) has also received a lot of recent attention for its contributions to cancer development. Mutations associated with aberrant epithelial cell layer growth due to lack of adhesions and contact inhibition
Down-regulated levels of α-catenin
Up-regulated levels of β-catenin
Stimulation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway
Catenin alteration (and Wnt/β-catenin pathway up-regulation) may help stimulate epithelial-mesenchymal transition (or EMT)
Mutations or aberrant regulation of catenins may also associate with other factors that promote metastasis and tumorigenesis
Treatments focus on correcting aberrant catenin levels or regulating catenin pathways that are associated with cancer development and progression

References
External links
Catenins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a higher risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] Because of such later pregnancy birth defects, anticoagulation with warfarin poses a problem in pregnant women requiring warfarin for vital indications, such as stroke prevention in those with artificial heart valves. The risks of bleeding are increased further when warfarin is combined with antiplatelet drugs such as clopidogrel, aspirin, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Newer non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants appear to have fewer life-threatening bleeding events compared to warfarin. In contrast, those with a high risk of stroke derive most benefit from anticoagulant treatment with warfarin or similar drugs. However, in the case of warfarin, if someone with AF has a yearly risk of stroke that is less than 2%, then the risks associated with taking warfarin outweigh the risk of getting a stroke from AF. With the likely availability of new oral anticoagulants that avoid the limitations of warfarin (and may even be safer), more widespread use of oral anticoagulation therapy for stroke prevention in AF is likely. for cardioversion), heparin or similar drugs achieve the required level of protection much quicker than warfarin, which will take several days to reach adequate levels.In the initial stages after an embolic stroke, anticoagulation may be risky, as the damaged area of the brain is relatively prone to bleeding (hemorrhagic transformation). Chronic anticoagulation
Among patients with nonvalvular AF, anticoagulation with warfarin can reduce stroke by 60% while antiplatelet agents can reduce stroke by 20%. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are at increased risk for professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] Bullying in the medical profession is common, particularly of student or trainee physicians. Students enter medical school with mental health profiles similar to those of their peers but end up experiencing depression, burnout, suicidal ideation and other mental illnesses at much higher rates. Exposure to bullying and intimidation during formative years of medical training has been found to contribute to these consequences. Furthermore, bullying has been known to occur among medical students. "A report on student abuse during medical training". Misconduct may involve harm to another person's health or well-being. It is notable that these risks continue throughout training, also affecting resident and attending physicians in addition to medical students, particularly with regard to depressive symptoms.A recent study among German medical students at international universities displayed the significantly higher risk of depression symptoms being 2.4 times higher than the average population. Given these emotional disorders, studies have also proved that medical students are more likely to have suicidal thoughts than students from other schools. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are less likely to commit professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] As medical students have to compete against each other, this can make certain trainee doctors eager to stand out from the crowd, and some use underhand techniques to gain academic recognition. Research has traced the beginning of this difference to the years spent in medical school. "Experiences of belittlement and harassment and their correlates among medical students in the United States: Longitudinal survey". "A report on student abuse during medical training". "Bullying of medical students". "Bullying and harassment in medical schools". Bullying in medical schools Student BMJ October 2006

External links
Bullying and harassment at British Medical Association
WMA statement on bullying and harassment within the profession at World Medical Association The medical school was the first one to be established in the country in 1999. 
Suboptimal nutrition is a leading cause of premature death [SEP] Poor nutrition is a chronic problem often linked to poverty, food security, or a poor understanding of nutritional requirements. Malnutrition and its consequences are large contributors to deaths, physical deformities, and disabilities worldwide. Poor health can be caused by a lack of required nutrients, or for some vitamins and minerals, too much of a required nutrient. Malnutrition
The term malnutrition addresses 3 broad groups of conditions:

Undernutrition, which includes wasting (low weight-for-height), stunting (low height-for-age) and underweight (low weight-for-age)
Micronutrient-related malnutrition, which includes micronutrient deficiencies or insufficiencies (a lack of important vitamins and minerals) or micronutrient excess
Overweight, obesity and diet-related noncommunicable diseases (such as heart disease, stroke, diabetes and some cancers).In developed countries, the diseases of malnutrition are most often associated with nutritional imbalances or excessive consumption; there are more people in the world who are malnourished due to excessive consumption. According to the United Nations World Health Organization, the greatest challenge in developing nations today is not starvation, but insufficient nutrition – the lack of nutrients necessary for the growth and maintenance of vital functions. Disease
The most common non-infectious diseases worldwide, that contribute most to the global mortality rate, are cardiovascular diseases, various cancers, diabetes, and chronic respiratory problems, all of which are linked to poor nutrition. Nutrition and diet are closely associated with the leading causes of death, including cardiovascular disease and cancer. The Maternal and Child Nutrition Study Group estimate that under nutrition, "including fetal growth restriction, stunting, wasting, deficiencies of vitamin A and zinc along with suboptimum breastfeeding—is a cause of 3.1 million child deaths and infant mortality, or 45% of all child deaths in 2011".When humans are undernourished, they no longer maintain normal bodily functions, such as growth, resistance to infection, or have satisfactory performance in school or work. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with complex ventricular arrhythmias. [SEP] This is followed by sudden cardiac death in the absence of treatment. Left untreated, ventricular fibrillation is rapidly fatal as the vital organs of the body, including the heart, are starved of oxygen, and as a result patients in this rhythm will not be conscious or responsive to stimuli. Sudden arrhythmic death syndrome (SADS) is a sudden unexpected death of adolescents and adults, mainly during sleep. Causes
Sudden death of a young person can be caused by heart disease (including cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, myocarditis, genetic connective tissue disorders) or conduction disease (WPW syndrome, etc. It has been considered as a possible transition stage between ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation, and is a critically unstable arrhythmia that can result in sudden cardiac death.It can occur in infancy, youth, or as an adult. Arrhythmias range from mild to severe, sometimes causing symptoms like palpitations, dizziness, fainting, and even death. Approximately 30% of those with CPVT will have a family member who has experienced blackouts, seizures, or sudden death in response to exercise or stress.In those with CPVT, catecholamine release can lead to an abnormal heart rhythm or arrhythmia known as ventricular tachycardia. However, if the abnormal heart rhythm continues, it can degenerate into a more dangerous arrhythmia known as ventricular fibrillation causing a cardiac arrest and, if untreated, sudden death.There are typically very few abnormal signs on clinical examination in persons with CPVT. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with orthostatic hypertension without cardiac conduction abnormalities. [SEP] Prognosis
Orthostatic hypotension may cause accidental falls. Most causes relate to congenital or acquired cardiovascular disease with no symptoms noted before the fatal event. Orthostatic hypertension involving the systolic BP is known as systolic orthostatic hypertension. However, other studies have not found elevated levels of norepinephrine in patients with orthostatic hypertension compared to hypertensive controls. Signs and symptoms
Mild or moderate orthostatic hypertension may present without any symptoms other than the orthostatic hypertension BP findings. More severe orthostatic hypertension may present with the typical symptoms of hypertension. Orthostatic hypertension was associated with increased all-cause mortality. It occurs without any coinciding drop in blood pressure, as that would indicate orthostatic hypotension. 
Surfactin producing cells and exopolymer producing cells cooperate to generate "Van Gogh" bundles that have sliding abilities on specialized media. [SEP] These adherent cells become embedded within a slimy extracellular matrix that is composed of extracellular polymeric substances (EPSs). In contrast, biofilm disassembly by degradation of a biofilm exopolysaccharide released immotile aggregates at high initial velocities, enabling the bacteria to recolonize fresh surfaces and cause infections in the hosts efficiently. Nearly every species of microorganism have mechanisms by which they can adhere to surfaces and to each other. As water passes through the hypogeal layer, particles of foreign matter are trapped in the mucilaginous matrix and soluble organic material is adsorbed. Both fungi and microalgae are known to form biofilms in such a way. Gels have been described by Born as liquids in which an elastic resistance against shearing survives, yielding both viscous and elastic properties. It has been shown theoretically that in a certain low-frequency range, polymeric gels should propagate shear waves with relatively low damping. What remains at the microscopic level are bundles of thin parallel fibers, resulting in a fabric that is very soft and flexible. 
Surgical treatment is not superior to non-surgical in treating adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus. [SEP] Classification
Management
Treatment options for supracondyl humerus fractures vary depending if the bone is displaced (out of position) or not displaced (see classification section above). A proximal humerus fracture is a break of the upper part of the bone of the arm (humerus). Less commonly surgery is recommended.Proximal humerus fractures are common. Treatment
There are both non-surgical and surgical options for treatment of proximal humerus fractures. Non-Surgical
Most proximal humerus fractures are stable and can be treated without surgery. This can be done with the assistance of a physical therapist.When properly indicated, non-surgical treatment options for proximal humerus fractures have good outcomes in terms of fracture healing and restoration of arm function. Surgical
Surgical options for unstable proximal humerus fractures include:
Closed reduction with percutaneous pinning (CRPP)
Open reduction with internal fixation (ORIF)
Intramedullary rod fixation
Shoulder arthroplasty
Reverse shoulder arthroplasty

Epidemiology
Proximal humerus fractures account for approximately 4-7% of all fractures in adults. In older children and adolescents proximal humerus fractures frequently occur in the setting of sports or trauma.Proximal humerus fractures in children can commonly be treated non-operatively due to the large amount of bone growth that occurs at the proximal humerus. 
Sweet taste receptors on the tongue are deactivated by between 1 and 10 mM glucose. [SEP] Sweetness, savoriness, and bitter tastes are triggered by the binding of molecules to G protein-coupled receptors on the cell membranes of taste buds. Sweet taste signals the presence of carbohydrates in solution. Sweetness is detected by a variety of G protein coupled receptors (GPCR) coupled to the G protein gustducin found on the taste buds. At least two different variants of the "sweetness receptors" must be activated for the brain to register sweetness. Synthetic sweeteners such as saccharin activate different GPCRs and induce taste receptor cell depolarization by an alternate pathway. Many foods can be perceived as sweet regardless of their actual sugar content. Sweetness is detected by a variety of G protein-coupled receptors coupled to a G protein that acts as an intermediary in the communication between taste bud and brain, gustducin. The sweet taste receptor found in the gut and in the pancreas was found to play an important role in the metabolic regulation of the gut carbohydrate-sensing process and in insulin secretion. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is elevated throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] Cardiovascular
The heart adapts to the increased cardiac demand that occurs during pregnancy in many ways. ): 85
Blood Pressure: UnaffectedCardiac output increases throughout early pregnancy, and peaks in the third trimester, usually to 30-50% above baseline. High blood pressure is the major sign in diagnosing gestational hypertension. Hypertension in Pregnancy is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering human and animal hypertension during gestation, including the physiology of circulatory control, pathophysiology, methodology, and therapy. Hypertensive disease of pregnancy, also known as maternal hypertensive disorder, is a group of high blood pressure disorders that include preeclampsia, preeclampsia superimposed on chronic hypertension, gestational hypertension, and chronic hypertension.Maternal hypertensive disorders occurred in about 20.7 million women in 2013. Women with pre-existing, or chronic, high blood pressure are more likely to have certain complications during pregnancy than those with normal blood pressure. However, some women develop high blood pressure while they are pregnant (often called gestational hypertension).Chronic poorly-controlled high blood pressure before and during pregnancy puts a pregnant woman and her baby at risk for problems. Risk factors
Some women have a greater risk of developing hypertension during pregnancy. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is reduced throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] Can men really experience sympathetic pregnancy symptoms?". Maternal physiological changes in pregnancy are the adaptations that take place during pregnancy that enable the accommodation of the developing embryo and fetus. Overall, the systolic and diastolic blood pressure drops 10–15 mm Hg in the first trimester and then returns to baseline in the second half of pregnancy. The resulting increase in intragastric pressure combined with lower LES tone leads to the gastroesophageal reflux commonly experienced during pregnancy.The increased occurrence of gallstones during pregnancy is due to inhibition of gallbladder contraction (as result of increased smooth muscle relaxation mediated by progesterone) and reduced biliary transportation of bile (mediated by estrogen) which results in cholestasis of pregnancy.Nausea and vomiting of pregnancy, commonly known as morning sickness, is one of the most common GI symptoms of pregnancy. Reduced motility in the entire GI system as well as increased absorption of water during pregnancy are thought to be contributing factors.Dietary cravings and dietary as well as olfactory avoidance of certain types of food are common in pregnancy. Musculoskeletal
Neuromechanical adaptations to pregnancy refers to the change in gait, postural parameters, as well as sensory feedback, due to the numerous anatomical, physiological, and hormonal changes women experience during pregnancy. Unfortunately, while lumbar lordosis reduces hip torque, it also exacerbates spinal shearing load, which may be the cause for the common lower back pain experienced by pregnant women. It has been found that this incomplete conversion of spiral arteries increases the resistance to uterine blood flow during pregnancy, and that this occurrence was associated with gestational hypertension. 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy does not enhance the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] IRIS in these patients is thought to be due to the pro-inflammatory response after withdrawal of immunosuppressants. Intraocular lymphoma is a rare malignant form of eye cancer. The ocular immune system protects the eye from infection and regulates healing processes following injuries. The interior of the eye lacks lymph vessels but is highly vascularized, and many immune cells reside in the uvea, including mostly macrophages, dendritic cells, and mast cells. These cells fight off intraocular infections, and intraocular inflammation can manifest as uveitis (including iritis) or retinitis. Other components of the ocular innate immune system include tears, epithelial cells, keratocytes, corneal nerves, the complement system, and interferons. Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue
Both innate and acquired responses are important in ocular defenses. However, long-term effects of IL-1α can lead to not only enhanced immune infiltration of the cornea, but also neovascularization (formation of new blood vessels), which can lead to a loss of corneal transparency. 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy increases the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] IRIS in these patients is thought to be due to the pro-inflammatory response after withdrawal of immunosuppressants. The role of immunity in cancer is demonstrated by the predictive and prognostic role of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) and immune response gene signatures. Chronic systemic inflammation (SI) is the result of release of pro-inflammatory cytokines from immune-related cells and the chronic activation of the innate immune system. An immune-mediated inflammatory disease (IMID) is any of a group of conditions or diseases that lack a definitive etiology, but which are characterized by common inflammatory pathways leading to inflammation, and which may result from, or be triggered by, a dysregulation of the normal immune response. Uveal melanoma is a type of eye cancer in the uvea of the eye. When eye melanoma is spread to distant parts of the body, the five-year survival rate is about 15%.It is the most common type of primary eye cancer. Prognosis
When eye melanoma is spread to distant parts of the body, the five-year survival rate is about 15%.Several clinical and pathological prognostic factors have been identified that are associated with higher risk of metastasis of uveal melanomas. Epidemiology
Uveal melanomas are the most common primary intraocular tumor in adults. 
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. [SEP] Lupus vasculitis is a complication of systemic lupus erythematosus in which the autoimmune response causes the deposition of immune complexes, such as rheumatoid factor, within the blood vessels. Infective endocarditis occurs more frequently with those with systemic lupus erythematosus. Libman–Sacks endocarditis is associated with greater systemic lupus erythematosus duration and severity. However, there is data to suggest an association between Libman–Sacks endocarditis and a higher risk for embolic cerebrovascular disease in people with systemic lupus erythematosus. There may be other cardiac pathology related to the underlying cause, e.g., lupus. There is a significant correlation between systemic lupus erythematosus duration and severity, and the incidence of Libman–Sacks endocarditis. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. Atherosclerosis also occurs more often and advances more rapidly than in the general population.Steroids are sometimes prescribed as an anti-inflammatory treatment for lupus; however, they can increase one's risk for heart disease, high cholesterol, and atherosclerosis. 
T cell receptor /CD3 microdomains are required to induce the immunologic synapse. [SEP] In immunology, an immunological synapse (or immune synapse) is the interface between an antigen-presenting cell or target cell and a lymphocyte such as a T/B cell or Natural Killer cell. An immunological synapse consists of molecules involved in T cell activation, which compose typical patterns—activation clusters. For example, synapse formation is quick in CD8+ T cells, because for CD8+ T cells it is fundamental to eliminate the pathogen quickly. Key molecules in the synapse are the T cell receptor and its counterpart the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). References
External links
Immunological Synapse - Cell Centered Database CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3) is a protein complex and T cell co-receptor that is involved in activating both the cytotoxic T cell (CD8+ naive T cells) and T helper cells (CD4+ naive T cells). When the TCR is triggered, T cells form an immunological synapse allowing them to stay in contact with the antigen presenting cell for several hours. These findings highlight a previously unappreciated role for the virological synapse in HIV pathogenesis. 
TMEM27 is a marker for beta cells. [SEP] TMEM275 (Transmembrane protein 275) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TMEM275 gene. Primary sequence
TMEM275's protein consists of 177 amino acids. Post-translational modifications
Various PTMs were analyzed for association with TMEM275. Clinical significance
TMEM275 has no known link to medical disease. Transmembrane protein 25 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TMEM25 gene. Transmembrane Protein 269 (TMEM269) is a protein which in humans is encoded by the TMEM269 gene. Gene attributes
General information
The TMEM247 gene is located on chromosome 2 at c2p21, nucleotide: 46,479,565-46,484,425. Transmembrane protein 26 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TMEM26 gene. 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor enhancer. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. KCHIP3), TNFAIP3 has been shown to be critical for limiting inflammation by terminating endotoxin- and TNF-induced NF-kappa B responses. Interactions
TNFAIP3 has been shown to interact with TNIP1, TRAF1, TRAF2, IKBKG, TAX1BP1, YWHAB, YWHAZ, TRAF6 and YWHAH. TNFAIP3 interacting protein 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP3 gene. Function
TNFAIP8L2 is a member of the TNFAIP8 (tumor necrosis factor-α-induced protein 8, or TIPE) family that function as transfer proteins for the second messenger lipids PIP2 and PIP3. BTB/POZ domain-containing protein TNFAIP1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP1 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression can be induced by the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) in umbilical vein endothelial cells. TNFAIP3-interacting protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP2 gene. 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor suppressor. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. KCHIP3), TNFAIP3 has been shown to be critical for limiting inflammation by terminating endotoxin- and TNF-induced NF-kappa B responses. Interactions
TNFAIP3 has been shown to interact with TNIP1, TRAF1, TRAF2, IKBKG, TAX1BP1, YWHAB, YWHAZ, TRAF6 and YWHAH. TNFAIP3 interacting protein 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP3 gene. BTB/POZ domain-containing protein TNFAIP1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP1 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression can be induced by the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) in umbilical vein endothelial cells. Function
TNFAIP8L2 is a member of the TNFAIP8 (tumor necrosis factor-α-induced protein 8, or TIPE) family that function as transfer proteins for the second messenger lipids PIP2 and PIP3. TNFAIP3-interacting protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP2 gene. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor enhancer in glioblastoma. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. Association with rheumatoid arthritis
The TNFAIP3 locus is implicated as a positively associated factor in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). TNFAIP3 interacting protein 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP3 gene. BTB/POZ domain-containing protein TNFAIP1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP1 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression can be induced by the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) in umbilical vein endothelial cells. Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 8 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP8 gene. TNFAIP3-interacting protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP2 gene. TNFRSF25 is also highly expressed by FoxP3 positive regulatory T lymphocytes. 
TRAP+ osteoclasts regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] An osteoclast (from Ancient Greek  ὀστέον (osteon) 'bone', and  κλαστός (clastos) 'broken') is a type of bone cell that breaks down bone tissue. This permits characterization of osteoclasts by their staining for high expression of tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) and cathepsin K. Osteoclast rough endoplasmic reticulum is sparse, and the Golgi complex is extensive.At a site of active bone resorption, the osteoclast forms a specialized cell membrane, the "ruffled border", that opposes the surface of the bone tissue. Osteoporosis occurs when there is an imbalance between the bone resorption activities of osteoclasts and the bone formation activities of osteoblasts.Osteoclast activity is also mediated by the interaction of two molecules produced by osteoblasts, namely osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand. Osteocyte activity plays a key role in this process. Osteoblasts/osteocytes develop in mesenchyme. Osteocytes are simply osteoblasts trapped in the matrix that they secrete. Oxygen tension may regulate the differentiation of osteoblasts into osteocytes, and osteocyte hypoxia may play a role in disuse-mediated bone resorption. Under normal conditions, osteocytes express high amounts of TGF-β and thus repress bone resorption, but when bone grows old, the expression levels of TGF-β decrease, and the expression of osteoclast-stimulatory factors, such as RANKL and M-CSF increases, bone resorption is then enhanced, leading to net bone loss.Mechanical stimulation of osteocytes results in opening of hemichannels to release PGE2 and ATP, among other biochemical signaling  molecules, which play a crucial role in maintaining the balance between bone formation and resorption. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate does not prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] Subsequent research based on the trial has generally found that selenium and vitamin E do not prevent prostate cancer. A meta-analysis of long-term clinical trials reported a non-significant 2% increase in all-cause mortality when alpha-tocopherol was the only supplement used. A large study comparing placebo to an all rac-alpha-tocopherol group consuming 400 IU/day reported no difference in bladder cancer cases. One such large trial, which compared 50 mg alpha-tocopherol to placebo in male tobacco smokers, reported no impact on lung cancer. The ATBC trial administered placebo or 50 mg/day alpha-tocopherol to male tobacco smokers for 5 to 8 years and reported a 32% decrease in the incidence of prostate cancer. However, this article and a second meta-analysis reporting on clinical trials of alpha-tocopherol supplementation reported no statistically significant change to risk of ARC when compared to placebo. A meta-analysis on the effects of alpha-tocopherol supplementation in RCTs on aspects of cardiovascular health reported that when consumed without any other antioxidant nutrient, the relative risk of heart attack was reduced by 18%. Topical
Although there is widespread use of tocopheryl acetate as a topical medication, with claims for improved wound healing and reduced scar tissue, reviews have repeatedly concluded that there is insufficient evidence to support these claims. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate in combination with vitamin C reduces the risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] α-Tocopheryl acetate is used as an alternative to tocopherol itself because the phenolic hydroxyl group is blocked, providing a less acidic product with a longer shelf life. Research
Cancer
The use of vitamin C in high doses as a treatment for cancer was promoted by Linus Pauling, based on a 1976 study published with Ewan Cameron which reported intravenous vitamin C significantly increased lifespans of patients with advanced cancer. As of 2016, consumption was below recommendations according to a worldwide summary of more than one hundred studies that reported a median dietary intake of 6.2 mg per day for alpha-tocopherol.Population studies suggested that people who consumed foods with more vitamin E, or who chose on their own to consume a vitamin E dietary supplement, had lower incidence of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, dementia, and other diseases. Consumption of alpha-tocopherol as a dietary supplement in amounts in excess of 300 mg/day may lead to interactions with aspirin, warfarin and cyclosporine A in ways that alter function. The same meta-analysis reported a statistically significant 3% increase for results when alpha-tocopherol was used in combination with other nutrients (vitamin A, vitamin C, beta-carotene, selenium). The ATBC trial administered placebo or 50 mg/day alpha-tocopherol to male tobacco smokers for 5 to 8 years and reported a 32% decrease in the incidence of prostate cancer. One review reported a modest increase in cancer risk with vitamin E supplementation while stating that more than 90% of the cited clinical trials used the synthetic, racemic form dl-alpha-tocopherol. A meta-analysis on the effects of alpha-tocopherol supplementation in RCTs on aspects of cardiovascular health reported that when consumed without any other antioxidant nutrient, the relative risk of heart attack was reduced by 18%. 
Taking anti-depresents is associated with a decrease in the Aβ level in the brain of experimental animals. [SEP] Disease associations
Aβ is the main component of amyloid plaques, extracellular deposits found in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease. A number of genetic, cell biology, biochemical and animal studies using experimental models support the concept that Aβ plays a central role in the development of Alzheimer's disease pathology.Brain Aβ is elevated in people with sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Some researchers have found that the Aβ oligomers induce some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease by competing with insulin for binding sites on the insulin receptor, thus impairing glucose metabolism in the brain. As a result, amyloid beta promotes depolarization of the synaptic membrane, excessive calcium influx and mitochondrial impairment. In this process antibodies to Aβ are used to decrease cerebral plaque levels. Numerous candidate treatments that reduce Aβ levels and the number of plaques in the brain have been identified with the help of transgenic rodent models. Aβ is present in healthy brains and serves a vital physiological function in recovery from neuronal injury, protection from infection, and repair of the blood-brain barrier, however it is unknown how Aβ production starts to exceed the clearance capacity of the brain and initiates AD progression. A possible explanation is that Aβ causes microglia, the resident immune cell of the brain, to become activated  and secrete pro-inflammatory signaling molecules, called cytokines, which recruit other local microglia. 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages reduced the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] Sugary drink taxes have been discussed as a potential means to reduce the health and economic burden of dental caries. Consumption
According to a 2019 review of research on sugar drink taxes, the taxes successfully reduced consumption of sugar drinks and reduced adverse health consequences.In general, the theory of supply and demand predicts that the effect of taxes is to raise the consumer price of a good, and lower the quantity consumed. It includes taxation on sugar-sweetened drinks which will be implemented the following year, as an effort to increase revenue and to fight obesity. With regard to a proposed tax on sugar-sweetened beverages, a study published in the British Medical Journal on 31 October 2013, postulated that a 20% tax on sugar-sweetened beverages would reduce obesity in the United Kingdom rates by about 1.3%, and concluded that taxing sugar-sweetened beverages was "a promising population measure to target population obesity, particularly among younger adults. "A 2011 study in the journal Preventive Medicine concluded that "a modest tax on sugar-sweetened beverages could both raise significant revenues and improve public health by reducing obesity". The study concluded that, given that soda's price elasticity is such that taxing it would reduce consumption by 10–20 percent, that this reduction "...is projected to reduce diabetes incidence by 2.9–5.6% and CHD by 0.6–1.2%. Sugar sweetened drinks appear to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes both through their role in obesity and potentially through a direct effect. Risk of type II diabetes
There is a strong link between sugar-sweetened beverage consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes. 
Ten percent (10%) of kidney cancers in the UK are attributable to excess weight. [SEP] Importance of obesity in causing cancer
About 75-80% of all cancers in the United States are preventable, if risk factors are avoided (also see (Cancer prevention). Obesity is the source of about 15% of all preventable cancers.In 2018, Chinese researchers performed a systematic review and comprehensive quantitative meta‐analysis of cohort studies reporting body mass index (BMI) and the risk of 23 cancer types, providing epidemiological evidence supporting the association between BMI and cancer risk. Renal cell cancer
Obesity is a risk factor for renal cell cancer. Thyroid cancer
Obese people are at a higher risk of thyroid cancer than are their normal weight counterparts. References
External links
Kidney Cancer UK official website. Kidney cancer at NHS Choices. Kidney cancer at Cancer Research UK. References
External links
Kidney Cancer UK 
The C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2) rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. [SEP] A C-type lectin (CLEC) is a type of carbohydrate-binding protein known as a lectin. Proteins that contain C-type lectin domains have a diverse range of functions including cell-cell adhesion, immune response to pathogens and apoptosis. CLECs include:

CLEC1A, CLEC1B
CLEC2A, CLEC2B, CD69 (CLEC2C), CLEC2D, CLEC2L
CLEC3A, CLEC3B
CLEC4A, CLEC4C, CLEC4D, CLEC4E, CLEC4F, CLEC4G, ASGR1 (CLEC4H1), ASGR2 (CLEC4H2), FCER2 (CLEC4J), CD207 (CLEC4K), CD209 (CLEC4L), CLEC4M
CLEC5A
CLEC6A
CLEC7A
OLR1 (CLEC8A)
CLEC9A
CLEC10A
CLEC11A
CLEC12A, CLEC12B
CD302 (CLEC13A), LY75 (CLEC13B), PLA2R1 (CLEC13C), MRC1 (CLEC13D), MRC2 (CLEC13E)
CLEC14A
CLEC16A
CLEC17AThe "NK Cell lectin-like receptors" are a very closely related group:
KLRA1
KLRB1 (CLEC5B)
KLRC1, KLRC2, KLRC3, KLRC4
KLRD1
KLRF1 (CLEC5C)
KLRG1 (CLEC15A), KLRG2 (CLEC15B)
KLRK1Additional proteins containing this domain include:

AGC1; ATRNL1
BCAN
CD248; CD72; CD93; CHODL; CL-K1-Ia; CL-K1-Ib; CL-K1-Ic; CLECSF5; COLEC10; COLEC11; COLEC12; CSPG3
FCER2; FREM1; HBXBP;
LAYN; LOC348174; LOC728276
MAFA; MBL2; MGC34761; MICL; MRC1L1
OLR1
PAP; PKD1; PKD1L2; PLA2R1; PRG2; PRG3
REG1A; REG1B; REG3A; REG3G; REG4
SELE; SELL; SELP; SFTPA1; SFTPA2; SFTPA2B; SFTPD; SRCL
THBD
VCAN

References
External links
Functional Glycomics Gateway, a collaboration between the Consortium for Functional Glycomics and Nature Publishing Group C-type lectin domain family 2 member B is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC2B gene.This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) protein superfamily. CLEC4C is a membrane protein of plasmacytoid dendritic cells used as a marker for this kind of cells and denoted as CD303 in the nomenclature of the Cluster of differentiation. C-type lectin domain family 2 member D is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC2D gene.This gene encodes a member of the natural killer cell receptor C-type lectin family. CLEC7A contains putative sites of N-linked glycosylation in the stalk region.CLEC7A is expressed by macrophages, neutrophils and dendritic cells. Function
The C-type lectin receptors are class of signalling pattern recognition receptors which are involved in antifungal immunity, but also play important roles in immune responses to other pathogens such as bacteria, viruses and nematodes. 
The DESMOND program caused substantial weight loss in most participants. [SEP] DESMOND (Diabetes Education and Self Management for Ongoing and Newly Diagnosed) is a UK NHS training course for people with type 2 diabetes that helps people to identify their own health risks and to set their own goals. Background
DESMOND is the first national education programme created for people with Type 2 diabetes. DESMOND meets the criteria NICE identified as being the characteristics of a quality, evidence-based structured education programme. The programme may be run as a one-day, or two part (2 x half-day) course.The DESMOND programme is facilitated by two health care professionals who have been formally trained. The Trim and Fit (TAF or FAT spelled backwards) programme was a weight loss programme that targeted child obesity in Singapore schools between 1992 and 2007. Overview
Overall, the programme was successful in reducing the obesity rate amongst schoolchildren from 14% to 9.8% by 2002. Alan Desmond is an Irish consultant gastroenterologist and writer known for his advocacy of plant-based nutrition. Forty-eight subjects were randomly assigned to a control group and a treatment group; those in the treatment group were put on a 25% calorie reduction over a 6-month period. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on biochemical outcomes. [SEP] Background
DESMOND is the first national education programme created for people with Type 2 diabetes. Data on adverse effects were not systematically presented by any included study. Physical capacity did not change; employment status decreased at the end of the therapy." Functional work capacity was not significantly improved. There was no significant improvement to physical functioning at any time. NADH
There is no good evidence that NADH is of benefit for CFS patients. The largest of the RCTs found no effect for the treatment. A subsequent paper presented results from a step fitness test, but at 52 weeks, there were no significant differences in performance across groups on this measure.The trial reported that CBT and GET were "safe". 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on lifestyles outcomes. [SEP] DESMOND (Diabetes Education and Self Management for Ongoing and Newly Diagnosed) is a UK NHS training course for people with type 2 diabetes that helps people to identify their own health risks and to set their own goals. Background
DESMOND is the first national education programme created for people with Type 2 diabetes. DESMOND meets the criteria NICE identified as being the characteristics of a quality, evidence-based structured education programme. The programme may be run as a one-day, or two part (2 x half-day) course.The DESMOND programme is facilitated by two health care professionals who have been formally trained. Content
Topics covered in the DESMOND curriculum:

The patient story
What diabetes is
Main ways to manage diabetes
Consequences of diabetes and personal risk from having diabetes
Monitoring your diabetes
Ways to take action to improve the control of your diabetes
Food choices for diabetics
Physical activity and diabetes
Stress and emotions and diabetes
The purpose and content of annual diabetic review and screening in diabetics

See also
Diabetes mellitus type 2

References
NHS DESMOND homepage
NHS NICE criteria for diabetes training courses

External links
DESMOND NHS project website
Diabetes UK charity website However, the council's proposals were never acted upon. Desmond is a software package developed at D. E. Shaw Research to perform high-speed molecular dynamics simulations of biological systems on conventional computer clusters. Desmond is available as commercial software through Schrödinger, Inc.

Molecular dynamics program
Desmond supports algorithms typically used to perform fast and accurate molecular dynamics. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on weight loss. [SEP] DESMOND (Diabetes Education and Self Management for Ongoing and Newly Diagnosed) is a UK NHS training course for people with type 2 diabetes that helps people to identify their own health risks and to set their own goals. Background
DESMOND is the first national education programme created for people with Type 2 diabetes. DESMOND meets the criteria NICE identified as being the characteristics of a quality, evidence-based structured education programme. The Trim and Fit (TAF or FAT spelled backwards) programme was a weight loss programme that targeted child obesity in Singapore schools between 1992 and 2007. Overview
Overall, the programme was successful in reducing the obesity rate amongst schoolchildren from 14% to 9.8% by 2002. A direct impact of the TAF programme was a reduction of the obesity rate of schoolchildren from 14% to 9.8% by 2002. It was also quickly pointed out that the name of the programme contained a negative connotation, as its reverse acronym was 'FAT'. Alan Desmond is an Irish consultant gastroenterologist and writer known for his advocacy of plant-based nutrition. 
The DEXI promoter region is bound by multiple transcription factors in a murine haematopoietic progenitor cell line. [SEP] Large or multi-component transcription regulators with a range of mechanistic properties, including locus control regions, clustered open regulatory elements, and transcription initiation platforms, were observed shortly thereafter. Super-enhancers separated by tens of megabases cluster in three-dimensions inside the nucleus of mouse embryonic stem cells.High levels of many transcription factors and co-factors are seen at super-enhancers (e.g., CDK7, BRD4, and Mediator). The proximal promoter region (upstream of the core-promoter region) contains the cis-regulatory elements of most of the transcription factors (TFs).Recently, a better approach to annotate active promoters has been demonstrated with a combination of ChIP-seq and computational technique. Spi-1 regulates myeloid gene expression during haemopoietic development. EVI1 and the fusion transcript MDS1-EVI1 are both expressed in the adult human kidney, lung, pancreas, brain, and ovaries.Cell cycle and differentiation
In vitro experiments using both human and mouse cell lines have shown that EVI1 prevents the terminal differentiation of bone marrow progenitor cells to granulocytes and erythroid cells, however it favors the differentiation of hematopoietic cell to megakaryocytes. Stable binding to promoters occurs through a conserved MH1 domain, and transcription activation occurs through an MH2 domain, and involves accompanying coactivators such as CBP/p300 and Sp1.The majority of literature discusses the interaction between EVI1 and Smad3, however there have been some experiments done showing that EVI1 interacts with all of the Smad proteins at varying levels, indicating a potential involvement in all of the pathways that include Smads as downstream effectors. The data showing direct interaction of EVI1 with the promoters for a diverse array of genes supports the theory that this is a complex transcription factor associated with many different signalling pathways involved in development and growth. Contrasting theories indicate that the interplay between different EVI1 binding proteins acts to stabilize interactions with different transcription factors and DNA, leading to a response of EVI1 to a diverse set of stimuli. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans functions as a pentamer. [SEP] Name and classification
The name Deinococcus radiodurans derives from the Ancient Greek δεινός (deinos) and κόκκος (kokkos) meaning "terrible grain/berry" and the Latin radius and durare, meaning "radiation surviving". Deinococcus radiodurans has a unique quality in which it can repair both single- and double-stranded DNA. Deinococcus radiodurans also has a unique ability to repair damaged DNA. Theoretically, Deinococcus should have little or even no mutation accumulation.Scanning electron microscopy analysis has shown that DNA in D. radiodurans is organized into tightly packed toroids, which may facilitate DNA repair.A team of Croatian and French researchers led by Miroslav Radman have bombarded D. radiodurans to study the mechanism of DNA repair. In addition to DNA repair, D. radiodurans use LEA proteins (Late Embryogenesis Abundant proteins) expression to protect against desiccation.In this context, also the robust S-layer of D. radiodurans through its main protein complex, the S-layer Deinoxanthin Binding Complex (SDBC), strongly contributes to its extreme radioresistance. Applications
Deinococcus radiodurans has been shown to have a great potential to be used in different fields of investigation. See also
Extremophiles
List of sequenced bacterial genomes
Pyrococcus
Radiosynthesis (metabolism)
Radiotrophic fungus
Thermococcus gammatolerans

References
External links
 Media related to Deinococcus radiodurans at Wikimedia Commons
 Data related to Deinococcus radiodurans at WikispeciesMicrobe of the Week page from the University of Missouri-Rolla
Taxonomy of Deinococcus
Deinococcus radiodurans Genome Page
"Meet Conan the Bacterium – Humble microbe could become  'The Accidental (Space) Tourist'"
Deinococcus-Thermus: Adaptations to "nearly out of this world" environments – Tree of Life project
Type strain of Deinococcus radiodurans at BacDive –  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
KEGG Genome: Deinococcus radiodurans The bacterium is in close phylogenetic proximity to Deinococcus radiodurans, which has become well understood in terms of its metabolic functions and radiation tolerance. 
The G34R/V mutation creates a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] H3K36me is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3, specifically, the mono-methylation at the 36th lysine residue of the histone H3 protein. H3K36me2 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K36me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K36ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. Nomenclature
H3K36ac indicates acetylation of lysine 36th histone H3 protein subunit:

Histone modifications
The genomic DNA of eukaryotic cells is wrapped around special protein molecules known as histones. The H3K4me3 modification is created by a lysine-specific histone methyltransferase (HMT) transferring three methyl groups to histone H3. H3K27me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K27ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein  histone H3. 
The G34R/V mutation does not create a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] H3K36me is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3, specifically, the mono-methylation at the 36th lysine residue of the histone H3 protein. H3K36me2 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K36 has different acetylation and methylation states with no similarity to each other. H3K36me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K36 has different acetylation and methylation states with no similarity to each other. H3K36ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K27me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3. H3K27ac is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein  histone H3. 
The H2A-H2B eviction defect is compensated for by other histone chaperone(s). [SEP] This gene encodes a member of the histone H2A family. Histone H2B is one of the 5 main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in  eukaryotic cells. Function
Histone H2B is a structural protein that helps organize eukaryotic DNA. Histone H2A is one of the five main histone proteins involved in the structure of chromatin in eukaryotic cells. The other histone proteins are: H1, H2B, H3 and H4. H2A is considered a core histone, along with H2B, H3 and H4. H2A utilizes a protein fold known as the ‘histone fold’. Other functions of H2A have been seen in the histone variant H2A.Z. 
The HSV-2 infection is typically asymptomatic. [SEP] Although many people infected with HSV develop labial or genital lesions (herpes simplex), the majority are either undiagnosed or display no physical symptoms—individuals with no symptoms are described as asymptomatic or as having subclinical herpes.In many infections, the first symptom a person will have of their own infection is the horizontal transmission to a sexual partner or the vertical transmission of neonatal herpes to a newborn at term. Since most asymptomatic individuals are unaware of their infection, they are considered at high risk for spreading HSV. Approximately 78% of HSV-2 infections in Israel are asymptomatic. Those who recover from this infection can still carry the bacteria in their cells, and therefore be asymptomatic. Most genital shedding was asymptomatic; genital and oral lesions and oral shedding were rare.Most sexual transmissions of HSV-2 occur during periods of asymptomatic shedding. Asymptomatic reactivation means that the virus causes atypical, subtle, or hard-to-notice symptoms that are not identified as an active herpes infection, so acquiring the virus is possible even if no active HSV blisters or sores are present. However, HSV-1 clinical isolates have also been reported that did not show any CPE in Vero and A549 cell cultures over several passages with low level of virus protein expression. More than 85% of those with HSV-2 are unaware of their infection. 
The M2-phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages increases brown adipose tissue thermogenic activity. [SEP] Adipose tissue macrophages (abbr. In adipose tissue, distinction between M1 and M2 macrophage polarization can be monitored by assessing the expression of selected markers. Adipose tissue macrophages and obesity
Increased recruitment of macrophages into adipose tissue is multifactoral. "Metabolic Regulation of Adipose Tissue Macrophage Function in Obesity and Diabetes". Metabolically active tissue with temperature responses similar to brown adipose was first reported in the neck and trunk of some human adults in 2007, and the presence of brown adipose in human adults was later verified histologically in the same anatomical regions. revealed that when the animals are re-exposed to a cold environment, the same adipocytes will adopt a beige phenotype, suggesting that beige adipocytes are retained.Transcriptional regulators, as well as a growing number of other factors, regulate the induction of beige fat. This suggests that some of the adipocytes switched to a beige phenotype at 6 °C. Its expression in adipose tissues is increased following cold exposure. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene induces intestinal inflammation by promoting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] In terms of cell death, RIPK1 plays a role in apoptosis and necroptosis. Overexpression of RIP lacking kinase activity can activate NF-kB. Overexpression of RIP can induce apoptosis and can activate NF-kB, but overexpression of the RIP death domain can block NF-kB activation by TNF-R1. Role in cell survival
It has been shown that cell survival can be regulated through different RIPK1-mediated pathways that ultimately result in the expression of NF-kB, a protein complex known to regulate transcription of DNA and thus, related to survival processes. Receptor-mediated signalling
The best well-known pathway of NF-kB activation is that mediated by the death receptor TNFR1, which starts as in the necroptosis pathway with the assembly of TRADD, RIPK1, TRAF2 and clAP1 in the lipid rafts of the plasma membrane (complex I is formed). Genotoxic stress-mediated activation
Upon DNA damage, RIPK1 mediates another NF-kB activation pathway where two simultaneous and exclusive processes occur. Moreover, IRAK-1 is responsible for IL1-induced up-regulation of the transcriptional factor NF-kappa B. Finally, NF-κB is activated to regulate the transcription of pro-inflammatory genes. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] Overexpression of RIP lacking kinase activity can activate NF-kB. Overexpression of RIP can induce apoptosis and can activate NF-kB, but overexpression of the RIP death domain can block NF-kB activation by TNF-R1. Role in cell survival
It has been shown that cell survival can be regulated through different RIPK1-mediated pathways that ultimately result in the expression of NF-kB, a protein complex known to regulate transcription of DNA and thus, related to survival processes. In particular, JNK can be found in both cell death and survival pathways, with its role in the cell death process being suppressed by activated NF-kB.Cell survival signalling can also be mediated by TLR-3 (toll-like receptors) and TLR-4. Genotoxic stress-mediated activation
Upon DNA damage, RIPK1 mediates another NF-kB activation pathway where two simultaneous and exclusive processes occur. Moreover, IRAK-1 is responsible for IL1-induced up-regulation of the transcriptional factor NF-kappa B. Finally, NF-κB is activated to regulate the transcription of pro-inflammatory genes. NF-kappa-B inhibitor-like protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the NFKBIL1 gene. 
The PDPN gene deactivates the C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2). [SEP] Dectin-2 or C-type lectin domain containing 6A is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC6A gene. C-type lectin domain family 2 member D is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC2D gene.This gene encodes a member of the natural killer cell receptor C-type lectin family. C-type lectin domain family 7 member A or Dectin-1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC7A gene. C-type lectin domain family 2 member B is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC2B gene.This gene encodes a member of the C-type lectin/C-type lectin-like domain (CTL/CTLD) protein superfamily. A C-type lectin (CLEC) is a type of carbohydrate-binding protein known as a lectin. C-type lectin domain family 16, also known as CLEC16A, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC16A gene. C-type lectin domain family 1 member B is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CLEC1B gene.Natural killer (NK) cells express multiple calcium-dependent (C-type) lectin-like receptors, such as CD94 (KLRD1; MIM 602894) and NKG2D (KLRC4; MIM 602893), that interact with major histocompatibility complex class I molecules and either inhibit or activate cytotoxicity and cytokine secretion. CLEC2 is a C-type lectin-like receptor expressed in myeloid cells and NK cells. 
The PPR MDA5 has twenty N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. The signaling cascades in MDA5 is initiated via CARD domain. It comprises 2 CARD domains located at the N-terminus, a hinge region and the helicase domain which is made up of the domains RecA-like Hel1 and Hel2. In molecular biology, TBR5 is a member of the C/D class of snoRNA which contain the C (UGAUGA) and D (CUGA) box motifs. Consisting of about 110 amino acids, the domain in winged-helix transcription factors (see Regulation of gene expression) has four helices and a two-strand beta-sheet. These proteins are classified into 19 families called FoxA-FoxS. Ipaf-1 features an N-terminal CARD, a nucleotide-binding domain, and C-terminal leucine-rich repeats (LRRs), thought to function in a similar fashion to those found in Toll-like receptors. Unlike NLRs, these proteins, termed RIG-I and MDA5, contain twin N-terminal CARDs and C-terminal RNA helicase domains that directly interact with and process the double-stranded viral RNA. 
The PRDM1 gene is a key determinant of primordial germ cells. [SEP] PRDM9 is responsible for positioning recombination hotspots during meiosis by binding a DNA sequence motif encoded in its zinc finger domain. PRDM9 is the only speciation gene found so far in mammals, and is one of the fastest evolving genes in the genome. This would later turn out to be the same PRDM9 protein independently identified later.In 2005 a gene was identified (named Meisetz) that is required for progression through meiotic prophase and has H3K4 methyltransferase activity.In 2009 Jiri Forejt and colleagues identified Hst1 as Meisetz/PRDM9 - the first and so far only speciation gene in mammals.Later in 2009 PRDM9 was identified as one of the fastest evolving genes in the genome.In 2010 three groups independently identified PRDM9 as controlling the positioning of recombination hotspots in humans and mice.in 2012 it was shown that almost all hotspots are positioned by PRDM9 and that in its absence hotspots form near promoters.In 2014 it was reported that the PRDM9 SET domain could also trimethylate H3K36 in vitro, which was confirmed in vivo in 2016.In 2016 it was shown that the hybrid sterility caused by PRDM9 can be reversed and that the sterility is caused by asymmetric double strand breaks. Function in Recombination
PRDM9 mediates the process of meiosis by directing the sites of homologous recombination. PR domain zinc finger protein 1, or B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (BLIMP-1), is a protein in humans encoded by the gene PRDM1 located on chromosome 6q21. Other cells of the immune system such as human peripheral blood monocytes and granulocytes also express BLIMP-1.As a transcriptional repressor, BLIMP-1 has a critical role in the foundation of the mouse germ cell lineage, as its disruption causes a block early in the process of primordial germ cell formation. BLIMP-1-deficient mutant embryos form a tight cluster of about 20 primordial germ cell-like cells, which fail to show the characteristic migration, proliferation and consistent repression of homeobox genes that normally accompany specification of primordial germ cells. The genetic lineage-tracing experiments indicate that the BLIMP-1-positive cells originating from the proximal posterior epiblast cells are indeed the lineage-restricted primordial germ cell precursors. 
The PRDM1 gene, when combined with the PRDM14 gene, plays an important role during primordial germ cell specification. [SEP] PRDM9 is responsible for positioning recombination hotspots during meiosis by binding a DNA sequence motif encoded in its zinc finger domain. Function in Recombination
PRDM9 mediates the process of meiosis by directing the sites of homologous recombination. In vertebrates, PRDM12 directly represses the DBX1 and NKX6 genes. PRDM12 therefore represents an attractive candidate tumour suppressor gene within the der(9) [derivative chromosome 9] CDR [commonly deleted region]." Several members of the PRDM family are found to be acting as a tumor suppressor or a factor driving oncogenic processes in human diseases, specifically and most notably in solid cancers and hematological malignancies. In cases where BMP4 was overexpressed, embryos showed an increase in PRDM12 expression. Past research has shown that PRDM12 is involved in the modification of chromatin. Within this common deleted region was the PRDM12 gene. 
The PRR MDA5 has a C-terminal domain. [SEP] G-protein coupled receptor family C group 5 member D is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GPRC5D gene. Methyl-CpG binding domain protein 5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MBD5 gene. In molecular biology, TBR5 is a member of the C/D class of snoRNA which contain the C (UGAUGA) and D (CUGA) box motifs. MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. The signaling cascades in MDA5 is initiated via CARD domain. Structure
MDA5 is classified as an ATP-dependent DExD/H box RNA helicase. It comprises 2 CARD domains located at the N-terminus, a hinge region and the helicase domain which is made up of the domains RecA-like Hel1 and Hel2. Another hinge region connects the C-terminal domain (CTD) which is responsible for the recognition and the binding of RNA. 
The RANK-RANK-Ligand (RANKL) pathway is involved in the development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs). [SEP] Medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs) represent a unique stromal cell population of the thymus which plays an essential role in the establishment of central tolerance. Autoimmune regulator
Aire is a protein called autoimmune regulator (Aire) which is also specifically expressed by mTECs. However, this claim does not mean that mTECsLo don't contribute to PGE, mTECsHi, especially that expressing Aire, are just much more efficient in this process.There is evidence that mTECsLo serve as precursors of mTECsHi in the embryonic thymus Nevertheless, situation changes after birth, where only part of mTECsLo pool represents immature mTECsHi reservoir and another part is constituted by mature mTECs which are specialized for expression of chemokine CCL21, discussed above. Further subset of mTECsLo pool is formed by terminally differentiated cells called Post- Aire mTECs which already downregulated the expression of Aire, MHCII and CD80/CD86. Similarly to Aire expression, mTECs development is highly dependent on NF- kappa B signaling pathway. Maturation
Medullary thymic epithelial cells' maturation
Maturation of mTEC leads to expression of high levels of MHCII, CD80, autoimmune regulator Aire and tissue restricted antigens (TRAs). Aire mediates negative selection of auto-reactive T-cells and organ-specific antigens' expression on mTECs. Nevertheless, several studies suggest that major role in triggering of Aire expression plays NF-κB signaling pathway, similarly as in the development of mTECs. 
The Snf1 complex regulates carbon and energy metabolism in baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). [SEP] Snf3 is a protein which regulates glucose uptake in yeast. Introduction
Glucose sensing and signaling in budding yeast is similar to the mammalian system in many ways. The presence of glucose induces a conformational change in the membrane proteins Snf3/Rgt2 or Gpr1, and regulates expression of genes involved in glucose metabolism. The induction of Snf3 by glucose leads to the activation of YckI, a yeast casein kinase. Structure
Snf3 is a plasma membrane protein in yeasts that consists of 12 (2x6) transmembrane domains, like the homologous glucose transporters. Regulation
The regulation of Snf3 in S. cerevisiae and its downstream events are still poorly understood, but it seems clear that a second glucose sensor Rgt2 influences Snf3 and vice versa. The early steps of glucose signaling in yeast. The encoded protein is part of the large ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complex SNF/SWI and has sequence similarity to the yeast Swp73 protein. 
The TRaF1/C5 rs10818488 allele polymorphism regulates the neighboring C5 gene. [SEP] TNF receptor-associated factor 5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TRAF5 gene. TRAF proteins are associated with, and mediate signal transduction from members of the TNF receptor superfamily. Interactions
TRAF5 has been shown to interact with:

References


== Further reading == The C5a receptor also known as complement component 5a receptor 1 (C5AR1) or CD88 (Cluster of Differentiation 88) is a G protein-coupled receptor  for C5a. Complement component 5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the C5 gene.Complement component 5 is involved in the complement system. It is cleaved into C5a and C5b:

C5a plays an important role in chemotaxis. TAF5-like RNA polymerase II p300/CBP-associated factor-associated factor 65 kDa subunit 5L is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the TAF5L gene. The encoded protein is structurally similar to one of the histone-like TAFs, TAF5. 
The US health care system can save up to $5 billion if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] This program allows living donors to donate their kidney before their Intended Recipient receives a kidney. The exchanges also reduce waiting times for patients needing kidney transplants. The study found that the health care cost savings of kidney exchanges are substantial. In 2015, the National Kidney Registry completed 360 KPD transplants which accounted for 62% of all U.S. KPD transplants and more than the combined volume of all other KPD programs in world. The improved outcomes from KPD transplants are opening the door for more compatible pair participation in KPD, allowing patient with compatible living donor to essentially trade-up and get a better matched kidney. Specifically a better matched kidney lasts longer and may allow for a lower dosage of post-transplant immunosuppressive medications. Also a better matched kidney transplant is correlated with a lower lifetime mortality rate.For compatible pairs, not only does a better match lead to a better outcome, but it also directly helps other patients with incompatible donors find a match and get transplanted. See also
Optimal kidney exchange - an optimization problem faced by kidney exchange programs, aiming to arrange the exchanges in a way that maximizes the number of transplants or some other objective. 
The World Health Organization's (WHO) data collection process is biased downward by unequal selection of larger outbreaks. [SEP] This requires that key stakeholders, such as researchers and health workers on the ground pass data to international agencies such as the WHO or the MSF, as free of restrictions as possible, within the constraints of medical privacy laws.John Snow traced the origins of 1854 Broad Street cholera outbreak to a contaminated water pump, heralding the advent of epidemiology. This leads to the danger of systematic bias through testing hypotheses suggested by the data. Regression in medicine is a characteristic of diseases to decrease in severity and/or size. Prevalence of tobacco use is reported by the World Health Organization (WHO), which focuses on cigarette smoking due to reported data limitations. World Health Organization. World Health Organization. Additionally, the minimal body of health workers are not evenly distributed in the healthcare system. People living in the rural or slum area are also more vulnerable to experimentation because they are more likely to be illiterate and to misunderstand the effects of the experimentation. 
The ability of activator E2Fs in preventing cell death is limited to terminally differentiated cells. [SEP] E2F6, E2F7, and E2F8 do not have pocket protein binding sites and their mechanism for gene silencing is unclear. While repressors E2F4 and 5 do not alter cell proliferation, they mediate G1 arrest.E2F activator levels are cyclic, with maximal expression during G1/S. In contrast, E2F repressors stay constant, especially since they are often expressed in quiescent cells. Specifically, E2F5 is only expressed in terminally differentiated cells in mice. When cells are not proliferating, E2F DNA binding sites contribute to transcriptional repression. Knockout mice, deplete of E2F7 and E2F8, result in abnormal trophoblastic proliferation accompanied by advanced cellular apoptosis. Apoptosis during development is highly regulated and only occurs in specific cells at specific times. CED-9 gain of function mutations are unresponsive to apoptosis signalling and allow cells fated to die, to survive. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 months. [SEP] The United States National Research Council had conducted a survey, and compiled a report, on United States Research-Doctorate Programs approximately every 10 years, although the time elapsed between each new ranking had sometimes exceeded 10 years. Rose's Law is the observation that the number of quibits on chips doubles about every 18 months. In the aftermath of the September 11 attacks on the USA in 2001, the French government increased the scope of the database to include DNA related to other serious criminal offences, such as voluntary manslaughter, criminal violence and terrorism. Privacy concerns
With the expansion of the database in 2003, it also became an offence for suspects to fail to provide a DNA sample, with punishment ranging from a prison sentence of between six months and two years, and a fine of between €7500 and €30000. The UK's NDNAD is the foremost and largest forensic DNA database of its kind in the world – containing nearly 10% of the population, compared to 0.5% in the USA.The data held on the National DNA Database consists of both demographic sample data and the numerical DNA profile. Privacy concerns
The UK DNA database is one of the world's largest, and has prompted concerns from some quarters as to its scope and usage. See also
National DNA database
Mass surveillance in the United Kingdom
National Identity Register
Police National Computer
Crimint
National Ballistics Intelligence Service

References
External links
The National DNA database
Staley, K. 2005, The Police National DNA Database: Balancing Crime Detection, Human Rights and Privacy, Genewatch UK
NDNAD Annual Report 2002/3
"Has our DNA database gone too far? In 1959, the United States FBI, under Director J. Edgar Hoover, continued for a tenth year to maintain a public list of the people it regarded as the Ten Most Wanted Fugitives. 
The appearance of brown-like or beige cells primarily occurs in visceral fat, not subcutaneous fat. [SEP] Brown adipose tissue is found in almost all mammals. These adipocytes are found interspersed in white adipose tissue and are also named 'beige' or 'brite' (for "brown in white").Brown adipose tissue is especially abundant in newborns and in hibernating mammals. It remains to be determined whether these deposits are 'classical' brown adipose tissue or beige/brite fat.Brown fat in humans in the scientific and popular literature refers to two cell populations defined by both anatomical location and cellular morphology. Beige fat is the adrenergically inducible cell type that is dispersed throughout adipose tissue. Development
Brown fat cells come from the middle embryo layer, mesoderm, also the source of myocytes (muscle cells), adipocytes, and chondrocytes (cartilage cells). The other kind is brown adipose tissue. Visceral fat is different from subcutaneous fat underneath the skin, and intramuscular fat interspersed in skeletal muscles. Fat in the lower body, as in thighs and buttocks, is subcutaneous and is not consistently spaced tissue, whereas fat in the abdomen is mostly visceral and semi-fluid. 
The artifactual C-terminal helix swapping in the StART domain is observed in the Ups1-Mdm35 heterodimer of the StARkin superfamily. [SEP] Reeler domain  is a protein domain. Examples
Human genes that encode proteins containing the reeler domain include:
FRRS1, RELN, SPON1     


== References == The BTB/POZ domain mediates homomeric dimerisation and in some instances heteromeric dimerisation. Structural biology
In structural biology, a heterologous association is a binding mode between the protomers of a protein structure. In a heterologous association, each protomer contributes a different set of residues to the binding interface. The tripartite motif family (TRIM) is a protein family. Structure
The tripartite motif is always present at the N-terminus of the TRIM proteins. The TRIM motif includes the following three domains:
(1) a RING finger domain
(2) one or two B-box zinc finger domains
when only one B-box is present, it is always a type-2 B-box
when two B-boxes are present the type-1 B-Box always precedes the type-2 B-Box
(3) coiled coil regionThe C-terminus of TRIM proteins contain either:

Group 1 proteins: a C-terminal domain selected from the following list:
NHL and IGFLMN domains, either in association or alone
PHD domain associated with a bromodomain
MATH domain (in e.g., TRIM37)
ARF domain (in e.g., TRIM23)
EXOIII domain (in e.g., TRIM19) or
Group 2 proteins: a SPRY C-terminal domain
e.g. 
The combination of physical examinations with C-reactive protein values do not improve the accuracy of radiographic verified pneumonia predictions. [SEP] Although pneumococcal vaccination lowers the prevalence of occult pneumonia, it does not make radiographic diagnosis superfluous at patients with prolonged fever, cough or leukocytosis.Etymology: the term is derived from the Latin occultus = hidden, secret and pneumonia = inflammation of the lungs > Greek: pneuma = wind  and Indo-European: pleumon = floating, swimming. Attempting to make this distinction based on symptoms, however, has not been found to be accurate, and The American Thoracic Society does not recommend its use. Certain x-ray findings can be used to help predict the course of illness, although it is not possible to clearly determine the microbiologic cause of a pneumonia with x-rays alone. Abnormalities on chest radiographs may be suggestive of, but are never diagnostic of TB, but can be used to rule out pulmonary TB. However, if a person has a positive response to the tuberculin skin test and no symptoms of the disease, chest radiographs can be used to rule out the possibility of pulmonary TB. Assessments of the activity of TB cannot be made accurately on the basis of a single radiograph alone. Therefore, a negative abdominal ultrasound finding does not rule out the disease due to its low sensitivity. If there are signs of respiratory disease, the physician may order additional tests including medical imaging, such as a chest X-ray or CT scan, or laboratory tests, such as a complete blood count. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the A isoform to the B isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] MLC-2v interacts with the neck/tail region of the muscle thick filament protein myosin to regulate myosin motility and function. Myosin, light chain 12B, regulatory is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MYL12B gene. The activity of nonmuscle myosin II is regulated by phosphorylation of a regulatory light chain, such as MYL12B. This phosphorylation results in higher ATPase activity and the assembly of myosin II filaments. Myosin heavy chain, α isoform (MHC-α) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MYH6 gene. This isoform is distinct from the ventricular/slow myosin heavy chain isoform, MYH7, referred to as MHC-β. The proposed mechanism for this is the expression of a more normalized ratio of α-myosin chain to β-myosin chain proteins. This isoform is distinct from the fast isoform of cardiac myosin heavy chain, MYH6, referred to as MHC-α. 
The cytokine receptor which regulates chemotaxis and formation of lymph nodes is involved in production of myeloperoxidase in the left atrium. [SEP] CCL20 elicits its effects on its target cells by binding and activating the chemokine receptor CCR6.Gene expression of CCL20 can be induced by microbial factors such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor and interferon-γ, and down-regulated by IL-10. Chemokines (from Ancient Greek  χῠμείᾱ (khumeíā) 'alchemy', and  κῑ́νησῐς (kī́nēsis) 'movement'), or chemotactic cytokines, are a family of small cytokines or signaling proteins secreted by cells that induce directional movement of leukocytes, as well as other cell types, including endothelial and epithelial cells. Inflammatory chemokines function mainly as chemoattractants for leukocytes, recruiting monocytes, neutrophils and other effector cells from the blood to sites of infection or tissue damage. As well CXCL12 (SDF-1) constitutively produced in the bone marrow promotes proliferation of progenitor B cells in the bone marrow microenvironment.Inflammatory: inflammatory chemokines are produced in high concentrations during infection or injury and determine the migration of inflammatory leukocytes into the damaged area. T-lymphocytes: the four key chemokines that are involved in the recruitment of T lymphocytes to the site of inflammation are: CCL2, CCL1, CCL22 and CCL17. Chemokines CCL11 (eotaxin) and CCL5 (RANTES) acts through a specific receptor CCR3 on the surface of eosinophils, and eotaxin plays an essential role in the initial recruitment of eosinophils into the lesion. The receptor is primarily located on neutrophils, eosinophils and monocytes/macrophages, it is also on CD34+ progenitor cells (myeloblasts) and precursors for erythroid and megakaryocytic lineages, but only in the beginning of their development.It is associated with Surfactant metabolism dysfunction type 4. In monocytes and mainly neutrophils receptor regulates proliferation, maturation and overall survival.Kinetics of the receptor in immature and mature myeloid cells in response to GM-CSF is readily regulated by internalization or just by above mentioned degradation and desensitization of β subunit (mainly in the earlier hematopoietic development). 
The deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA can inactivate the viral genome by inducing G-to-A mutations. [SEP] It creates mutations in DNA by deamination of cytosine base, which turns it into uracil (which is recognized as a thymine). AID deaminates cytosine in the target DNA. UDG cleaves the uracil base from the phosphodiester backbone of uracil-containing DNA, but has no effect on natural (i.e., thymine-containing) DNA. Inactivation
Viral inactivation renders viruses unable to infect. Many viruses contain lipid or protein coats that can be inactivated by chemical alteration. UV rays can be used, however, to inactivate viruses since virus particules are small and the UV rays can reach the genetic material, inducing the dimerisation of nucleic acids. It is a single-domain DNA cytidine deaminase with antiviral effects. Viral nucleoproteins have been shown to avoid cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) through arginine-to glycine substitutions. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells affects the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] Type I cytokine receptors are transmembrane receptors expressed on the surface of cells that recognize and respond to cytokines with four α-helical strands. Members of the type I cytokine receptor family comprise different chains, some of which are involved in ligand/cytokine interaction and others that are involved in signal transduction. This phenomenon is largely due to multiple cytokines utilizing common receptor subunits and common intracellular cell signalling molecules/pathways. Interleukin receptors are a family of cytokine receptors for interleukins. Type II cytokine receptors, also commonly known as class II cytokine receptors, are transmembrane proteins that are expressed on the surface of certain cells. Structure
Typically type II cytokine receptors are heterodimers or multimers with a high and a low affinity component. The intracellular domain of type II cytokine receptors is typically associated with a tyrosine kinase belonging to the Janus kinase (JAK family). Class II cytokine receptors bind type I, type II, and type III interferons. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells has no effect on the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] Due to their size, cytokines cannot cross the lipid bilayer of cells to enter the cytoplasm and therefore typically exert their functions by interacting with specific cytokine receptors on the target cell surface. Cytokines are produced by a broad range of cells, including immune cells like macrophages, B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes and mast cells, as well as endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and various stromal cells; a given cytokine may be produced by more than one type of cell. They act through cell surface receptors and are especially important in the immune system; cytokines modulate the balance between humoral and cell-based immune responses, and they regulate the maturation, growth, and responsiveness of particular cell populations. Essentially, cytokines are not limited to their immunomodulatory status as molecules. Cellular effects
Each cytokine has a matching cell-surface receptor. The effect of a particular cytokine on a given cell depends on the cytokine, its extracellular abundance, the presence and abundance of the complementary receptor on the cell surface, and downstream signals activated by receptor binding; these last two factors can vary by cell type. It seems to be a paradox that cytokines binding to antibodies have a stronger immune effect than the cytokine alone. Soluble cytokine receptors are extremely common regulators of cytokine function. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in chronic infectious conditions. [SEP] Monocytopoiesis is the process which leads to the production of monocytes (and, subsequently, macrophages). This balance is tightly regulated, since a too small degree of activation causes susceptibility to infections, while, on the other hand, a too large degree of activation causes autoimmune diseases. Macrophage activation syndrome  is a severe, potentially life-threatening, complication of several chronic rheumatic diseases of childhood. There is uncontrolled activation and proliferation of macrophages, and T lymphocytes, with a marked increase in circulating cytokines, such as IFN-gamma, and GM-CSF. Monocytopenia is a form of leukopenia associated with a deficiency of monocytes. Chronic stress in childhood also promotes the development of proinflammatory types of monocytes and macrophages and they also develop resistance to anti-inflammatory agent (e.g. disrupts immune system responses. The virus establishes latent infection and causes infectious mononucleosis. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes improves inflammatory disease outcomes. [SEP] Monocytes are white blood cells that give rise to macrophages and dendritic cells in the immune system. Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell. As a part of the vertebrate innate immune system monocytes also influence adaptive immune responses and exert tissue repair functions. Differentiation into other effector cells
Monocytes can migrate into tissues and replenish resident macrophage populations. Specific functions of monocyte subpopulations
Aside from their differentiation capacity, monocytes can also directly regulate immune responses. Non-classical monocytes produce high amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines like tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-12 after stimulation with microbial products. Other microbial products can directly activate monocytes and this leads to production of pro-inflammatory and, with some delay, of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Monocytic cells may contribute to the severity and disease progression in COVID-19 patients. 
The effect of Lipopolysaccharides on kidney barrier function is dependent on inflammation levels. [SEP] It is the innermost of the three regions of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS), also called endotoxin molecule, and its hydrophobic nature allows it to anchor the LPS to the outer membrane. While its toxic effects can be damaging, the sensing of lipid A by the immune system may also be critical for the onset of immune responses to gram-negative infection, and for the subsequent successful fight against the infection. Inhibition and activation of immune response
Many of the immune activating abilities of LPS can be attributed to the lipid A unit. Pathogenic bacteria may employ LPS with low biological activity of its lipid A to evade proper recognition by the TLR4/MD-2 complex, dampening the host immune response and increasing the risk of bacterial dissemination. Mechanism of activating cells
Lipid A (and LPS) has been demonstrated to activate cells via Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), MD-2 and CD14 on the cell surface. The infection causes blood vessels in the kidneys to develop inflammation, this hampers the renal organs ability to filter urine. Pyelonephritis  is inflammation of the kidney, typically due to a bacterial infection. Complications may include pus around the kidney, sepsis, or kidney failure.It is typically due to a bacterial infection, most commonly Escherichia coli. 
The first MBT repeat of the four malignant brain tumor (4MBT) domain of Drosophila's Sfmbt and of the orthologous mammalian L3MBTL2 is required for the interaction with the spacer region of Drosophila's Pleiohomeotic (Pho) or its human ortholog YY1. [SEP] Scm-like with four mbt domains 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SFMBT1 gene. It encodes a protein which contains four malignant brain tumor repeat (mbt) domains and may be involved in antigen recognition. Wilms tumor-4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the WT4 gene. Lethal(3)malignant brain tumor-like protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the L3MBTL gene.This gene encodes the homolog of a protein identified in Drosophila as a suppressor of malignant transformation of neuroblasts and ganglion mother cells in the optic centers of the brain. References
Further reading
External links
Overview of all the structural information available in the PDB for UniProt: Q9Y468 (Lethal(3)malignant brain tumor-like protein 1) at the PDBe-KB. MutS protein homolog 4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MSH4 gene. Function
The MSH4 and MSH5 proteins form a hetero-oligomeric structure (heterodimer) in yeast and humans. FERM domain containing 4B is a protein that in humans is encoded by the FRMD4B gene. 
The gene daf-16, which encodes forkhead Box O (FOXO), is required for all phenotypes associated with reduced insulin/insulin-like growth factor (Igf) signaling. [SEP] FOXO (Forkhead box protein O)
DAF-16 encodes FOXO (Forkhead box protein O), which binds to gene promoters that contain the sequence TTGTTTAC in their regulatory region – this is the DAF-16 binding element (DBE). FOXO is involved in the Insulin / IGF1 signalling pathway (IIS) which affects longevity, lipogenesis, dauer formation, heat shock and oxidative stress responses, by activating proteins such as MnSOD and Catalase. Therefore, a reduction in insulin signalling generally leads to an increase in FOXO expression, as DAF-16 is no longer inhibited by AKT. Forkhead box O6 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the FOXO6 gene.FoxO6 is expressed in the liver, skeletal muscle, and the hippocampus of the brain. Forkhead box protein O4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the FOXO4 gene. Clinical significance
Associations with longevity
FOXO transcription factors have been shown to be the down downstream effector molecules of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling pathway. In the absence of insulin, PI3K is inactive, so the FOXO homolog daf-16 is able to translocate to the nucleus and turn on many genetic pathways associated with longevity in the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans. Forkhead box I1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the FOXI1 gene.This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which is characterized by a distinct forkhead domain. 
The generation of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] Lymphomas as a consequence of genome instability
Cancers usually result from disruption of a tumor repressor or dysregulation of an oncogene. Disturbances in the normal redox state of cells can cause toxic effects through the production of peroxides and free radicals that damage all components of the cell, including proteins, lipids, and DNA. In hematological cancers, such as leukemia, the impact of oxidative stress can be bilateral. Reactive oxygen species can disrupt the function of immune cells, promoting immune evasion of leukemic cells. On the other hand, high levels of oxidative stress can also be selectively toxic to cancer cells.Oxidative stress is likely to be involved in age-related development of cancer. The reactive species produced in oxidative stress can cause direct damage to the DNA and are therefore mutagenic, and it may also suppress apoptosis and promote proliferation, invasiveness and metastasis. Chromosomal instability can in turn cause cancer. This is due to the fact that a large rate of chromosomal instability is detrimental to the survival mechanisms of the cell, and the cancer cell cannot replicate and dies (apoptosis). 
The innate immune response struggles to remove small numbers of parasites. [SEP] An innate immune defect is a defect in the innate immune response that blunts the response to infection. "The complement system and innate immunity". An immune response is a physiological reaction which occurs within an organism in the context of inflammation for the purpose of defending against exogenous factors. Components of the innate immune response include physical barriers like the skin and mucous membranes, immune cells such as neutrophils, macrophages, and monocytes, and soluble factors including cytokines and complement. Innate part
The innate immune response is an organism's first response to foreign invaders. The innate immune system consists of physical barriers such as skin and mucous membranes, various cell types like neutrophils, macrophages, and monocytes, and soluble factors including cytokines and complement. In contrast to the adaptive immune response, the innate response is not specific to any one foreign invader and as a result, works quickly to rid the body of pathogens.Pathogens are recognized and detected via pattern recognition receptors (PRR). The trade-off, however, is that the adaptive immune response is much slower than the body's innate response because its cells are extremely specific and activation is required before it is able to actually act. 
The latent infection of myeloid cells with human cytomegalovirus induces a number of changes in gene expression. [SEP] Cytomegalovirus
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a member of the betaherpesvirinae subfamily. When a cytocidal virus infects a permissive cell, the viruses kill the host cell through changes in cell morphology, in cell physiology, and the biosynthetic events that follow. Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection refers to a condition where cytomegalovirus is transmitted in the prenatal period. References
External links
Cytomegalovirus (CMV)—NHS Choices
CMV: Congenital CMV Infection—CDC Cytomegalovirus (CMV) (from cyto- 'cell' via Greek κύτος kútos- 'container' + μέγας mégas 'big, megalo-' + -virus via Latin vīrus 'poison') is a genus of viruses in the order Herpesvirales, in the family Herpesviridae, in the subfamily Betaherpesvirinae. Human CMV is the most studied of all cytomegaloviruses.MX2/MXB was identified as a restriction factor for herpesviruses, which acts at a very early stage of the replication cycle and MX2/MXB restriction of herpesvirus requires GTPase activity. It is also related to other herpesviruses within the Alphaherpesvirinae subfamily, which includes herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2 and varicella-zoster virus, and the Gammaherpesvirinae subfamily, which includes Epstein–Barr virus and Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus.Several species of Cytomegalovirus have been identified and classified for different mammals. See also
CMV polyradiculomyelopathy
Human cytomegalovirus

References
External links

ICTV 
The mean suicide rate in women is higher after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] Mental disorders can be a consequence of miscarriage or early pregnancy loss. Clinical depression also is associated with miscarriage. Epidemiology
A woman who miscarries has a 2.5 times greater risk for depression than those who have not. Among women who know they are pregnant, the miscarriage rate is roughly 10% to 20%, while rates among all fertilisation is around 30% to 50%. Having lupus also increases the risk for miscarriage. While females more often have suicidal thoughts, males die by suicide more frequently. In the Western world, males die by suicide three to four times more often than do females. The rate of nonlethal suicidal behavior is 40 to 60 percent higher in women than it is in men. 
The mean suicide rate in women is lower after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] Mental disorders can be a consequence of miscarriage or early pregnancy loss. Clinical depression also is associated with miscarriage. This not true for those experiencing grief after a miscarriage because only 41% follow the expected decline in grief while most (59%) do not fit this pattern.Cognitive behavior therapy has been found to be helpful if it is begun immediately after the loss. Epidemiology
A woman who miscarries has a 2.5 times greater risk for depression than those who have not. Among women who know they are pregnant, the miscarriage rate is roughly 10% to 20%, while rates among all fertilisation is around 30% to 50%. A miscarriage can result in anxiety, depression or stress for those involved. On the other hand, this group of couples have a better long-term live birth rate than those where miscarried embryos have normal karyotype. Scientific and medical expert bodies have repeatedly concluded that abortion poses no greater mental health risks than carrying an unintended pregnancy to term. 
The microtubule-dependent delivery and secretion of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) is partially responsible for the disassembly of adhesion sites. [SEP] Function
Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, angiogenesis, bone development, wound healing, cell migration, learning and memory, as well as in pathological processes, such as arthritis, intracerebral hemorrhage, and metastasis. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), also known as matrix metallopeptidases or matrixins, are metalloproteinases that are calcium-dependent zinc-containing endopeptidases; other family members are adamalysins, serralysins, and astacins. The MMPs belong to a larger family of proteases known as the metzincin superfamily.Collectively, these enzymes are capable of degrading all kinds of extracellular matrix proteins, but also can process a number of bioactive molecules. External links
MBInfo – Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) facilitate extracellular matrix disassembly
The Matrix Metalloproteinase Protein
Extracellular proteolysis at fibrinolysis.org
Currently identified substrates for mammalian MMPs at clip.ubc.ca
Matrix+metalloproteinases at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Function
Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. Function
Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. However, the protein encoded by this gene is a member of the membrane-type MMP (MT-MMP) subfamily; each member of this subfamily contains a potential transmembrane domain suggesting that these proteins are tethered to the cell surface rather than secreted. Proteins of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes, such as embryonic development, reproduction, and tissue remodeling, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] FOXO1 plays a role in the protection of cells from oxidative stress. In the Innate Immune system, FOXO1 has been proved to enhance inflammation through increasing formulation of several proinflammatory genes. A member of the FOX protein family, FOXP3 appears to function as a master regulator of the regulatory pathway in the development and function of regulatory T cells. Foxp3 is the major transcription factor controlling T-regulatory cells (Treg or CD4+ cells). Function
FOXO3 belongs to the O subclass of the forkhead family of transcription factors which are characterized by a distinct fork head DNA-binding domain. The use of FOXO3a knockout mice has revealed a diverse range of functions in both health and disease, namely infertility, lymphoproliferation, adenoma, organ inflammation, metabolism etc. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. FOXO3 is known as a tumour suppressor. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to less severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] Forkhead box O3, also known as FOXO3 or FOXO3a, is a human protein encoded by the FOXO3 gene. The use of FOXO3a knockout mice has revealed a diverse range of functions in both health and disease, namely infertility, lymphoproliferation, adenoma, organ inflammation, metabolism etc. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. Association with longevity
Genetic variation in FOXO3 has been shown to be associated with healthspan and longevity in humans. In the Innate Immune system, FOXO1 has been proved to enhance inflammation through increasing formulation of several proinflammatory genes. In mice overexpressing the Foxp3 gene, fewer T cells are observed. So, Foxp3 polymorphism (rs3761548) might contribute to cancer development like gastric cancer through influencing Treg cell activity and secretion of immunomodulatory cytokines such as IL-10, IL-35, and TGF-β. IL23R has been found to be associated with Crohn's disease; the at-risk allele has a frequency 93% in the general population. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 up-regulates IL-10. [SEP] FOXO1 plays a role in the protection of cells from oxidative stress. In the Innate Immune system, FOXO1 has been proved to enhance inflammation through increasing formulation of several proinflammatory genes. IL-10 expression is tightly regulated at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level. Foxp3 polymorphism (rs3761548) might be involved in cancer progression like gastric cancer through influencing Tregs function and the secretion of immunomodulatory cytokines such as IL-10, IL-35, and TGF-β.A recent mouse study indicates that IL-10 regulates CD36, a key phagocytosis effector, promoting hematoma clearance after intracerebral hemorrhage. A member of the FOX protein family, FOXP3 appears to function as a master regulator of the regulatory pathway in the development and function of regulatory T cells. Foxp3 is the major transcription factor controlling T-regulatory cells (Treg or CD4+ cells). It is thought that FOXO3a is also involved in protection from oxidative stress by upregulating antioxidants such as catalase and MnSOD. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of decreased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] White adipose tissue or white fat is one of the two types of adipose tissue found in mammals. White adipose tissue is used for energy storage. White adipose tissue exists in various depots that may have different types of adipocytes. The two types of adipose tissue are white adipose tissue (WAT), which stores energy, and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which generates body heat. The layer of brown adipose tissue in this depot is often covered by a "frosting" of white adipose tissue; sometimes these two types of fat (brown and white) are hard to distinguish. The therapeutic targeting of brown fat for the treatment of human obesity is an active research field.In contrast to white adipocytes, which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which gives the tissue its color. Adults
It was believed that after infants grow up, most of the mitochondria (which are responsible for the brown color) in brown adipose tissue disappear, and the tissue becomes similar in function and appearance to white fat. There are two types of adipose tissue, white adipose tissue (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which are also known as white and brown fat, respectively, and comprise two types of fat cells. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of increased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] White adipose tissue or white fat is one of the two types of adipose tissue found in mammals. White adipose tissue exists in various depots that may have different types of adipocytes. The two types of adipose tissue are white adipose tissue (WAT), which stores energy, and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which generates body heat. The layer of brown adipose tissue in this depot is often covered by a "frosting" of white adipose tissue; sometimes these two types of fat (brown and white) are hard to distinguish. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) or brown fat makes up the adipose organ together with white adipose tissue (or white fat). The therapeutic targeting of brown fat for the treatment of human obesity is an active research field.In contrast to white adipocytes, which contain a single lipid droplet, brown adipocytes contain numerous smaller droplets and a much higher number of (iron-containing) mitochondria, which gives the tissue its color. Adults
It was believed that after infants grow up, most of the mitochondria (which are responsible for the brown color) in brown adipose tissue disappear, and the tissue becomes similar in function and appearance to white fat. Adipocytes stay in a dynamic state, they start expanding when the energy intake is higher than the expenditure and undergo mobilization when the energy expenditure exceeds the intake. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are cardiovascular. [SEP] A serious adverse event (SAE) in human drug trials is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose

Results in death
Is life-threatening
Requires inpatient hospitalization or causes prolongation of existing hospitalization
Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity
May have caused a congenital anomaly/birth defect
Requires intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damageThe term "life-threatening" in the definition of "serious" refers to an event in which the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event; it does not refer to an event which hypothetically might have caused death if it were more severe. Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE, or major adverse cardiac events)  is a composite endpoint frequently used in cardiovascular research. But another study defines MACE as "CVD events, admission for HF (Heart Failure), ischemic cardiovascular [CV] events, cardiac death, or MACE". One of those studies defined MACE as the composite of myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death. In high blood concentrations, it causes mild constriction of rabbit pulmonary arteries. Magnesium pyridoxal 5-phosphate glutamate (trade name Sedalipid) is a hypolipidemic agent. "The most common form of birth defects from thalidomide is shortened limbs, with the arms being more frequently affected. The result is that when alcohol is consumed by users of calcium carbimide, they experience severe reactions which include symptoms such as sweating, difficulty breathing, rapid heartbeat, rash, nausea and vomiting, and headache. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are gastrointestinal. [SEP] The most frequently observed are nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting, which increased in incidence with the dosage amount (i.e. Other side effects reported were dyspepsia, constipation, abdominal pain, dizziness, and hypoglycaemia. These include bowel disorders (diarrhoea, constipation, irritable bowel), eosinophilic gastroenteritis and increase with coeliac disease (CD) severity. GSE is associated with an increase of food allergies, in some patients this can cause diarrhea, but in others constipation. The more powerful
acid blockers (omeprazole, esomeprezole) can interfere with calcium adsorption and can aggravate preexisting hypocalcaemia and hypomagnesemia, which are more common GSE

Eosinophilic oesophagitis
One study of 17 children in Italy who were diagnosed with eosinophilic oesophagitis found 6 of them also had coeliac disease. Disturbances may be followed by
convulsions and associated with gastrointestinal phenomena. Abnormal motility  Studies have shown altered muscle contractility and tone, bowel compliance, and transit may contribute to many of the gastrointestinal symptoms of FGID which may include diarrhea, constipation, and vomiting. Ultimately leading to visceral hypersensitivity. 
The myocardial cell lineage originally develops from cardiac progenitors of exclusively endodermal origin. [SEP] Endogenous cardiac stem cells (eCSCs) are tissue-specific stem progenitor cells harboured within the adult mammalian heart. Endogenous cardiac stem cells were first discovered in 2003 by Bernardo Nadal-Ginard, Piero Anversa and colleagues  in the adult rat heart and since then have been identified and isolated from mouse, dog, porcine and human hearts.The adult heart was previously thought to be a post mitotic organ without any regenerative capability. The endocardial heart tubes derive from the visceral mesoderm and initially are formed by a confluence of angioblastic blood vessels on either side of the embryonic midline. The myocardium forms from mesoderm cells surrounding the heart tube, while the epicardium develops from other cells, most likely from neural crest cells. Early development
The heart derives from embryonic mesodermal germ layer cells that differentiate after gastrulation into mesothelium, endothelium, and myocardium. The inner lining of the heart – the endocardium, lymphatic and blood vessels, develop from endothelium. Endocardial cushions, or atrioventricular cushions, refer to a subset of cells in the development of the heart that play a vital role in the proper formation of the heart septa. See also
Endocardial tubes
Heart development
Mesenchyme

References
This article incorporates text in the public domain from page 512 of the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy (1918)

External links
Embryology at Temple Heart98/heart97a/sld033
med/670 at eMedicine
Overview at mcgill.ca
3d animation of heart development from the University of Toronto 
The number of unfertilized oocytes in mated hermaphrodites increases with age. [SEP] Unlike females, male fecundity increases greatly with age, and it is hypothesized that it is more selectively advantageous to be a male when an organism's body is larger. Warner suggests that selection for protandry may occur in populations where female fecundity is augmented with age and individuals mate randomly. Thus, he suggests that female fecundity has more impact on sequential hermaphroditism than the age structures of the population.The size-advantage model predicts that sex change would only be absent if the relationship between size/age with reproductive potential is identical in both sexes. These results suggests that MMPs and changes in steroid levels play a large role in sequential hermaphroditism in teleosts. Pregnancy over the age of 50 has, over recent years, become possible for more women, and more easily achieved for many, due to recent advances in assisted reproductive technology, in particular egg donation. Medical considerations
The risk of pregnancy complications increases as the mother's age increases. If this is true, it would mean that females have a finite number of oocytes that are formed before they are born. By having the same hormones regulate both reproduction and aging, an animal is able to modulate its fertility and its rate of aging based on environmental conditions.Recent parabiosis studies prove many of the tenets of the Reproductive Cell-Cycle Theory of Aging. 
The one-child policy has created a hospitable environment for female infants. [SEP] Educational programs were also encouraged to promote one child policy expectations. They experienced continuous childbearing, and so were strongly supportive of the one-child policy. Quality of life for women
The one-child policy's limit on the number of children resulted in new mothers having more resources to start investing money in their own well-being. As a result of being an only child, women have increased opportunity to receive an education, and support to get better jobs. One of the side effects of the one-child policy is to have liberated women from heavy duties in terms of taking care of many children and the family in the past; instead, women had a lot of spare time for themselves to pursue their career or hobbies. Especially in cities where one-child policy was much more regulated and enforced, expectations on women to succeed in life are no less than on men. Since many of these women were employed and held the modern woman standard, the incentive to later births was to provide paid leave as long as they maintained the one child expectation. (2005) has found that many urban women in China perceived the one-child policy as positive, as it allowed them to have greater control over their reproductive health and career trajectories. 
The origin of the CRF01_1b2k protein occurred between 1923 and 1956. [SEP] Corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 (CRHR1) is a protein, also known as CRF1, with the latter (CRF1) now being the IUPHAR-recommended name. In humans, CRF1 is encoded by the CRHR1 gene at region 17q21.31, beside micrototubule-associated protein tau MAPT. Excision of exon 6 yields in the mRNA for the primary functional CRF1, which is a peptide composed of 415 amino acids, arranged in seven hydrophobic alpha-helices.The CRHR1 gene is alternatively spliced into a series of variants. Though the functions of these CRF1 receptors is yet unknown, they are suspected to be biologically significant.CRF1 is 70% homologous with the second human CRF receptor family, CRF2; the greatest divergence between the two lies at the N-terminus of the protein. Mechanism of activation
CRF1 is activated through the binding of CRF or a CRF-agonist. Alternate signaling pathways activated by CRF1 include PKC and MAPK. Evolution
Corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) evolved ~500 million years ago in an organism that subsequently gave rise to both chordates and arthropods. In vertebrates this gene was duplicated leading to the extant CRH1 and CRH2 forms. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs during pubertal growth spurt in early adolescents. [SEP] During puberty, bones become harder and more brittle. A child bone fracture or a pediatric fracture is a medical condition in which a bone of a child (a person younger than the age of 18) is cracked or broken. Fracture personality
Children in general are at greater risk because of their high activity levels. The probability of bone fractures in children increases with age. The age when girls usually fracture a bone is twelve and for boys the age is fourteen. About half of boys and one-fourth of girls are likely to have a fracture during childhood. As sport activities increase, the fractures in children increase as well, especially for boys who participate in either wrestling or football. Much like bone types in the different stages of childhood are varying, so the bone fracture injuries in infants, children, and adolescents vary. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs in toddlers. [SEP] Toddler's fractures  are bone fractures of the distal (lower) part of the shin bone (tibia) in toddlers (aged 9 months-3 years) and other young children (less than 8 years). Contrary to CAST fractures, non-accidental injury typically affect the upper two-thirds or midshaft of the tibia.Other possible fractures in this area, occurring in the cuboid, calcaneus, and fibula, can be associated or can be mistaken for a toddler's fracture. A child bone fracture or a pediatric fracture is a medical condition in which a bone of a child (a person younger than the age of 18) is cracked or broken. These types of fractures are characteristic of child abuse-related injuries. Fracture personality
Children in general are at greater risk because of their high activity levels. Greenstick fractures occur most often during infancy and childhood when bones are soft. The fracture usually occurs in children and teens because their bones are flexible, unlike adults whose more brittle bones usually break. This occurrence is known as "toddler's fracture". 
The predominant localization of Linc00173 is in mononuclear macrophage nuclei. [SEP] Long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 173 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the LINC00173 gene. In immunology, the mononuclear phagocyte system or mononuclear phagocytic system (MPS) also known as the reticuloendothelial system or macrophage system is a part of the immune system that consists of the phagocytic cells located in reticular connective tissue. The cells are primarily monocytes and macrophages, and they accumulate in lymph nodes and the spleen. Cell types and locations
The spleen is the second largest unit of the mononuclear phagocyte system. The monocyte is formed in the bone marrow and transported by the blood; it migrates into the tissues, where it transforms into a histiocyte or a macrophage. Macrophages are diffusely scattered in the connective tissue and in liver (Kupffer cells), spleen and lymph nodes (sinus histiocytes), lungs (alveolar macrophages), and central nervous system (microglia). Its gene is located on chromosome 17, in humans, among a cluster of other CC chemokines. It also is a marker of cells from the monocyte/macrophage lineage. 
The proliferative capacity of neural progenitors differs across species. [SEP] Some neural progenitor stem cells persist in highly restricted regions in the adult vertebrate brain and continue to produce neurons throughout life. The total number of these progenitors determines the size of a neurosphere and, as a result, disparities in sphere size within different neurosphere populations may reflect alterations in the proliferation, survival and/or differentiation status of their neural progenitors. Indeed, it has been reported that loss of  β1-integrin in a neurosphere culture does not significantly affect the capacity of β1-integrin deficient stem cells to form new neurospheres, but it influences the size of the neurosphere:  β1-integrin deficient neurospheres were overall smaller due to increased cell death and reduced proliferation.While the Neurosphere Assay has been the method of choice for isolation, expansion and even the enumeration of neural stem and progenitor cells, several recent publications have highlighted some of the limitations of the neurosphere culture system as a method for determining neural stem cell frequencies. Since then, neural progenitor and stem cells have been isolated from various areas of the adult central nervous system, including non-neurogenic areas, such as the spinal cord, and from various species including humans. Once born, neurons do not divide (see mitosis), and many will live the lifespan of the animal, except under extraordinary and usually pathogenic circumstances. The amount of time required to generate all the neurons of the CNS varies widely across mammals, and brain neurogenesis is not always complete by the time of birth. In some vertebrates, regenerative neurogenesis has also been shown to occur. Development of the human cerebral cortices
Before embryonic day 40 (E40), progenitor cells generate other progenitor cells; after that period, progenitor cells produce only dissimilar mesenchymal stem cell daughters. 
The proliferative capacity of progenitors is regulated cell-autonomously. [SEP] Progenitors can go through several rounds of cell division before terminally differentiating into a mature cell. A progenitor cell is a biological cell that can differentiate into a specific cell type. Stem cells and progenitor cells have this ability in common. Progenitor cells can only differentiate into their "target" cell type. The most important difference between stem cells and progenitor cells is that stem cells can replicate indefinitely, whereas progenitor cells can divide only a limited number of times. Cell proliferation is the process by which a cell grows and divides to produce two daughter cells. Uncontrolled cell proliferation, leading to an increased proliferation rate, or a failure of cells to arrest their proliferation at the normal time, is a cause of cancer. Immortalised cell lines have undergone similar mutations allowing a cell type which would normally not be able to divide to be proliferated in vitro. 
The proportion of people with visual difficulty is two times higher in low-income countries than in high-income countries. [SEP] The world's poor are significantly more likely to have or incur a disability within their lifetime compared to more financially privileged populations. The rate of disability within impoverished nations is notably higher than that found in more developed countries. The evidence on the association between disability and poverty was recently reviewed in the United Nations' first Flagship Report on Disability and Development The association between disability and poverty has been shown to be stronger when poverty is measured multidimensionally as multiple deprivations compared to when it is measured through income or consumption expenditures. He stated, "People with disabilities in developing countries are over-represented among the poorest people. This connection is also present in developed countries, with the Disability Funders Network reporting that in the United States alone those with disabilities are twice as likely to live below the poverty line than those without disability. Due to these barriers, both economic and physical, it is estimated that only 2 percent of individuals with disabilities have access to adequate rehabilitation services.The inaccessibility of health care for those living in poverty has a substantial impact on the rate of disability within this population. Socioeconomics
In a 2009 study of disability in Sierra Leone, one third of the disabled people surveyed were employed while twice as many disabled people (16.4%) had no access to healthcare as compared to non-disabled people (7.1%). People living below the poverty line and with less education have a higher second-hand smoke exposure than those who do not. 
The recruitment of Wdr5 to its target loci depends on Kat8. [SEP] K(lysine) acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the KAT8 gene. Interactions
KAT8 has been shown to interact with MORF4L1. WD repeat-containing protein 8 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the WDR8 gene. This family member is 89% identical to the mouse Wdr8 protein at the amino acid level. The function of this protein is not known, and the mouse studies suggest that the Wdr8 protein may play a role in the process of ossification (osteogenesis). A-kinase anchor protein 8 is an enzyme that, in humans, is encoded by the AKAP8 gene. Interactions
MED8 has been shown to interact with MED26. Epidermal growth factor receptor kinase substrate 8 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the EPS8 gene. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is independent of the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] It is taken by mouth.Endoxifen is an active metabolite of tamoxifen and has been found to be effective in patients that have failed previous hormonal therapies (tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors, and fulvestrant). The prodrug tamoxifen is metabolized by the CYP2D6 enzyme to produce endoxifen and afimoxifene (4-hydroxytamoxifen).Currently, endoxifen is approved by Drugs Controller General of India for the acute treatment of manic episode with or without mixed features of Bipolar I disorder. Research
Endoxifen has been investigated as a potential drug in the treatment of breast cancer. Cancer pharmacogenomics is the study of how variances in the genome influences an individual’s response to different cancer drug treatments. Thus, the application of pharmacogenomics within the field of cancer can offer key advantages for personalizing cancer therapy, minimizing treatment toxicity, and maximizing treatment efficacy. Applying pharmacogenomics within cancer has considerable differences compared to other complex diseases, as there are two genomes that need to be considered - the germline and the tumour. Pharmacokinetic genes
Cancer pharmacogenomics has also contributed to the understanding of how pharmacokinetic genes affect the exposure to cancer drugs, which can help predict patient sensitivity to treatment toxicity. It has been established that the TPMT genotype of a patient can affect the levels of exposure to the active metabolites, which has an impact in the treatment toxicity and efficacy. 
The removal of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] This is due to the fact that a large rate of chromosomal instability is detrimental to the survival mechanisms of the cell, and the cancer cell cannot replicate and dies (apoptosis). However untimely activation of the DNA damage response once cells have committed to the mitosis stage of the cell cycle appears to undermine genome integrity and induce chromosome segregation errors.A majority of human solid malignant tumors is characterized by chromosomal instability, and have gain or loss of whole chromosomes or fractions of chromosomes. Lymphomas as a consequence of genome instability
Cancers usually result from disruption of a tumor repressor or dysregulation of an oncogene. Disturbances in the normal redox state of cells can cause toxic effects through the production of peroxides and free radicals that damage all components of the cell, including proteins, lipids, and DNA. In hematological cancers, such as leukemia, the impact of oxidative stress can be bilateral. Reactive oxygen species can disrupt the function of immune cells, promoting immune evasion of leukemic cells. The reactive species produced in oxidative stress can cause direct damage to the DNA and are therefore mutagenic, and it may also suppress apoptosis and promote proliferation, invasiveness and metastasis. In DNA, deletions, mutations, and other lethal genetic effects may result from reactions with ROS. 
The repeat-variable diresidue (RVD) in the loop of Transcription-Activator Like (TAL) effectors specifies the nucleotides-amino acid contact at the target promoter element. [SEP] These repeats also have repeat variable residues (RVD) that can detect specific DNA base pairs. DNA recognition
The most distinctive characteristic of TAL effectors is a central repeat domain containing between 1.5 and 33.5 repeats that are usually 34 residues in length (the C-terminal repeat is generally shorter and referred to as a “half repeat”). A typical repeat sequence is LTPEQVVAIASHDGGKQALETVQRLLPVLCQAHG, but the residues at the 12th and 13th positions are hypervariable (these two amino acids are also known as the repeat variable diresidue or RVD). There is a simple relationship between the identity of these two residues in sequential repeats and sequential DNA bases in the TAL effector's target site. The crystal structure of a TAL effector bound to DNA indicates that each repeat comprises two alpha helices and a short RVD-containing loop where the second residue of the RVD makes sequence-specific DNA contacts while the first residue of the RVD stabilizes the RVD-containing loop. Target sites of TAL effectors also tend to include a thymine flanking the 5’ base targeted by the first repeat; this appears to be due to a contact between this T and a conserved tryptophan in the region N-terminal of the central repeat domain. The experimentally validated code between RVD sequence and target DNA base can be expressed as follows:

Target genes
TAL effectors can induce susceptibility genes that are members of the NODULIN3 (N3) gene family. The part of the activator that makes protein–protein interactions with the general transcription machinery is referred to as an "activating region" or "activation domain".Most activators function by binding sequence-specifically to a regulatory DNA site located near a promoter and making protein–protein interactions with the general transcription machinery (RNA polymerase and general transcription factors), thereby facilitating the binding of the general transcription machinery to the promoter. 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women decreases with placental weight of pregnancies. [SEP] This workshop concluded that while some studies reported a statistical correlation between breast cancer and abortion, the strongest scientific evidence from large prospective cohort studies demonstrates that abortion is not associated with an increase in breast cancer risk, and that the positive findings were likely due to response bias.The ongoing promotion of a link between abortion and breast cancer is seen by others as part of the anti-abortion "woman-centered" strategy against abortion. More rigorous recent studies demonstrate no causal relationship between induced abortion and a subsequent increase in breast cancer risk." The German Cancer Research Center concluded in 2013 that abortion and miscarriage pose no risk of breast cancer. The Canadian Cancer Society stated in 2013: "The body of scientific evidence does not support an association between abortion and increased breast cancer risk." Russo and Russo have shown that mature breast cells have more time for DNA repair with longer cell cycles, accounting for the slightly reduced risk of breast cancer for parous women against the baseline risk for women who have never conceived and those who have conceived and terminated their pregnancies.Later on, Russo et al. independently observed a reduced breast cancer risk when women were injected with hCG for weight loss or infertility treatment. hypothesize since hCG plays a role in cellular differentiation and may activate apoptosis, as levels of hCG increase early on in human pregnancy, "an incomplete pregnancy of short duration might impart the benefits of a full-term pregnancy and thus reduce the risk of breast cancer." A 2010 review found that weight gain during pregnancy and breastfeeding were not significant risk factors for ptosis. 
The risk of cancer rises with level of alcohol consumption. [SEP] Consumption of alcohol in any quantity can cause cancer. The more alcohol is consumed, the higher the cancer risk, and no amount can be considered safe. 740,000 cases of cancer in 2020 or 4.1% of new cancer cases were attributed to alcohol.Alcohol is thought to cause cancer through three main mechanisms:

DNA methylation
Oxidative stress
Hormonal alterationas well as secondary mechanisms of liver cirrhosis, microbiome dysbiosis, reduced immune system function, retinoid metabolism, increased levels of inflammation, 1-Carbon metabolism and disruption of folate absorption.Heavy drinking consisting of 15 or more drinks per week for men or 8 or more drinks per week for women beverages/week contributed the most to cancer incidence compared with moderate drinking. Other mechanisms
Additional mechanisms contribute to cancer risk with alcohol consumption. Liver cancer
Alcohol is a risk factor for liver cancer, through cirrhosis. A study concluded that for every additional drink regularly consumed per day, the incidence of liver cancer increases by 0.7 per 1000.In the United States, liver cancer is relatively uncommon, affecting approximately 2 people per 100,000, but excessive alcohol consumption is linked to as many as 36% of these cases by some investigators. ""Relative risks of pancreatic cancer increased with the amount of alcohol consumed (Ptrend = 0.11) after adjustment for age, smoking status, and pack-years of smoking. However, even light and moderate alcohol consumption increase the risk for developing certain types of cancer. 
The risk of female prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of male prisoners. [SEP] Because of the detrimental effect on their mental stability, inmates in solitary confinement often resort to self-harm; this behavior is more common in women than in men. Furthermore, women in prisons are three times more likely than the general population to report poor physical and mental health. According to a report through the Bureau of Justice Statistics, female prisoners are about twice as likely than male prisoners to have a history of mental health problems.A study through the Mental Health Prevalence Project which used "three major indicators of mental illness: diagnosis of a serious mental illness, history of inpatient psychiatric care, and psychotropic medication use" found that female offenders have "on average, twice the rate of various indicators as males." Female inmates who experience co-occurring disorders are four times more likely than other female inmates to receive severe disciplinary punishment. Female inmates are more likely than male inmates to be diagnosed with depression, substance abuse, developmental disabilities, bipolar disorder, PTSD, and eating disorders. "It has been found that female inmates are medicated at  higher rates than their male counterparts. Studies suggest "that female inmates' behaviour is more likely than males' to be 'psychiatrized' by correctional staff". According to the study "female inmates who perpetrated acts of violence against others and/or property, or who demonstrated aggressiveness or agitation, were significantly more likely than men exhibiting similar behaviors to be placed in mental health units". 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) is decorated with VgrG and PAAR proteins. [SEP] The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is molecular machine used by a wide range of Gram-negative bacterial species to transport effectors from the interior (cytoplasm or cytosol) of a bacterial cell across the cellular envelope into an adjacent target cell. Structure and mechanism
The T6SS is thought to resemble an inverted phage extending outward from the bacterial cell surface. At the tip of the Hcp tube sits a trimer of the phage tail spike-like protein VgrG, which is in turn capped by a pointed PAAR domain-containing protein. Members of the second class of substrates are targeted for secretion via interaction with the phage tail spike-like protein VgrG. The T6SS of Vibrio cholerae has a dual role, being able to target both bacterial and eukaryotic cells. In P. aeruginosa, it has been observed that the GacS/Rsm two-component system is involved in type VI secretion system regulation. See also
Quorum sensing
Secretion
Two-component regulatory system

References
External links
Cell Press:Type VI Secretion Counterattack During Bacterial Cell-Cell Interactions Bacterial effectors are proteins secreted by pathogenic bacteria into the cells of their host, usually using a type 3 secretion system (TTSS/T3SS), a type 4 secretion system (TFSS/T4SS) or a Type VI secretion system (T6SS). 
The tissue surrounding the granuloma in an immune cell induces an anti-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] A granuloma is an aggregation of macrophages that forms in response to chronic inflammation. Definition
In pathology, a granuloma is an organized collection of macrophages.In medical practice, doctors occasionally use the term granuloma in its more literal meaning: "a small nodule". Histiocytes (specifically macrophages) are the cells that define a granuloma. The macrophages in granulomas are often referred to as "epithelioid". In terms of the underlying cause, the difference between granulomas and other types of inflammation is that granulomas form in response to antigens that are resistant to "first-responder" inflammatory cells such as neutrophils and eosinophils. Following the inflammatory response, granulation tissue form. Granulation tissue is new connective tissue and microscopic blood vessels that form on the surfaces of a wound during the healing process. Immunity
The main immune cells active in the tissue are macrophages and neutrophils, although other leukocytes are also present. 
Therapeutics receiving accelerated approval encounter a lower frequency of post-marketing safety events [SEP] The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) initiated the FDA Accelerated Approval Program in 1992 to allow faster approval of drugs for serious conditions that fill an unmet medical need. Drugs with accelerated approval can initially be tested in clinical trials that use a surrogate endpoint, or something that is thought to predict clinical benefit. Drugs approved under the FDA Accelerated Approval Program still need to be tested in clinical trials using endpoints that demonstrate clinical benefit, and those trials are known as phase 4 confirmatory trials. A study published in 2023, following a similar study focused on oncology in 2022, suggested that the Accelerated Approval Program was having the intended impact of shortening the timeline to either traditional approval or withdrawal of applications in cases where confirmatory trials had begun before the start of the Accelerated Approval process; further, there appeared to be no impact on the ratio of approval to withdrawal whether accelerated or traditional pathway was used. Although the FDA usually follows an advisory committee’s recommendation, the investigation found that the FDA decided to consider it under the accelerated approval pathway even though none of the 11 members of the committee recommended Aduhelm approval. They found that the FDA inappropriately collaborated with the maker when it granted accelerated approval and that it was released in June 2021 despite  concerns raised by experts about the inconsistency of the drug’s clinical data. Since drugs and medical devices are approved on the basis of clinical trials, which involve relatively small numbers of people who have been selected for this purpose – meaning that they normally do not have other medical conditions which may exist in the general population – postmarketing surveillance can further refine, or confirm or deny, the safety of a drug or device after it is used in the general population by large numbers of people who have a wide variety of medical conditions.Postmarketing surveillance uses a number of approaches to monitor drug and device safety, including spontaneous reporting databases, prescription event monitoring, electronic health records, patient registries, and record linkage between health databases. An adverse event (AE) refers to any unexpected and inappropriate occurrence at the time a drug is used, whether or not the event is associated with the administration of the drug. 
There is a positive correlation between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] Adverse effects
Adverse effects are comparable to other statins. The discovery of HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA) reductase inhibitors, called statins, was a breakthrough in the prevention of hypercholesterolemia and related diseases. The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. Structure-activity relationship (SAR)
All statins have the same pharmacophore so the difference in their pharmacodynamic effect is mostly based on the substituents. HDL improved in patients who switched from other statins and rose over time. Pitavastatin is a lipophillic statin. Reports indicate that this statin may lead to fewer muscle side effects than other statins. Metabolism and interactions
Most statins are metabolised in part by one or more hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes, leading to an increased potential for drug interactions and problems with certain foods (such as grapefruit juice). 
There is a relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] Erythromycin is an antibiotic used for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. Cholestasis, Stevens–Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis are some other rare side effects that may occur.Studies have shown evidence both for and against the association of pyloric stenosis and exposure to erythromycin prenatally and postnatally. Exposure to erythromycin (especially long courses at antimicrobial doses, and also through breastfeeding) has been linked to an increased probability of pyloric stenosis in young infants. Erythromycin used for feeding intolerance in young infants has not been associated with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis.Erythromycin estolate has been associated with reversible hepatotoxicity in pregnant women in the form of elevated serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase and is not recommended during pregnancy. A noted drug interaction involves erythromycin and simvastatin, resulting in increased simvastatin levels and the potential for rhabdomyolysis. A review found that when erythromycin was given with certain oral contraceptives, there was an increase in the maximum serum concentrations and AUC of estradiol and dienogest.Erythromycin is an inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 system, which means it can have a rapid effect on levels of other drugs metabolised by this system, e.g., warfarin. Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
Erythromycin displays bacteriostatic activity or inhibits growth of bacteria, especially at higher concentrations. Erythromycin is a drug that treats bacterial infections like bronchitis, sexually transmitted diseases, and pneumonia. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] On the contrary, disease will not develop in the individual who does not reach the liability threshold. MODY 3 or HNF1A-MODY is a form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young. Long-term diabetic complications can occur if blood glucose levels are not adequately controlled. High-sensitivity measurements of C-reactive protein may help to distinguish between HNF1A-MODY and other forms of diabetes

References


== External links == HNF4 (Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4) is a nuclear receptor protein mostly expressed in the liver, gut, kidney, and pancreatic beta cells that is critical for liver development. In humans, there are two isoforms of HNF4, HNF4α and HNF4γ, encoded by two separate genes HNF4A and HNF4G respectively. Ligands
HNF4 was originally classified as an orphan receptor that exhibits constitutive transactivation activity apparently by being continuously bound to a variety of fatty acids. Pathology
Mutations in the HNF4A gene have been linked to maturity onset diabetes of the young 1 (MODY1).This seems to be caused by HNF4-a's [1] role in the synthesis of SHBG, which is known to be severely diminished in patients with insulin-resistance. 
There is no increased risk of hypospadias with clomiphene. [SEP] Clomifene, also known as clomiphene, is a medication used to treat infertility in women who do not ovulate, including those with polycystic ovary syndrome. Its introduction began the era of assisted reproductive technology.Clomifene (particularly the purified enclomiphene isomer) has also been found to have a powerful ability to boost or restore testosterone levels in hypogonadal men. Rates of birth defects and miscarriages do not appear to change with the use of clomifene for fertility. In men with hypogonadism, clomifene has been found to increase testosterone levels by 293 to 362 ng/dL and estradiol levels by 5.5 to 13 pg/mL. days to months) did not raise the same concerns and clomifene continued to be studied for other indications. Enclomiphene, which stimulates the endogenous production of testosterone, is not currently known to have common adverse effects of exogenous testosterone replacement therapy, such as reduced spermatogenesis or infertility. Adverse effects
Studies conducted on the adverse effects of enclomiphene have discovered that the drug is generally well-tolerated. There has been no reports that enclomiphene causes infertility or decreased spermatogenesis. 
There is no known interaction between Pioneer factor OCT3/4 and major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] Pioneer factors are transcription factors that can directly bind condensed chromatin. Active rearrangement
Pioneer factors can also actively affect transcription by directly opening up condensed chromatin in an ATP-independent process. In a direct role pioneer factors can bind an enhancer and recruit activation complex that will modify the chromatin directly. Repressive pioneer factors can inhibit transcription by recruiting factors that modify histones that further tighten the chromatin. DNA methylation
Pioneer factors can also affect transcription and differentiation through the control of DNA methylation. Known pioneer factors such as FoxA1, PBX1, TLE, AP2ɣ, GATA factors 2/3/4, and PU.1 have been associated with hormone-dependent cancer . Moreover, while Sox2, Klf4, and cMyc could be replaced by their respective family members, Oct4's closer relatives, Oct1 and Oct6, fail to induce pluripotency, thus demonstrating the exclusiveness of Oct4 among POU transcription factors. There is no human homolog for NURF38. 
There is no relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] Evidence does not support its use in infantile colic. Trethowan's sign is when Klein's line does not intersect the lateral part of the superior femoral epiphysis on an AP radiograph of the pelvis. Ceronapril (INN, proposed trade names Ceranapril, Novopril) in a phosphonate ACE inhibitor that was never marketed. Like all synthetic elements, it would have no stable isotopes. List of isotopes
No isotopes of unbinilium are known. Initial analysis revealed that no atoms of unbinilium were produced, providing a limit of 400 fb for the cross section at the energy studied. Hezekiah Beardsley (1748–1790) was an American physician, the first to describe congenital hypertrophic stenosis of the pylorus in infants. In April, 1788, he reported a case of "scirrhus in the pylorus of an infant," which was the first case on record of congenital hypertrophy of the pylorus in an infant. 
There was an estimated 30 million cases of pneumonia in young children worldwide in 2010. [SEP] Every year 155 million children under 5 get sick and 1.6 million lose their lives to pneumonia, more than all child deaths combined from AIDS, malaria and measles. Children
In 2008, pneumonia occurred in approximately 156 million children (151 million in the developing world and 5 million in the developed world). In 2015, pneumonia was responsible for the deaths of 473,000 African children under the age of five years old. In the South East Asian region, there is an estimated 61 million cases of pneumonia in children under five per year, and it is attributed to 19% of the region's total childhood deaths. Pneumonia is a preventable and treatable disease that sickens 155 million children under 5 and kills 1.6 million each year. Infections
Pneumococcal pneumonia represents 15%–50% of all episodes of community-acquired pneumonia, 30–50% of all cases of acute otitis media, and a significant proportion of bloodstream infections and bacterial meningitis.As estimated by WHO in 2005 it killed about 1.6 million children every year worldwide with 0.7–1 million of them being under the age of five. Epidemiology
There are roughly 450 million cases of pneumonia every year. Of those case, viral pneumonia counts for about 200 million cases which includes about 100 million children and 100 million adults. 
Thiopurine active metabolites can be catabolized through dephosphorylation of thioguanine nucleotides. [SEP] The thiopurine drugs are purine antimetabolites widely used in the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, autoimmune disorders (e.g., Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis), and organ transplant recipients. catalysis
Experimental data has shown that xanthosine phosphorylase performs purine degradation via a substitution of xanthine for an inorganic phosphate group. In biochemistry, dephosphorylation is the removal of a phosphate (PO43−) group from an organic compound by hydrolysis. Dephosphorylation employs a type of hydrolytic enzyme, or hydrolase, which cleaves ester bonds. The prominent hydrolase subclass used in dephosphorylation is phosphatase, which removes phosphate groups by hydrolysing phosphoric acid monoesters into a phosphate ion and a molecule with a free hydroxyl (-OH) group. Function
Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of hydroxyl groups belonging to neutral but polar amino acids such as serine, threonine, and tyrosine within specific target proteins is a fundamental part of the regulation of every physiologic process. Dephosphorylation involves removal of the phosphate group through a hydration reaction by addition of a molecule of water and release of the original phosphate group, regenerating the hydroxyl. Thioinosinic acid (or thioinosine monophosphate, TIMP) is an intermediate metabolite of azathioprine, an immunosuppressive drug. 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on cardiac muscle. [SEP] Pirolazamide (SC-26,438) is an antiarrhythmic agent that was never marked. Ciclafrine (INN) is a sympathomimetic phenethylamine and antihypertensive that was never marketed. During this period of heart isolation, the heart is not receiving any blood flow, thus no oxygen for metabolism. Physiology
Cardioplegic solution is the means by which the ischemic myocardium is protected from cell death. However, the high potassium concentration of the cardioplegia extracellular prevents repolarization. By removing extracellular Na+ from perfusate, the heart will not beat because the action potential is dependent upon extracellular Na+ ions. Cardioplegia in diastole ensures that the heart does not use up the valuable energy stores (adenosine triphosphate). History of Cardioplegia
Cardiac surgical cases were performed with the aid of a cardiopulmonary pump, without cardioplegia or other means of protecting the heart. 
Tirasemtiv targets cardiac muscle. [SEP] Cardiac muscle troponin T (cTnT) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNNT2 gene. Cardiac TnT is the tropomyosin-binding subunit of the troponin complex, which is located on the thin filament of striated muscles and regulates muscle contraction in response to alterations in intracellular calcium ion concentration. TNNT2 gene is expressed in vertebrate cardiac muscles and embryonic skeletal muscles. Cardiac TnT is the largest of the three troponin subunits (cTnT, troponin I (TnI), troponin C (TnC)) on the actin thin filament of cardiac muscle. Advancement to dilated cardiomyopathy may be more rapid in patients with TNNT2 mutations than in those with myosin heavy chain mutations.In patients with active chronic non-inflammatory myopathy and myositis, skeletal muscles are a significant source of cardiac troponin T without any cardiac involvement. Cardiac TnI is exclusively expressed in the myocardium and is thus a highly specific diagnostic marker for cardiac muscle injuries, and cTnI has been universally used as indicator for myocardial infarction. Omecamtiv mecarbil specifically targets and activates myocardial ATPase and improves energy utilization. Thus due to the unique cardiac myosin activation mechanism, omecamtiv mecarbil could safely improve cardiac function within tolerated doses. 
Tirasemtiv targets fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] It is the inhibitory subunit of the troponin complex in fast twitch skeletal muscle fibers. It is generally observed that fsTnI is exclusively expressed in fast twitch skeletal muscle fibers. fsTnI concentration in increased peripheral blood when fast twitch fibers were damaged. Fast skeletal muscle troponin T (fTnT) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNNT3 gene.The TNNT3 gene is located at 11p15.5 in the human genome, encoding the fast skeletal muscle isoform of troponin T (fsTnT). fsTnT is the tropomyosin-binding and thin filament anchoring subunit of the troponin complex in the sarcomeres of fast twitch skeletal muscle. TNNT3 gene is specifically expressed in vertebrate fast twitch skeletal muscles. In slow-skeletal muscle, MYOZ2-/- show increased slow-twitch muscle fibers. A fused tetanic contraction is the strongest single-unit twitch in contraction. 
Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling is involved in the pathogenesis of human MDS. [SEP] TLR6 acts in a heterodimer form with toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a class of proteins that play a key role in the innate immune system. Toll-like receptors have also been shown to be an important link between innate and adaptive immunity through their presence in dendritic cells. TLRs in Drosophila immunity
The involvement of toll signalling in immunity was first demonstrated in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. Summary of known mammalian TLRs
Toll-like receptors bind and become activated by different ligands, which, in turn, are located on different types of organisms or structures. Toll-like receptor 9 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TLR9 gene. Loss of TLR9 exacerbates progression of SLE, and leads to increased activation of dendritic cells. TLR2 is one of the toll-like receptors and plays a role in the immune system. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv induces constitutive stimulation. [SEP] Core components
SCF contains a variable F-box protein and three core subunits:

F-box protein (FBP) – FBP contributes to the substrate specificity of the SCF complex by first aggregating to target proteins independently of the complex. Specifically, SCF has been shown to regulate centriole splitting from late telophase to the G1/S transition.SCF activity is largely regulated by post-translational modifications. Cancer
Recently, SCF complexes have become an attractive anti-cancer target because of their upregulation in some human cancers and their biochemically distinct active sites. Auxin-bound Tir1 stimulates binding of SCF-Tir1 to the AUX/IAA repressor. Both forms of SCF bind to c-KIT and are biologically active. Hematopoietic progenitor cells have also been shown to migrate towards a higher concentration gradient of SCF in vitro, which suggests that SCF is involved in chemotaxis for these cells. This suggests that transmembrane SCF plays a special role in vivo that is separate from that of soluble SCF. SCF binding to c-KIT causes the receptor to homodimerize and auto-phosphorylate at tyrosine residues. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv is amplified by MyD88/CD40. [SEP] The secondary signal is CD40L (CD154) on the Th1 cell which binds CD40 on the macrophage cell surface. The expression of CD40 is diverse. Consistent with its widespread expression on normal cells, CD40 is also expressed on a wide range of tumor cells, including non-Hodgkin's and Hodgkin's lymphomas, myeloma and some carcinomas including nasopharynx, bladder, cervix, kidney and ovary. The remaining member of TRAF4 family, namely TRAF4, positively regulates CD40 signalling, but interacts with CD40 indirectly.CD40 also interacts with CD40L, due to the role of CD40 in stimulating immune synapses when this interaction happens with CD40L activates dendritic cells to activate antigen specific T cells. CD40 and drug development
CD40 is a promising target for the development of drugs to treat a variety of diseases, including cancer, autoimmune diseases, and chronic inflammation. Overall, CD40 represents a promising target for the development of drugs to treat a wide range of diseases. Function
The MYD88 gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in signaling within immune cells. The MyD88 protein acts as an adapter, connecting proteins that receive signals from outside the cell to the proteins that relay signals inside the cell. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv prevents constitutive stimulation. [SEP] Effects
Scopolamine and atropine have similar effects on the peripheral nervous system. However, scopolamine has greater effects on the central nervous system (CNS) than atropine due to its ability to cross the blood–brain barrier. Scopolamine (Hyoscine) has anti-emetic activity and is, therefore, used to treat motion sickness. It causes tachycardia by blocking vagal effects on the sinoatrial node. Uptake of acetylcholine in axoplasm is prevented and the presynaptic nerve releases more acetylcholine into the synapse, which initially causes bradycardia. In the atrioventricular node, the resting potential is lowered, which facilitates conduction. Tachycardia and stimulation of the vasomotor center causes an increase in blood pressure. But, due to feedback regulation of the vasomotor center, there is a fall in blood pressure due to vasodilation. 
Traditional reviews are biased in their interpretations. [SEP] Bias in curricula refers to real or perceived bias in the educational textbooks. Many of these misrepresentations were described as biased, erroneous or culturally derogatory. All in all, there are repeated misrepresentations that cross the line into bigotry." The study reported that the textbooks also had a lot of gender-biased stereotypes. The term is also used more indiscriminately to discredit any argument as being based on a misweighting of emotion: "sentimental fallacies...that men, that we, are better—nobler—than we know ourselves to be"; "the 'sentimental fallacy' of constructing novels or plays 'out of purely emotional patterns'". All these issues make the quality bias tend to be negative rather than positive. Quality bias is most often seen in a negative manner in the cases of mature products as companies lower their acceptance standards in order to increase their profit margins. Throughout the years, numerous conservative activists have accused CBS News of perpetuating a liberal bias in its news coverage. 
Trans-acting factors, such as lncRNAs, influence mRNA translation. [SEP] Translation regulation by 5′ transcript leader cis-elements is a process in cellular translation. The strict regulation of translation in both space and time is in part governed by cis-regulatory elements located in 5′ mRNA transcript leaders (TLs) and 3′ untranslated regions (UTRs). Due to their role in translation initiation, mRNA 5′ transcript leaders (TLs) strongly influence protein expression. Therefore, the cis-regulatory elements in TLs greatly influence translation initiation and ultimately protein expression. trans-acting factors), which may modify or regulate the expression of distant genes. Trans-acting factors interact with cis-regulatory elements to regulate gene expression. DNA binding
DNA binding trans-acting factors regulate gene expression by interfering with the gene itself or cis-acting elements of the gene, which lead to changes in transcription activities. These elements mediate initiation of translation of the proteins encoded in the mRNA by either recruiting translation initiation factors or the 60S ribosomal subunit to the viral RNA. 
Transcription factor EB induces transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophages infected with Staphylococcus aureus. [SEP] Transcription factor EB is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TFEB gene. In bacterial infection nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP) induction of lysosomal Ca2+ efflux and TFEB activation leads to enhanced expression of inflammatory cytokines. Nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) is a protein complex that controls transcription of DNA, cytokine production and cell survival. NF-κB plays a key role in regulating the immune response to infection. In immunity
NF-κB is a major transcription factor that regulates genes responsible for both the innate and adaptive immune response. Inflammation
Because NF-κB controls many genes involved in inflammation, it is not surprising that NF-κB is found to be chronically active in many inflammatory diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, arthritis, sepsis, gastritis, asthma, atherosclerosis and others. In addition,  NF-κB is a key player in the inflammatory response. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 0.7 and 2 kb/min. [SEP] (2004)  developed a protocol for the yeast S. cerevisiae (Genomic run-on, GRO) that allows for the calculation of transcription rates (TRs) for all yeast genes to estimate mRNA stabilities for all yeast mRNAs.Alternative microarray methods have recently been developed, mainly PolII RIP-chip: RNA immunoprecipitation of RNA polymerase II with phosphorylated C-terminal domain directed antibodies and hybridization on a microarray slide or chip (the word chip in the name stems from "ChIP-chip" where a special Affymetrix GeneChip was required). Thousands of loci leading to the generation of CUTs have been described in the yeast genome. Discovery and characterization
Regions of non-coding RNA were mapped in several early experiments examining S. cerevisiae using a tiling array approach, which indicated that a large amount of transcriptional activity could be attributed to the intergenic region of the genome. Degradation pathways
As CUTs cannot be observed at appreciable levels in wild-type S. cerevisiae, a large component of their early study has focused on their degradation. Like CUTs, SUT transcription start sites are also found at nucleosome free regions and are associated with the promoters of protein coding genes. Spt6 is responsible for restoring normal chromatin structure following transcription from RNA polymerase II, and yeast cells with compromised Spt6 function have been found to produce an increased number of CUTs. There has been an observed similarity between the suppression of the transposable element TY1 in yeast and small interfering RNA activity within plants. Similarly, expression of the ncRNA SRG1 in S. Cerevisiae represses the transcriptional activity of the SER3 phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase gene.The rapidly degraded antisense transcripts of the gene PHO84 have also been shown to recruit the histone deacetylase Hda1 to the PHO84 gene, effectively suppressing PHO84 expression. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 7 and 12 kb/min. [SEP] In molecular biology 7SK is an abundant small nuclear RNA found in metazoans. Mediator of RNA polymerase II transcription, subunit 12 homolog (S. cerevisiae), also known as MED12, is a human gene found on the X chromosome. In humans, 12S is encoded by the MT-RNR1 gene and is 959 nucleotides long. The largest SRP RNAs known to date are found in the yeasts (Saccharomycetes) which acquired helices 9 to 12 as insertions into helix 5, as well as an extended helix 7. (2004)  developed a protocol for the yeast S. cerevisiae (Genomic run-on, GRO) that allows for the calculation of transcription rates (TRs) for all yeast genes to estimate mRNA stabilities for all yeast mRNAs.Alternative microarray methods have recently been developed, mainly PolII RIP-chip: RNA immunoprecipitation of RNA polymerase II with phosphorylated C-terminal domain directed antibodies and hybridization on a microarray slide or chip (the word chip in the name stems from "ChIP-chip" where a special Affymetrix GeneChip was required). In molecular biology, a transcription factor (TF) (or sequence-specific DNA-binding factor) is a protein that controls the rate of transcription of genetic information from DNA to messenger RNA, by binding to a specific DNA sequence. Therefore, approximately 10% of genes in the genome code for transcription factors, which makes this family the single largest family of human proteins. This is also true with transcription factors:  Not only do transcription factors control the rates of transcription to regulate the amounts of gene products (RNA and protein) available to the cell but transcription factors themselves are regulated (often by other transcription factors). 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells can mature in their host animal. [SEP] Neural precursor cells in the human SVZ are known to yield offspring which can then produce glial cells or even migrate and form new neurons in specific areas such as the mammalian olfactory bulb. See also
Progenitor cell
Neurogenesis
Radial glial cell


== References == In previous studies, cultured neurospheres have been transplanted into the brains of immunodeficient neonatal mice and have shown engraftment, proliferation, and neural differentiation. Functions of glial-derived cell lineages are reviewed by Baumann and Hauw. Cell replacement strategies are now intensely studied as a possible therapeutic intervention of glial associated neurodegenerative disorders and glial tumors. Reprogramming terminally differentiated neural lineages back to neural stem cells permits regeneration of a multipotent self-lineage that can be redirected to cellular-fates affected during neurogenerative diseases, oligodendrocytes with MS patients or astrocytes in those affected with Alzheimer's, in the presence of proper environmental signals.It can be expected that as the signaling pathways discussed are shown as prominent regulators during glial cell generation, these same pathways will become therapeutic targets for glial-derived and other CNS cancers. Development
Radial glial cells originate from the transformation of neuroepithelial cells that form the neural plate during neurogenesis in early embryonic development. While the brain has a limited capacity for regeneration, endogenous neural stem cells, as well as numerous pro-regenerative molecules, can participate in replacing and repairing damaged or diseased neurons and glial cells. 
Treatment with a protein named FN impairs regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] Fukutin is a eukaryotic protein necessary for the maintenance of muscle integrity, cortical histogenesis, and normal ocular development. Mutations that reduce the production of functional myostatin lead to an overgrowth of muscle tissue. Additionally, oxidized proteins can lead to a buildup of lipofuscin and cross-linked proteins causing an accumulation of non-contractile material in the skeletal muscle and contribute to sarcopenic muscle.An apparent protective factor is sufficient levels of the protein BNIP3, which prevents cells' buildup of damaged mitochondria. Exercise can be an effective intervention because aging skeletal muscle retains the ability to synthesize proteins in response to short-term resistance exercise. Older adults may not utilize protein so efficiently as younger people and may require higher amounts to prevent muscle atrophy. However, aging muscle retains the ability of an anabolic response to protein or amino acids at larger doses. "Amino acids and muscle loss with aging". (December 2021) "Effects of Various Muscle Disuse States and Countermeasures on Muscle Molecular Signaling". 
Treatment with a protein named FN restores regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] There is hope that studies into myostatin may have therapeutic application in treating muscle wasting diseases such as muscular dystrophy. Therapeutic potential
Further research into myostatin and the myostatin gene may lead to therapies for muscular dystrophy. Treating progeric mice with soluble activin receptor type IIB before the onset of premature ageing signs appear to protects against muscle loss and delay age related signs in other organs.It remains unclear as to whether long-term treatment of muscular dystrophy with myostatin inhibitors is beneficial, as the depletion of muscle stem cells could worsen the disease later on. Fukutin is a eukaryotic protein necessary for the maintenance of muscle integrity, cortical histogenesis, and normal ocular development. Filamin-C (FLN-C) also known as actin-binding-like protein (ABPL) or filamin-2 (FLN2) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the FLNC gene. In 1977, Koscak Maruyama and coworkers isolated an elastic protein from muscle fiber that they called connectin. Other giant sarcomeric proteins made out of Fn3/Ig repeats include obscurin and myomesin. Alpha-actinin-3, also known as alpha-actinin skeletal muscle isoform 3 or F-actin cross-linking protein, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the ACTN3 gene (named sprinter gene, speed gene or athlete gene) located on chromosome 11. 
Treatment with the EC uptake inhibitor AM404 resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in the expression of immobility. [SEP] EMA401 may alleviate pain and provides relief by blocking the AngII induced potentiation which is thought to be coupled to protein kinase A.

Pharmacokinetics
EMA401 is the sodium-salt form of (S)-2-(diphenylacetyl)-l,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-methoxy-5-(phenylmethoxy)- 3-isoquinoline carboxylic acid. EMA401 dose of up to 400 mg was tested in healthy male adults without any major adverse effects. EMA401 has been administered orally at a standardized dose of 100 mg twice daily. EMA401 does not accumulate in the blood at presently administered doses. EMA401 does not cross the blood-brain barrier, therefore has little effect on the central nervous system. AM-6545 is a drug which acts as a peripherally selective silent antagonist for the CB1 receptor, and was developed for the treatment of obesity. Because AM-6545 does not cross the blood–brain barrier to any significant extent, it does not produce these kinds of side effects, but has still been shown to effectively reduce appetite and food consumption in animal studies. Ameltolide, a 4-aminobenzamide derivative, is an experimental anticonvulsant agent, effective at inhibiting seizures in animal models. 
Tuberculosis incidence occurs at higher rates in more sparsely populated areas in the UK. [SEP] It accounts for an increasing fraction of active cases, from 20 to 40% according to published reports, and causes other kinds of TB. Extrapulmonary TB occurs more commonly in immunosuppressed persons and young children. Infection of the lymph nodes, known as tubercular lymphadenitis, is the most common extrapulmonary form of tuberculosis. Miliary TB currently makes up about 10% of extrapulmonary cases. 35% of London GP practices had fewer than 2,000 patients compared with the national figure of almost 20%. Bolivians in the United Kingdom (Spanish: Bolivianos en el Reino Unido) form a fairly small group, with 3,765 Bolivian-born people living in the UK according to the 2011 Census. Demographics
Population
According to the United Kingdom Census 2001, 1,143 people were born in Bolivia, making it the 140th most common birthplace for British residents. Outside of London, other concentrations were identified in Newcastle and Edinburgh. 
Tuberculosis-induced granulomas express different immune system protein signatures than the surrounding tissue. [SEP] In terms of the underlying cause, the difference between granulomas and other types of inflammation is that granulomas form in response to antigens that are resistant to "first-responder" inflammatory cells such as neutrophils and eosinophils. The antigen causing the formation of a granuloma is most often an infectious pathogen or a substance foreign to the body, but sometimes the offending antigen is unknown (as in sarcoidosis).Granulomas are seen in a wide variety of diseases, both infectious and noninfectious. Infections characterized by granulomas include tuberculosis, leprosy, histoplasmosis, cryptococcosis, coccidioidomycosis, blastomycosis, and cat-scratch disease. Necrosis in granulomas

Diseases with granulomas
Tuberculosis
Mycobacterium tuberculosis can cause the granulomas of tuberculosis which tend to contain necrosis ("caseating tubercules"), but non-necrotizing granulomas may also be present. The granulomas of sarcoidosis are similar to those of tuberculosis and other infectious granulomatous diseases. Pneumocystis pneumonia
Pneumocystis infection in the lungs is usually not associated with granulomas, but rare cases are well documented to cause granulomatous inflammation. A tuberculoma is a clinical manifestation of tuberculosis which conglomerates tubercles into a firm lump, and so can mimic cancer tumors of many types in medical imaging studies. It is possible that, following an initial tuberculosis infection resulting in bacteremia, a foci of granulomatous inflammation may coalesce into a caseous tuberculoma. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] Cytokines hinder tumor cell development mostly through antiproliferative or proapoptotic pathways but can also interrupt development indirectly by eliciting immune cells to have cytotoxic effects against tumor cells. Systemic administration of huBC1-IL12 eliminated experimental PC3 metastases and suppressed the growth of multiple human tumor lines in immunocompromised mice more effectively than IL-12 alone. SOCS have also been implicated in the regulation of cytokines, growth factors, and tumor suppression. Excessive chronic production of inflammatory cytokines contribute to inflammatory diseases, that have been linked to different diseases, such as atherosclerosis and cancer. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. Some inflammatory cytokines have additional roles such as acting as growth factors. Colon cancer, lung cancer, Multiple Myeloma, and Hepatoma Carcinoma were correlated with decreased expression of IL-37 expression in affected areas. It is known to suppress the effects of interleukin dependent T-cell tumors. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] Cytokines hinder tumor cell development mostly through antiproliferative or proapoptotic pathways but can also interrupt development indirectly by eliciting immune cells to have cytotoxic effects against tumor cells. Excessive chronic production of inflammatory cytokines contribute to inflammatory diseases, that have been linked to different diseases, such as atherosclerosis and cancer. Tumors can influence the microenvironment by releasing extracellular signals, promoting tumor angiogenesis and inducing peripheral immune tolerance, while the immune cells in the microenvironment can affect the growth and evolution of cancerous cells. The stroma surrounding a tumor often reacts to intrusion via inflammation, similar to how it might respond to a wound. Inflammation can encourage angiogenesis, speed the cell cycle and prevent cell death, all of which augments tumor growth. TAMs are recruited to the tumor as a response to cancer-associated inflammation. Experiments in mice have mainly shown that tumor-associated neutrophils exhibit tumor-promoting functions, but a smaller number of studies show that neutrophils can also inhibit tumor growth. As excessive inflammation can result in cell damage and a higher risk of the growth of cancer cells, mutations that affect the regulation of LT-α pro-inflammatory signaling pathways can increase the potential for cancer and tumor cell development. 
Two variants of chromosome 6q21 are associated with radiation therapy-induced second malignancies in pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma patients. [SEP] Rapp–Hodgkin syndrome was formerly thought to be a unique autosomal dominant disorder due to a P63 gene mutation. Increased expression of Ly6E is associated with poor survival outcome in multiple malignancies as determined by a survey of more than 130 published clinical studies of gene expression studies on cancer tissue samples and adjacent normal tissues. Genetic variation, such as single nucleotide polymorphisms, is studied in relation to a cancer patient's risk of developing toxicity following radiation therapy. RGC researchers have completed numerous clinical studies that identified genetic variants associated with radiation toxicities in patients with prostate, breast, lung, head and neck, and other cancers. "Genetics and genomics of radiotherapy toxicity: towards prediction". "Computational methods using genome-wide association studies to predict radiotherapy complications and to identify correlative molecular processes". "Precision Oncology and Genomically Guided Radiation Therapy: A Report From the American Society for Radiation Oncology/American Association of Physicists in Medicine/National Cancer Institute Precision Medicine Conference". An immunohistochemical and molecular genetic (bcl-2 gene) study with comparison to follicular small cleaved cell lymphoma and mantle zone lymphoma". 
Type 1 Diabetes is associated with subtle perturbations in T reg development. [SEP] Although genetic markers for Type 1 Diabetes have been identified, genetic predisposition is not the only factor in development of the disease. Some degree of insulin resistance may also be present in a person with type 1 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes (T1D), formerly known as juvenile diabetes, is an autoimmune disease that originates when cells that make insulin (beta cells) are destroyed by the immune system. Many aspects of environment and life history are associated with slight increases in type 1 diabetes risk, however the connection between each risk and diabetes often remains unclear. Genetics
Type 1 diabetes is partially caused by genetics, and family members of type 1 diabetics have a higher risk of developing the disease themselves. Type 1 diabetics also tend to have reduced regulatory T cell function, which may exacerbate autoimmunity. The pancreases of people with type 1 diabetes tend to be smaller, lighter, and have abnormal blood vessels, nerve innervations, and extracellular matrix organization. Autoimmune disorders
People with type 1 diabetes are at an increased risk for developing several autoimmune disorders, particularly thyroid problems – around 20% of people with type 1 diabetes have hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, typically caused by Hashimoto thyroiditis or Graves' disease respectiveley. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of needle insertion attempts necessary for a given procedure. [SEP] The procedure can be performed with the help of ultrasound, fluoroscopy, or CT to guide the practitioner in the placement of the needle. Some research even suggests that ultrasound lowers the risk to 0.0037%. The use of ultrasound and nerve stimulation has greatly improved practitioners' ability to safely administer nerve blocks. In contrast to standard lumbar puncture by palpation, the use of ultrasound imaging may reduce the number of failed punctures, needle insertions, and needle redirections. Ultrasound has many advantages over other imaging modalities, including portability, lack of ionizing radiation and real-time visualization of soft tissues and neurovascular structures. The main advantages of ultrasound-guided injection are its safety, portability and lack of ionising radiation. Fluoroscopic-guidance was the mainstay imaging-guidance hip injection, but ultrasound-guidance is becoming increasingly prevalent due to its accuracy with visualization of soft tissue and neurovascular structures, less associated cost and no ionizing radiation exposure or risk of contrast agent reactions. While it has been shown that no significant difference in terms of effectiveness between fluoroscopy and ultrasound-guided corticosteroid hip injection, it has been reported that ultrasound-guided injections were less painful and preferred by patients. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] In contrast to standard lumbar puncture by palpation, the use of ultrasound imaging may reduce the number of failed punctures, needle insertions, and needle redirections. Some research even suggests that ultrasound lowers the risk to 0.0037%. The use of ultrasound and nerve stimulation has greatly improved practitioners' ability to safely administer nerve blocks. Ultrasound has many advantages over other imaging modalities, including portability, lack of ionizing radiation and real-time visualization of soft tissues and neurovascular structures. Many studies have demonstrated the safety, accuracy and efficacy of ultrasound-guided techniques, although there is lack of standardization regarding the injectates used and long-term benefit remains uncertain. The main advantages of ultrasound-guided injection are its safety, portability and lack of ionising radiation. Fluoroscopic-guidance was the mainstay imaging-guidance hip injection, but ultrasound-guidance is becoming increasingly prevalent due to its accuracy with visualization of soft tissue and neurovascular structures, less associated cost and no ionizing radiation exposure or risk of contrast agent reactions. Ultrasound-assisted lipectomy is Liposuction assisted by ultrasound. 
Understanding epigenetic regulation of replication is essential for the reational design of episomally replicating vectors. [SEP] Epigenetic factors also have a large influence on what gets replicated and when it gets replicated. A thorough understanding of the regulatory replication mechanisms is important for the development of novel cancer treatments. The replicator is the entire DNA sequence (including, but not limited to the origin of replication) required to direct the initiation of DNA replication. Nonetheless, research subsequent to Jacob's, Brenner's and Cuzin's proposal of the replicon model has discovered many additional layers of replication control in bacteria and eukaryotes that comprise both positive and negative regulatory elements, highlighting both the complexity and the importance of restricting DNA replication temporally and spatially.The concept of the replicator as a genetic entity has proven very useful in the quest to identify replicator DNA sequences and initiator proteins in prokaryotes, and to some extent also in eukaryotes, although the organization and complexity of replicators differ considerably between the domains of life. The context-driven definition of replicators and selection of origins suggests a relaxed replicon model in eukaryotic systems that allows for flexibility in the DNA replication program. In budding yeast, the search for genetic replicators lead to the identification of autonomously replicating sequences (ARS) that support efficient DNA replication initiation of extrachromosomal DNA. Remarkably, cis-acting “early replication control elements” (ECREs) have recently also been identified to help regulate replication timing and to influence 3D genome architecture in mammalian cells. Understanding the molecular and biochemical mechanisms that orchestrate this complex interplay between 3D genome organization, local and higher-order chromatin structure, and replication initiation is an exciting topic for further studies.Why have metazoan replication origins diverged from the DNA sequence-specific recognition paradigm that determines replication start sites in prokaryotes and budding yeast? 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events speeds cancer progression. [SEP] The p53 proteins (originally thought to be, and often spoken of as, a single protein) are crucial in vertebrates, where they prevent cancer formation. p53 regulation is very important in acting as a barrier between stem cells and a differentiated stem cell state, as well as a barrier between stem cells being functional and being cancerous. Other
Apart from the cellular and molecular effects above, p53 has a tissue-level anticancer effect that works by inhibiting angiogenesis. First, the half-life of the p53 protein is increased drastically, leading to a quick accumulation of p53 in stressed cells. Restoring endogenous normal p53 function holds some promise. Thus, pharmacological reactivation of p53 presents itself as a viable cancer treatment option. The over-expression of p73 in cultured cells promotes a growth arrest and/or apoptosis similarly to p53. A deficiency of p53 almost certainly leads to unchecked cell proliferation and is noted in 60% of cancers. 
Upon developing tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance, new mutations in epidermal growth factor receptors emerge and cause treatment failure. [SEP] The mutation substitutes a threonine (T) with a  methionine (M) at position 790 of exon 20, affecting the ATP binding pocket of the EGFR kinase domain. Clinical
Over 50% of acquired resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) is caused by a mutation in the ATP binding pocket of the EGFR kinase domain involving substitution of a small polar threonine residue with a large nonpolar methionine residue, T790M.In November 2015, the US FDA granted accelerated approval to osimertinib (Tagrisso) for the treatment of patients with metastatic epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) T790M mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as detected by an FDA-approved test, which progressed on or after EGFR TKI therapy. The ErbB family of proteins contains four receptor tyrosine kinases, structurally related to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), its first discovered member. The Ras-Raf-MAPK pathway is a major signalling route for the ErbB family, as is the PI3-K/AKT pathway, both of which lead to increased cell proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis.Genetic Ras mutations are infrequent in breast cancer but Ras may be pathologically activated in breast cancer by overexpression of ErbB receptors. It has recently been shown that acquired resistance to cetuximab and gefitinib can be linked to hyperactivity of ErbB-3. ErbB expression as also been linked to cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (cSCC) development, where the over-expression of these receptors has been found in cSCC tumors. EGFR drives malignant growth of cells when mutations occur within the tyrosine kinase domain of this protein. As a result, mutations in the viral DNA polymerase that make it resistant to these drugs are selected for, which ultimately can cause complete resistance of the treatment. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly diminish the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] Memory T cell inflation phenomenon is the formation and maintenance of a large population of specific CD8+ T cells  in reaction to cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection. Infection
Immune response against CMV is primarily provided by CD8 + T cells which recognize viral fragments in MHC class I complex on the surface of infected cells and destroy these cells. Specific CD8+ T cells are generated in secondary lymphoid organs where naïve T cells encounter with cytomegalovirus antigen on antigen presenting cells. This results in a population of migrating effector CD8 + T-lymphocytes and the second small population called central memory T-cells that remains in the secondary lymphatic organs and the bone marrow. The amount of memory cells generated as a response to cytomegalovirus is approximately 9.1% - 10.2% of all circulating CD4 + and CD8 + memory cells. The number of CMV memory CD8 + T lymphocytes then predominate and the total number of available naïve T lymphocytes decrease. CD8+T cells form up to 50 % of all peripheral blood memory cells in HCV-positive elderly individuals. Use in therapy
Potential therapeutic use of memory cells is vaccination based on induction of memory T cells in the periphery that will be capable of effectively and immediately attacking the pathogen. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly enhance the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] The T helper cells (Th cells), also known as CD4+ cells or CD4-positive cells, are a type of T cell that play an important role in the adaptive immune system. CD4+ T cells are generally treated as having a pre-defined role as helper T cells within the immune system. This is also true for memory T cells, which is one example of learned immunity. Faster responses occur upon reinfection because memory T cells have already undergone confirmation and can produce effector cells much sooner. In order to create sufficient auto-reactive killer T cells, interleukin-2 must be produced, and this is supplied by CD4+ T cells. CD4+ T cells can also stimulate cells such as natural killer cells and macrophages via cytokines such as interferon-gamma, encouraging these cytotoxic cells to kill host cells in certain circumstances. HIV infection
Perhaps the best example of the importance of CD4+ T cells is demonstrated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The depletion of CD4 T cells and the development of chronic inflammation are signature processes in HIV pathogenesis that propel progression to acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the downmodulation of Satb1. [SEP] SATB1 (special AT-rich sequence-binding protein-1) is a protein which in humans is encoded by the SATB1 gene. Function
SATB1, the global chromatin organizer and transcription factor, has emerged as a key factor integrating higher-order chromatin architecture with gene regulation. Recent studies have unraveled the role of SATB1 in organization of chromatin 'loopscape' and its dynamic nature in response to physiological stimuli. At genome-wide level, SATB1 seems to play a role in organization of the transcriptionally poised chromatin. Silencing of SATB1 mimics the effects of IFN-γ treatment on chromatin loop architecture of the MHC class I locus and altered expression of genes within the locus. Interactions
SATB1 has been shown to interact with:

References


== Further reading == In addition, PD-1 ligation up-regulates E3-ubiquitin ligases CBL-b and c-CBL that trigger T cell receptor down-modulation. PD-L1 binding to PD-1 also contributes to ligand-induced TCR down-modulation during antigen presentation to naive T cells, by inducing the up-regulation of the E3 ubiquitin ligase CBL-b. 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the upregulation of Satb1. [SEP] SATB1 (special AT-rich sequence-binding protein-1) is a protein which in humans is encoded by the SATB1 gene. Function
SATB1, the global chromatin organizer and transcription factor, has emerged as a key factor integrating higher-order chromatin architecture with gene regulation. Recent studies have unraveled the role of SATB1 in organization of chromatin 'loopscape' and its dynamic nature in response to physiological stimuli. At genome-wide level, SATB1 seems to play a role in organization of the transcriptionally poised chromatin. Silencing of SATB1 mimics the effects of IFN-γ treatment on chromatin loop architecture of the MHC class I locus and altered expression of genes within the locus. SATB1 has also been shown to induce breast cancer tumor growth and metastasis through the altered expression of large numbers of genes. Interactions
SATB1 has been shown to interact with:

References


== Further reading == In addition, PD-1 ligation up-regulates E3-ubiquitin ligases CBL-b and c-CBL that trigger T cell receptor down-modulation. 
Upregulation of dynein in Drosophila neurons increases the number of microtubule plus-ends growing toward the cell body of each neuron. [SEP] Dyneins are a family of cytoskeletal motor proteins that move along microtubules in cells. Dynein carries organelles, vesicles and possibly microtubule fragments along the axons of neurons toward the cell body in a process called retrograde axonal transport. Dynein pulls the microtubules and chromosomes to one end of the cell. When the end of the microtubules become close to the cell membrane, they release a chemical signal that punts the dynein to the other side of the cell. Budding yeast have been a powerful model organism to study this process and has shown that dynein is targeted to plus ends of astral microtubules and delivered to the cell cortex via an offloading mechanism. Each dynein molecule thus forms a cross-bridge between two adjacent microtubules of the ciliary axoneme. The heavy chains of inner and outer arms of axonemal dynein are phosphorylated/dephosphorylated to control the rate of microtubule sliding. Dynactin is a 23 subunit protein complex that acts as a co-factor for the microtubule motor cytoplasmic dynein-1. 
Urbanization is an important risk factor related to the transmission of dengue fever. [SEP] Dengue fever is an important infectious disease in Pakistan with increasingly frequent epidemics. See also
2017 dengue outbreak in Peshawar


== References == As of 2010, dengue fever is believed to infect 50 to 100 million people worldwide a year with 1/2 million life-threatening infections. By the late 1990s, dengue was the most important mosquito-borne disease affecting humans after malaria, with around 40 million cases of dengue fever and several hundred thousand cases of dengue hemorrhagic fever each year. See also
2011 dengue outbreak in Pakistan
2017 dengue outbreak in Peshawar


== References == The 2019–2020 dengue fever epidemic was an epidemic of the infectious disease dengue fever in several countries of Southeast Asia, including the Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam, and Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, Thailand, Singapore, and Laos. In the 2015 dengue outbreak in Taiwan, a significant rise in the number of dengue fever cases was reported in Tainan City, Kaohsiung City, and Pingtung City. References
External links
Tainan City Government Dengue Epidemic Bulletin
Department of Health of Tainan's Dengue Epidemic Bulletin 
V-9302 inhibits antitumor responses by decreasing cell death and oxidative stress. [SEP] It has antiinflammatory effects and has been shown to reduce superoxide generation in damaged tissues, and protects against tissue damage following myocardial ischemia, mediated via an interaction with ATP-sensitive potassium channels. Cariporide has been shown to actively suppress the cell death caused by oxidative stress.Cariporide is a potent NHE1 inhibitor is may also be useful for treatment of cancer. Through its inhibition of NHE1, cariporide may provide a mechanism for initiating internal acidification of cancer cells leading to apoptosis. HU-336 is a strongly antiangiogenic compound, significantly inhibiting angiogenesis at concentrations as low as 300 nM. It inhibits angiogenesis by directly inducing apoptosis of vascular endothelial cells without changing the expression of pro- and antiangiogenic cytokines and their receptors. HU-336 is highly effective against tumor xenografts in nude mice. CHIR99021 is a chemical compound which acts as an inhibitor of the enzyme GSK-3. It has antitumor activity in some models, though is most effective when combined with other immunotherapy agents. 
Vaccinating the gastrointestinal tract induces protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. [SEP] In healthy states, the mucosal immune system protects the organism against infectious pathogens and maintains a tolerance towards non-harmful commensal microbes and benign environmental substances. Function
The mucosal immune system provides three main functions:

First line of defense from harmful antigenic structures and infection. The mucins that form mucus offer protection from components on the mucosa by static shielding and limit the immunogenicity of intestinal antigens by inducing an anti-inflammatory state in dendritic cells (DC). Mucosal vaccines
Because of its front-line status within the immune system, the mucosal immune system is being investigated for use in vaccines for various afflictions, including COVID-19, HIV, allergies, poliovirus, influenza A and B, rotavirus, vibrio cholerae and many others. Effectiveness
Bacterial vaginitis
Rüttgers studied the benefit of vaccination with Gynatren in preventing bacterial vaginitis in a patient group with frequent vaginal infections. There are reports that systemic immunization can stimulate humoral immune protection in vaginal secretions more efficiently than in other mucosal secretions, where serum-derived IgG concentrations remain lower.Milovanović and coworkers studied the serum antibody response of 97 women with trichomonad colpitis to primary immunization with SolcoTrichovac (3 intramuscular injections of 0.5 ml vaccine at intervals of 2 weeks) and a booster dose of 0.5 ml administered 12 months after the first injection. Similarly to how subcutaneously administered killed whole-cell cholera vaccines reportedly only provoke substantial mucosal secretory antibody response in cholera‐endemic countries, vaginal priming with aberrant lactobacilli may be necessary for the generation of mucosal IgA-secreting plasma cells following parenteral vaccination. Antibodies and cellular defense mechanisms directed against aberrant lactobacilli induced by vaccination have been shown to change the composition of the vaginal flora. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 26 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] Adiphenine is an inhibitor of nicotinic receptors. It was shown to reduce self-administration of nicotine in animal studies. Bucumolol is a beta-adrenergic antagonist. Etofylline nicotinate is a vasodilator. Bufetolol is a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist. Bornaprolol is a beta-adrenergic antagonist. TC-1827 is an orally active, selective agonist of the α4β2 nicotinic receptors. Bunitrolol is a beta-adrenergic antagonist. 
Varying expression levels of EBI2 affect the positioning and migration of B cells. [SEP] Expression of EBI2 is one critical mediator of immune cell localization within lymph nodes, responsible in part for the coordination of B cell, T cell, and dendritic cell movement and interaction following antigen exposure. Tissue distribution and function
B cells
EBI2 helps B cell homing to the outer follicular region within a lymph node. Six hours after antigen exposure, EBI2 is downregulated to low levels, permitting the B cells to migrate to the border between the B cell and T cell zones of the lymph node. At this point, a B cell either downregulates EBI2 expression in order to enter a germinal center or maintains EBI2 expression and remains in outer follicular regions. EBI2 must turn off to move B cells to the germinal center from the periphery, and must turn on for B cells to exit the germinal center and re-enter the periphery. Thus, EBI2 expression modulates B cell differentiation by directing cells toward or away from germinal centers. T cells
EBI2 also regulates intra-lymphatic T cell migration. In concert with upregulation of CXCR5, the downregulation of EBI2 helps T follicular helper cells move toward the follicle center to help B cells undergoing affinity maturation in germinal centers. 
Venules have less significant tunica adventitia than arterioles. [SEP] A venule  is a very small vein in the microcirculation that allows blood to return from the capillary beds to drain into the venous system via increasingly larger veins. Post-capillary venules are the smallest of the veins with a diameter of between 10 and 30 micrometres (μm). Veins contain approximately 70% of total blood volume, while about 25% is contained in the venules. Many venules unite to form a vein. The middle layer is poorly developed so that venules have thinner walls than arterioles. Compared with arterioles, the venules are larger with much weaker muscular coat. The opposite process occurs when the blood leaves the capillaries and enters the venules, where the blood pressure drops due to an increase in flow rate. Pulmonary arterioles are a noteworthy exception as they vasodilate in response to high oxygen. 
VgrG (Tssl) protein punctures membranes by forming a spike at the tip of the tube apparatus. [SEP] The spike protein assembles into trimers that form large structures, called spikes or peplomers, that project from the surface of the virion. The distinctive appearance of these spikes when visualized using negative stain transmission electron microscopy, "recalling the solar corona", gives the virus family its main name.The function of the spike glycoprotein is to mediate viral entry into the host cell by first interacting with molecules on the exterior cell surface and then fusing the viral and cellular membranes. S2
The S2 region of spike glycoprotein is responsible for membrane fusion between the viral envelope and the host cell, enabling entry of the virus' genome into the cell. Proteolytic cleavage
Proteolytic cleavage of the spike protein, sometimes known as "priming", is required for membrane fusion. In virology, a spike protein or peplomer protein is a protein that forms a large structure known as a spike or peplomer projecting from the surface of an enveloped virus. Spike proteins are membrane proteins with typically large external ectodomains, a single transmembrane domain that anchors the protein in the viral envelope, and a short tail in the interior of the virion. : 33   Many spike proteins are membrane fusion proteins. : 33

Coronaviruses
Coronaviruses exhibit coronavirus spike protein, also known as the S protein, on their surfaces; S is a class I fusion protein and is responsible for mediating viral entry as the first step in viral infection. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects birth weight. [SEP] Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. Maternal vitamin D deficiency can cause prenatal neurodevelopmental defects, which influence neurotransmission, altering brain rhythms and the metabolism of dopamine. Pregnancy
Pregnancy also poses as another high risk factor for vitamin D deficiency. The status levels of vitamin D during the last stages of pregnancy directly impact the newborns first initial months of life. Pregnancy
Low levels of vitamin D in pregnancy are associated with gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, and small (for gestational age) infants. Vitamin D supplementation is also likely to reduce the risk of gestational diabetes, undersized babies and of their poor rate of growth. Pregnant women often do not take the recommended amount of vitamin D.

Weight loss
Though hypothesized that vitamin D supplementation may be an effective treatment for obesity apart from calorie restriction, one systematic review found no association of supplementation with body weight or fat mass. In this disorder, vitamin D is believed to be involved in the development of the brain during the gestational period. 
Vitamin D is an important factor in the relationship between calcium and parathyroid hormone. [SEP] Calcifediol is further hydroxylated by the kidneys and some of the immune system cells to form calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol), the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood, having a major role regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate, and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone. VDR activation in the intestine, bone, kidney, and parathyroid gland cells leads to the maintenance of calcium and phosphorus levels in the blood (with the assistance of parathyroid hormone and calcitonin) and to the maintenance of bone content.One of the most important roles of vitamin D is to maintain skeletal calcium balance by promoting calcium absorption in the intestines, promoting bone resorption by increasing osteoclast number, maintaining calcium and phosphate levels for bone formation, and allowing proper functioning of parathyroid hormone to maintain serum calcium levels. Osteoporosis can be a long-term effect of calcium and/or vitamin D insufficiency, the latter contributing by reducing calcium absorption. Vitamin D is a steroid hormone that plays a vital role in calcium and phosphate absorption. The role of vitamin D is best characterized as enabling calcium absorption and regulating calcium homeostasis. Vitamin D also play a role in phosphate absorption. This latter form of vitamin D is the active hormone which stimulates calcium uptake from the intestine.Via the kidney, PTH enhances the absorption of calcium in the intestine by increasing the production of activated vitamin D. Vitamin D activation occurs in the kidney. In the intestines, absorption of both calcium and phosphate is mediated by an increase in activated vitamin D. The absorption of phosphate is not as dependent on vitamin D as is that of calcium. 
Walking in traffic areas in London did not improve lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] Emphysema usually affects the middle aged or older population because it takes time to develop with the effects of tobacco smoking, and other risk factors. The shortness of breath caused by emphysema can increase over time and develop into chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Ozone-induced emphysema
Ozone is another pollutant that can affect the respiratory system. This adaptation does not impact gas exchange because birds flow air through their lungs - they do not breathe in and out like mammals. No further work was done on signalled pedestrian crossings until fifty years later. If a pedestrian now has even one hesitation or failure the chance of escape from a dreadful death is now much less than when all vehicles were much slower. : 143–4

For disabled pedestrians
All new and updated crossings in the UK, including informal crossings must not disable people. The walks aim to reduce heart disease, reduce cholesterol and blood pressure, relieve depression and anxiety, reduce stress, help with weight management / obesity, and help with diabetes. 
Walking in traffic areas in London improves lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] A reader of The Times wrote to the editor in 1911:"Could you do something to help the pedestrian to recover the old margin of safety on our common streets and roads? The walks aim to reduce heart disease, reduce cholesterol and blood pressure, relieve depression and anxiety, reduce stress, help with weight management / obesity, and help with diabetes. You walk at your own pace but you are advised to  stretch yourself to raise your heart rate and get you breathing faster. References
External links
Sonning Common Health Walks The International charter for walking is an initiative undertaken by 'Walk21' to encourage walking in urban areas for benefits to health, the environment and the economy. November 9, 2011

Walk21 conference venues
2017 -  Calgary
2016 - Hong Kong
2015 - Vienna
2014 - Sydney
2013 - Munich
2012 - Mexico City
2011 - Vancouver
2010 - The Hague
2009 - New York City
2008 - Barcelona
2007 - Toronto
2006 - Melbourne
2005 - Zurich
2004 - Copenhagen
2003 - Portland, Oregon
2002 - San Sebastián, Spain
2001 - Perth, Western Australia
2000 - London

See also
Bicycle-friendly
Bicycle-friendly communities in America
Cycling infrastructure
New Urbanism
Pedestrian-friendly
Public transport
Shared space
Walkability
Walking


== References == Lung volume reduction
Lung volume reduction may be offered to those with advanced emphysema. Breathing allows oxygen (which humans and a lot of other species need for survival) to enter the lungs, from where it can be absorbed into the bloodstream. 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in high completion since they're cheap to run and impose low participant burden. [SEP] This makes the weighing process more efficient, and, in the case of commercial vehicles, allows for trucks under the weight limit to bypass static scales or inspection. The OIML R134  was published as an international standard of low speed WIM systems for legal applications like tolling by weight and direct weight enforcement. Weightless was a set of low-power wide-area network (LPWAN) wireless technology specifications for exchanging data between a base station and thousands of machines around it. The name Weightless was chosen to reflect the low overhead per transmission for devices that need to communicate just a few bytes of data. A Weightless Radio implementation would comply with this standard to cooperatively share the available spectrum. Weightless v1.0
The formal Weightless-W Standard was published in February 2013. The Weightless-N Standard was published in May 2015. History
The race is held annually in February and is run under weight for age (WFA) conditions. 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in poor completion since they're costly to run and impose high participant burden. [SEP] Evidential burden or "production burden" is the obligation to produce evidence to properly raise an issue at trial. Failure to satisfy the evidential burden means that an issue cannot be raised at a court of law. So much waste PFOA was dumped that DuPont quickly lost count. The problem often arises in resource allocation where the decision-makers have to choose from a set of non-divisible projects or tasks under a fixed budget or time constraint, respectively. During the process of the running of this method, how do we get the weight 
  
    
      
        w
      
    
    {\displaystyle w}
  ? That is to say, the program above computes more than necessary because the weight changes from 0 to W often. In artificial intelligence and operations research, a Weighted Constraint Satisfaction Problem (WCSP) is a generalization of a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) where some of the constraints can be violated (according to a violation degree) and in which preferences among solutions can be expressed. Considering a WCN/CFN, the usual (NP-hard) task of WCSP is to find a complete instantiation with a minimal cost. 
Whole brain radiotherapy increases the occurrence of new brain metastases. [SEP] Usage
Whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) has been reported to increase the risk of cognitive decline.WBRT is sometimes used along with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) or surgery, and while these can improve survival for some patients with single brain metastasis, a 2021 systematic review of the literature found inconsistent results for overall survival. Although advances in chemotherapy had been able to successfully treat tumor throughout the body, there remained an alarming incidence of brain metastasis following systemic chemotherapy. Metastasis is the most common cause of brain cancer, as primary tumors that originate in the brain are less common. Causes
The most common sources of brain metastases in a case series of 2,700 patients undergoing treatment at the Memorial Sloan–Kettering Cancer Center were:
Lung cancer, 48%
Breast cancer, 15%
Genitourinary tract cancers, 11%
Osteosarcoma, 10%
Melanoma, 9%
Head and neck cancer, 6%
Neuroblastoma, 5%
Gastrointestinal cancers, especially colorectal and pancreatic carcinoma, 3%
Lymphoma, 1%Lung cancer and melanoma are most likely to present with multiple metastasis, whereas breast, colon, and renal cancers are more likely to present with a single metastasis. Radiotherapy
Radiotherapy plays a critical role in the treatment of brain metastases, and includes whole-brain irradiation, fractionated radiotherapy, and radiosurgery. However, the baseline incidence rate of brain metastases were found to increase with improvements to brain imaging technology. 67% to 80% of all cancer patients were found to develop brain metastases, as of 2012. As a result, population studies regarding brain metastases have historically been inaccurate and incomplete.Recent advances in systemic treatments of brain metastases, such as radiosurgery, whole-brain radiotherapy and surgical resection has led to an increase in median survival rate of brain metastases patients. 
Women are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to men. [SEP] Diseases
Men are more likely to suffer from heart disease, cancer, and stroke more than women do. These diseases are the main cause of the gender gap in life expectancy.Despite men having more fatal conditions such as ischemic heart disease, lung cancer, liver cirrhosis, traffic accidents, and suicide, women have more non-fatal acute and chronic conditions. While men have nearly twice the incidence of coronary heart disease and related mortality, women experience more incidence at increasing age.Women also have higher rates of autoimmune disorders than men; one hypothesis for this is that testosterone facilitates immunosuppression in men, decreasing the likelihood men create autoantibodies that can target their own bodies, leading to autoimmune disease.Most countries report higher rates of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in women compared to men. Misperceptions, such as females being more protected from cardiovascular diseases, may contribute to the morbidity-mortality paradox; females tend to have less aggressive treatment regimens, shown by having lower diagnostic angiograms and interventional procedures when compared to males.Researchers also suggest that because males have been shown to have an increased likelihood of suddenly dying, females may appear to have higher incidence of morbidity when surveyed in research studies; in other words, females tend to outlive males, and the females carry diseases that are counted as morbidity in studies while males die earlier from these morbidities and leave healthier male counterparts in the study, which makes it appear that they have lower morbidity than females. The mortality due to COVID-19 is higher in men. Sex differences in mortality
More men than women die after being affected by COVID-19. However, in a few countries like India, Nepal, Vietnam, and Slovenia the fatality cases are higher in women than men.The higher mortality rate in men is consistent with other respiratory diseases, which show a similar disparity. Mortality rates were higher in women, especially in the 40-49 year age group. 
Women with a lower birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] In a given population, low birth weight babies have a significantly higher mortality rate than others; thus, populations with a higher rate of low birth weights typically also have higher rates of child mortality than other populations. Based on prior research, the children of smoking mothers are more likely to be of low birth weight than children of non-smoking mothers. The birth weight distribution for children of smoking mothers is shifted to lower weights by their mothers' actions. Therefore, otherwise healthy babies (who would weigh more if it were not for the fact their mother smoked) are born underweight. In short, smoking is harmful in that it contributes to low birth weight which has higher mortality than normal birth weight, but other causes of low birth weight are generally more harmful than smoking. These immature cells could then be exposed to carcinogens and hormones over time, resulting in a greater potential risk of breast cancer. The brochure stated:

Anti-abortion activists claim that having an abortion increases the risk of developing breast cancer and endangers future childbearing. Breast size and cancer risk
Some factors of breast morphology, including their density, are clearly implicated in breast cancer. 
YAP/TAZ is required in intestinal regeneration in mouse models of ulcerative colitis. [SEP] YAP1 is a component in the hippo signaling pathway which regulates organ size, regeneration, and tumorigenesis. YAP1 and its close paralog, TAZ (WWTR1), are the main effectors of the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway. YAP and TAZ cooperate with transcription factors to promote tissue formation. In vivo murine studies have demonstrated that animals lacking functional TAZ are more viable than animals lacking YAP expression. Associated Therapeutics
YAP and TAZ function have been targeted in several therapeutic methods in the treatment of cancers. In mammals, the two Yki orthologs are Yes-associated protein (YAP) and transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (WWTR1, also known as TAZ). When activated, YAP and TAZ can bind to several transcription factors including p73, Runx2 and several TEADs. YAP/TAZ can reprogram cancer cells into cancer stem cells. 
aPKCz causes tumour suppression by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] The characteristic attributes of the tumor metabolome are high glycolytic enzyme activities, the expression of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2, increased channeling of glucose carbons into synthetic processes, such as nucleic acid, amino acid and phospholipid synthesis, a high rate of pyrimidine and purine de novo synthesis, a low ratio of Adenosine triphosphate and Guanosine triphosphate to Cytidine triphosphate and Uridine triphosphate, low Adenosine monophosphate levels, high glutaminolytic capacities, release of immunosuppressive substances and dependency on methionine. In addition to cell-autonomous changes that drive a cancer cell to proliferate and contribute to tumorigenesis, it has also been observed that alterations in whole-organism metabolism such as obesity are associated with heightened risks for a variety of cancers. Role of signalling pathway in cancer metabolism
The protein AKT1 (also known as Protein Kinase B or PKB) in the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway is an important driver of the tumor glycolytic phenotype and stimulates ATP generation. A convergence between phenotypic and metabolic state transitions that confers a survival advantage to cancer cells against clinically used drug combinations like taxanes and anthracyclines have also been reported while drug resistant cancer cells had increased activity of both the glycolytic and oxidative pathways and glucose flux through the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). It has been shown that attenuation of the PPP would dampen NADPH production in cancer cells, leading to the decrease in macromolecular biosynthesis and rendering the transformed cells that are vulnerable free radical-mediated damage. In preclinical studies, drugs such as 6-amino-nicotinamide (6-AN), which inhibits G6P dehydrogenase, the enzyme that initiates the PPP have shown anti-tumorigenic effects in leukemia, glioblastoma and lung cancer cell lines.Cyclosporine inhibits TOR and is used as an effective immunosuppressant. This energy pathway is upregulated in cancer, which may represent a therapeutic target as cancer cells are thought to be more dependent on glutamine than healthy cells. Aminoglycoside-3'-phosphotransferase (APH(3')), also known as aminoglycoside kinase, is an enzyme that primarily catalyzes the addition of phosphate from ATP to the 3'-hydroxyl group of a 4,6-disubstituted aminoglycoside, such as kanamycin. 
cSMAC formation represses weak ligand signalling. [SEP] Carbon storage regulator A (CsrA) is an RNA binding protein. The CsrA proteins generally bind to the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of messenger RNAs and either inhibit translation or facilitate mRNA decay.CsrA has a regulatory effect on glycogen biosynthesis and catabolism, glycolysis, biofilm formation and quorum sensing. Interactions

The CsrA protein binds to a Stem-loop RNA motif. The ability of the protein to inhibit translation of bound mRNAs can be countered by the expression of sRNAs such as CsrB, CsrC, RsmZ, RsmY and RsmX that contain multiple copies of the RNA motif. References
External links
"Chemokine Receptors: XCR1". Cord factor also binds and activates the related C-type lectin MCL. Upon receptor stimulation is PKC-δ activated, which subsequently phosphorylates CARD9 that triggers recruitment of BCL10 and MALT1, leading to a CARD-CC/BCL10/MALT1 (CBM) signaling complex. A wide range of ligands promote signalling through Mincle, including proteins, sterols and glycolipids from altered or damaged self, and various glycolipids from pathogenic and commensal organisms. 
eRNAs influence is linked to senescence, aging, and carcinogenesis. [SEP] Androgen withdrawal induces cells to undergo cellular senescence by  up-regulating intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) that cause DNA damage. Cellular senescence can be initiated by a wide variety of stress inducing factors. These stress factors include both environmental and internal damaging events, abnormal cellular growth, oxidative stress, autophagy factors, among many other things.The physiological importance for cell senescence has been attributed to prevention of carcinogenesis, and more recently, aging, development, and tissue repair. Mutations in genes relating to genome maintenance has been linked with premature aging diseases, supporting the role of cell senescence in aging (see DNA damage theory of aging). The accumulation of senescent cells in tissues of vertebrates with age is thought to contribute to the development of ageing-related diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, type 2 diabetes, and various cancers.Progeria is another example of a disease that may be related to cell senescence. ERCs accumulate in old cells and mutations of Sgs1 were found to increase this accumulation, leading to the idea that ERCs lead to shorter lifespan of cells. Accumulated ERCs impair cell proliferation in old cells by interfering with the expression of important cell cycle genes at the G1/S transition and thus delay cell cycle progression. In fact, SASP from senescent cells is associated with many aging-associated diseases, including not only cancer, but atherosclerosis and osteoarthritis. 
mcm 5 s 2 U is required for proper decoding of NNR codons in eukaryotes. [SEP] It is required for most forms of eukaryotic translation initiation. In molecular biology, the 5.8S ribosomal RNA (5.8S rRNA) is a non-coding RNA component of the large subunit of the eukaryotic ribosome and so plays an important role in protein translation. The 5.8S ribosomal RNA is used to better understand other rRNA processes and pathways in the cell.The 5.8S rRNA is homologous to the 5' end of non-eukaryotic LSU rRNA. In eukaryotes, the insertion of ITS2 breaks LSU rRNA into 5.8S and 28S rRNAs. U4/U6.U5 tri-snRNP-associated protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the USP39 gene. Leaky termination in these genes leads to translational readthrough of up to 10% of the stop codons of these genes. Required for meiotic nuclear division 5 homolog B (S. cerevisiae), also known as RMND5B, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the RMND5B gene. 116 kDa U5 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein component is a protein that in humans is encoded by the EFTUD2 gene. 
miR-142-5P is a known regulator of raised body temperature. [SEP] miR-144 is a family of microRNA precursors found in mammals, including humans. MiR-155 plays a role in various physiological and pathological processes. Once activated, miR-155-5p suppresses negative regulators of inflammation. It was also found that mir-155 is implicated in inflammation. Overexpression of mir-155 will lead to chronic inflammatory state in human. Function
miR-146 is thought to be a mediator of inflammation along with another microRNA, mir-155. The expression of miR-146 is upregulated by inflammatory factors such as interleukin 1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. miR-146a could be targeted therapeutically as its depletion has implication in the hyperactive response to infection. 
miR-142-5P is a temperature-sensitive microRNA (miRNA). [SEP] miR-144 is a family of microRNA precursors found in mammals, including humans. References
Further reading
External links

Page for microRNA mir-144 at Rfam miR-146 is a family of microRNA precursors found in mammals, including humans. Function
miR-146 is thought to be a mediator of inflammation along with another microRNA, mir-155. References
Further reading
See also
microRNA (miRNA)

External links

Page for microRNA mir-146 at Rfam In molecular biology, mir-145 microRNA is a short RNA molecule that in humans is encoded by the MIR145 gene. References
Further reading
External links

Page for mir-145 microRNA precursor family at Rfam miR-138 is a family of microRNA precursors found in animals, including humans. 
miRNAs enforce homeostasis by suppressing low-level ''leaky'' transcription. [SEP] MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several pre- and post-transcription mechanisms. Hairpin miRNA is targeted to Dicer for cleavage, producing mature mir-126 and mir-126* transcripts. miRNA can bind either directly to DNA preventing transcription or to transcribed mRNA preventing translation and directing the mRNA for degradation. "miR-126 regulates angiogenic signaling and vascular integrity". MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. 
miRNAs regulate a unique suite of mRNAs to maintain homeostasis in cells. [SEP] MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. Introduction
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a family of small ribonucleic acids, 21-25 nucleotides in length, that modulate protein expression through transcript degradation, inhibition of translation, or sequestering transcripts. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. 
p16INK4A degradation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] CEACAM16 is a gene which encodes carcinoembryonic antigen. Malignancy (from Latin  male 'badly', and  -gnus 'born') is the tendency of a medical condition to become progressively worse; the term is most familiar as a characterization of cancer. Sometimes the term is used to suggest that a condition is not dangerous or serious.Malignancy in cancers is characterized by anaplasia, invasiveness, and metastasis. This cell transformation can occur through either "DNA integration or cellular-DNA alteration of growth regulator genes".Inflammation can also play a role in triggering malignancy as it can promote stages of tumour formation. At the same time, inflammatory cells can also interact with malignant cells to form an inflammatory tumour microenvironment. Once this occurs, the inflammatory tumour microenvironment begins to send out tumour-promoting signals to epithelial cells, triggering the formation of malignant cells. Biopsies are categorised into four different processes: "fine-needle aspirate (FNA), core needle, incisional and, excisional".Curative surgery (also known as primary surgery) can be conducted when the malignant tumour has only invaded one area of the body. KIAA1166 is a human gene. 
p16INK4A degradation is encoded by CDKN2A. [SEP] p16 (also known as p16INK4a, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A, CDKN2A, multiple tumor suppressor 1 and numerous other synonyms), is a protein that slows cell division by slowing the progression of the cell cycle from the G1 phase to the S phase, thereby acting as a tumor suppressor. It is encoded by the CDKN2A gene. The name of p16 is derived from its molecular weight, and the alternative name p16INK4a refers to its role in inhibiting cyclin-dependent kinase CDK4. Nomenclature
p16 is also known as:

p16INK4A
p16Ink4
Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A)
CDKN2
CDK 4 Inhibitor
Multiple Tumor Suppressor 1 (MTS1)
TP16
ARF
MLM
P14

Gene
In humans, p16 is encoded by the CDKN2A gene, located on chromosome 9 (9p21.3). Function
p16 is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK). Role in cellular senescence
Concentrations of p16INK4a increase dramatically as tissue ages. p16INK4a, along with senescence-associated beta-galactosidase, is regarded to be a biomarker of cellular senescence. Proteins
p16
This protein belongs to the CDKN2 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor family. 
p75 NTR - associated cell death executor (NADE) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] p75NTR is involved in pathways that promote neuronal survival and neuronal death. Receptor family
p75NTR is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. It is important to say that, in contrast to the type I death domain found in other TNFR proteins, the type II intracellular death domain of p75NTR does nor self-associated. This was an early indication that p75NTR does nor signal death through the same mechanism as the TNFR death domains, although the ability of the p75NTR death domain to activate other second messengers is conserved.The p75ECD-binding interface to NT-3 can be divided into three main contact sites, two in the case of NGF, that are stabilized by hydrophobic interactions, salt bridges, and hydrogen bonds. Neurotrophins activating p75NTR may initiate apoptosis  (for example, via c-Jun N-terminal kinases signaling, and subsequent p53, Jax-like proteins and caspase activation). proNGF and proBNDF interact with p75NTR and cause p75NTR-mediated apoptosis without activating TrkA-mediated survival mechanisms. p75NTR activation of NF-kB, which promotes survival, is unaffected by NGF binding to TrkA. p75NTR-mediated signaling pathways
NF-kB activation
NF-kB is a transcription factor that can be activated by p75NTR. 
qSOFA scores are associated with length of stay in emergency department patients. [SEP] The quick SOFA score (qSOFA) assists health care providers in estimating the risk of morbidity and mortality due to sepsis. Quick SOFA score
The Quick SOFA Score (quickSOFA or qSOFA) was introduced by the Sepsis-3 group in February 2016 as a simplified version of the SOFA Score as an initial way to identify patients at high risk for poor outcome with an infection. The qSOFA simplifies the SOFA score drastically by only including its 3 clinical criteria and by including "any altered mentation" instead of requiring a GCS <15. The presence of 2 or more qSOFA points near the onset of infection was associated with a greater risk  of death or prolonged intensive care unit stay. Based upon these findings, the Third International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis recommends qSOFA as a simple prompt to identify infected patients outside the ICU who are likely to be septic.qSOFA has also been found to be poorly sensitive though decently specific for the risk of death with SIRS possibly better for screening. qSOFA utility
The qSOFA was designed to be used in non-ICU settings, where the healthcare provider might not have access to all the information used in the SOFA score. This scoring system is used to identify potential patients with sepsis.In 2019, the surviving sepsis campaign detailed a bundle of medical interventions to be done within the first hour of presentation on septic patients to reduce mortality, so quick identification of these patients with the qSOFA score is important to treat quickly. The Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF) is a system for the performance management and payment of general practitioners (GPs) in the National Health Service (NHS) in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. 
r-protein chaperones are found in complexes with their r-protein binding partners. [SEP] Co-chaperones are proteins that assist chaperones in protein folding and other functions. Co-chaperones are the non-client binding molecules that assist in protein folding mediated by Hsp70 and Hsp90. There are a great number of different co-chaperones however based on their domain structure most of them fall into two groups: J-domain proteins and tetratricopeptide repeats (TPR).Co-chaperones assist heat shock proteins in the protein folding process. Primarily co-chaperones are involved in the ATPase functionality of their associated heat shock proteins. Co-chaperones catalyze the hydrolysis ATP to ADP on their respective chaperones which then allows them undergo a large conformational change that allows them to either bind to their substrates with higher affinity or aid in the release of the substrate following protein folding, as in the case of co-chaperone p23.J-proteins, DnaJ or Hsp40 are important co-chaperones for Hsp70 and have the ability to bind to polypeptides and then recruit chaperone protein DnaK and passes the polypeptide along to this chaperone by catalyzing ATP hydrolysis that allows DnaK to bind to the unfolded polypeptide with high affinity. The mechanism of TPR proteins is less studied these domains have been shown to interact with Hsp90 and Hsp70 and may be involved in the creation of an Hsp70-Hsp90 multi-chaperone complex.Co-chaperones may also play an important role in misfolding diseases such as cystic fibrosis. List of co-chaperones
See also
Chaperone (protein)
Heat shock protein

References


== Further reading == General or specialized chaperones solubilize the ribosomal proteins and facilitate their import into the nucleus. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 accelerates tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. was a San Francisco, California based biotechnology company that explored the use of RNA interference in human disease therapy. Sirna's development pipeline included several small interfering RNA (siRNA) drugs, thought to stably silence the expression of specific disease-related genes. References
External links
Sirna Therapeutics (Archive) dsRNAs that trigger RNAa have been termed small activating RNA (saRNA). In contrast to RNAi, promoter-targeted saRNAs induce prolonged activation of gene expression associated with epigenetic changes. further demonstrated in mouse cells that endogenous RNAa mediated by miRNAs functions in a physiological context and is possibly exploited by cancer cells to gain a growth advantage. By targeting the promoter of STAT3 to increase its transcription, miR-551b-3p confers to ovarian cancer cells resistance to apoptosis and a proliferative advantage.In C. elegans hypodermal seam cells, the transcription of lin-4 miRNA is positively regulated by lin-4 itself which binds to a conserved lin-4 complementary element in its promoter, constituting a positive autoregulatory loop.In C. elegans, Argonaute CSR-1 interacts with 22G small RNAs derived from RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and antisense to germline-expressed transcripts to protect these mRNAs from Piwi-piRNA mediated silencing via promoting epigenetic activation.It is currently unknown how widespread gene regulation by endogenous RNAa is in mammalian cells. Studies have demonstrated RNAa in vivo and its potential therapeutic applications in treating cancer and non-cancerous diseases.In June 2016, UK-based MiNA Therapeutics announced the initiation of a phase I trial of the first-ever saRNA drug MTL-CEBPA in patients with liver cancer, in an attempt to activate CEBPA gene. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 slows tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] Sirna Therapeutics, Inc. was a San Francisco, California based biotechnology company that explored the use of RNA interference in human disease therapy. Sirna's development pipeline included several small interfering RNA (siRNA) drugs, thought to stably silence the expression of specific disease-related genes. References
External links
Sirna Therapeutics (Archive) Trans-acting siRNA (abbreviated "ta-siRNA" or "tasiRNA") are a class of small interfering RNA (siRNA) that repress gene expression through post-transcriptional gene silencing in land plants. Mechanism
Endogenous ta-siRNAs act via hetero-silencing, which means that the genes they target for cleavage and repression do not have much resemblance to the genes from which the siRNAs derive. ta-siRNAs can be loaded into AGO1 complexes to guide target mRNA cleavage. small interfering RNA (siRNA)
siRNAs act in the nucleus and the cytoplasm and are involved in RNAi as well as CDGS. Biotechnology
Artificial introduction of long dsRNAs or siRNAs has been adopted as a tool to inactivate gene expression, both in cultured cells and in living organisms. 
taa1 tar1 tar2 triple mutants in Arabidopsis do not make root meristem during embryogenesis. [SEP] An end stage embryo has five major components including the shoot apical meristem, hypocotyl, root meristem, root cap, and cotyledons. These morphogenic events form the basic cellular pattern for the development of the shoot-root body and the primary tissue layers; it also programs the regions of meristematic tissue formation. The apical embryo domain, gives rise to the shoot apical meristem and cotyledons. The second domain, the central embryo domain, gives rise to the hypocotyl, root apical meristem, and parts of the cotyledons. The shoot apical meristem is between the cotyledons. It also plays an important role in the establishment polarity with the plant embryo. Plant growth regulators in the tissue culture medium can be manipulated to induce callus formation and subsequently changed to induce embryos to form the callus. Embryos that result from this mechanism can germinate into fully functional plants. 
β-sheet opening occurs during pleurotolysin pore formation. [SEP] Pleurotolysin (TC# 1.C.97.1.1), a sphingomyelin-specific cytolysin. The Pleurotolysin Pore-Forming (Pleurotolysin) Family (TC# 1.C.97) is a family of pore forming proteins belonging to the MACPF superfamily. 2004 cloned complementary and genomic DNAs encoding pleurotolysin, and studied pore-forming properties of recombinant proteins. Recombinant pleurotolysin A lacking the first methionine was purified as a 17-kDa protein with sphingomyelin-binding activity. The cDNA for pleurotolysin B encoded a precursor consisting of 523 amino acyl residues, of which 48 N-terminal amino acyl residues were absent in natural pleurotolysin B. Mature and precursor forms of pleurotolysin B were expressed as insoluble 59- and 63-kDa proteins, respectively. Although neither recombinant pleurotolysin A nor B alone was hemolytically active at higher concentrations of up to 100 mg/ml, they cooperatively assembled into a membrane pore complex on human erythrocytes and lysed the cell. The original text was at "1.C.97 The Pleurotolysin Pore-Forming (Pleurotolysin) Family" 
β1/Ketel is able to bind microtubules. [SEP] "Microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins". Microtubules are assembled from dimers of α- and β-tubulin. When class VI β-tubulin were expressed in mammalian cells, they cause disruption of microtubule network, microtubule fragment formation, and can ultimately cause marginal-band like structures present in megakaryocytes and platelets.Katanin is a protein complex that severs microtubules at β-tubulin subunits, and is necessary for rapid microtubule transport in neurons and in higher plants.Human β-tubulins subtypes include:

γ-Tubulin
γ-Tubulin, another member of the tubulin family, is important in the nucleation and polar orientation of microtubules. Microtubules play an important role in a number of cellular processes. There are many proteins that bind to microtubules, including the motor proteins dynein and kinesin, microtubule-severing proteins like katanin, and other proteins important for regulating microtubule dynamics. Proteins that interact with microtubules
Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs)
MAPs have been shown to play a crucial role in the regulation of microtubule dynamics in-vivo. Three proteins called katanin, spastin, and fidgetin have been observed to regulate the number and length of microtubules via their destabilizing activities. Furthermore, KIAA1211L is predicted to be localized to the microtubules.MAPs are determinants of different cytoskeletal forms of axons and dendrites, with microtubules being farther apart in the dendrites

Plus-end tracking proteins (+TIPs)
Plus end tracking proteins are MAP proteins which bind to the tips of growing microtubules and play an important role in regulating microtubule dynamics. 
0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. [SEP] Dynabeads are superparamagnetic spherical polymer particles with a uniform size and a consistent, defined surface for the adsorption or coupling of various bioreactive molecules or cells. Motivation
Beginning with the Jones polynomial, infinitely many new invariants of knots, links, and 3-manifolds were found during the 1980s. Unlike the usual spinnerets of spiders, the cribellum consists of one or more plates covered in thousands of tiny spigots, tiny holes that hardly project from the surface, in contrast to the elongated spigots that project from spinnerets. PDF

External links
The Spider - Web and Silk (description and pictures)
Cribellate silk vs. sticky silk
The Evolution of Web Usage in Spiders Materials Science and Engineering: C  was a peer-reviewed scientific journal that has since been renamed to Biomaterials Advances. In interferometry, the zero spacing flux is the integrated flux density of the sources in the field of view. See also
CLEAN (algorithm)

External links
The problem of short spacings
An important subset: The zero spacing
Zero-spacing Problem The abhenry is the CGS (centimetre–gram–second) electromagnetic unit of inductance, corresponding to one billionth of a henry (1 nH). 
1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. [SEP] The 1000 Genomes Project (abbreviated as 1KGP), launched in January 2008, was an international research effort to establish by far the most detailed catalogue of human genetic variation. Each will contribute to the enormous sequence dataset and to a refined human genome map, which will be freely accessible through public databases to the scientific community and the general public alike.By providing an overview of all human genetic variation, the consortium will generate a valuable tool for all fields of biological science, especially in the disciplines of genetics, medicine, pharmacology, biochemistry, and bioinformatics. Background
Since the completion of the Human Genome Project advances in human population genetics and comparative genomics have made it possible to gain increasing insight into the nature of genetic diversity. Although the specific function of CNVs remains elusive, the fact that CNVs span more nucleotide content per genome than SNPs emphasizes the importance of CNVs in genetic diversity and evolution.Investigating human genomic variations holds great potential for identifying genes that might underlie differences in disease resistance (e.g. Between these two types of genetic variants lies a significant gap of knowledge, which the 1000 Genomes Project is designed to address.The primary goal of this project is to create a complete and detailed catalogue of human genetic variations, which in turn can be used for association studies relating genetic variation to disease. SNPs, CNVs, indels) with minor allele frequencies as low as 1% across the genome and 0.1-0.5% in gene regions, as well as to estimate the population frequencies, haplotype backgrounds and linkage disequilibrium patterns of variant alleles.Secondary goals will include the support of better SNP and probe selection for genotyping platforms in future studies and the improvement of the human reference sequence. The major support will be provided by the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute in Hinxton, England; the Beijing Genomics Institute, Shenzhen (BGI Shenzhen), China; and the NHGRI, part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).In keeping with Fort Lauderdale principles Archived 2013-12-28 at the Wayback Machine, all genome sequence data (including variant calls) is freely available as the project progresses and can be downloaded via ftp from the 1000 genomes project webpage. Project findings
Pilot phase
The pilot phase consisted of three projects:

low-coverage whole-genome sequencing of 179 individuals from 4 populations
high-coverage sequencing of 2 trios (mother-father-child)
exon-targeted sequencing of 697 individuals from 7 populationsIt was found that on average, each person carries around 250–300 loss-of-function variants in annotated genes and 50-100 variants previously implicated in inherited disorders. 
1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] Widespread UK telephone code misconceptions, in particular brought on by the Big Number Change in 2000, have been reported by regulator Ofcom since publication of a report it commissioned in 2004.The telephone area code for most of Greater London and some surrounding areas is 020, not "0207", "0208" or "0203". The leading 0 is not part of an area code, which is why international callers dialling into the UK must not dial it. In addition, many users are unaware that there is any local dialling procedure, probably because of the increasing popularity of mobile phones, from which the full national number must always be dialled.Numerous examples of incorrectly formatted telephone numbers may still be seen in and around London, including signwriting on shop-fronts and commercial vehicles, and in newspaper advertisements. Outside London, in the areas that had newly assigned 011x codes in the 1990s, many mistakenly believed that the added digit, to lengthen the subscriber number to seven digits, was part of their new area code largely because these places originally had traditional area codes (being non-Director areas) and, as a result, many misquoted their numbers in the 011xx xxxxxx format, rather than in the correct 011x xxx xxxx format. Therefore, all area codes have a preceding "0" when dialling from within the United Kingdom. When dialling a UK number from abroad, the zero must be omitted. Because of this, it has become common (but incorrect) practice to write telephone numbers used both nationally and internationally with the 0 in parentheses, for example: +44 (0)20 7946 0234; if the number is dialled with the parenthesised zero, the call will fail. The Press Recognition Panel (PRP) was created on 3 November 2014 by the Royal Charter on self-regulation of the press.The PRP was established following the Leveson Inquiry (2011–2012), a judicial public inquiry chaired by Lord Justice Leveson into the culture, practices and ethics of the British press following the News International phone hacking scandal. 
5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] In a given population, low birth weight babies have a significantly higher mortality rate than others; thus, populations with a higher rate of low birth weights typically also have higher rates of child mortality than other populations. The prevalence of low birth weights has trended slightly upward from 2012 to the present.Low birth weight is associated with neonatal infection, infant mortality, as well as illness into adulthood. Abnormalities
A low birth weight can be caused either by a preterm birth (low gestational age at birth) or the infant being small for gestational age (slow prenatal growth rate), or a combination of both. Low birth weight can also be caused by health issues in the person giving birth, genetic factors, or problems in the placenta. In 2008 the rate of low birth weight was the highest in babies born to women younger than 15 years old (12.4%). Because of this, many of these babies also have low birth weights. Even though over 20 million babies are born each year with low birth weight, it is hard to know the exact number, as more than half of babies born in the world are not weighed at birth. WHO estimates that worldwide, 15-20 % of all births each year are considered low birth weight, which is about 20 million births.The start of prenatal care is very important to help prevent low birth weight and early medical problems. 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] Deficiency of vitamin B12 can impair the remethylation of homocysteine in the methionine cycle, and result in raised homocysteine levels. In adults with metabolic syndrome, individuals with low levels of vitamin B12 had higher levels of homocysteine compared to healthy subjects. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a medical condition characterized by an abnormally high level of total homocysteine (that is, including homocystine and homocysteine-cysteine disulfide) in the blood, conventionally described as above 15 μmol/L.As a consequence of the biochemical reactions in which homocysteine is involved, deficiencies of
vitamin B6, folic acid (vitamin B9), and vitamin B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. Cardiovascular risks
Elevated homocysteine is a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease as well as thrombosis. There is also evidence that elevated homocysteine levels and low levels of vitamin B6 and B12 are risk factors for mild cognitive impairment and dementia. Causes
Vitamin deficiency
Deficiencies of vitamins B6, B9 and B12 can lead to high homocysteine levels. Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. The resulting elevated concentrations of homocysteine and MMA are often found in patients with low serum vitamin B12 and can usually be lowered with successful vitamin B12 replacement therapy. 
A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] Furthermore, alpha-thalassemia leads to the production of unstable beta globin molecules which cause increased red blood cell destruction. Alpha-thalassemia can be mistaken for iron-deficiency anaemia on a full blood count or blood film, as both conditions have a microcytic anaemia. The severity of the α-thalassemias is correlated with the number of affected α-globin alleles: the greater, the more severe will be the manifestations of the disease. Alpha-thalassemia". A macrocytic class of anemia is an anemia (defined as blood with an insufficient concentration of hemoglobin) in which the red blood cells (erythrocytes) are larger than their normal volume. In a macrocytic anemia, the larger red cells are always associated with insufficient numbers of cells and often also insufficient hemoglobin content per cell. Non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemias with a low reticulocyte count (indicating a poor bone marrow response to the anemia) suggest liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis), hypothyroidism, toxic effects of alcohol on the bone marrow, or myelodysplasia. In contrast, non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemias associated with a high reticulocyte count (reticulocytosis) may be caused by hemolysis or bleeding.For megaloblastic macrocytic anemias, useful tests may include serum levels of Vitamin B12, methylmalonic acid, and homocysteine. 
A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. [SEP] Future risk
The original outbreak of vCJD only affected individuals with a particular genetic makeup; those who only make the M form of PRNP (methionine/valine polymorphism at codon 129). This has led some researchers including Graham Jackson of the University College London to warn that there could be a second wave of vCJD infections years later.In late 2014, the first case was reported in an individual with both forms of the protein. An asymptomatic carrier is a person or other organism that has become infected with a pathogen, but shows no signs or symptoms.Although unaffected by the pathogen, carriers can transmit it to others or develop symptoms in later stages of the disease. A better understanding of asymptomatic disease carriers is crucial to the fields of medicine and public health as they work towards mitigating the spread of common infectious diseases. Significance in disease transmission
The limited information on the prevalence of asymptomatic carriers creates a considerable difficulty when planning public health initiatives. Infectious diseases
Asymptomatic carriers have furthered the spread of many infectious diseases. However, this only means that there is less than 1 person in 10,000 infected with the disease. March 2020
On 1 March, further cases were reported in Greater Manchester, some of them believed to be contacts of the case in Surrey who had no history of travel abroad.On 2 March, four further people in England tested positive. 
ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. [SEP] Being part of the RNase III family, Dicer cleaves double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) and pre-microRNA (pre-miRNA) into short double-stranded RNA fragments called small interfering RNA and microRNA, respectively. These pre-miRNA are then exported to the cytoplasm, where they are cleaved by Dicer to form mature miRNA. Cancer
Altered miRNA expression profiles in malignant cancers suggest a pivotal role of miRNA and thus dicer in cancer development and prognosis. Another potential mechanism for viral pathogenesis is the blockade of dicer as a way to inhibit cellular miRNA pathways. In insects
In Drosophila, Dicer-1 generates microRNAs (miRNAs) by processing pre-miRNA, Dicer-2 is responsible for producing small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) from long double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). The involvement of Dicer in miRNA processing suggests a relationship with the phenomenon of RNA interference. The involvement of Dicer in miRNA processing demonstrates a relationship with the phenomenon of RNA interference. The ~22 nucleotide mature miRNA sequence is excised from the precursor hairpin by the enzyme Dicer. 
AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. [SEP] The autoimmune regulator (AIRE) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the AIRE gene. AIRE is a transcription factor expressed in the medulla (inner part) of the thymus. They showed that AIRE protein is mainly expressed in the thymic medullary epithelial cells using immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, it has been found that AIRE is expressed in a population of stromal cells located in secondary lymphoid tissues, however these cells appear to express a distinct set of TRAs compared to mTECs.Research in knockout mice has demonstrated that AIRE functions through initiating the transcription of a diverse set of self-antigens, such as insulin, in the thymus. This expression then allows maturing thymocytes to become tolerant towards peripheral organs, thereby suppressing autoimmune disease.The AIRE gene is expressed in many other tissues as well. The AIRE gene is also expressed in the 33D1+ subset of dendritic cells in mouse and in human dendritic cells. Structure
AIRE is composed of a multidomain structure that is able to bind to chromatin and act as a regulator of gene transcription. Pathology
The AIRE gene is mutated in the rare autoimmune syndrome autoimmune polyendocrinopathy syndrome type 1 (APS-1), also known as autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED). 
ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. [SEP] The percentage of patients with minimal residual disease after chemotherapy is higher among basal-like than HER2+/ER− breast cancers. The relationship between BLBC and familial BRCA1-associated breast cancer has been discussed in recent years. Several studies have demonstrated that BRCA1-associated breast cancer is more likely to be a BLBC. Additionally, Cyclin E1 is more easily replicated in BLBC than other types of breast cancer, and its expression suggests a poor prognosis. References
External links
Human ALDH1L1 genome location and ALDH1L1 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. Growth regulation by estrogen in breast cancer-like is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GREB1L gene. Aldehyde dehydrogenase X, mitochondrial is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ALDH1B1 gene. Growth regulation by estrogen in breast cancer 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GREB1 gene. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. [SEP] The percentage of patients with minimal residual disease after chemotherapy is higher among basal-like than HER2+/ER− breast cancers. As an independent molecular subtype, BLBC's special biological behavior and poor prognosis is the reason for its significance in the clinical research of breast cancer. Additionally, Cyclin E1 is more easily replicated in BLBC than other types of breast cancer, and its expression suggests a poor prognosis. References
External links
Human ALDH1L1 genome location and ALDH1L1 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member L2 also known as ALDH1L2 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the ALDH1L2 gene. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A1, also known as ALDH1A1 or retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (RALDH1), is an enzyme that is encoded by the ALDH1A1 gene. ALDH1A1 maintains stemness of cancer cells and several drugs have been designed to target cancer stem cells by targeting ALDH1A1. References
External links
Human ALDH1A1 genome location and ALDH1A1 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] 5' AMP-activated protein kinase or AMPK or 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase is an enzyme (EC 2.7.11.31) that plays a role in cellular energy homeostasis, largely to activate glucose and fatty acid uptake and oxidation when cellular energy is low. In response to binding AMP and ADP, the net effect of AMPK activation is stimulation of hepatic fatty acid oxidation, ketogenesis, stimulation of skeletal muscle fatty acid oxidation and glucose uptake, inhibition of cholesterol synthesis, lipogenesis, and triglyceride synthesis, inhibition of adipocyte lipogenesis, inhibition of adipocyte lipolysis, and modulation of insulin secretion by pancreatic β-cells.It should not be confused with cyclic AMP-activated protein kinase (protein kinase A). AMPK also appears to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis by regulating PGC-1α which in turn promotes gene transcription in mitochondria. AMPK also activates anti-oxidant defenses. Additionally, recent discoveries can conceivably suggest a direct AMPK role in increasing blood supply to exercised/trained muscle cells by stimulating and stabilizing both vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. Lysosomal damage, inflammatory diseases and metformin
AMPK is recruited to lysosomes and regulated at the lysosomes via several systems of  clinical significance. The kinase activity of AMPK is activated by the stimuli that increase the cellular AMP/ATP ratio. AMPK regulates the activities of a number of key metabolic enzymes through phosphorylation. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] Loss of Betz cells is a variable effect of this disease but the loss of these cells in this disease demonstrates the “dying-back” (axonopathy) due to the changes in upper motor neurons. It is hypothesized that anterograde transneuronal degeneration causes the hyperphosphorylation of the tau protein and redistributing those proteins from the axon to the dendrites, which begins the breakdown of routing and sorting mechanisms. The technical cause of transneuronal degeneration is the death of neurons resulting from the disruption of input from or output to other nearby neurons. Pathophysiology
Cellular
Transneuronal degeneration creates many telling characteristics in affected cells. Dendritic and axonal
Transneuronal degeneration affects dendrites and axons as well. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is a type of neurological syndrome in which language capabilities slowly and progressively become impaired. However, unlike most other aphasias, PPA results from continuous deterioration in brain tissue, which leads to early symptoms being far less detrimental than later symptoms. On the basis of diagnostic procedures, the disorder in question must be unequivocally attributed to a neurodegenerative process.Whether or not PPA and other aphasias are the only source of cognitive impairment in a patient is often difficult to assess because: 1) as with other neurologically degenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, there are currently no reliable non-invasive diagnostic tests for aphasias, and thus neuropsychological assessments are the only tool physicians have for diagnosing patients; and 2) aphasias often affect other, non-language portions of these neuropsychological tests, such as those specific for memory. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is a type of neurological syndrome in which language capabilities slowly and progressively become impaired. However, unlike most other aphasias, PPA results from continuous deterioration in brain tissue, which leads to early symptoms being far less detrimental than later symptoms. One of tau's main functions is to modulate the stability of axonal microtubules. Other functions
Other typical functions of tau include cellular signalling, neuronal development, neuroprotection and apoptosis. Phosphorylation of tau is also developmentally regulated. Mechanism
The accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau in neurons is associated with neurofibrillary degeneration. This insoluble structure damages cytoplasmic functions and interferes with axonal transport, which can lead to cell death.Hyperphosphorylated forms of tau protein are the main component of PHFs of NFTs in the brain of AD patients. A recent hypothesis identifies the decrease of reelin signaling as the primary change in Alzheimer's disease that leads to the hyperphosphorylation of tau via a decrease in GSK3β inhibition.A68 is a name sometimes given (mostly in older publications) to the hyperphosphorylated form of tau protein found in the brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease.In 2020, researchers from two groups published studies indicating that an immunoassay blood test for the p-tau-217 form of the protein could diagnose Alzheimer's up to decades before dementia symptoms were evident. 
Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. [SEP] Apoptosis-stimulating of p53 protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PPP1R13B gene.This gene encodes a member of the ASPP (apoptosis-stimulating protein of p53) family of p53 interacting proteins. Other proteins, such as Pin1, are then recruited to p53 and induce a conformational change in p53, which prevents Mdm2-binding even more. Mdm2 is an important negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor. The MDM2 oncoprotein ubiquitinates and antagonizes p53 but may also carry out p53-independent functions. Mdm2 has been identified as a p53 interacting protein that represses p53 transcriptional activity. Tumor suppressor p53-binding protein 1 also known as p53-binding protein 1 or 53BP1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TP53BP1 gene. The expression of PUMA is regulated by the tumor suppressor p53. Regulation
Induction
The majority of PUMA induced apoptosis occurs through activation of the tumor suppressor protein p53. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. [SEP] Kinase D-interacting substrate of 220 kDa or ARMS (ankyrin repeat-rich membrane spanning) is a scaffold protein that in humans is encoded by the KIDINS220 gene.It is a downstream target of neuronal signaling events initiated by neutrophins and ephrins. Despite their similar inhibitory targets, PAI-2 is phylogenetically distant from its counterpart plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). Both ovalbumin and PAI-2 undergo secretion via uncleaved secretory signal peptides, although PAI-2 secretion is relatively much less efficient.PAI-2 exists in three polymeric states: monomeric, polymerigenic, and polymer (inactive state). See also
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1
Serpin

References
Further reading
External links
The MEROPS online database for peptidases and their inhibitors: I04.007
Plasminogen+Activator+Inhibitor+2 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) A cartilage-derived angiogenesis inhibitor is an angiogenesis inhibitor produced from cartilage. Examples include the peptide troponin I and chondromodulin I. AM-0902 is a drug which acts as a potent and selective antagonist for the TRPA1 receptor, and has analgesic and antiinflammatory effects. Axinelline A is a COX-2 inhibitor with the molecular formula C12H15NO6 which is produced by the bacterium Streptomyces axinellae. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. [SEP] The proton-gated urea channel is an inner-membrane protein essential for the survival to Helicobacter pylori. Bacterial ureases are composed of three distinct subunits, one large catalytic (α 60–76kDa) and two small (β 8–21 kDa, γ 6–14 kDa) commonly forming (αβγ)3 trimers stoichiometry with a 2-fold symmetric structure (note that the image above gives the structure of the asymmetric unit, one-third of the true biological assembly), they are cysteine-rich enzymes, resulting in the enzyme molar masses between 190 and 300kDa.An exceptional urease is obtained from Helicobacter sp.. For example, jack bean urease has two structural and one catalytic subunit. Active site
The active site of ureases is located in the α (alpha) subunits. In Sporosarcina pasteurii urease, the flap was found in the open conformation, while its closed conformation is apparently needed for the reaction.When compared, the α subunits of Helicobacter pylori urease and other bacterial ureases align with the jack bean ureases.The binding of urea to the active site of urease has not been observed. Helicobacter pylori  release microbial ureases into the stomach. Urease in peptic ulcers
Helicobacter pylori is also the cause of peptic ulcers with its manifestation in 55–68% reported cases. Inhibition of urease is not only of interest to agriculture, but also to medicine as pathogens like H. pylori produce urease as a survival mechanism. 
Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] Albendazole is a broad-spectrum anthelmintic and antiprotozoal agent of the benzimidazole type. Medical uses
Albendazole is an effective treatment for:

Flatworms
Fasciolosis
Cestodes (tapeworms), as an alternative to praziquantel or niclosamide for adult beef tapewormss and as an alternative to praziquantel for pork tapeworms. albendazole is the drug of choice for larval pork tapeworms, but not adult pork tapeworms). In cases of lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis) caused by Wuchereria bancrofti or Brugia malayi, albendazole is sometimes given as an adjunct to ivermectin or diethylcarbamazine in order to suppress microfilaremia. Veterinary use
Albendazole is mainly used in cattle and sheep, but has found some use in cats and dogs as well; it is also used in ratite birds for flagellate parasites and tapeworms. References
External links
"Albendazole". Diethylcarbamazine is a medication used in the treatment of filariasis including lymphatic filariasis, tropical pulmonary eosinophilia, and loiasis. In sub-Saharan Africa, albendazole is used along with ivermectin to treat the disease, whereas elsewhere in the world, albendazole is used with diethylcarbamazine.Wolbachia are endosymbiotic bacteria that live inside the gut of the parasites responsible for lymphatic filariasis, and provide nutrients necessary for their survival. 
Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] Well conserved residues form a hydrophobic cleft and cluster around the AF1521-ADP-ribose binding site. In enzymology, an alizarin 2-beta-glucosyltransferase (EC 2.4.1.103) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

UDP-glucose + alizarin 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   UDP + 1-hydroxy-2-(beta-D-glucosyloxy)-9,10-anthraquinoneThus, the two substrates of this enzyme are UDP-glucose and alizarin, whereas its two products are UDP and 1-hydroxy-2-(beta-D-glucosyloxy)-9,10-anthraquinone. The b′ domain comprises the majority of the binding site, but the β4-β5 loop of the b domain provides additional contact (K214) to strengthen the interaction. PGAM family member 5 (PGAM5), also known as mitochondrial Serine/threonine-protein phosphatase PGAM5 is related to phosphoglycerate mutase family. It, in humans, is encoded by the PGAM5 gene on chromosome 12. APH(3') mediated phosphorylation of aminoglycosides effectively disrupts their mechanism of action, introducing a phosphate group that reduces their binding affinity due to steric hindrances and unfavorable electrostatic interactions. Additionally, APH(3’) has a nucleotide positioning loop (NPL) that closes down on the enzyme active site after binding ATP, facilitating the phosphorylation of the 3’-hydroxyl group. Upon binding of substrate, APH(3') undergoes another conformational change to orient Ser27 such that its amide backbone disrupts the alignment of ß-phosphate and γ-phosphate, weakening the γ-phosphate bond. 
All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. [SEP] Such additional segments can segregate quite randomly, and in fact it was locusts with homologous chromosomes of unequal length in which Carothers first found evidence of random segregation in 1917. Stem cells and non-random chromosome segregation
Non-random segregation of chromosomes is also found in mitosis when stem cells divide. As explained by the immortal DNA strand hypothesis, non-random chromosome segregation has a unique significance in asymmetric stem cell division; the progeny carrying chromosomes with "newly synthesized" DNA has a greater probability of having mutations because it has gone through a higher number of replications as compared to the segregated counterpart containing majorly "old DNA". In stochastic theory, undifferentiated blood cells differentiate to specific cell types by randomness. Different pairs of chromosomes segregate independently of each other, a process termed “independent assortment of non-homologous chromosomes”. See also
Cell cycle
Non-random segregation of chromosomes


== References == By corollary, this result shows that the hematopoietic stem cell compartment is also heterogeneous by dynamical criteria. It was originally believed that all Hematopoietic stem cells were alike in their self-renewal and differentiation abilities. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] Drug-induced angioedema is a known complication of the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists (ARBs), and Angiotensin-Neprilysin Inhibitor LCZ969. Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are a class of medication used primarily for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure. ACE inhibitors inhibit the activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme, an important component of the renin–angiotensin system which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II, and hydrolyses bradykinin. Kidney problems may occur with all ACE inhibitors that directly follows from their mechanism of action. When the three drugs are taken together,  the risk of developing renal failure is significantly increased.High blood potassium is another possible complication of treatment with an ACE inhibitor due to its effect on aldosterone. Effects
ACE inhibitors block the conversion of angiotensin I (ATI) to angiotensin II (ATII). Under normal conditions, angiotensin II has these effects:

Vasoconstriction (narrowing of blood vessels) and vascular smooth muscle hypertrophy (enlargement) induced by ATII may lead to increased blood pressure and hypertension. Mechanism of action
ACE inhibitors inhibit the actions of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), thereby lowering the production of angiotensin II and decreasing the breakdown of bradykinin. 
Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. [SEP] It has since been used in bioterrorism.Anthrax spores can cause infection from inhalation, skin contact, ingestion or injection and when untreated can lead to death. Potential threats
Anthrax spores are able to be dispersed via multiple methods and infect humans with ease. Anthrax is spread by contact with the bacterium's spores, which often appear in infectious animal products. However, anthrax vegetative bacteria that escape the body via oozing blood or through the opening of the carcass may form hardy spores. Exposure
The spores of anthrax are able to survive in harsh conditions for decades or even centuries. Society and culture
Site cleanup
Anthrax spores can survive for very long periods of time in the environment after release. Biological warfare
Anthrax spores have been used as a biological warfare weapon. To make large amounts of an aerosol form of anthrax suitable for biological warfare requires extensive practical knowledge, training, and highly advanced equipment.Concentrated anthrax spores were used for bioterrorism in the 2001 anthrax attacks in the United States, delivered by mailing postal letters containing the spores. 
Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile [SEP] Subsequent reviews, however, did not find an increase in adverse effects with treatment, and overall treatment appears safe and moderately effective in preventing Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea.One study in particular found that there does appear to be a "protective effect" of probiotics, specifically reducing the risk of antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD) by 51% in 3,631 outpatients, but it is important to note that the types of infections in the subjects were not specified. The procedure replenishes the normal colonic microbiota that had been wiped out by antibiotics, and re-establishes resistance to colonization by Clostridioides difficile. Another consequence of antibiotic therapy leading to diarrhea is overgrowth of potentially pathogenic organisms such as Clostridium difficile. Cause
Clostridium difficile, also known more commonly as C. diff, accounts for 10 to 20% of antibiotic-associated diarrhea cases, because the antibiotics administered for the treatment of certain disease processes such as inflammatory colitis also inadvertently kill a large portion of the gut flora, the normal flora that is usually present within the bowel. Clostridioides difficile (syn. Clostridium difficile) is a bacterium that is well known for causing serious diarrheal infections, and may also cause colon cancer. Type strain of Clostridium difficile, BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase. They received one or more doses of fecal microbiota or placebo 24 to 72 hours after completion of antibiotic treatment for their Clostridioides difficile infection; participants' Clostridioides difficile infection was under control at the time of receipt of fecal microbiota or placebo. 
Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] The NA-ACCORD study observed patients who started antiretroviral therapy either at a CD4 count of less than 500 versus less than 350 and showed that patients who started ART at lower CD4 counts had a 69% increase in the risk of death. Tuberculosis can occur at any stage of HIV infection. Although tuberculosis can be a relatively early manifestation of HIV infection, it is important to note that the risk of tuberculosis progresses as the CD4 cell count decreases along with the progression of HIV infection. The risk of TB generally remains high in HIV-infected patients, remaining above the background risk of the general population even with effective immune reconstitution and high CD4 cell counts with antiretroviral therapy. They included three trials conducted in South Africa and Botswana and found that isoniazid given to all children diagnosed with HIV may reduce the risk of active tuberculosis and death in children who are not on antiretroviral treatment. Treatment
It is currently recommended that HIV-infected individuals with TB receive combined treatment for both diseases, irrespective of CD4+ cell count. The disadvantages include cumulative toxicity of ART and ATT, drug interactions leading to inflammatory reactions are the limiting factors for choosing the combination of ATT and ART.A systematic review investigated the optimal timing of starting antiretroviral therapy in adults with newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis. The early provision of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults with newly diagnosed tuberculosis improved survival in patients who had a low CD4 count (less than 0.050 x 109 cells/L). 
Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. [SEP] Interactions
EPS15L1 has been shown to interact with HRB. Interactions
NUP153 has been shown to interact with SENP2 and KPNB1. Ribosome-binding protein 1, also referred to as p180, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the RRBP1 gene.RRBP1 is a membrane-bound protein found in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Protein arginine N-methyltransferase-4 (PRMT4/CARM1) methylation of arginine residues within proteins plays a critical key role in transcriptional regulation (see the PRMT4 pathway on the left). Interactions
EPS15 has been shown to interact with:

CRK
EPN1,
HGS,
HRB, and
REPS2. l-Arginine ethyl ester or ethyl arginate is an alternative supplement form of the conditionally-essential amino acid arginine bound to an ethyl ester. Arginine ethyl ester acts as a prodrug, the clivage of the ester by esterases yield arginine and ethanol. Uses
l-Arginine ethyl ester is biochemical reagent which can be used as a pharmaceutical intermediate. 
Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. [SEP] An arteriole is a small-diameter blood vessel in the microcirculation that extends and branches out from an artery and leads to capillaries.Arterioles have muscular walls (usually only one to two layers of smooth muscle cells) and are the primary site of vascular resistance. Thus, an increase in the diameter of a high order blood vessel such as an arteriole vastly increases the total flow that a given vessel network can withstand. A venule  is a very small vein in the microcirculation that allows blood to return from the capillary beds to drain into the venous system via increasingly larger veins. When the post-capillary venules increase in diameter to 50μm they can incorporate smooth muscle and are known as muscular venules. Veins contain approximately 70% of total blood volume, while about 25% is contained in the venules. Many venules unite to form a vein. When the post-capillary venules increase in diameter to 50μm they can incorporate smooth muscle and are known as muscular venules. Compared with arterioles, the venules are larger with much weaker muscular coat. 
Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] See also
Directory of Open Access Journals
Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association

References
External links
Official website As in other countries in general, open access publishing is less expensive than traditional, paper-based, pre-Internet publishing. The first online-only, free-access journals (eventually to be called "open access journals") began appearing in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The development of the number of active open access journals and the number of research articles published in them during the period 1993–2009 is shown in the figure above. Open access citation advantage may increase the impact factor of open access journals relative to journals without open access.One study concluded that authors in medical fields "concentrate on research published in journals that are available as full text on the internet, and ignore relevant studies that are not available in full text, thus introducing an element of bias into their search result". Authors of another study conclude that "the OA advantage is a quality advantage, rather than a quality bias", that authors make a "self-selection toward using and citing the more citable articles—once OA self-archiving has made them accessible", and that open access "itself will not make an unusable (hence uncitable) paper more used and cited".A similar phenomenon, termed the "no abstract available bias" or NAA bias, is a scholar's tendency to cite journal articles that have an abstract available online more readily than articles that do not—this affects articles' citation count similarly to open access citation advantage. See also
List of open-access journals
Hybrid open-access journal
Open-access journal
Self-archiving


== References == An open-access mandate is a policy adopted by a research institution, research funder, or government which requires or recommends researchers—usually university faculty or research staff and/or research grant recipients—to make their published, peer-reviewed journal articles and conference papers open access (1) by self-archiving their final, peer-reviewed drafts in a freely accessible institutional repository or disciplinary repository ("Green OA") or (2) by publishing them in an open-access journal ("Gold OA") or both. 
Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] As in other countries in general, open access publishing is less expensive than traditional, paper-based, pre-Internet publishing. Growth statistics
A study on the development of publishing of open access journals from 1993 to 2009  published in 2011 suggests that, measured both by the number of journals as well as by the increases in total article output, direct gold open access journal publishing has seen rapid growth particularly between the years 2000 and 2009. These findings support the notion that open access journals have increased both in numbers and in average annual output over time. The development of the number of active open access journals and the number of research articles published in them during the period 1993–2009 is shown in the figure above. See also
Directory of Open Access Journals
Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association

References
External links
Official website Open access citation advantage (OACA), also known as FUTON bias (for "full text on the net") is a type of bias whereby scholars tend to cite academic journals with open access (OA)—that is, journals that make their full text available on the Internet without charge (not behind a paywall)—in preference to toll-access publications. Open access citation advantage may increase the impact factor of open access journals relative to journals without open access.One study concluded that authors in medical fields "concentrate on research published in journals that are available as full text on the internet, and ignore relevant studies that are not available in full text, thus introducing an element of bias into their search result". Authors of another study conclude that "the OA advantage is a quality advantage, rather than a quality bias", that authors make a "self-selection toward using and citing the more citable articles—once OA self-archiving has made them accessible", and that open access "itself will not make an unusable (hence uncitable) paper more used and cited".A similar phenomenon, termed the "no abstract available bias" or NAA bias, is a scholar's tendency to cite journal articles that have an abstract available online more readily than articles that do not—this affects articles' citation count similarly to open access citation advantage. 
Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. [SEP] In addition, PGE2 inhibits platelet aggregation.PGE2 also suppresses T cell receptor signaling and proliferation, and may play a role in resolution of inflammation. The use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) blocks the activity of COX-2, resulting in a decrease of PGE2 production. NSAIDs blocking COX-2 and decreasing the production of PGE2 remediates fever and inflammation.Additionally, PGE2 acting on EP1 and EP4 receptors are a component in feeling pain via inflammatory nociception. As a result, blockage of PGE2 synthesis with NSAIDs can limit the efficacy of loop diuretics. Aspirin's ability to suppress the production of prostaglandins and thromboxanes is due to its irreversible inactivation of the cyclooxygenase (COX) enzyme. A dose of 40 mg of aspirin a day is able to inhibit a large proportion of maximum thromboxane A2 release provoked acutely, with the prostaglandin I2 synthesis being little affected; however, higher doses of aspirin are required to attain further inhibition.A side-effect of aspirin mechanism is that the ability of the blood in general to clot is reduced, and excessive bleeding may result from the use of aspirin. However, prostacyclin concentrations recover much faster than thromboxane levels, so aspirin administration initially has little to no effect but eventually prevents platelet aggregation (the effect of prostaglandins predominates as they are regenerated). Since PGI2 is primarily produced in a nucleated endothelial cell, the COX inhibition by NSAID can be overcome with time by increased COX gene activation and subsequent production of more COX enzymes to catalyze the formation of PGI2. 
Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. [SEP] They observed unique substrate specificity and chromatographic properties of the products of the lipid kinase, leading to the discovery that this phosphoinositide kinase had the unprecedented ability to phosphorylate phosphoinositides on the 3' position of the inositol ring. It is the product of both the class II and III phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI 3-kinases) activity on phosphatidylinositol.PtdIns3P is dephosphorylated by the myotubularin family of phosphatases, on the D3 position of the inositol ring, and can be converted to PtdIns(3,5)P2 by the lipid kinase PIKfyve.Both FYVE domains and PX domains – found in proteins such as SNX1, HGS, and EEA1 – bind to PtdIns3P.The majority of PtdIns3P appears to be constitutively synthesised by the class III PI 3-kinase, PIK3C3 (Vps34), at endocytic membranes. The generation of PtdIns(3,4)P2 at the plasma membrane activates a number of important cell signaling pathways.Of all the phospholipids found within the membrane, inositol phospholipids make up less than 10%. These kinases and phosphatases conduct phosphorylation and dephosphorylation at the inositol sugar head groups 3’, 4’, and 5’ positions, producing differing phosphoinositides, including PtdIns(3,4)P2 (Image 2). [1] PI kinases catalyze phosphate groups binding while PI phosphatases remove phosphate groups at the three positions on the PI inositol ring, giving seven different combinations of PI’s.PtdIns(3,4)P2 is dephophosphorylated by the phosphatase INPP4B on the 4 position of the inositol ring and by the TPTE (transmembrane phosphatases with tensin homology) family of phosphatases on the 3 position of the inositol ring. Phosphatases SHIP1 and SH2-containing inositol 5’-polyphosphatases (SHIP2) produce PtdIns(3,4)P2 through desphosphorylation of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3’s 5’ inositol ring position. Inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase isozymes, INPP4A and INPP4B, also act as negative PtdIns(3,4)P2 regulators, though through a more direct interaction- by hydrolyzing PtdIns(3,4)P2’s 4-phosphate, producing PI3P. "Synthesis and function of 3-phosphorylated inositol lipids". 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. [SEP] Screening for vision problems in children may improve future vision and educational achievement. Visual acuity alone is not always a good predictor of an individual's function. Older adults with visual impairment (including glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, and diabetic retinopathy) have decreased physical activity as measured with self-reports and accelerometers. Social and psychological
Studies demonstrate an association between older adults with visual impairment and a poor mental health; discrimination was identified as one of the causes of this association. Despite the fact that only 8% of adults 40 years and older experience vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy (e.g. The American Medical Association provides an approach to evaluating visual loss as it affects an individual's ability to perform activities of daily living.Screening adults who have no symptoms is of uncertain benefit. Vision disorders are not often targeted by public health initiatives, as mortality causes take priority. As such, a standard vision test may underrepresent the visual deficit experienced by patients who report challenges reading, driving or seeing in low light conditions. 
Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. [SEP] Auditory entrainment (AE) is the same concept as visual entrainment, with the exception that auditory signals are passed from the cochlea of the ears into the thalamus via the medial geniculate nucleus, whereas visual entrainment passes from the retina into the thalamus via the lateral geniculate nucleus. This theory suggests that participants bind together the visual and auditory components of an audiovisual stimulus, which can hinder the processing of the auditory component of the audiovisual stimulus. This theory only applies when the visual and auditory stimuli presented are congruent. More specifically, their findings showed that participants responded faster to congruent auditory and visual stimuli than to incongruent stimuli. Participants showed a pattern that reflected difficulties with separating the auditory stimulus from the visual stimulus when these stimuli had congruent semantic meaning and were presented simultaneously. Individuals’ perception of auditory stimuli is often influenced by visual stimuli. Japanese listeners identify incompatibility between visual and auditory stimuli better than English listeners. "Mixing sound and vision: The interaction of auditory and visual information for earwitnesses of a crime scene". 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous stem-cell transplantation (also called autogenous, autogeneic, or autogenic stem-cell transplantation and abbreviated auto-SCT) is autologous transplantation of stem cells—that is, transplantation in which stem cells (undifferentiated cells from which other cell types develop) are removed from a person, stored, and later given back to that same person.Although it is most frequently performed with hematopoietic stem cells (precursors of blood-forming cells) in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, cardiac cells have also been used successfully to repair damage caused by heart attacks.Autologous stem-cell transplantation is distinguished from allogenic stem cell transplantation where the donor and the recipient of the stem cells are different people. External links
Autologous stem-cell transplantation entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms
ScienceDaily Report University of Louisville. In autologous cancer immunotherapy, T cells are extracted from the patient, genetically modified and cultured in vitro and returned to the same patient. This substantially increases infused cell persistence and the incidence and duration of clinical responses. Clinically, this approach has been exploited to transfer either immune-promoting or tolerogenic cells (often lymphocytes) to either enhance immunity against viruses and cancer or to promote tolerance in the setting of autoimmune disease, such as Type I diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis. Idiopathic pneumonia syndrome is a serious condition that can occur after a stem cell transplant. This can occur, for example, when an allogeneic transplantation patient develops an immune reaction to donor antigens, or when the body responds inappropriately to self antigens implicated in autoimmune diseases. Collectively, these mechanisms produce tolerance to specific antigens, which should help to prevent autoimmunity, but could therefore also be used as a therapy to induce tolerance to specific antigens implicated in autoimmune disease, or donor antigens in transplant patients. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous stem-cell transplantation (also called autogenous, autogeneic, or autogenic stem-cell transplantation and abbreviated auto-SCT) is autologous transplantation of stem cells—that is, transplantation in which stem cells (undifferentiated cells from which other cell types develop) are removed from a person, stored, and later given back to that same person.Although it is most frequently performed with hematopoietic stem cells (precursors of blood-forming cells) in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, cardiac cells have also been used successfully to repair damage caused by heart attacks.Autologous stem-cell transplantation is distinguished from allogenic stem cell transplantation where the donor and the recipient of the stem cells are different people. External links
Autologous stem-cell transplantation entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms
ScienceDaily Report University of Louisville. In autologous cancer immunotherapy, T cells are extracted from the patient, genetically modified and cultured in vitro and returned to the same patient. Clinically, this approach has been exploited to transfer either immune-promoting or tolerogenic cells (often lymphocytes) to either enhance immunity against viruses and cancer or to promote tolerance in the setting of autoimmune disease, such as Type I diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis. Also called autologous expanded mesenchymal stem cells OTI-010. As an alternative strategy to immunosuppression and antigen-specific tolerance inducing therapies, the primary goal of SCIIT is to re-establish or induce peripheral immune tolerance in the context of autoimmune disease and transplant rejection through the use of biological agents (compare also tolerogenic therapy). In this context, manipulating the immune system to recognize the transplanted organ as self for the induction of immunological tolerance would be beneficial for the establishment of transplant tolerance.As autoimmunity and organ transplant rejection are inextricably linked to T-cell activation and differentiation, it is apposite that T-cells are the primary target of modern tolerance induction strategies. In transplantation, the use of anti-TCR αβ antibody treatment may be more efficacious than anti-CD3 antibody treatment, and its potential for prolonging allograft survival has been demonstrated in multiple animal models of transplantation, such as renal allografts, heterotopic heart transplants, and corneal transplants. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] Autologous stem-cell transplantation (also called autogenous, autogeneic, or autogenic stem-cell transplantation and abbreviated auto-SCT) is autologous transplantation of stem cells—that is, transplantation in which stem cells (undifferentiated cells from which other cell types develop) are removed from a person, stored, and later given back to that same person.Although it is most frequently performed with hematopoietic stem cells (precursors of blood-forming cells) in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, cardiac cells have also been used successfully to repair damage caused by heart attacks.Autologous stem-cell transplantation is distinguished from allogenic stem cell transplantation where the donor and the recipient of the stem cells are different people. External links
Autologous stem-cell transplantation entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms
ScienceDaily Report University of Louisville. Clinically, this approach has been exploited to transfer either immune-promoting or tolerogenic cells (often lymphocytes) to either enhance immunity against viruses and cancer or to promote tolerance in the setting of autoimmune disease, such as Type I diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis. As an alternative strategy to immunosuppression and antigen-specific tolerance inducing therapies, the primary goal of SCIIT is to re-establish or induce peripheral immune tolerance in the context of autoimmune disease and transplant rejection through the use of biological agents (compare also tolerogenic therapy). While autoimmunity is thought to result from the breakdown of central and peripheral tolerance, undesirable immune responses such as transplant organ rejection occur when the immune system is working properly and recognizes the transplanted organ as being non-self, leading to rejection of the transplanted tissue. In this context, manipulating the immune system to recognize the transplanted organ as self for the induction of immunological tolerance would be beneficial for the establishment of transplant tolerance.As autoimmunity and organ transplant rejection are inextricably linked to T-cell activation and differentiation, it is apposite that T-cells are the primary target of modern tolerance induction strategies. TCR αβ antibody treatment
Antibodies directed against the αβ chains of the TCR have also been shown to be efficacious for the induction and restoration of immunological tolerance in animal models of autoimmunity and transplantation. In transplantation, the use of anti-TCR αβ antibody treatment may be more efficacious than anti-CD3 antibody treatment, and its potential for prolonging allograft survival has been demonstrated in multiple animal models of transplantation, such as renal allografts, heterotopic heart transplants, and corneal transplants. 
Autophagy declines in aged organisms. [SEP] Although initially characterized as a primordial degradation pathway induced to protect against starvation, it has become increasingly clear that autophagy also plays a major role in the homeostasis of non-starved cells. The roles of autophagy in neurodegeneration and immune defense also received considerable attention. Repair mechanism
Autophagy degrades damaged organelles, cell membranes and proteins, and insufficient autophagy is thought to be one of the main reasons for the accumulation of damaged cells and aging. Osteoarthritis
Because autophagy decreases with age and age is a major risk factor for osteoarthritis, the role of autophagy in the development of this disease is suggested. Proteins involved in autophagy are reduced with age in both human and mouse articular cartilage. Autophagy is constantly activated in normal cartilage but it is compromised with age and precedes cartilage cell death and structural damage. Prolonged autophagy activation leads to a high turnover rate of proteins and organelles. Autophagy is essential for neuronal survival. 
Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. [SEP] A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Medical uses
Bariatric surgery has proven to be the most effective obesity treatment option for durable weight loss. A 2017 meta-analysis found bariatric surgery to be effective for weight loss in adolescents 36 months after the intervention and that additional data was needed to determine whether it is also effective for long-term weight loss in adolescents. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Some studies have suggested that psychological health can improve after bariatric surgery, due in part to improved body image, self-esteem, and change in self-concept—these findings were also present in pediatric populations. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. Some improvement in patient psychological health is noted after bariatric surgery. A meta-analysis of 174772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. 
Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] Basophils are a type of white blood cell. Function
Basophils appear in many specific kinds of inflammatory reactions, particularly those that cause allergic symptoms. Like eosinophils, basophils play a role in both parasitic infections and allergies. Recent studies in mice suggest that basophils may also regulate the behavior of T cells and mediate the magnitude of the secondary immune response. This suggests that basophils may play a role in the immune response to these viruses. Recent evidence suggests that basophils are an important source of the cytokine, interleukin-4, perhaps more important than T cells. There are other substances that can activate basophils to secrete which suggests that these cells have other roles in inflammation.The degranulation of basophils can be investigated in vitro by using flow cytometry and the so-called basophil-activation-test (BAT). Clinical significance
Immunophenotyping
Basophils of mice and humans have consistent immunophenotypes, including FcεRI+, CD123, CD49b(DX-5)+, CD69+, Thy-1.2+, 2B4+, CD11bdull, CD117(c-kit)−, CD24−, CD19−, CD80−, CD14−, CD23−, Ly49c−, CD122−, CD11c−, Gr-1−, NK1.1−, B220−, CD3−, γδTCR−, αβTCR−, α4 and β4-integrin negative.Recently, Heneberg  proposed that basophils may be defined as the cellular population positive for CD13, CD44, CD54, CD63, CD69, CD107a, CD123, CD164, CD193/ CCR3, CD203c, TLR-4, and FcεRI. 
Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] The association between obesity, as defined by a body mass index of 30 or higher, and risk of a variety of types of cancer has received a considerable amount of attention in recent years. Obesity has been associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer, 
pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer (among postmenopausal women), endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, thyroid cancer, liver cancer and gallbladder cancer. Obesity may also lead to increased cancer-related mortality. Obesity is the source of about 15% of all preventable cancers.In 2018, Chinese researchers performed a systematic review and comprehensive quantitative meta‐analysis of cohort studies reporting body mass index (BMI) and the risk of 23 cancer types, providing epidemiological evidence supporting the association between BMI and cancer risk. The strongest positive association between BMI and cancer risk was found among patients in North America. Mechanisms
The mechanisms by which obesity may increase the risk of cancer are not well understood, but it is believed that the combined effects of the adipose tissue environment and the endocrine alterations that accompany it among obese people both interact to promote tumor initiation and progression. Breast cancer
Obesity has been found to decrease the risk of breast cancer among African and Caucasian women, but increase it among Asian women. Obesity is also associated with decreased survival among women with breast cancer, regardless of whether the cancer is pre- or post-menopausal. 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] Some CCPs, such as CD46, recruit other RCAs to proteolytically inactivate developing convertases. Neuropilin is a protein receptor active in neurons. Therefore, dysregulation of NRP activity has been implicated in many pathological conditions, including many types of cancer and cardiovascular disease. α1-Chimerin is also able to regulate dendritic spinal density by binding to NMDA receptors at the NR2A subunit. Over expression of this protein in hippocampus tissue can inhibit the formation of new spines and remove existing spines. External links
TPR+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) TRAF proteins are associated with, and mediate signal transduction from members of the TNF receptor superfamily. Signals from receptors such as CD40, TNFSF11/TRANCE/RANKL and IL-1 have been shown to be mediated by this protein. 
Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] Bone-marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM) refers to macrophage cells that are generated in a research laboratory from mammalian bone marrow cells. Undifferentiated bone marrow cells are cultured in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF; CSF-1). Macrophages are specialized phagocytes that remove dying or dead cells or cellular debris. Development
Macrophages that reside in adult healthy tissues either derive from circulating monocytes or are established before birth and then maintained during adult life independently of monocytes. APRIL and IL-6 secreted by macrophage precursors in the bone marrow help maintain survival of plasma cells homed to the bone marrow. Role in iron homeostasis
As described above, macrophages play a key role in removing dying or dead cells and cellular debris. The monocyte is formed in the bone marrow and transported by the blood; it migrates into the tissues, where it transforms into a histiocyte or a macrophage. Macrophages remove senescent erythrocytes, leukocytes, and megakaryocytes by phagocytosis and digestion. 
Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer may be divided into preventable and non-preventable. Breast cancer, like other forms of cancer, can result from multiple environmental and hereditary risk factors. Approximately 5% of new breast cancers are attributable to hereditary syndromes, and well-established risk factors accounts for approximately 30% of cases. BRCA1 and BRCA2
In 5% of breast cancer cases, there is a strong inherited familial risk.Two autosomal dominant genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, account for most of the cases of familial breast cancer. It is the only animal breast cancer with a known etiology. There is no persuasive connection between fertility medications and breast cancer. Breast size and cancer risk
Some factors of breast morphology, including their density, are clearly implicated in breast cancer. Many of these polymorphisms are also associated with the risk of developing breast cancer, revealing a potential positive association between breast size and breast cancer risk. 
CCL19 is absent within dLNs. [SEP] The "C" sub-family of chemokine receptors contains only one member: XCR1, the receptor for XCL1 and XCL2 (or lymphotactin-1 and -2). Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CCL19 gene.This gene is one of several CC cytokine genes clustered on the p-arm of chromosome 9. It specifically binds to chemokine receptor CCR7.Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19) is a small cytokine belonging to the CC chemokine family that is also known as EBI1 ligand chemokine (ELC) and macrophage inflammatory protein-3-beta (MIP-3-beta). CCL19 is expressed abundantly in thymus and lymph nodes, with moderate levels in trachea and colon and low levels in stomach, small intestine, lung, kidney and spleen. The gene for CCL19 is located on human chromosome 9. References
Further reading
External links
Human CCL19 genome location and CCL19 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. CG suppression is a term for the phenomenon that CG dinucleotides are very uncommon in most portions of vertebrate genomes. In human and mouse, CGs are the least frequent dinucleotide, making up less than 1% of all dinucleotides. 
CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. [SEP] CHEK2 (Checkpoint kinase 2) is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes the protein CHK2, a serine-threonine kinase. Mutations to the CHEK2 gene have been linked to a wide range of cancers. In 1999, genetic variations of CHEK2 were found to correspond to inherited cancer susceptibility.Bell et al. The evidence from these studies has suggests that CHEK2 is not a predisposition gene to Li–Fraumeni syndrome. Breast cancer
Inherited mutations in the CHEK2 gene have been linked to certain cases of breast cancer. Studies show that a CHEK2 1100delC corresponds to a two-fold increased risk of breast cancer and a 10-fold increased risk of breast cancer in males.A CHEK2 mutation known as the I157T variant to the FHA domain in exon 3 has also been linked to breast cancer but at a lower risk than the CHEK2*1100delC mutation. Other cancers
Mutations to CHEK2 have been found in hereditary and nonhereditary cases of cancer. Links have also been drawn to certain brain tumors and osteosarcoma.Unlike BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, CHEK2 mutations do not appear to cause an elevated risk for ovarian cancer. 
CR is associated with higher methylation age. [SEP] CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CRTC3 gene.This gene has been shown to be linked to weight gain. Cr23C6 is the prototypical compound of a common crystal structure, discovered in 1933 as part of the chromium-carbon binary phase diagram. The closest Cr-Cr contacts are between members of a cuboctahedron, and the third closest are between members of a cube. Cysteine-rich with EGF-like domain protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CRELD2 gene. References
External links
Human CRELD2 genome location and CRELD2 gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. Chromium is claimed to be an essential element involved in the regulation of blood glucose levels within the body. History
The notion of chromium as a potential regulator of glucose metabolism began in the 1950s when Walter Mertz and his co-workers performed a series of experiments controlling the diet of rats. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) approved claims in 2010 that chromium contributed to normal macronutrient metabolism and maintenance of normal blood glucose concentration.A 2016 review of meta-analyses concluded that whereas there may be modest decreases in fasting plasma glucose or glycosylated hemoglobin that achieve statistical significance, the changes were rarely large enough to be expected to be relevant to clinical outcome. 
CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] Physiotherapists treating patients following uncomplicated coronary artery bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft surgery, or CABG) surgery continue to use interventions such as deep breathing exercises that are not supported by best available evidence. Coronary artery bypass surgery, also known as coronary artery bypass graft (CABG, pronounced "cabbage") is a surgical procedure to treat coronary artery disease (CAD), the buildup of plaques in the arteries of the heart. Myocardial infarction is rare five years after a CABG, but its risk increases with time. Other causes include platelet abnormalities or their failure to clot—perhaps due to the bypass or to the rebound heparin effect, which occurs when the anti-coagulant heparin is administered at the beginning of surgery and reappears in the blood after its neutralization by protamine.Low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS) can occur in up to 14% of CABG patients. Refinement of cardioplegia in the 1980s made CABG less risky, lowering mortality during operation.In the late 1960s, after the work of René Favaloro, the operation was performed in only a few centers, but was anticipated to more broadly change the outcome of coronary artery disease. "Results of the Minimally Invasive Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting Angiographic Patency Study". "Elevated preoperative neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio as a predictor of increased long-term survival in minimal invasive coronary artery bypass surgery compared to sternotomy". Final Results of the Minimally Invasive Coronary Artery Bypass Angiographic Graft Patency Study. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival [SEP] CX3CR1 is also expressed by monocytes and plays a major role in the survival of monocytes. Products of CX3CR1 signalling cascades possess importance in the immune response of CX3CR1 positive hematopoietic cells. Clinical significance
CX3CR1 and immune cells are strongly connected due to its abundant cell surface expression. CX3CR1 is able to increase accumulation of immune cells in the affected body part, which results in disease aggravation. Expression
CXCR3 is expressed primarily on activated T lymphocytes and NK cells, and some epithelial cells. CXCR3 ligands that attract Th1 cells can concomitantly block the migration of Th2 cells in response to CCR3 ligands, thus enhancing the polarization of effector T cell recruitment. CXCR3-ligand interaction attracts Th1 cells and promotes Th1 cell maturation. A hallmark of CXCR3 is its prominent expression in in vitro cultured effector/memory T cells, and in T cells present in many types of inflamed tissues. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival [SEP] Expression
CX3CR1 is expressed constitutively or in inflammatory response in various cells from hematopoietic lineage: T lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, dendritic cells, B lymphocytes, mast cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, microglia, osteoclasts and thrombocytes. CX3CR1 is also expressed by monocytes and plays a major role in the survival of monocytes. Products of CX3CR1 signalling cascades possess importance in the immune response of CX3CR1 positive hematopoietic cells. Clinical significance
CX3CR1 and immune cells are strongly connected due to its abundant cell surface expression. Expression
CXCR3 is expressed primarily on activated T lymphocytes and NK cells, and some epithelial cells. CXCR3 ligands that attract Th1 cells can concomitantly block the migration of Th2 cells in response to CCR3 ligands, thus enhancing the polarization of effector T cell recruitment. CXCR3-ligand interaction attracts Th1 cells and promotes Th1 cell maturation. A hallmark of CXCR3 is its prominent expression in in vitro cultured effector/memory T cells, and in T cells present in many types of inflamed tissues. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. [SEP] Expression
CX3CR1 is expressed constitutively or in inflammatory response in various cells from hematopoietic lineage: T lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, dendritic cells, B lymphocytes, mast cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, microglia, osteoclasts and thrombocytes. CX3CR1 is also expressed by monocytes and plays a major role in the survival of monocytes. Products of CX3CR1 signalling cascades possess importance in the immune response of CX3CR1 positive hematopoietic cells. Clinical significance
CX3CR1 and immune cells are strongly connected due to its abundant cell surface expression. Therefore, clinical meaning of CX3CR1 can be found in diseases connected with immunity. Function
CXCR3 is able to regulate leukocyte trafficking. CXCR3-ligand interaction attracts Th1 cells and promotes Th1 cell maturation. A hallmark of CXCR3 is its prominent expression in in vitro cultured effector/memory T cells, and in T cells present in many types of inflamed tissues. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. [SEP] Expression
CX3CR1 is expressed constitutively or in inflammatory response in various cells from hematopoietic lineage: T lymphocytes, natural killer (NK) cells, dendritic cells, B lymphocytes, mast cells, monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, microglia, osteoclasts and thrombocytes. CX3CR1 is also expressed by monocytes and plays a major role in the survival of monocytes. Products of CX3CR1 signalling cascades possess importance in the immune response of CX3CR1 positive hematopoietic cells. Clinical significance
CX3CR1 and immune cells are strongly connected due to its abundant cell surface expression. Therefore, clinical meaning of CX3CR1 can be found in diseases connected with immunity. Function
CXCR3 is able to regulate leukocyte trafficking. CXCR3-ligand interaction attracts Th1 cells and promotes Th1 cell maturation. A hallmark of CXCR3 is its prominent expression in in vitro cultured effector/memory T cells, and in T cells present in many types of inflamed tissues. 
Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. [SEP] Those with the variant allele have little tolerance for alcohol, thus lowering chance of dependence and abuse. Clinical significance
Alcoholism
There have been studies showing that variations in ADH that influence ethanol metabolism have an impact on the risk of alcohol dependence. Both variants reduce the risk for alcoholism, but individuals can become alcoholic despite that. Alcohol intolerance is due to a genetic polymorphism of the aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme, which is responsible for the metabolism of acetaldehyde (produced from the metabolism of alcohol by alcohol dehydrogenase). A structural mutation in the gene of ALDH1, commonly found in East Asians, results in low levels of functional ALDH1 enzyme and thus, higher blood acetaldehyde levels. Individuals that have the ALDH2*2 allele, a variant that has a mutation when compared to the wild-type ALDH2 isozyme, are known to have higher blood acetaldehyde levels. Individuals that have either mutation in the ALDH1 or ALDH2 genes may have slightly different blood acetaldehyde levels among others carrying a similar mutation and may experience varying degrees of alcohol intolerance symptoms. Alcohol intolerance is an inherited genetic disorder that impairs alcohol metabolism. 
Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. [SEP] Untreated, repeated trachoma infections can result in a form of permanent blindness when the eyelids turn inward.The bacteria that cause the disease can be spread by both direct and indirect contact with an affected person's eyes or nose. Untreated, repeated trachoma infections result in entropion (the inward turning of the eyelids), which may result in blindness due to damage to the cornea. Epidemiology
As of 2011, about 21 million people are actively affected by trachoma, with around 2.2 million people being permanently blind or have severe visual impairment from trachoma. As of June 2022, 125 million individuals live in trachoma endemic areas and are at risk of trachoma-related blindness, and the disease is a public health problem in 42 countries. Of these, Africa is considered the worst affected area, with over 85% of all known active cases of trachoma. References
External links
CDC Disease Info trachomaCelia W. Dugger (31 March 2006), "Preventable Disease Blinds Poor in Third World", The New York Times
Photographs of trachoma patients
Trachoma Atlas
International Trachoma Initiative Programmes
In developing French-speaking African countries, cataracts, trachoma, onchocerciasis and glaucoma are the main causes of visual impairment and blindness. It is the second-most common cause of blindness due to infection, after trachoma.The parasitic worm is spread by the bites of a black fly of the Simulium type. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. [SEP] As no crosses of two sexual species in captivity have ever produced parthenogenetic offspring, it is unclear how a hybridization event would actually lead to asexual reproduction. These somatic cells are diploid, containing two copies of each chromosome, whereas germ cells are haploid, as they only contain one copy of each chromosome (in preparation for fertilisation). If the disease is a result of pure germline mosaicism, then the disease causing mutant allele would never be present in the somatic cells. This is in contrast to the female sex, where each gamete's sex chromosomes are X and X. In birds, the male sex is the homogametic sex, having two Z chromosomes, while the female sex is the heterogametic sex, with one Z and one W chromosome. Inter-sister homologous recombination is ordinarily genetically silent. In ant species, sex is determined by the haplodiploidy system, where unfertilized eggs result in haploid males and fertilized eggs result in diploid females. However, in hermaphrodites (species where a single individual produces both male and female gametes), this is less of a problem since there is no sex ratio. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. [SEP] The ability for these frequent transitions between diverse sex determining mechanisms is believed to be driven by an even greater diversity of transitional stages.In other vertebrates, genetic sex determination has been found to be the ancestral condition, and there is documentation of temperature-dependent sex determination origin in fishes. The ZW sex-determination system is a chromosomal system that determines the sex of offspring in birds, some fish and crustaceans such as the giant river prawn, some insects (including butterflies and moths), the schistosome family of flatworms, and some reptiles, e.g. One possible gene that could determine sex in birds is the DMRT1 gene. This system determines the sex of offspring among:

Most arachnids with the exception of mites where a small majority are haplodiploid,
Almost all apterygote and Paleopteran insects (e.g., dragonflies, silverfish)
Most exopterygote insects (e.g., grasshoppers, crickets, cockroaches)
Some nematodes, crustaceans, gastropod molluscs, and bony fish, notably in the genus Ancistrus
Several mammals
A few species of bat, including the hammer-headed bat, Buettikofer's epauletted fruit bat, Franquet's epauletted fruit bat, Peters's epauletted fruit bat, and Gambian epauletted fruit bat
The Ryukyu spiny rat and Tokunoshima spiny ratIn a variant of this system, most individuals have two sex chromosomes (XX) and are hermaphroditic, producing both eggs and sperm with which they can fertilize themselves, while rare individuals are male and have only one sex chromosome (XO). In this system, the sex of an individual is determined by a pair of sex chromosomes. Mammals
In most mammals, sex is determined by presence of the Y chromosome. Other animals
Some species of turtles have convergently evolved XY sex determination systems, specifically those in Chelidae and Staurotypinae.Other species (including most Drosophila species) use the presence of two X chromosomes to determine femaleness: one X chromosome gives putative maleness, but the presence of Y chromosome genes is required for normal male development. Some other insects have the X0 sex-determination system, where just the sex-determining chromosome varies in ploidy (XX in females but X in males), while all other chromosomes appear in pairs in both sexes. 
Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. [SEP] Overview
Commitment to sporulation
Although sporulation in B. subtilis is induced by starvation, the sporulation developmental program is not initiated immediately when growth slows due to nutrient limitation. See also
Bacillus
Sporophyte
Bacillus subtilis

References
External links
SubtiList - GenoList - Institut Pasteur
SubtilisWiki (archived)
Bacillus subtilis - Parts Registry
Video - Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis Cell wall-deficient bacteria: basic principles and clinical significance. These responses are viewed as attempts to seek out nutrients by seeking a more favourable environment, enabling the cell to make use of new beneficial genetic material or simply by killing off competition.Under stressful conditions, such as nutrient deprivation, B. subtilis undergoes the process of sporulation. When the full chromosome localizes to the forespore, spoIIAB can repress sigma F. Therefore, the genetic asymmetry of the B. subtilis chromosome and expression of sigma F, spoIIAB and spoIIAA dictate spore formation in B. subtilis. Subsequent genomic analysis showed that the strains used in those studies were products of deliberate enrichment for strains that exhibited abnormally high rates of sporulation.A strain of B. subtilis formerly known as Bacillus natto is used in the commercial production of the Japanese food nattō, as well as the similar Korean food cheonggukjang. Bacillus subtilis genome browser
Type strain of Bacillus subtilis at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase Sporulation is usually triggered by adverse environmental conditions, so as to help the survival of the bacterium. 
Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. [SEP] Aberrant miRNA expression are implicated in disease states. RNA editing can halt nuclear processing (for example, of pri-miR-142, leading to degradation by the ribonuclease Tudor-SN) and alter downstream processes including cytoplasmic miRNA processing and target specificity (e.g., by changing the seed region of miR-376 in the central nervous system). The activity of an miRNA can be experimentally inhibited using a locked nucleic acid (LNA) oligo, a Morpholino oligo or a 2'-O-methyl RNA oligo. microRNA maturation can be inhibited at several points by steric-blocking oligos. Disease
Just as miRNA is involved in the normal functioning of eukaryotic cells, so has dysregulation of miRNA been associated with disease. DNA repair and cancer
Many miRNAs can directly target and inhibit cell cycle genes to control cell proliferation. Heart disease
The global role of miRNA function in the heart has been addressed by conditionally inhibiting miRNA maturation in the murine heart. Target prediction
miRNAs can bind to target messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts of protein-coding genes and negatively control their translation or cause mRNA degradation. 
Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. [SEP] Alterations in the genetic code have long been considered one of the main causal factors in aging. This is called cellular senescence. The links between cell senescence and aging are several:

The proportion of senescent cells increases with age. Environmental factors may affect aging – for example, overexposure to ultraviolet radiation accelerates skin aging. The reproductive-cell cycle theory suggests that aging is regulated by changes in hormonal signaling over the lifespan. Photo-ageing 
3. There are many ways to achieve this, but there is a great risk of no longer being representative of natural ageing. Ageing or aging is the process of becoming older. 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] Chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA; also known as chenodesoxycholic acid, chenocholic acid and 3α,7α-dihydroxy-5β-cholan-24-oic acid) is a bile acid. Salts of this carboxylic acid are called chenodeoxycholates. Chenodeoxycholic acid is one of the main bile acids. Chenodeoxycholic acid has two hydroxyl groups and is modified with the addition of another hydroxyl group to produce cholic acid. Biosynthesis and function
Chenodeoxycholic acid is synthesized in the liver from cholesterol via several enzymatic steps. See also
Ursodeoxycholic acid
Hyodeoxycholic acid

References
External links
"Chenodiol". Glycochenodeoxycholic acid is a bile salt formed in the liver from chenodeoxycholic acid and glycine, usually found as the sodium salt. See also
Hippuric acid


== References == 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] VLCDs were shown to reduce lean body mass. Combining VLCD with other obesity therapies yield more effective results in weight loss. Chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA; also known as chenodesoxycholic acid, chenocholic acid and 3α,7α-dihydroxy-5β-cholan-24-oic acid) is a bile acid. Salts of this carboxylic acid are called chenodeoxycholates. Chenodeoxycholic acid is one of the main bile acids. Biosynthesis and function
Chenodeoxycholic acid is synthesized in the liver from cholesterol via several enzymatic steps. See also
Ursodeoxycholic acid
Hyodeoxycholic acid

References
External links
"Chenodiol". Rimonabant inhibits these and so it reduces appetite, balances energy, and increases adiponectin, which reduces intra-abdominal fat. 
Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. [SEP] Health benefits
Among the recognized health benefits of doing regular aerobic exercise are:
Strengthens the muscles involved in respiration, to facilitate the flow of air in and out of the lungs
Strengthens and enlarges the heart muscle, to improve its pumping efficiency and reduce the resting heart rate, known as aerobic conditioning
Improves circulation efficiency and reducing blood pressure
Increases pain tolerance
Maintains independence in later life
Increases the total number of red blood cells in the body, facilitating transport of oxygen
Improves mental health, including reducing stress and lowering the incidence of depression, as well as increased cognitive capacity. Like BDNF and IGF-1, aerobic exercise has been shown to increase VEGF biosynthesis in peripheral tissue which subsequently crosses the blood–brain barrier and promotes neurogenesis and blood vessel formation in the central nervous system. It has been shown that aerobic exercise causes an increase in plasma anandamide levels, where the magnitude of this increase is highest at moderate exercise intensity (i.e., exercising at ~⁠70⁠–⁠80⁠% maximum heart rate). A review of the effects of exercise on neurocardiac function in preclinical models noted that exercise-induced neuroplasticity of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) has an inhibitory effect on glutamatergic neurotransmission in this region, in turn reducing sympathetic activity; the review hypothesized that this neuroplasticity in the RVLM is a mechanism by which regular exercise prevents inactivity-related cardiovascular disease. Exercise can enhance the activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and subsequent production of nitric oxide (NO). Cardiovascular conditioning
Aerobic conditioning trains the heart to be more effective at pumping blood around the body, it does this in a multitude of ways:

Increasing the stroke volume of the heart (how much blood the heart is pumping per beat)
Increasing the diameter of the blood vessels, which allows for more blood to be moved through the body, which in turn allows for more oxygen to be diffused into the muscle cells. Effect of aerobic conditioning on maximum oxygen intake (Vo2)
Aerobic conditioning has the ability to raise a person's maximum oxygen intake, meaning that they are able to diffuse more oxygen into their blood than they previously could. During aerobic training, the aim is to improve the blood flow to the lungs, heart, and blood vessels. 
Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. [SEP] Activities include roost visits, organising bat box schemes, with regular box checks, and bat surveys. Educational talks, arranging bat walks and caring for sick and injured bats are also organised by DBG members. The northern yellow bat (Dasypterus intermedius) is a non-migratory bat in the family Vespertilionidae, typically active year-round except during abnormally frigid winter weather, during which they will induce torpor. This is the most abundant bat species in some regions of Florida. These bats frequently changed their roost site. Baby bats become volant (able to fly) between June and August, and will form evening feeding aggregations with adult females while adult males remain solitary. Hunting
Northern bats are nocturnal and fast flying, adapted to hunting airborne insects using echolocation. For example, northern bats commonly hunt ghost moths while the moths are hovering above ground to attract a mate. 
Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. [SEP] Educational talks, arranging bat walks and caring for sick and injured bats are also organised by DBG members. The northern yellow bat (Dasypterus intermedius) is a non-migratory bat in the family Vespertilionidae, typically active year-round except during abnormally frigid winter weather, during which they will induce torpor. These bats frequently changed their roost site. Cold shock in bacteria
A cold shock is when bacteria undergo a significant reduction in temperature, likely due to their environment dropping in temperature. This will help to counteract the decreased efficiency of transcription and translation brought about by the cold shock. Shortly, during cold-shocks, cellular energy levels decrease. To date, thirty-three species of Israeli bats have been identified, of which 32 are insectivorous bats.The largest bat hibernation site in Israel is the Twins Cave near Beit Shemesh.One-third of the species of bats of Israel are found in the Jordan Valley region, with many inhabiting abandoned Israeli military outposts along the border with Jordan.Beginning in the 1950s, bat caves in Israel were routinely fumigated to reduce the number of fruit bats in the country. As the population of fruit bats declined, so did that of other bat species. 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] Adiphenine is an inhibitor of nicotinic receptors. Etofylline nicotinate is a vasodilator. Bufetolol is a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist. Bornaprolol is a beta-adrenergic antagonist. Bucumolol is a beta-adrenergic antagonist. Talinolol is a beta blocker. Cicloprolol is a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist. Adaprolol is a beta blocker. 
Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. [SEP] Phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitors (PI3K inhibitors) are a class of medical drugs that are mainly used to treat advanced cancers. PI3K inhibitors block the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and thus slow down cancer growth. While PI3K inhibitors are an effective treatment, they can have very severe side effects and are therefore only used if other treatments have failed or are not suitable.After PI3K inhibitors had been under investigation as anti-cancer drugs for several years, the first one to be approved for treatment in clinical practice was idelalisib in 2014. Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks), also called phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases, are a family of enzymes involved in cellular functions such as cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, motility, survival and intracellular trafficking, which in turn are involved in cancer. The PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 phosphatase PTEN that antagonises PI3K signaling is absent from many tumours. A MEK inhibitor is a chemical or drug that inhibits the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase enzymes MEK1 and/or MEK2. Hence MEK inhibitors have potential for treatment of some cancers, especially BRAF-mutated melanoma, and KRAS/BRAF mutated colorectal cancer. Pre-clinical investigation
Clinically approved MEK inhibitor Cobimetinib has been investigated in combination with PI3K inhibition in pre-clinical models of lung cancer, where the combined treatment approach lead to a synergistic anti-cancer response. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. [SEP] Commelina mosaic virus (CoMV) is a plant pathogenic virus  in the genus Potyvirus and the virus family Potyviridae. Like other members of the Potyvirus genus, CoMV is a monopartite strand of positive-sense, single-stranded RNA surrounded by a capsid made for a single viral encoded protein. Symptoms and Inclusions of Commelina mosaic virus in Commelina diffusa. Host Range and Geographic Distribution
Commelina mosaic virus was first reported in 1977 and was the first Potyvirus found infecting a member of the plant family, Commelinaceae (2). Since then, two, possibly three, other potyviruses have been reported to infect members of this family, Tradescantia mosaic virus (=Tradescantia/Zebrina virus), Aneilema virus (3) and Tradescantia mild mosaic virus CoMV was originally found in the host plant Commelina diffusa (2). Plants infected with both viruses were found to be “significantly more effective sources of CMV 5-8 weeks after inoculation that singly infected plants.”(2)

References
External links
ICTVdB - The Universal Virus Database: Commelina mosaic virus
Family Groups - The Baltimore Method Clover yellow mosaic virus (ClYMV) is a plant pathogenic virus in the genus Potexvirus and the virus family Alphaflexiviridae. The one that was transmitted by dodder became known as pea mottle virus and eventually Clover yellow mosaic virus.ClYMV is now known to infect several other species of clover, peas (Pisum sativum), faba beans (Vicia faba), green beans (Phaseolus vulgaris), cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) and snapdragons (Antirrhinum majus). 
Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] discovered a non-Mendelian inherited factor that is essential to respiration in the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Mating-type switching
In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mating-type is determined by two non-homologous alleles at the mating-type locus. Thus, associations between regulatory gene deserts and their target promoters seem to have variable distances and are not required to act as borders. Later, it was discovered at the CMT allele identified by Hopper & Hall did not cause a mating type conversion at the MAT locus, but rather allowed the expression of cryptic mating type genes that are silenced in wild-type yeast. Recently, it has been shown that certain promoters are capable of directing transcription inside regions that are otherwise silenced by SIR proteins. Specifically, if an inducible promoter is induced inside a silent chromatin domain, it can achieve ~200x increase in expression levels with little detectable change in covalent histone modifications. Normally genes are responsible for occurrence of crossing over. To identify these sequences, yeast mutants unable to synthesize histidine were transformed with plasmids containing the His gene and random fragments of the yeast genome. 
Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. [SEP] The relationship between ILC3s, and T cells in the gut is therefore crucial for maintaining homeostasis, as in the absence of ILC3s, there could be uncontrolled T cell activation. ILC3s therefore form a network of interactions to maintain intestinal homeostasis, between the microbiome, intestinal epithelium, neuro-glial cells, and other immune cells. Evidence suggests that the plasticity between ILC3s and ILC1s in the intestine is an important factor of Crohn’s disease, with ILC3s differentiating into ILC1s when exposed to IL-12 produced by dendritic cells. Function
ILC 3 represent a heterogenous population crucial for defense against extracellular parasites and maintenance of intestinal homeostasis. ILC3 cells have been implicated to have an important role in the pathogenesis of this disease, since they are a key population for gut homeostasis and tolerance. They act as messengers between the innate and adaptive immune systems.Dendritic cells are present in tissues that are in contact with the body's external environment, such as the skin (where there is a specialized dendritic cell type called the Langerhans cell), and the inner lining of the nose, lungs, stomach and intestines. Cytokines
The dendritic cells are constantly in communication with other cells in the body. Autoimmunity
Altered function of dendritic cells is also known to play a major or even key role in allergy and autoimmune diseases like lupus erythematosus and inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis). 
Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. [SEP] Its formation is triggered by the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria in response to an internal (intrinsic) or external (extrinsic) cell death stimulus. In mammalian cells, once cytochrome c is released, it binds to the cytosolic protein Apaf-1 to facilitate the formation of an apoptosome. Cytochrome c Release
Cytochrome c release is proposed to take place in one of two ways. Role in apoptosis
Cytochrome c was also discovered in 1996 by Xiaodong Wang to have an intermediate role in apoptosis, a controlled form of cell death used to kill cells in the process of development or in response to infection or DNA damage.Cytochrome c binds to cardiolipin in the inner mitochondrial membrane, thus anchoring its presence and keeping it from releasing out of the mitochondria and initiating apoptosis. The hemoprotein is then detached from the mitochondrial inner membrane and can be extruded into the soluble cytoplasm through pores in the outer membrane.The sustained elevation in calcium levels precedes cyt c release from the mitochondria. Inhibition of apoptosis
One of the ways cell apoptosis is activated is by release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into cytosol. The release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol, where it activates the caspase family of proteases, is believed to be the primary trigger leading to the onset of apoptosis. Measuring the amount of cytochrome c leaking from mitochondria to cytosol, and out of the cell to culture medium, is a sensitive method to monitor the degree of apoptosis. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. [SEP] When iron is present, it interacts with the protein to cause it to release the mRNA. In human cells, the best-characterized iron-sensing mechanism is the result of post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA (the chemical instructions derived from DNA genes to make proteins). Sequences of mRNA called iron-responsive elements (IREs) are contained within the mRNA sequences that code for transferrin receptors and for ferritin. Iron-responsive element-binding protein (IRE-BP) binds to these mRNA sequences. Iron-Responsive+Element+Binding+Proteins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Iron-binding proteins are carrier proteins and metalloproteins that are important in iron metabolism and the immune response. When its iron is needed by the cell, it is brought into the cytosol by a transferrin receptor. See also
Iron

External links
Iron-binding+proteins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)


== References == 
DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. [SEP] Doublesex and mab-3 related transcription factor 1, also known as DMRT1, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the DMRT1 gene. The DM domain is an ancient, conserved component of the vertebrate sex-determining pathway that is also a key regulator of male development in flies and nematodes, and is found to be the key sex-determining factor in chickens. Two copies of the DMRT1 gene are required for normal sexual development. The DMRT1 gene is critical for male sex determination; without this gene the default female characteristic takes over and male characteristic is slight or non-existent. "The Avian Z-linked Gene DMRT1 Is Required for Male Sex Determination in the Chicken." "DMRT1 Gene." "Sex-specific Differences in Mouse DMRT1 Expression Are Both Cell Type- and Stage-dependent during Gonad Development." Sex-specific Differences in Mouse DMRT1 Expression Are Both Cell Type- and Stage-dependent during Gonad Development. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] De novo transcriptome assembly is the de novo sequence assembly method of creating a transcriptome without the aid of a reference genome. De novo transcriptome assembly is often the preferred method to studying non-model organisms, since it is cheaper and easier than building a genome, and reference-based methods are not possible without an existing genome. De novo vs. reference-based assembly
A set of assembled transcripts allows for initial gene expression studies. De novo sequence assemblers are a type of program that assembles short nucleotide sequences into longer ones without the use of a reference genome. Assemblathon
There are numerous programs for de novo sequence assembly and many have been compared in the Assemblathon. See also
Sequence assembly
Sequence alignment
De novo transcriptome assembly


== References == Types of sequence assembly
There are three approaches to assembling sequencing data:

De-novo: assembling sequencing reads to create full-length (sometimes novel) sequences, without using a template (see de novo sequence assemblers, de novo transcriptome assembly)
Mapping/Aligning: assembling reads by aligning reads against a template (AKA reference). De novo genome assembly is used when the genome to be assembled is not similar to any other organisms whose genomes have been previously sequenced. 
Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. [SEP] It creates mutations in DNA by deamination of cytosine base, which turns it into uracil (which is recognized as a thymine). In biology, a mutation is an alteration in the nucleic acid sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA. Mutations result from errors during DNA or viral replication, mitosis, or meiosis or other types of damage to DNA (such as pyrimidine dimers caused by exposure to ultraviolet radiation), which then may undergo error-prone repair (especially microhomology-mediated end joining), cause an error during other forms of repair, or cause an error during replication (translesion synthesis). Substitution mutations, often caused by chemicals or malfunction of DNA replication, exchange a single nucleotide for another. Viral nucleoproteins have been shown to avoid cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) through arginine-to glycine substitutions. Cytidine deaminase is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the CDA gene.This gene encodes an enzyme involved in pyrimidine salvaging. The encoded protein forms a homotetramer that catalyzes the irreversible hydrolytic deamination of cytidine and deoxycytidine to uridine and deoxyuridine, respectively. Most cytidine deaminases act on RNA, and the few that act on DNA require ssDNA.A related activation-induced (cytidine) deaminase (AID) regulates antibody diversification, especially the process of somatic hypermutation. 
Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. [SEP] Purging reduces both the overall number of recessive deleterious alleles and the decline of mean fitness caused by inbreeding (the inbreeding depression for fitness). Purging can reduce the average frequency of deleterious alleles across the genome below the value expected in a non-inbred population. Due to purging, fitness declines at the same rate δ than in the absence of selection, but as a function of g instead of F.
This purged inbreeding coefficient g can also be computed, to a good approximation, using simple expressions in terms of the population size or of the genealogy of individuals (see BOX 1). Hence, it is not just that purging slows the fitness decline, but also that it reduces the overall fitness loss produced by inbreeding in the long term. Purging is less effective against mildly deleterious alleles than against lethal ones but, in general, the slower is the increase of inbreeding F, the smaller becomes the final value of the purged inbreeding coefficient g and, therefore, the final reduction in fitness. However, the component of fitness decline expected from inbreeding and purging on deleterious alleles could be predicted using g.


== References == The test involves removing 30-50 ml of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) through a lumbar puncture, after which motor and cognitive function is clinically reassessed. A "negative" test has a very low predictive accuracy, as many patients may improve after a shunt in spite of lack of improvement after CSF removal. 
Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. [SEP] The ED1 anti-CD68 antibody is not to be confused with the fibronectin extra domain ED1. αVβ3 is a type of integrin that is a receptor for vitronectin. CD8+ cell noncytotoxic anti-HIV response appears to be an anti-HIV innate immune response because it can be observed in vitro with CD8+ cells from unexposed and uninfected healthy individuals.The presence of a CD8+ cell noncytotoxic anti-HIV response (CNAR) was first reported in 1986 by researchers in the laboratory of Dr. Jay Levy at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF). αVβ5 is a type of integrin that binds to matrix macromolecules and proteinases and thereby stimulates angiogenesis. However, it inhibits angiogenesis.It consists of two components, integrin alpha V and integrin beta 5. References

ST8 suppression of tumorigenicity 8 (ovarian) [ Homo sapiens (human)
Am J Hum Genet. This variant lacks its exon 8, is not glycosylated and its function is impaired. This response does not occur in case of SIGIRR deficiency

References


== Further reading == 
Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] Dexamethasone is a glucocorticoid medication used to treat rheumatic problems, a number of skin diseases, severe allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, croup, brain swelling, eye pain following eye surgery, superior vena cava syndrome (a complication of some forms of cancer), and along with antibiotics in tuberculosis. Dexamethasone has anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects.Dexamethasone was first synthesized in 1957 by Philip Showalter Hench and was approved for medical use in 1958. It is unclear whether dexamethasone in this condition is significantly better than other glucocorticoids.It is also given in small amounts before and/or after some forms of dental surgery, such as the extraction of the wisdom teeth, an operation which often causes puffy, swollen cheeks.Dexamethasone is commonly given as a treatment for croup in children, as a single dose can reduce the swelling of the airway to improve breathing and reduce discomfort.It is injected into the heel when treating plantar fasciitis, sometimes in conjunction with triamcinolone acetonide.It is useful to counteract allergic anaphylactic shock, if given in high doses.It is present in certain eye drops – particularly after eye surgery – and as a nasal spray, and certain ear drops (can be combined with an antibiotic and an antifungal). Cancer
People with cancer undergoing chemotherapy are often given dexamethasone to counteract certain side effects of their antitumor treatments. Although dexamethasone, and other glucocorticoids, reduce mortality in COVID-19 they have also been associated with an increased risk of secondary infections, secondary infections being a significant issue in critically ill COVID-19 patients.The mechanism of action of dexamethasone involves suppression of late-stage interferon type I programs in severe COVID-19 patients. Surgery
Dexamethasone is used fairly regularly to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting, manage pain (potentially reduce the amount of pain medications needed), and to help reduce the amount of time spent in the hospital following surgery. The adverse effects of taking steroids after surgery on wound healing, blood sugar levels, and in people with diabetes are not completely understood, however it is likely that dexamethasone does not increase the risk of postoperative infections. Nausea and vomiting
Intravenous dexamethasone is effective for prevention of nausea and vomiting in people who had surgery and whose post-operative pain was treated with long-acting spinal or epidural spinal opioids.The combination of dexamethasone and a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist such as ondansetron is more effective than a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist alone in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] However, diabetes does cause higher morbidity, mortality and operative risks with these conditions. Long-term complications from high blood sugar include heart disease, strokes, diabetic retinopathy which can result in blindness, kidney failure, and poor blood flow in the limbs which may lead to amputations. Complications
All forms of diabetes increase the risk of long-term complications. Diabetes doubles the risk of cardiovascular disease and about 75% of deaths in people with diabetes are due to coronary artery disease. These complications are also a strong risk factor for severe COVID-19 illness.The primary complications of diabetes due to damage in small blood vessels include damage to the eyes, kidneys, and nerves. Precisely what causes it is not fully known, but diabetics have increased risk of both heart attack and stroke, so some of the tissue damage diabetes produces may be involved. People with diabetes are at higher risk of cerebrovascular disease. Diabetics have higher rates of cardiovascular disease and higher rates of high blood pressure. 
Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] In molecular biology, translation initiation factor IF-3 (gene infC) is one of the three factors required for the initiation of protein biosynthesis in bacteria. IF-3 is thought to function as a fidelity factor during the assembly of the ternary initiation complex which consists of the 30S ribosomal subunit, the initiator tRNA and the messenger RNA. IF1
Bacterial initiation factor 1 associates with the 30S ribosomal subunit in the A site and prevents an aminoacyl-tRNA from entering. IF2
Bacterial initiation factor 2 binds to an initiator tRNA and controls the entry of that tRNA into the ribosome. Function
eIF3 stimulates nearly all steps of translation initiation. They usually include translation initiation factors such as IF-2 and translation elongation factors such as EF-Tu. eIF2
eIF2 is the main protein complex responsible for delivering the initiator tRNA to the P-site of the preinitiation complex, as a ternary complex containing Met-tRNAiMet and GTP (the eIF2-TC). eIF2 has specificity for the methionine-charged initiator tRNA, which is distinct from other methionine-charged tRNAs used for elongation of the polypeptide chain. 
Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. [SEP] SCRIB, also known as Scribble, SCRIBL, or Scribbled homolog (Drosophila), is a scaffold protein which in humans is encoded by the SCRIB gene. In humans, SCRIB is found as a membrane protein and is involved in cell migration, cell polarity, and cell proliferation in epithelial cells. Deficiency in SCRIB impairs many aspects of cell polarity and cell movement. The Scribble complex plays a role in determining cell polarity and cell proliferation in epithelial cells. The Scribble complex is localized at the basolateral membrane. Specifically, SCRIB deficient mutants have been shown to promote the activity of numerous oncogenes. For example, SCRIB is known to inhibit breast cancer formation and the depletion of SCRIB promotes neoplastic growth by disrupting morphogenesis and inhibiting cell death through an association with Myc. In cancerous epithelial tissues, SCRIB is found primarily in the cytosol as opposed to its usual location in the membrane, thus further implicating a role in tumor progression and EMT for SCRIB.Knockdown mutants have resulted in the loss of adhesion between Madin-Darby canine kidney epithelial cells. 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] Primary B cell development takes place in the bone marrow, where immature B cells must generate a functional B cell receptor (BCR) and overcome negative selection induced by reactivity with autoantigens. This differentiation and activation of the B cell occurs most rapidly after exposure to antigen by antigen-presenting cells in the reticuloendothelial system, and under modulation by T cells, and is closely intertwined with affinity maturation. Development
After leaving the bone marrow, the B cell acts as an antigen-presenting cell (APC) and internalizes offending antigens, which are taken up by the B cell through receptor-mediated endocytosis and processed. First, the B cells must encounter a foreign antigen and are then required to be activated by T helper cells before they differentiate into specific cells.Upon stimulation by a T cell, which usually occurs in germinal centers of secondary lymphoid organs such as the spleen and lymph nodes, the activated B cell begins to differentiate into more specialized cells. Most of these B cells will become plasmablasts (or "immature plasma cells"), and eventually plasma cells, and begin producing large volumes of antibodies. Following activation of naive B cells in the lymph node follicles, the B cells migrate to the interfollicular areas so that they can interact with T cells. At some unclear stage of their centroblast-centrocyte cycling, maturing B cells receive a final differentiation signal to exit the germinal center as an antibody producing plasma cell which are cells that secrete large quantities of antibody or a memory B cell that can be reactivated in subsequent contacts with the same antigen. Entering the dark zone of the germinal center
Any B cells that were positively selected in the light zone of the germinal center, but that did not differentiate into plasma cells or memory B cells are sent to the dark zone of the germinal center for further proliferation. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. [SEP] IL-8 is believed to play a role in the pathogenesis of bronchiolitis, a common respiratory tract disease caused by viral infection.IL-8 is a member of the CXC chemokine family. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Some chemokines control cells of the immune system during processes of immune surveillance, such as directing lymphocytes to the lymph nodes so they can screen for invasion of pathogens by interacting with antigen-presenting cells residing in these tissues. Inflammatory chemokines function mainly as chemoattractants for leukocytes, recruiting monocytes, neutrophils and other effector cells from the blood to sites of infection or tissue damage. Certain inflammatory chemokines activate cells to initiate an immune response or promote wound healing. T-lymphocytes: the four key chemokines that are involved in the recruitment of T lymphocytes to the site of inflammation are: CCL2, CCL1, CCL22 and CCL17. The association of chemokine production with antigen-induced proliferative responses, more favorable clinical status in HIV infection, as well as with an uninfected status in subjects at risk for infection suggests a positive role for these molecules in controlling the natural course of HIV infection. This chemokine is constitutively expressed in the colon, but its levels can be increased by pro-inflammatory cytokines and certain bacterial products implying a role in effector cell recruitment to sites of epithelial injury. 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. [SEP] Diseases of poverty (also known as poverty-related diseases) are diseases that are more prevalent in low-income populations. Poverty increases the chances of having these diseases as the deprivation of shelter, safe drinking water, nutritious food, sanitation, and access to health services contributes towards poor health behaviour. Contributing factors
The prevalence of unfavorable environmental and social factors that contribute to disease are highest among individuals living in poverty. Exposure to household air pollution is especially prevalent in lower-resourced areas, contributing to the high burden of air pollution-related disease in locations considered "impoverished." The disease burden of treatable childhood diseases in high-mortality, poor countries is 5.2% in terms of disability-adjusted life years but just 0.2% in the case of advanced countries.In addition, infant mortality and maternal mortality are far more prevalent among the poor. The disease is closely tied to poverty and poor living conditions. Generally, low-income populations, whether they live in high-income countries or in low-middle income countries (LMIC) suffer higher disease burden for chronic conditions including obesity when compared to their higher income counterparts. It is considered a disease of poverty because of its  tendency to occur women in poor countries who do not have health resources comparable to developed nations. 
Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. [SEP] Applications in cancer epigenetics
The important role of epigenetic defects for cancer opens up new opportunities for improved diagnosis and therapy. ImmTACs (Immune mobilising monoclonal T-cell receptors Against Cancer) are a class of bispecific biological drug being investigated for the treatment of cancer and viral infections which combines engineered cancer-recognizing TCRs with immune activating complexes. ImmTACs target cancerous or virally infected cells through binding human leukocyte antigen (HLA) presented peptide antigens and redirect the host's cytotoxic T cells to recognise and kill them. Because DNA methylation affects cellular function through successive generations of cells without changing the underlying DNA sequence, treatment with a hypomethylating agent is considered a type of epigenetic therapy. Methylation of tumor suppressor genes in some cancers contributes to the growth and survival of the cancer. Variations in DNA methylation of normal cells compared to malignant cells shows a prominent mechanism in how cancerous cells proliferate. A leading therapeutic strategy in treating solid tumors stems from the use of demethylating agents to suppress DNA methylation in cancerous growths. Chemically inducing this antigen in T-cells by DNA demethylation allows the immune system to recognize a wide range of tumors. 
Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. [SEP] In medicine, a bolus (from Latin bolus, ball) is the administration of a discrete amount of medication, drug, or other compound within a specific time, generally 1–30 minutes, to raise its concentration in blood to an effective level. Diabetes
Diabetics and health care professionals use bolus to refer to a dosage of fast-acting insulin with a meal (as opposed to basal rate, which is a dose of slow-acting insulin or the continuous pumping of a small quantity of fast-acting insulin to cover the glucose output of the liver). First pass metabolism
Drugs given by enteral administration may be subjected to significant first pass metabolism, and therefore, the amount of drug entering the systemic circulation following administration may vary significantly for different individuals and drugs. There may also be specific complications associated with the specific medication being administered. Injections generally administer a medication as a bolus (or one-time) dose, but can also be used for continuous drug administration. This type of injection is the most common and is used frequently for administration of medications in an inpatient setting. Intravenous injections may also cause phlebitis, especially when multiple injections are given in a vein over a short period of time. Infiltration and extravasation may also occur when a medication intended to be injected into a vein is inadvertently injected into surrounding tissues. 
Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] The Pasteur effect describes how available oxygen inhibits ethanol fermentation, driving yeast to switch toward aerobic respiration for increased generation of the energy carrier adenosine triphosphate (ATP).±==Discovery==
The effect was described by Louis Pasteur in 1857 in experiments showing that aeration of yeasted broth causes cell growth to increase while the fermentation rate decreases, based on lowered ethanol production. Second, ethanol has bactericidal activity by causing damage to the cell membrane and protein denaturing, allowing yeast fungus to outcompete environmental bacteria for resources. Practical implications
The fermentation processes used in alcohol production is commonly maintained in low oxygen conditions, under a blanket of carbon dioxide, while growing yeast for biomass involves aerating the broth for maximized energy production. Despite the bactericidal effects of ethanol, acidifying effects of fermentation, and low oxygen conditions of industrial alcohol production, bacteria that undergo lactic acid fermentation can contaminate such facilities because lactic acid has a low pKa of 3.86 to avoid decoupling the pH membrane gradient that supports regulated transport. In the latter case, decreased activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase can result in accumulation of ethanol in the gut, leading to fermentation. Research has also shown that Klebsiella bacteria can similarly ferment carbohydrates to alcohol in the gut, which can accelerate non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Pathophysiology
At low or moderate doses, alcohol acts primarily as a positive allosteric modulator of GABAA. Alcohol decreases glutamate's ability to bind with NMDA and acts as an antagonist of the NMDA receptor, which plays a critical role in LTP by allowing Ca2+ to enter the cell. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] Airborne metal particulates have been shown to directly access and affect the brain through olfactory pathways, which allows a large amount of particulate matter to reach the blood–brain barrier.These facts, coupled with air pollution's link to neurofibrillary tangles and the observed subcortical vascular changes observed in dogs, imply that the negative neuroplastic effects of pollution could result in increased risk for Alzheimer's disease, and could also implicate pollution as a cause of early-onset Alzheimer's disease through multiple mechanisms. This study found that babies who were exposed to higher levels of pollutants while in the womb had a 10% higher risk of autism than babies who had low levels of exposure; another finding from this study is that fine particulates had the strongest association with autism

See also
Environmental impact of transport
List of most-polluted cities by particulate matter concentration

References
External links
Zero To Three - information on child brain development In urban areas, there are high concentrations of particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, and other volatile organic compounds and can make breathing more difficult. Prenatal Exposure and links to asthma
Prenatal exposures to air pollution have influenced respiratory health starts in utero. Some of the pollutants studied have been connected to asthma. Infection and cancer
Exposure to air pollution increases the risk of developing respiratory infections and cancers. Central nervous system
Air pollution is traditionally associated with pulmonary problems, but it also affects the entire body. Other health problems
Air pollution components such as heavy metals and reactive oxygen species can cause central nervous system health problems ranging from neuroinflammation to short-term memory disturbances to Parkinson's. 
Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] Fever is supposedly a risk factor for Febrile Infection-Related Epilepsy Syndrome. There is strong evidence that children with febrile seizures have a slightly increased risk of epilepsy at 2–3% compared to the general population risk of about 1%. Simple febrile seizures have a very low risk (~2%) of later epilepsy (seizures without fever). Simple febrile seizures do not tend to recur frequently (children tend to outgrow them) and are associated with a slight increase in later epilepsy (about 2–3%) compared with the general public without febrile seizures (1%). Once two years had passed since their first febrile seizure, children with complex febrile seizures no longer had an increased risk of death.Another, very large study from Denmark has explored the relationship between febrile seizures and subsequent psychiatric disorders. “Compared to the group of children without seizures, the risk of developing a psychiatric disorder was marginally elevated for children with a history of febrile seizures” during the ~20 years after the febrile seizures. Epidemiology
Febrile seizures happen between the ages of 6 months and 5 years. The peak age for a febrile seizure is 18 months, with the most common age range being 12–30 months of age. 
Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] There is strong evidence that children with febrile seizures have a slightly increased risk of epilepsy at 2–3% compared to the general population risk of about 1%. Simple febrile seizures have a very low risk (~2%) of later epilepsy (seizures without fever). Simple febrile seizures do not tend to recur frequently (children tend to outgrow them) and are associated with a slight increase in later epilepsy (about 2–3%) compared with the general public without febrile seizures (1%). Once two years had passed since their first febrile seizure, children with complex febrile seizures no longer had an increased risk of death.Another, very large study from Denmark has explored the relationship between febrile seizures and subsequent psychiatric disorders. “Compared to the group of children without seizures, the risk of developing a psychiatric disorder was marginally elevated for children with a history of febrile seizures” during the ~20 years after the febrile seizures. One long follow-up study suggested that the risk of febrile status followed by hippocampal sclerosis and intractable temporal lobe epilepsy is low – approximately one of every 150 children.Nearly all children with febrile seizures have a good long term prognosis. Epidemiology
Febrile seizures happen between the ages of 6 months and 5 years. The peak age for a febrile seizure is 18 months, with the most common age range being 12–30 months of age. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. [SEP] Indeed, the apolipoprotein ε4 isoform is more protective against cognitive decline than other isoforms in some cases, so caution is advised before making determinant statements about the influence of APOE polymorphisms on cognition, development of Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, telomere shortening, etc. As of 2007, there was no evidence that APOE polymorphisms influence cognition in younger age groups (other than possible increased episodic memory ability and neural efficiency in younger APOE4 age groups), nor that the APOE4 isoform places individuals at increased risk for any infectious disease.However, the association between the APOE4 allele and Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be weaker in minority groups differently compared to their caucasian counterparts. Thus, the genotype most at risk for Alzheimer's disease and at an earlier age is APOE4,4. Using genotype APOE3,3 as a benchmark (with the persons who have this genotype regarded as having a risk level of 1.0) and for white populations only, individuals with genotype APOE4,4 have an odds ratio of 14.9 of developing Alzheimer's disease. While ApoE4 has been found to greatly increase the odds that an individual will develop Alzheimer's, a 2002 study concluded, that in persons with any combination of APOE alleles, high serum total cholesterol and high blood pressure in mid-life are independent risk factors which together can nearly triple the risk that the individual will later develop AD. Projecting from their data, some researchers have suggested that lowering serum cholesterol levels may reduce a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease, even if they have two ApoE4 alleles, thus reducing the risk from nine or ten times the odds of getting AD down to just two times the odds.Women are more likely to develop AD than men across most ages and APOE genotypes. The increased incidence of AD associated with the APOE ε4 allele has been proposed to be directly linked to Aβ because it modulates Aβ aggregation and clearance, although increasing evidence points to a multitude of actions.While extensive research has been done on the APOE4 gene, more information is available for caucasians than for other ethnic and racial groups. The hypothesis has held  in the case of putative causal variants in apolipoprotein E, including APOE ε4, associated with Alzheimer's disease. 
Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] References

Jain R.K., "An indirect way to tame cancer", Sci Am 310(2): 46–53, 2014
Jain R.K., J. D. Martin and T. Stylianopoulos, "The role of mechanical forces in tumor progression and therapy", Annual Review of Biomedical Engineering, 16:321-46, 2014. Tumor vasculature also plays an active role in restricting T cell entry into the TME.T cells reach tumor sites via the circulatory system. Collagenase added to reduce matrix rigidity or chemokine CCL5 experimentally produced by tumor cells increased movement into contact with cancer cells. Steric effects complement electronic effects, which dictate the shape and reactivity of molecules. In pharmacology, steric effects determine how and at what rate a drug will interact with its target bio-molecules. Tumour microenvironment
Heterogeneity between tumour cells can be further increased due to heterogeneity in the tumour microenvironment. Problems with delivery of drags to the tumor occur also when active agent has high molecular weight which limits tissue penetration or the tumor has large volume prevent for penetration. One of the targets for anticancer drugs can be tumor vasculature. 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] Forkhead box O3, also known as FOXO3 or FOXO3a, is a human protein encoded by the FOXO3 gene. (2018) demonstrated that FOXO3a activation in vascular smooth muscle cells induces prominent apoptosis and extracellular matrix breakdown in vitro and exacerbates atherosclerosis and vascular remodelling in vivo. It is thought that FOXO3a is also involved in protection from oxidative stress by upregulating antioxidants such as catalase and MnSOD. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. Apoptosis
FOXO1 may play an important role in apoptosis because it is phosphorylated and inhibited by AKT. When FOXO1 is over expressed in human LNCaP prostate cancer cells, it causes apoptosis. FOXO1 upregulates Fas ligand (FasL) transcriptionally resulting in apoptotic cell death. FOXO1 plays a role in the protection of cells from oxidative stress. 
Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. [SEP] Role in research
Cancer
Alterations in the functions of histone-modifying enzymes deregulate the control of chromatin-based processes, ultimately leading to oncogenic transformation and cancer. In addition, histones play important roles in gene regulation and DNA replication. Without histones, unwound DNA in chromosomes would be very long. Histones are subdivided into canonical replication-dependent histones that are expressed during the S-phase of the cell cycle and replication-independent histone variants, expressed during the whole cell cycle. Histones are subject to post translational modification by enzymes primarily on their N-terminal tails, but also in their globular domains. Chromatin regulation
Histones undergo posttranslational modifications that alter their interaction with DNA and nuclear proteins. This shows an important regulatory link between cell-cycle control and histone synthesis. Relief from repression is believed to involve both histone modification and the action of chromatin-remodeling complexes. 
Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. [SEP] A myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is one of a group of cancers in which immature blood cells in the bone marrow do not mature, and as a result, do not develop into healthy blood cells. MDS was first recognized in the early 1900s; it came to be called myelodysplastic syndrome in 1976. Other pre-existing bone-marrow disorders such as acquired aplastic anemia following immunosuppressive treatment and Fanconi anemia can evolve into MDS.MDS is thought to arise from mutations in the multipotent bone-marrow stem cell, but the specific defects responsible for these diseases remain poorly understood. Diagnosis
The elimination of other causes of cytopenias, along with a dysplastic bone marrow, is required to diagnose a myelodysplastic syndrome, so differentiating MDS from anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia is important.A typical diagnostic investigation includes:

Full blood count and examination of blood film: The blood film morphology can provide clues about hemolytic anemia, clumping of the platelets leading to spurious thrombocytopenia, or leukemia. Myelodysplastic syndrome unclassified
The WHO has proposed a criterion for diagnosis and classification of MDS that may apply to most cases. Genetic markers
Although not yet formally incorporated in the generally accepted classification systems, molecular profiling of myelodysplastic syndrome genomes has increased the understanding of prognostic molecular factors for this disease. Myelodysplastic syndromes: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up † Myelodysplastic syndromes: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. The lack of adult mice limits studies to embryonic development and often makes it more difficult to determine a gene's function in relation to human health. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation [SEP] Additionally, PCP is known to be crucial to major developmental time points including coordinating convergent extension during gastrulation and coordinating cell behavior for neural tube closure. Some of these PCP components are transmembrane proteins which can proliferate the orientation signal to the surrounding cells. Early PCP research focused on its role in embryology and genetics, but the discovery that PCP proteins were localized asymmetrically within the cell pushed the topic into the world of cell biology.There was a surge in interest in the Planar Cell Polarity pathway after conserved PCP genes were found to be involved in important vertebrate processes vertebrate gastrulation, mammalian ear patterning and hearing, and neural tube closure. Discoveries from this popular wave of PCP research has found its involvement in polarized ciliary beating in the trachea and brain ventricles, oriented cell divisions, lung branching, and hair follicle alignment.A major challenge to studying PCP is that the in vivo protein and cell contact signaling required to facilitate it are difficult to recapitulate in a cell culture dish. The core PCP genes in Drosophila and other vertebrates are Frizzled (Fz), Flamingo (Fmi), Strabismus (Stbm)/Van-gogh (Vang), Prickle (Pk), Dishevelled (Dsh), Diego (Dgo), and trimeric G protein Gαo.Frizzled (Fz) -The first frizzled mutant in Drosophila was identified in 1982 by D. Gubb and A. Garcia-Bellido. Formation of the neuroectoderm is first step in the development of the nervous system. In molecular biology, the FEZ-like protein family is a family of eukaryotic proteins thought to be involved in axonal outgrowth and fasciculation. Certain homologues have been definitively found to interact with the N-terminal variable region (V1) of PKC-zeta, and this interaction causes cytoplasmic translocation of the FEZ family protein in mammalian neuronal cells. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. [SEP] Proteins containing PDZ domains play a key role in anchoring receptor proteins in the membrane to cytoskeletal components. PDZ domains also play a highly significant role in the anchoring of cell surface receptors (such as Cftr and FZD7) to the actin cytoskeleton  via mediators like NHERF and ezrin.PDZ is an initialism combining the first letters of the first three proteins discovered to share the domain — post synaptic density protein (PSD95), Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor (Dlg1), and zonula occludens-1 protein (zo-1). The first discovered function of the PDZ domains was to anchor receptor proteins in the membrane to cytoskeletal components. PDZ domains are found in diverse proteins, but all assist in localization of cellular elements. PDZ domains are primarily involved in anchoring receptor proteins to the cytoskeleton. PDZ domains are crucial to this receptor localization process. Regulation
PDZ domains are directly involved in the regulation of different cellular pathways. When the one of these PDZ domains is inhibited, the signaling pathways of the neurons are disrupted, resulting in auditory, visual, and vestibular impairment. 
GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. [SEP] GATA3 is a transcription factor that in humans is encoded by the GATA3 gene. Studies in animal models and humans indicate that it controls the expression of a wide range of biologically and clinically important genes.The GATA3 transcription factor is critical for the embryonic development of various tissues as well as for inflammatory and humoral immune responses and the proper functioning of the endothelium of blood vessels. Function
GATA3 belongs to the GATA family of transcription factors. Gene-deletion studies in mice indicate that Gata3 (mouse gene equivalent to GATA3) is critical for the embryonic development and/or function of various cell types (e.g. 2) In humans, GATA3 is required for the development and/or function of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), particularly Group 2 ILCs as well as for the development of T helper cells,(Th cells), particularly Th2 cells. Analytic studies of human breast cancer tissues suggest that GATA3 is required for specific type of low risk breast cancer (i.e. For example, displacement of GATA2 bond to this sequence by the GATA1 transcription factor appears important for the normal development of some types of hematological stem cells. mice lacking the Gata1 gene, indicate that this gene is essential for the development and maintenance of blood-based and/or tissue-based hematological cells, particularly red blood cells and platelets but also eosinophils, basophils, mast cells, and dendritic cells. 
Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. [SEP] According to the principle of nuclear equivalence, the nuclei of essentially all differentiated adult cells of an individual are genetically (though not necessarily metabolically) identical to one another and to the nucleus of the zygote from which they descended. This means that virtually all somatic cells in an adult have the same genes. However, different cells express different subsets of these genes. The subsequent mathematical development also implied that the frequency distribution within the effective gamete-pool was uniform: there were no local perturbations where p and q varied. The two viewpoints are consistent for all classes of genotypes. This is not to say they are identical in their genes (alleles), because, at each level of ancestor, segregation and assortment will have occurred in producing gametes. Studies that distinguish fixed and dynamic aRME require single-cell analyses of clonally related cells. Domestication islands refers to regions within DNA that do not change despite gene flow between wild and domesticated species. 
Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] Glycolysis is the metabolic pathway that converts glucose (C6H12O6) into pyruvate. Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that may occur in the presence of oxygen ( aerobic ) or in the absence of oxygen (anaerobic )(In anaerobic conditions pyruvate is converted to lactic acid). Intermediates for other pathways
This article concentrates on the catabolic role of glycolysis with regard to converting potential chemical energy to usable chemical energy during the oxidation of glucose to pyruvate. Many of the metabolites in the glycolytic pathway are also used by anabolic pathways, and, as a consequence, flux through the pathway is critical to maintain a supply of carbon skeletons for biosynthesis.The following metabolic pathways are all strongly reliant on glycolysis as a source of metabolites: and many more. Glycolysis in disease
Diabetes
Cellular uptake of glucose occurs in response to insulin signals, and glucose is subsequently broken down through glycolysis, lowering blood sugar levels. Cancer
Malignant tumor cells perform glycolysis at a rate that is ten times faster than their noncancerous tissue counterparts. Glucose formed in this pathway enters glycolysis. See also
Glycolysis


== References == 
Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. [SEP] Antibody class switching declines significantly once helper T cell function fails. Lymphocytes are said to be anergic when they fail to respond to their specific antigen. T-cell anergy can arise when the T-cell does not receive appropriate co-stimulation in the presence of specific antigen recognition. Molecular mechanism of anergy induction in T lymphocytes
Stimulation of the T cell receptor (TCR) along with costimulatory receptors of a T lymphocyte triggers balanced activation of all the T-cell’s signalling pathways (full T-cell stimulation). In this case, beside other pathways, calcium dependent arm of a lymphocyte signalling is activated by TCR. However, when T cells interacts with an antigen not presented by the APCs, that is very probably not the antigen that an immune response should be held against, the T cell undergoes anergy. Where so called recessive tolerance is associated with anergized lymphocytes as described above, in the dominant form of tolerance, specialized T-reg cells which actively ablate the immune response are developed from the naive T lymphocyte. The anergy in T cells can be induced by Ionomycin, the ionophore capable of raising intracellular concentration of calcium ions artificially.Conversely, Ca+II chelators such as EGTA can sequester Calcium ions making them unable to cause the anergy. 
HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years [SEP] MODY 3 or HNF1A-MODY is a form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young. About 70% of people develop this type of diabetes by age 25 years, but it occurs at much later ages in a few. Typically patients present with a strong family history of diabetes (any type) and the onset of symptoms is in the second to fifth decade. References
External links

Diabetes Genes. Information about genetic forms of diabetes. The disorder is caused by mutations in the insulin receptor gene. 7% of people with FRDA also have diabetes and having diabetes has an adverse impact on people with FA, especially those that show symptoms when young. Cystic fibrosis related diabetes mellitus (CFRD) develops with age, and the median age at diagnosis is 21 years. 
Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] While vascular changes are evident during a migraine, the cause of the headache is neurological, not vascular. Like other types of pain, headaches can serve as warning signals of more serious disorders. While migraines were once believed to be more common in those of high intelligence, this does not appear to be true. Less commonly, aura can occur without a headache, or with a nonmigraine headache. Tension headaches typically occur on both sides, are not pounding, and are less disabling.Those with stable headaches that meet criteria for migraines should not receive neuroimaging to look for other intracranial disease. People with migraines are not at an increased risk of having another cause for severe headaches. Migraine without aura does not appear to be a factor. Migraine does not appear to increase the risk of death from stroke or heart disease. 
Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. [SEP] Health care efficiency is a comparison of delivery system outputs, such as physician visits, relative value units, or health outcomes, with inputs like cost, time, or material. Similarly, if the hospital spends more per patient than the national average, they would incur that difference as a loss on their balance sheet.Potential Tradeoff Between Cost and Quality of Care
An additional complication when evaluating cost efficiency in healthcare is the potential tradeoff with the quality of healthcare. Greico and Ryan C. McDevitt argue that policies aiming to improve cost efficiency through incentivizing hospitals to reduce costs may inadvertently affect health outcomes or the quality of care administered. Increasing quality
In health care poor quality can mean patients need more services at greater expense. The shortage of healthcare workers negatively impacts the quality of medical care due to decreased access to health services as well as an increase in workload placed on providers. Healthcare systems in rural communities generally have fewer personnel and infrastructure, creating substantial healthcare disparities among the United States population. This detrimental combination effectively hinders the delivery of timely and appropriate health services. Lack of resources
Rural hospitals tend to have fewer resources than urban hospitals and usually have a fewer number of beds. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. [SEP] Immunoregulation
Helminth proteins modulate the immune response of their hosts, but do not suppress it entirely. The effects of parasitic worms, or helminths, on the immune system is a recently emerging topic of study among immunologists and other biologists. "Co-infection of helminths and malaria: modulation of the immune responses to malaria". "Immune modulation by helminthic infections: worms and viral infections". "Parasitic Helminths: New Weapons against Immunological Disorders". "Review series on helminths, immune modulation and the hygiene hypothesis: The broader implications of the hygiene hypothesis". "Role of helminths in regulating mucosal inflammation". IL-4 decreases the production of Th1 cells, macrophages, IFNγ, and dendritic cells IL-12. 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. [SEP] Hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT) is the transplantation of multipotent hematopoietic stem cells, usually derived from bone marrow, peripheral blood, or umbilical cord blood in order to replicate inside of a patient and to produce additional normal blood cells. See article above for overview of 50% endpoints and comparison with other methods of calculating 50% endpoints. In fact, even in humans, there are hematopoietic stem cells that are CD34−/CD38−. Traditional purification method used to yield a reasonable purity level of mouse hematopoietic stem cells, in general, requires a large (~10–12) battery of markers, most of which were surrogate markers with little functional significance, and thus partial overlap with the stem cell populations and sometimes other closely related cells that are not stem cells. CD150+CD48− gave stem cell purity comparable to Thy1loSCA-1+lin−c-kit+ in mice. All cellular blood components are derived from haematopoietic stem cells. Process
Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs)
Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) reside in the medulla of the bone (bone marrow) and have the unique ability to give rise to all of the different mature blood cell types and tissues. Hematopoietic stem cell development. 
High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. [SEP] Cardiovascular fitness is a health-related component of physical fitness that is brought about by sustained physical activity. A person's ability to deliver oxygen to the working muscles is affected by many physiological parameters, including heart rate, stroke volume, cardiac output, and maximal oxygen consumption.Understanding the relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness and other categories of conditioning requires a review of changes that occur with increased aerobic, or anaerobic capacity. Each of these results of cardiovascular fitness/cardiorespiratory conditioning will have a direct positive effect on muscular endurance, and an indirect effect on strength and flexibility.To facilitate optimal delivery of oxygen to the working muscles, an individual needs to train or participate in activities that will build up the energy stores needed for sport. A study published in the American Journal of Epidemiology found that higher levels of cardiovascular fitness were associated with a lower risk of mortality from all causes, including cardiovascular disease and cancer. A study published in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research found that VO2max was positively correlated with measures of muscular strength and power, suggesting that improving muscular fitness may also improve cardiovascular fitness. Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) refers to the ability of the circulatory and respiratory systems to supply oxygen to skeletal muscles during sustained physical activity. Exercise
Cardiorespiratory fitness can be increased by means of regular physical activity and exercise. demonstrated the added and unique utility of estimated cardiorespiratory fitness (eCRF) in predicting risk of cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality.Various methods of measurement exist for determining an individual's cardiorespiratory fitness. 
High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. [SEP] Low vitamin D in the body can lead to a lack of calcium absorption and secondary hyperparathyroidism (hypocalcemia and raised parathyroid hormone). Symptoms of hyperparathyroidism are caused by inappropriately normal or elevated blood calcium leaving the bones and flowing into the blood stream in response to increased production of parathyroid hormone. In healthy people, when blood calcium levels are high, parathyroid hormone levels should be low. Secondary hyperparathyroidism typically occurs due to vitamin D deficiency, chronic kidney disease, or other causes of low blood calcium. Surgical removal of a parathyroid tumor eliminates the symptoms in most patients.In secondary hyperparathyroidism due to lack of Vitamin D absorption, the parathyroid gland is behaving normally; clinical problems are due to bone resorption and manifest as bone syndromes such as rickets, osteomalacia, and renal osteodystrophy. In primary hyperparathyroidism, levels may remain within the normal range, but this is inappropriately normal given the increased levels of plasma calcium. Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism with a calcimimetic in those on dialysis for CKD does not alter the risk of early death; however, it does decrease the likelihood of needing a parathyroidectomy. Chronic elevation of calcium with absent or mild symptoms often points to primary hyperparathyroidism or Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia. 
High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] Other inflammatory mediators that can increase CRP are TGF beta 1, and tumor necrosis factor alpha. In acute inflammation, CRP can increase as much as 50 to 100 mg/L within 4 to 6 hours in mild to moderate inflammation or an insult such as skin infection, cystitis, or bronchitis. Cardiovascular disease
Recent research suggests that patients with elevated basal levels of CRP are at an increased risk of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. CRP level is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. Patients with high CRP concentrations are more likely to develop stroke, myocardial infarction, and severe peripheral vascular disease. Obstructive sleep apnea
C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of systemic inflammation, is also increased in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. 
High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. [SEP] Prevention of type 2 diabetes can be achieved with both lifestyle changes and use of medication. Diabetes prevention is achieved through weight loss and increased physical activity, which can reduce the risk of diabetes by 50% to 60%. Lifestyle
Many interventions to promote healthy lifestyles have been shown to prevent diabetes. A combination of diet and physical activity promotion through counselling and support programs decrease weight, improve systolic blood pressure, improve cholesterol levels and decrease risk of diabetes.Increasing physical activity may be helpful in preventing type 2 diabetes, particularly if undertaken soon after a carbohydrate rich meal that increases blood sugar levels. Numerous clinical studies have shown that resistant starch increases insulin sensitivity independent of the glycemic response of the food and may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. Lifestyle interventions are, however, more effective than metformin alone at preventing diabetes regardless of weight loss, though evidence suggests that lifestyle interventions and metformin together can be effective treatment in patients who are at a higher risk of developing diabetes.A Cochrane systematic review assessed the effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors in people with impaired glucose tolerance, impaired fasting blood glucose, elevated glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c).It was found that Acarbose appeared to reduce incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2 when compared to placebo, however there was no conclusive evidence that acarbose compare to diet and exercise, metformin, placebo, no intervention improved all-cause mortality, reduced or increased risk of cardiovascular mortality, serious or non-serious adverse events, non-fatal stroke, congestive heart failure, or non-fatal myocardial infarction.The same review found that there was no conclusive evidence that voglibose compared to diet and exercise or placebo reduced incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2, or any of the other measured outcomes.Many other medications are well known to modify risk of diabetes 2 although in most cases they are prescribed for reasons unrelated to diabetes 2. Ternatin is a mushroom heptapeptide that suppresses hyperglycemia in vivo. It lowers blood glucose levels by mimicking the human hormones glucagon-like peptide 1 and glucagon, which play a role in blood sugar regulation. 
High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). [SEP] Measurements of cardiac-specific troponins I and T are extensively used as diagnostic and prognostic indicators in the management of myocardial infarction and acute coronary syndrome. Blood troponin levels may be used as a diagnostic marker for stroke or other myocardial injury that is ongoing, although the sensitivity of this measurement is low. After a myocardial infarction troponins may remain high for up to 2 weeks.Cardiac troponins are a marker of all heart muscle damage, not just myocardial infarction, which is the most severe form of heart disorder. Elevated concentration of cTnI and cTnT in blood samples can be detected even 5–8 days after onset of the symptoms, making both proteins useful also for the late diagnosis of AMI. A host of diagnostic companies make cTnI immunoassay methods available on many different immunoassay platforms.Troponin elevation following cardiac cell necrosis starts within 2–3 hours, peaks in approx. The cardiac subtype of troponin T is especially useful in the laboratory diagnosis of heart attack because it is released into the blood-stream when damage to heart muscle occurs. Increased troponin T levels after an episode of chest pain indicates myocardial infarction. In patients with stable coronary artery disease, the troponin T concentration has long been found to be significantly associated with the incidence of cardiovascular death and heart failure, but it was 2014 before it began to be accepted as a predictor of who would later suffer acute myocardial infarction (heart attack). 
Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. [SEP] Methylation of histones can either increase or decrease transcription of genes, depending on which amino acids in the histones are methylated, and how many methyl groups are attached. Methylation events that weaken chemical attractions between histone tails and DNA increase transcription because they enable the DNA to uncoil from nucleosomes so that transcription factor proteins and RNA polymerase can access the DNA. Methylation of some lysine (K) and arginine (R) residues of histones results in transcriptional activation. These methyls that are added to the histones act to regulate transcription by blocking or encouraging DNA access to transcription factors. Methylated histones can either repress or activate transcription. The activities of histone methyltransferases are offset by the activity of histone demethylases. Histone Methylation in Chromatin Signaling. "Dynamic Regulation of Histone Lysine Methylation by Demethylases". 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. [SEP] Peroxiredoxins (Prxs, EC 1.11.1.15; HGNC root symbol PRDX) are a ubiquitous family of antioxidant enzymes that also control cytokine-induced peroxide levels and thereby mediate signal transduction in mammalian cells. Their function is the reduction of peroxides, specifically  hydrogen peroxide, alkyl hydroperoxides, and peroxynitrite. These ensymes are inactivated by over-oxidation (also known as hyperoxidation) of the active thiol to the sulfinic acid (RSO2H). Function
Peroxiredoxin is reduced by thioredoxin (Trx) after reducing hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) in the following reactions:
Prx(reduced) + H2O2 → Prx(oxidized) + 2H2O
Prx(oxidized) + Trx(reduced) → Prx(reduced) + Trx(oxidized)in chemical terms, these reactions can be represented:

RSH + H2O2 → RSOH + 2H2O
RSOH  +  R'SH  →  RSSR'
RSSR' + 2 R"SH → RSH + R'SH  +  R"SSR"The oxidized form of Prx is inactive in its reductase activity, but can function as a molecular chaperon, requiring the donation of electrons from reduced Trx to restore its catalytic activity.The physiological importance of peroxiredoxins is illustrated by their relative abundance (one of the most abundant proteins in erythrocytes after hemoglobin is peroxiredoxin 2) as well as studies in knockout mice. Peroxiredoxin 1 knockout mice have a 15% reduction in lifespan. Peroxiredoxin 6 knockout mice are viable and do not display obvious gross pathology, but are more sensitive to certain exogenous sources of oxidative stress, such as hyperoxia. Peroxiredoxin 3 (mitochondrial matrix peroxiredoxin) knockout mice are viable and do not display obvious gross pathology. PGDS protein is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HPGDS gene.Prostaglandin-D synthase is a sigma class glutathione-S-transferase family member. 
Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. [SEP] Tropical spastic paraparesis (TSP), is a medical condition that causes weakness, muscle spasms, and sensory disturbance by human T-lymphotropic virus resulting in paraparesis, weakness of the legs. Bowel dysfunction
Back pain
Erectile problems
PsoriasisIndividuals with TSP may also exhibit uveitis (inflammation of the uveal tract of the eye), arthritis (inflammation of one or more joints), pulmonary lymphocytic alveolitis (inflammation of the lung tissues), polymyositis (an inflammatory muscle disease), keratoconjunctivitis sicca (persistent dryness of the cornea and conjunctiva), and infectious dermatitis (inflammation of the skin).HTLV-1 can be transmitted via breastfeeding (mother to child), sexual contact, via blood contact (transfusion or needle sharing). Pathogenesis
In Tropical spastic paraparesis, HTLV-1 shows elevated cellular acquired immune response as well as high production of proinflammatory cytokines. Diagnosis
Among the methods of diagnosing tropical spastic paraparesis are MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) and lumbar puncture (which may show lymphocytosis).Often, the diagnosis process is based on symptoms and one's risk of exposure to the virus. Prognosis
The prognosis for Tropical spastic paraparesis indicates some improvement in a percentage of cases due to immunosuppressive treatment. "HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis with pseudohypoparathyroidism". "Human T Lymphotropic Virus Type-1-associated Myelopathy Manifesting Shortly after Living-donor Renal Transplantation". Immunoglobulin therapy is also used in some treatment protocols for secondary immunodeficiencies  such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), some autoimmune disorders (such as immune thrombocytopenia and Kawasaki disease), some neurological diseases (multifocal motor neuropathy, stiff person syndrome, multiple sclerosis and myasthenia gravis) some acute infections and some complications of organ transplantation.Immunoglobulin therapy is especially useful in some acute infection cases such as pediatric HIV infection and is also considered the standard of treatment for some autoimmune disorders such as Guillain–Barré syndrome. 
Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] Uses
Femoropopliteal bypass surgery is mainly used to treat cases of femoral artery blockage that cause more severe symptoms that restrict completion of daily tasks such as peripheral artery disease and claudication, or cases that have not responded well to other treatment options . Lower levels of fibrin may reduce the lysis of early fibrin strand depositions and thereby allow these depositions to develop into clots.Congenital hypofibrinogenemia must be distinguished from: a) congenital afibrinogenemia, a rare disorder in which blood fibrinogen levels are either exceedingly low or undetectable due to mutations in both fibrinogen genes; b) congenital hypodysfibrinogenemia, a rare disorder in which one or more genetic mutations cause low levels of blood fibrinogen, at least some of which is dysfunctional and thereby contributes to excessive bleeding; and c) acquired hypofibrinogenemia, a non-hereditary disorder in which blood fibrinogen levels are low because of e.g. In patients with severe trauma, hyperfibrinolysis is associated with poor outcome. Viscoelastic methods in whole blood, especially thromboelastometry (TEM) when performed with special reagents detect hyperfibrinolysis very sensitively in a functional approach. Hypodysfibrinogenemia exhibits reduced penetrance, i.e. The levels of clotted fibrinogen in this test should be decreased in hypofibrinogenemia, hypodysfibrinogenemia, and dysfibrinogenemia and undetectable in afibrinogenemia. In these cases, the hyperfibrinogenemia may contribute to the development of pathological thrombosis. High fibrinogen levels had been proposed as a predictor of hemorrhagic complications during catheter-directed thrombolysis for acute or subacute peripheral native artery and arterial bypass occlusions. 
Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] Uses
Femoropopliteal bypass surgery is mainly used to treat cases of femoral artery blockage that cause more severe symptoms that restrict completion of daily tasks such as peripheral artery disease and claudication, or cases that have not responded well to other treatment options . Hyperfibrinolysis describes a situation with markedly enhanced fibrinolytic activity, resulting in increased, sometimes catastrophic bleeding. Hyperfibrinolysis can be caused by acquired or congenital reasons. In patients with severe trauma, hyperfibrinolysis is associated with poor outcome. Viscoelastic methods in whole blood, especially thromboelastometry (TEM) when performed with special reagents detect hyperfibrinolysis very sensitively in a functional approach. In these cases, the hyperfibrinogenemia may contribute to the development of pathological thrombosis. High fibrinogen levels had been proposed as a predictor of hemorrhagic complications during catheter-directed thrombolysis for acute or subacute peripheral native artery and arterial bypass occlusions. The causes of two fibrinogen abnormalities that characterize hypodysfibrinogenemia, i.e. 
Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. [SEP] Management
The mainstay of type 1 diabetes treatment is the regular injection of insulin to manage hyperglycemia. The pancreases of people with type 1 diabetes tend to be smaller, lighter, and have abnormal blood vessels, nerve innervations, and extracellular matrix organization. Autoimmune disorders
People with type 1 diabetes are at an increased risk for developing several autoimmune disorders, particularly thyroid problems – around 20% of people with type 1 diabetes have hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, typically caused by Hashimoto thyroiditis or Graves' disease respectiveley. Epidemiology
Type 1 diabetes makes up an estimated 10–15% of all diabetes cases  or 11–22 million cases worldwide. The most common treatment for type 1 diabetes is insulin replacement therapy (insulin injections). The first described cases are believed to have been type 1 diabetes. The first described cases are believed to be of type 1 diabetes. "Pathophysiology of Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus". 
Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. [SEP] Neurotransmitters found in this area were oddly similar to the gut hormone, secretin, a member of the incretin family, so they named hypocretin to stand for a hypothalamic member of the incretin family. These lesions or generalized processes disrupt the hypocretin neurons and their pathways. Hypocretin
The hypothalamus region of the brain regulates basic functions of hormone release, emotional expression and sleep. One study concluded that the neurochemical hypocretin, also known as orexin, which is regulated by the hypothalamus, was significantly reduced in study participants with symptoms of cataplexy. Hypocretin regulates sleep and states of arousal. Hypocretin deficiency is further associated with decreased levels of histamine and epinephrine, chemicals important in promoting wakefulness, arousal and alertness. In narcolepsy, there seems to be an increase in these neurons, possibly to compensate for hypocretin loss. Parvocellular CRH neurons, which are thought to be involved in stress-related behaviors. 
Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. [SEP] In older children and adults, moderately severe hypoglycemia can resemble mania, mental illness, drug intoxication, or drunkenness. In the elderly, hypoglycemia can produce focal stroke-like effects or a hard-to-define malaise. Nevertheless, brain damage or death has occasionally resulted from severe hypoglycemia. The internal mechanism of Insulin resistance and other metabolic risk factors such as hyperglycaemia, caused by oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation are common processes thought to be contributors to the development of Alzheimer's disease in diabetics.Diagnosis for this disease is different between patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. While insulin resistance is a risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's disease and some other dementias, causes of Alzheimer's disease are likely to be much more complex than being explained by insulin factors on their own, and indeed several patients with Alzheimer's disease have normal insulin metabolism. This resulting imbalance leads to a slow decrease in cognition which can be severe in patients in type 2 diabetes. Diagnosis
A minor to medium decline in cognitive function is found to be linked with both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. In both forms of diabetes, microvascular complications and hyperglycaemia are mutual risk factors that are found to contribute to the cognitive decline in patients. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. [SEP] The human brain, particularly the hypothalamus, plays a central role in regulating energy homeostasis and generating the sense of hunger by integrating a number of biochemical signals that transmit information about energy balance. Energy intake is modulated by hunger, which is primarily regulated by the hypothalamus, and choice, which is determined by the sets of brain structures that are responsible for stimulus control (i.e., operant conditioning and classical conditioning) and cognitive control of eating behavior. In biochemistry, the glutamate–glutamine cycle is a cyclic metabolic pathway which maintains an adequate supply of the neurotransmitter glutamate in the central nervous system. Recent electrophysiological evidence suggests that active synapses require presynaptically localized glutamine glutamate cycle to maintain excitatory neurotransmission in specific circumstances. The mechanisms involved in the transfer of energy from foods to neurons are likely to be fundamental to the control of brain function. The role of GHS-R is thought to be in regulating energy homeostasis and body weight. In neuroscience, glutamate refers to the dianion (divalent anion) of glutamic acid in its role as a neurotransmitter (a chemical that nerve cells use to send signals to other cells). History
The presence of glutamate in every part of the body as a building-block for protein made its special role in the nervous system difficult to recognize: its function as a neurotransmitter was not generally accepted until the 1970s, decades after the identification of acetylcholine, norepinephrine, and serotonin as neurotransmitters. 
IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IFIT1 gene. Intrinsic viral restriction factors recognize specific viral components, but unlike other pattern recognition receptors that inhibit viral infection indirectly by inducing interferons and other antiviral molecules, intrinsic antiviral factors block viral replication immediately and directly. When mutations in the primary region make one of its stem-loops inoperable, viral replication decreases by a factor of 7. Both SL1 and SL2 are essential for proper RNA encapsidation and viral replication to occur. Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 2 or IFIT2  is a protein found in humans which is encoded by the IFIT2 gene. Clinical significance
IFIT2 may play a role in prevention of tumor progression. Indeed, IFIT2 gene has been detected progressively downregulated in Human papillomavirus-positive neoplastic keratinocytes derived from uterine cervical preneoplastic lesions at different levels of malignancy. Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IFITM3 gene. 
IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. [SEP] IRG activation in most cases is induced by an immune response and leads to clearance of certain pathogens. Background
Interferon (IFN)-inducible GTPases encompass four families of proteins including myxovirus resistant proteins (Mx), guanylate-binding proteins (GBP), immunity-related GTPase proteins (IRGs), and very large inducible GTPase proteins (VLIG). IRGs confer resistance from vacuolar pathogens by localizing to and disrupting the phagocytic vacuole during infection. The activation of IRGs in mice is induced by interferon. This evidence suggests that IRGs may function in an immune-related capacity in cephalochordates. Vertebrates have evolved an array of IRG genes as a whole, potentially due to the evolution between variable pathogen interactions. Additionally, IRGs are implicated in the control of hematopoietic balance during infection. Humans use IRGM as a defense mechanism against the intracellular bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 
ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] An immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) is a conserved sequence of four amino acids that is repeated twice in the cytoplasmic tails of non-catalytic tyrosine-phosphorylated receptors, cell-surface proteins found mainly on immune cells. Other non-catalytic tyrosine-phosphorylated receptors carry a conserved inhibitory motif (ITIM) that, when phosphorylated, results in the inhibition of the signaling pathway via recruitment of phosphatases, namely SHP-1, SHP-2 and SHIP1. ITIM-containing receptors often serve to target Immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif(ITAM)-containing receptors, resulting in an innate inhibition mechanism within cells. ITIMs place phosphatases near ITAM-containing receptors, allowing phosphatases to dephosphorylate. The N-terminal SH2 domain is involved in an auto-inhibitory mechanism, as removal of this domain activates the phosphatase.Recruitment of either SHIP or SHP-1 by ITIM-bearing receptors has different outcomes: recruitment of SHP-1 abrogates tyrosine phosphorylation of signaling molecules that would occur upon triggering of an ITAM-bearing receptor, while SHIP recruitment does not affect the initial phosphorylation, but interferes with the recruitment of downstream effectors to the site of cell activation. Once the TCR binds a specific pMHC, the tyrosine residues of the Immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) in its CD3 adaptor proteins are phosphorylated. Tyrosine kinase Fyn might be involved in ITAM phosphorylation but is not essential for TCR signalling. Proximal TCR signaling
Phosphorylated ITAMs in the cytoplasmic tails of CD3 recruit protein tyrosine kinase Zap70 that can bind to the phosphorylated tyrosine residues with its SH2 domain. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. [SEP] In gluten sensitive enteropathy, there are four types of recognition, innate immunity (a form of cellular immunity priming), HLA-DQ, and antibody recognition of gliadin and transglutaminase. In wheat allergy, the response pathways are mediated through IgE against other wheat proteins and other forms of gliadin. The involvement of class I responses may be minor, since antibodies to transglutaminase correlate with pathogenesis and recognition of extracellular matrix and cell surface transglutaminase can explain the destruction within coeliac disease. Enteropathy is believed to occur when tissue transglutaminase(tTG) covelantly links itself to gliadin peptides that enter the lamina propria of the intestinal villus. HLA-DQ2.5
HLA-DQ recognition of gliadin is critical to the pathogenesis of gluten-sensitive enteropathy, it also appears to be involved in idiopathic gluten sensitivity (See:Understanding DQ Haplotypes and DQ isoforms on the right). Antibody recognition
Antibody recognition of gluten is complex. Direct binding to gluten such as anti-gliadin antibodies has an ambiguous pathogenesis in coeliac disease. The crosslinking of gliadin with tissue transglutaminase leads to the production of anti-transglutaminase antibodies, but this is mediated through T-cell recognition of gliadin. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. [SEP] Role in inflammation
HMGB1 is secreted by immune cells (like macrophages, monocytes and dendritic cells) through leaderless secretory pathway. Activated macrophages and monocytes secrete HMGB1 as a cytokine mediator of Inflammation. The mechanism of inflammation and damage consists of binding to TLR2 and TLR4, which mediates HMGB1-dependent activation of macrophage cytokine release. HMGB1 released from tumour cells was demonstrated to mediate anti-tumour immune responses by activating Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) signaling on bone marrow-derived GBM-infiltrating DCs. HMGB1 can interact with TLR ligands and cytokines, and activates cells through the multiple surface receptors including TLR2, TLR4, and RAGE. Interaction between HMGB1 and TLR4 results in upregulation of NF-κB, which leads to increased production and release of cytokines. HMGB1 is also able to interact with TLR4 on neutrophils to stimulate the production of reactive oxygen species by NADPH oxidase. The mechanism by which pyroptosis contributes to septic shock and death is not well understood, although HMGB1 release is thought to play a role. 
Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. [SEP] T helper 17 cells (Th17) are a subset of pro-inflammatory T helper cells defined by their production of interleukin 17 (IL-17). Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β), interleukin 6 (IL-6), interleukin 21 (IL-21) and interleukin 23 (IL-23) contribute to Th17 formation in mice and humans. The Th17 cells can alter their differentiation program ultimately giving rise to either protective or pro-inflammatory pathogenic cells. Function
Th17 cells play a role in adaptive immunity protecting the body against pathogens. Conversion of pathogenic Th17 cells in vivo at the conclusion of an inflammatory disease process by TGF-β results in the generation of Treg17 like cells. Th17 pathogenic cells are known to display pro-inflammatory features like expressing transcription factor T-bet and secreting cytokine IFNγ, resembling Th1-like phenotype. Function and signaling
IL-17F is involved in the development of inflammation and host defense against infection by inducing the expression of genes that encode other proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor, interleukin 1, interleukin 6 and some members of the colony-stimulating factor family. IL-17F as an effector cytokine of Th17 cells is involved in host defense against bacterial infections. 
In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. [SEP] Memory T cells are a subset of T lymphocytes that might have some of the same functions as memory B cells. Homeostatic maintenance
Clones of memory T cells expressing a specific T cell receptor can persist for decades in our body. Lifetime overview
Memory T cells undergo different changes and play different roles in different life stages for humans. The single unifying theme for all memory T cell subtypes is that they are long-lived and can quickly expand to large numbers of effector T cells upon re-exposure to their cognate antigen. Tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM) occupy tissues (skin, lung, gastrointestinal tract, etc.) Tissue-resident memory T cells or TRM cells represent a subset of a long-lived memory T cells that occupies epithelial and mucosal tissues (skin, mucosa, lung, brain, pancreas, gastrointestinal tract) without recirculating. See also
Memory T cell


== References == See also
Immune system
Memory T cells


== Notes and references == 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. [SEP] Chromosome anomalies usually occur when there is an error in cell division following meiosis or mitosis. Numerical abnormality
An abnormal number of chromosomes is called aneuploidy, and occurs when an individual is either missing a chromosome from a pair (resulting in monosomy) or has more than two chromosomes of a pair (trisomy, tetrasomy, etc.). Aneuploidy can be full, involving a whole chromosome missing or added, or partial, where only part of a chromosome is missing or added. Aneuploidy is the presence of an abnormal number of chromosomes in a cell, for example a human cell having 45 or 47 chromosomes instead of the usual 46. Aneuploidy originates during cell division when the chromosomes do not separate properly between the two cells (nondisjunction). However, recent research using single-cell sequencing has challenged these findings, and has suggested that aneuploidy in the brain is actually very rare. See also
Chromosome abnormality
Chromosome segregation
Nondisjunction
Ploidy
Robertsonian translocation

References
External links

Aneuploidy Testing
Aneuploidy FAQ
Genetics of Aneuploids Aneuploidy due to nondisjunction is a common feature in tumor cells. 
In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. [SEP] "[Premunity, premunization and paraspecific effect of immunizations (author's transl)]". Parasites may also alter the host behaviour to increase protection of the parasites or their offspring; the term bodyguard manipulation is used for such mechanisms.Among the behavioral changes caused by parasites is carelessness, making their hosts easier prey. by changes in the host's preferences for habitats); increase parasite survival or increase the host's likelihood of being infected with more parasites. It also decreases the host's attraction to human blood while gestating, only to increase it when it is ready to be transmitted to a human host. Evolutionary perspective
Addition of intermediate hosts
For complex life cycles to emerge in parasites, the addition of an intermediate host species must be beneficial, i.e. It is probable that most parasites with complex life cycles evolved from simple life cycles; the evolution from simple to complex life cycles has been analyzed theoretically, and it has been shown that trophically transmitted parasites (parasites that transmit from a prey host to a predator host during predation) can be favored by the addition of an intermediate prey host if the population density of the intermediate host is higher than that of the definitive host. The development of parasite increased trophic transmission is a further adaptation in relation to a complex life cycle, where the parasite increases its transmission to a definitive host by manipulating its intermediate host. The induced behavioral change in the host thus leads to the parasite's increased success in completing its life cycle. 
In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. [SEP] Specific deletion of FIRE prevents differentiation of only specific macrophage types such as brain microglia and macrophages in the skin, kidney, heart, and peritoneum whereas deletion of the entire mouse Csf1r gene widely prevents macrophage differentiation, causing profound developmental defects. Damage to the kidney causes upregulation of CSF-1 and CSF1R in tubular epithelial cells. Mice with Csf1r loss-of-function have a significantly more neural progenitor cells in generative zones and fewer matured neurons in forebrain laminae due to failure of progenitor cell maturation and radial migration. Studies using early mouse embryos in vitro have shown that activation of CSF1R stimulates formation of the blastocyst cavity and enhances the number of trophoblast cells. Csf1r loss-of-function mice exhibit several reproductive system abnormalities in the estrous cycle and ovulation rates as well as reduced antral follicles and ovarian macrophages. Mouse models of breast cancer also show that Csf1r loss-of-function delays TAM infiltration and metastasis. TREM2 deficiency in cultured myeloid cells prevents stimulation of proliferation by treatment with CSF-1. Defects in neurogenesis and neuronal survival are also seen in adult-onset leukoencephalopathy due to impaired CSF1R signaling in neural progenitor cells. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] Transcription factor SOX-10 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SOX10 gene. Function
This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and determination of cell fate. Immunostain
SOX10 is used as an immunohistochemistry marker, being positive in:
Neuroectodermal neoplasms of neural crest origin, especially:Melanoma, although desmoplastic melanomas may be only focally positive. SOX10 is also thought to target dopachrome tautomerase through a synergistic interaction with MITF, which then results in other melanocyte alteration.SOX10 can influence the generation of Myelin Protein Zero (MPZ) transcription through its interactions with proteins such as OLIG1 and EGR2, which is important for the functionality of neurons. Other cofactors have been identified, such as SP1, OCT6, NMI, FOXD3 and SOX2.The interaction between SOX10 and NMI seems to be coexpressed in glial cells, gliomas, and the spinal cord and has been shown to modulate the transcriptional activity of SOX10. See also
SOX genes
List of histologic stains that aid in diagnosis of cutaneous conditions

References
Further reading
External links
SOX10+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Translocated promoter region is a component of the tpr-met fusion protein. In female mice, R2d2 somehow displaces the chromosome that doesn’t contain it and it is preferentially incorporated into eggs. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] Food and Drug Administration-commissioned studies in 2011 indicate that in children, young adults, and adults, there is no association between serious adverse cardiovascular events (sudden death, heart attack, and stroke) and the medical use of methylphenidate or other ADHD stimulants.Because some adverse effects may only emerge during chronic use of methylphenidate, a constant watch for adverse effects is recommended.A 2018 Cochrane review found that methylphenidate might be associated with serious side effects such as heart problems, psychosis, and death. Non-stimulant medications, such as atomoxetine, or Viloxazine, are also recommended for some ADHD adults. These problems may play a role in the high levels of depression, substance abuse, and relationship problems that affect adults with ADHD later in life. While there is some debate about whether to treat ADHD adults with substance use disorder (SUD) with stimulants, the 2019 Updated European Consensus Statement on diagnosis and treatment of adult ADHD notes that "in SUD patients, treatment of ADHD [with stimulants] can be useful to reduce ADHD symptoms without worsening the SUD, and should not be avoided".Amphetamine and its derivatives, prototype stimulants, are available in immediate and long-acting formulations. Stimulants, however, may reduce the risk of unintentional injuries in children with ADHD.This class of medicines is generally regarded as one unit; however, they affect the brain differently. The behavioral response to stimulants in children is similar regardless of whether they have ADHD or not.Stimulant medication is an effective treatment for adult attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder although the response rate may be lower for adults than children. Research on this issue has indicated that stimulant medication can help younger children with "severe ADHD symptoms" but typically at a lower dose than older children. Recent extremely large-scale studies by the FDA indicate that, in children, young adults, and adults, there is no association between serious adverse cardiovascular events (sudden death, myocardial infarction, and stroke) and the medical use of amphetamine, methylphenidate, or other ADHD stimulants. 
Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] Prevention
A person's risk of developing heart failure is inversely related to level of physical activity. While the annual incidence rate of heart failure for non-diabetic women with no risk factors is 0.4%, the annual incidence rate for diabetic women with elevated body mass index (BMI) and depressed creatinine clearance was 7% and 13%, respectively. Sex
Men have a higher incidence of heart failure, but the overall prevalence rate is similar in both sexes since women survive longer after the onset of heart failure. Women tend to be older when diagnosed with heart failure (after menopause), they are more likely than men to have diastolic dysfunction, and seem to experience a lower overall quality of life than men after diagnosis. Cardiovascular Mortality
The total number of cardiovascular deaths during the 106 weeks of the study was statistically significantly lower (p = 0.026) in the Q10 treatment arm (N = 18, 9%) than in the control arm (N = 34, 16%), a relative reduction of 43.8% in risk of cardiovascular death. Hospital Stays for Heart Failure
The number of hospital stays for heart failure during the 106 weeks was statistically significantly lower (p = 0.033) in the Q10 treatment arm (N = 17, 8%) as compared to the control arm (N = 31, 14%), a relative reduction of 42.8%. In the European sub-group, ejection fraction and NYHA classification improved significantly, and both all-cause and cardiovascular mortality decreased significantly.The researchers concluded that the evidence from the European sub-group analysis re-affirms the evidence of the therapeutic efficacy of the CoQ10 adjuvant therapy despite the greater adherence to guideline-directed therapy in the European sub-group than in the entire group of chronic heart failure patients. There was a significant reduction (p = 0.015) of cardiovascular mortality in the Q10 treatment arm as compared with the placebo group (5.9% vs. 12.6%, a relative reduction of 53%). 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. [SEP] Human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated oropharyngeal cancer awareness and prevention is a vital concept from a public and community health perspective. According to the CDC, during an analysis of reported data from national cancer and epidemiological registries between 2008 and 2012, of 30,700 cases of cancer estimated to be caused by HPV, 24,600 (9500 oropharyngeal) were found to be caused by strains HPV 16 and HPV 18 (which are preventable through vaccination) and 3,800 (900 oropharyngeal) were found to be caused by 5 other preventable strains. In 2020, a review including post-study follow up from the three randomized controlled trials, as well as newer observational studies, found a 59% relative reduction in HIV incidence, and 1.31% absolute decrease across the three randomized controlled trials, as well as continued protection for up to 6 years after the studies began. One goal of cervical screening is to allow for intervention and treatment so the abnormal lesions can be removed prior to progression to cancer. An additional goal is to decrease mortality from cervical cancer by identifying cancerous lesions in their early stages and providing treatment prior to progression to more invasive disease.Currently available screening tests fall into three categories: molecular, cytologic and visual inspection. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a cause of nearly all cases of cervical cancer. In women over the age of 65, screening for cervical cancer may be discontinued in the absence of abnormal screening results within the prior 10 years and no history of high-grade lesions. The number of new cases decreases every year at a rate of 2.4%, and this is believed to be related to decreased cigarette smoking in the general population.Laryngeal cancer is listed as a "rare disease" by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. [SEP] Cervical cancer screening is a medical screening test designed to identify abnormal, potentially precancerous cells within the cervix as well as cells that have progressed to early stages of cervical cancer. One goal of cervical screening is to allow for intervention and treatment so the abnormal lesions can be removed prior to progression to cancer. An additional goal is to decrease mortality from cervical cancer by identifying cancerous lesions in their early stages and providing treatment prior to progression to more invasive disease.Currently available screening tests fall into three categories: molecular, cytologic and visual inspection. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a cause of nearly all cases of cervical cancer. types 16, 18, 31, 45) are more likely to develop Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia, due to the effects that HPV has on DNA.The screening process utilizes nucleic acid amplification testing to look for DNA or RNA of the virus present within cervical cells. Primary testing for oncogenic HPV can be used in a population-based programme for cervical cancer screening. Cervical cancer usually takes time to develop, so delaying the start of screening a few years poses little risk of missing a potentially precancerous lesion. Cancer screening and early detection services are generally offered in public health centres, especially for breast and cervical cancer. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] Rabaptin is a key protein involved in regeneration of injured axons. Leucine-rich repeat (LRR) protein SHOC-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SHOC2 gene. The best-studied role of SHOC2 is in modulating  signals of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) pathway by forming a holophosphatase complex that activates RAF proteins(PMID 16630891, 33526449). This protein was initially identified in Caenorhabditis elegans as SUR-8/SOC2 and was found to be a critical positive regulator of the ERK1/2 signaling pathway that integrates the Ras and RAF components of the ERK1/2 pathway into a multiprotein complex. The ternary complex SHOC2-RAS-PP1C functions to dephosphorylate an inhibitory phosphorylation site ('S259') on RAF family proteins to enable MAPK signaling(PMID 16630891). SHOC2 Dependent Dynamic Regulation of MAPK signaling
The amplitude of SHOC2-mediated ERK1/2 signals has been proposed to be regulated by differential regulation of RAF activation at the plasma membrane and internalized endosome compartment (PMID 31213532) as well an alternative model proposing post-translational modifications(PMID 25022756). SHOC2 ubiquitination mediated by HUWE1 is triggered by growth factor activation of the ERK1/2 pathway and is a prerequisite for the subsequent ubiquitination of the RAF-1 kinase associated with SHOC2. Conditions associated with a propulsive gait
Carbon monoxide poisoning
Parkinson's disease
Manganese Toxicity


== References == 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] Dose-dense chemotherapy is a chemotherapy treatment plan in which drugs are given with less time between treatments than in a standard chemotherapy treatment plan.The Gompertzian model of tumor cell growth shows tumor cells growing fastest when the tumor is small. Although the dose is reduced in each treatment, the total quantity of chemotherapy may or may not be increased over the duration of the typical treatment time. Bone marrow suppression is a serious side effect of chemotherapy and certain drugs affecting the immune system such as azathioprine. The decrease in blood cell counts does not occur right at the start of chemotherapy because the drugs do not destroy the cells already in the bloodstream (these are not dividing rapidly). Chemotherapy induced myelosuppression
Bone marrow suppression due to anti-cancer chemotherapy is much harder to treat and often involves hospital admission, strict infection control, and aggressive use of intravenous antibiotics at the first sign of infection.G-CSF is used clinically (see Neutropenia) but tests in mice suggest it may lead to bone loss.GM-CSF has been compared to G-CSF as a treatment of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression/Neutropenia.Trilaciclib (COSELA), a CDK4/6 inhibitor, is administered before chemotherapy in small cell lung cancer to control chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression. In other words, in blood vessels with diameters less than 500 micrometers, the hematocrit decreases with decreasing capillary diameter. First, 
  
    
      
        
          μ
          
            e
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu _{e}}
   decreased with decreasing capillary radius, R. This decrease was most pronounced for capillary diameters < 0.5mm. At a low concentration, the drugs primarily act on the tumor microenvironment including the tumor endothelial cells and immune cells. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] In recent studies, several associations between low levels of vitamin D, or hypovitaminosis D, and neuropsychiatric disorders have begun to surface. Low levels of Vitamin D have also been associated with other conditions such as heart disease, cancer and kidney disease but further research is required. Recent evidence suggests Vitamin D is also linked to many other health diseases such as cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus, multiple sclerosis and some form of cancer. Vitamin D deficiency can result in lower bone mineral density and an increased risk of reduced bone density (osteoporosis) or bone fracture because a lack of vitamin D alters mineral metabolism in the body. Low serum vitamin D levels have been associated with falls, and low bone mineral density. Cancer
Potential associations have been found between low vitamin D levels and the risk of developing several types of cancer. Cognition and dementia
A systematic review of clinical studies found an association between low vitamin D levels with cognitive impairment and a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Schizophrenia
Trials have demonstrated lower vitamin D levels are highly prevalent in people with schizophrenia, particularly those with acute episodes. 
Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. [SEP] Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 or human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV-I), also called the adult T-cell lymphoma virus type 1, is a retrovirus of the human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV) family that has been implicated in several kinds of diseases including very aggressive adult T-cell lymphoma (ATL), HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, uveitis, Strongyloides stercoralis hyper-infection and some other diseases. In Africa the prevalence is not well known, but it is about 1% in some countries.HTLV-I infection in the United States appears to be about half as prevalent among IV drug users and about one-tenth as prevalent in the population at large as HIV infection. Opportunistic infections
Individuals infected with HTLV-1 are at risk for opportunistic infections—diseases not caused by the virus itself, but by alterations in the host's immune functions.HTLV-1, unlike the distantly related retrovirus HIV, has an immunostimulating effect which actually becomes immunosuppressive. The ones that infect humans are known as human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV), and the ones that infect Old World monkeys are called simian T-lymphotropic viruses (STLVs). The ones that infect humans are known as human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV), and the ones that infect Old World monkeys are called simian T-lymphotropic viruses (STLVs). Studies of HTLV-1 antibody indicate that the virus is endemic in southern Japan, in the Caribbean, South America, and in Africa.ATL is relatively uncommon among those infected with HTLV-1. "Seizing of T Cells by Human T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma Virus Type 1". Seizing of T Cells by Human T-Cell Leukemia⧸Lymphoma Virus Type 1. 
Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. [SEP] It is the product of both the class II and III phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI 3-kinases) activity on phosphatidylinositol.PtdIns3P is dephosphorylated by the myotubularin family of phosphatases, on the D3 position of the inositol ring, and can be converted to PtdIns(3,5)P2 by the lipid kinase PIKfyve.Both FYVE domains and PX domains – found in proteins such as SNX1, HGS, and EEA1 – bind to PtdIns3P.The majority of PtdIns3P appears to be constitutively synthesised by the class III PI 3-kinase, PIK3C3 (Vps34), at endocytic membranes. [1] PI kinases catalyze phosphate groups binding while PI phosphatases remove phosphate groups at the three positions on the PI inositol ring, giving seven different combinations of PI’s.PtdIns(3,4)P2 is dephophosphorylated by the phosphatase INPP4B on the 4 position of the inositol ring and by the TPTE (transmembrane phosphatases with tensin homology) family of phosphatases on the 3 position of the inositol ring. Class I and II phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) synthesize PtdIns(3,4)P2 by phosphorylating the phosphoinositide PI4P’s 3-OH position. Phosphatases SHIP1 and SH2-containing inositol 5’-polyphosphatases (SHIP2) produce PtdIns(3,4)P2 through desphosphorylation of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3’s 5’ inositol ring position. Inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase isozymes, INPP4A and INPP4B, also act as negative PtdIns(3,4)P2 regulators, though through a more direct interaction- by hydrolyzing PtdIns(3,4)P2’s 4-phosphate, producing PI3P. This enzyme catalyses the following chemical reaction

1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 4,5-bisphosphate + H2O 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 5-phosphate + phosphateThis enzyme participates in one of the mammalian pathways for degradation of 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2]. In enzymology, a phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 3-kinase (EC 2.7.1.154) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction

ATP + 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 4-phosphate 
  
    
      
        ⇌
      
    
    {\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }
   ADP + 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 3,4-bisphosphateThus, the two substrates of this enzyme are ATP and 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 4-phosphate, whereas its two products are ADP and 1-phosphatidyl-1D-myo-inositol 3,4-bisphosphate. "Synthesis and function of 3-phosphorylated inositol lipids". 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] Homelessness services are specialized programs assisting homeless people. Services supporting homeless people may assist them to achieve positive change in their life and reduce the use of both homelessness services and of other welfare services. The study found that  40 per cent of Australian specialist homelessness services provide mental health services and 35 per cent also provide drug and alcohol support


== References == A review of the impact of these services found that they can improve health outcomes among chronically homeless individuals, including positive changes in self-reported mental health status, substance use, and overall well-being. A study of homeless people in New York City with serious mental illness found that providing supportive housing to the individuals directly resulted in a 60% decrease in emergency shelter use for clients, as well as decreases in the use of public medical and mental health services and city jails and state prisons. With a focus on permanent supportive housing as a means of ending chronic homelessness, the plan outlines an interagency effort aligning mainstream housing, health, education, and human services. Addressing Chronic Disease Within Supportive Housing Programs
Detroit’s focus on supportive housing drives down homelessness 15 percent

References
Further reading
AcademyHealth. Rapid Evidence Review: What Housing-related Services and Supports Improve Health Outcomes among Chronically Homeless Individuals?. 
Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. [SEP] Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is a technique for treating insomnia without (or alongside) medications. Currently no treatment method is recommended over another; neither is it recommended to administer a single intervention over a combination of different interventions.CBT-I has been found to be an effective form of treatment of insomnia. Cognitive therapy
Cognitive therapy within CBT-I is not synonymous with versions of cognitive behavioral therapy that are not targeted at insomnia. When dealing with insomnia, cognitive therapy is mostly about offering education about sleep in order to target dysfunctional beliefs/attitudes about sleep. Thus it is not surprising that treating insomnia with CBT-I can help to improve mood disorders. Research suggests that acceptance and commitment therapy might even be effective in patients not responding to CBT-I.Biofeedback has been shown to be an effective treatment for insomnia and is listed in the American Academy of Sleep Medicine treatment guidelines. This can help insomnia patients to control their physiological arousal.Researchers have also recently begun re-exploring the utility of the individual components of CBT-I, when delivered as monotherapies or multi-component therapies without cognitive therapy. See also
Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia

References
Sources
Kragh, M.; Martiny, K.; Videbech, P.; Møller, D. N.; Wihlborg, C. S.; Lindhardt, T.; Larsen, E. R. (December 2017). 
Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] Causes of chronic kidney failure include diabetes, high blood pressure, nephrotic syndrome, and polycystic kidney disease. Diabetic nephropathy is the leading causes of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) globally. Diabetic nephropathy is associated with an increased risk of death in general, particularly from cardiovascular disease. The main risk factors that increase the likelihood of developing diabetic nephropathy are:
Poor control of blood glucose
Uncontrolled high blood pressure
Type 1 diabetes mellitus, with onset before age 20
Past or current cigarette use
A family history of diabetic nephropathy- certain genes have been identified that are associated with DN. This means that as kidney function worsens in the setting of DN, some patients with insulin-dependent DM may find that their regular insulin doses are lasting longer than normal, or that they are experiencing an increasing frequency of hypoglycemic episodes. Patients with diabetic nephropathy might go on to develop end stage renal disease and require kidney transplantation or hemodialysis. Diabetic nephropathy is the most common cause of end-stage kidney disease, which may require hemodialysis or even kidney transplantation. Diabetic kidney disease progression could lead to ESRD as well as an increased risk of cardiovascular complications, all of which cause a substantial economic burden. 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance [SEP] Technology
Technology has become an important factor in collaborative learning. Blended learning methods can also result in high levels of student achievement more effective than face-to-face learning.By using a combination of digital instruction and one-on-one face time, students can work on their own with new concepts which frees teachers up to circulate and support individual students who may need individualized attention. "Proponents of blended learning argue that incorporating the "asynchronous Internet communication technology" into higher education courses serves to "facilitate a simultaneous independent and collaborative learning experience".This incorporation is a major contributor to student satisfaction and success in such courses. The use of information and communication technologies have been found to improve student attitudes towards learning.By incorporating information technology into class projects, communication between lecturers and part-time students has improved, and students were able to better evaluate their understanding of course material via the use of "computer-based qualitative and quantitative assessment modules".Blended learning also has the potential to reduce educational expenses, although some dispute that blended learning is inherently less expensive than physical classroom learning.Blended learning can lower costs by putting classrooms in the online space and it essentially replaces pricey textbooks with electronic devices that students often bring themselves to class. Other aspects of blended learning that can be challenging is group work because of difficulties with management in an online setting.Reportedly the use of lecture recording technologies can result in students falling behind on the materials. Designing Collaborative Learning Systems: Current Trends & Future Research Agenda. Application of online discussion and cooperative learning strategies to online and blended college courses. Virtual warrenshburg: Using cooperative learning and the internet in the social studies classroom. 
Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] Ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug. Medical uses
Ivermectin is used to treat human diseases caused by roundworms and a wide variety of external parasites. Worm infections
For river blindness (onchocerciasis) and lymphatic filariasis, ivermectin is typically given as part of mass drug administration campaigns that distribute the drug to all members of a community affected by the disease. Ivermectin is also the primary treatment for Mansonella ozzardi and cutaneous larva migrans. In 1998, that donation would be expanded to include ivermectin used to treat lymphatic filariasis.Ivermectin earned the title of "wonder drug" for the treatment of nematodes and arthropod parasites. Ivermectin has been used safely by hundreds of millions of people to treat river blindness and lymphatic filariasis.Half of the 2015 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded jointly to Campbell and Ōmura for discovering avermectin, "the derivatives of which have radically lowered the incidence of river blindness and lymphatic filariasis, as well as showing efficacy against an expanding number of other parasitic diseases". Tropical diseases
As of 2016 ivermectin was studied as a potential antiviral agent against chikungunya and yellow fever. Ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug that is well-established for use in animals and people. 
Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. [SEP] Ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug. Medical uses
Ivermectin is used to treat human diseases caused by roundworms and a wide variety of external parasites. Worm infections
For river blindness (onchocerciasis) and lymphatic filariasis, ivermectin is typically given as part of mass drug administration campaigns that distribute the drug to all members of a community affected by the disease. Mites and insects
Ivermectin is also used to treat infection with parasitic arthropods. Research
Parasitic disease
Ivermectin has been researched in laboratory animals, as a potential treatment for trichinosis. Veterinary use
Ivermectin is routinely used to control parasitic worms in the gastrointestinal tract of ruminant animals. While it has been used for onchocerciasis (river blindness), ivermectin is preferred. Ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug that is well-established for use in animals and people. 
LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] The lipid hypothesis (also known as the cholesterol hypothesis) is a medical theory postulating a link between blood cholesterol levels and the occurrence of cardiovascular disease. Consensus
The medical consensus supports the lipid hypothesis as evidence from separate meta-analyses, prospective epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that elevated levels of LDL blood cholesterol are a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Too much LDL (called 'bad cholesterol') can lead to fatty deposits building up in the arteries which increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. A 2017 consensus statement from the European Atherosclerosis Society concluded that "consistent evidence from numerous and multiple different types of clinical and genetic studies unequivocally establishes that LDL causes ASCVD." The cholesterol was found to be responsible for the thickening of the arterial walls and thus decreasing the radius in the arteries which leads in most cases to hypertension and increased risk of occlusive vascular diseases.In the 1950s the Framingham heart study led by Dawber revealed the correlation between high blood cholesterol levels and coronary heart diseases. Following up from that study the researchers explored a novel way to lower blood cholesterol levels without modifying the diet and lifestyle of subjects suffering with elevated blood cholesterol levels. There were no extra deaths from other non-cardiac causes such as cancer or trauma. Non-fatal CHD events and fatal and non-fatal cerebrovascular events were reduced without an increase in risk of cancer. 
Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. [SEP] Bacillus subtilis is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive bacteria that is naturally found in soil and vegetation, and is known for its ability to form a small, tough, protective and metabolically dormant endospore. Overview
Commitment to sporulation
Although sporulation in B. subtilis is induced by starvation, the sporulation developmental program is not initiated immediately when growth slows due to nutrient limitation. See also
Bacillus
Sporophyte
Bacillus subtilis

References
External links
SubtiList - GenoList - Institut Pasteur
SubtilisWiki (archived)
Bacillus subtilis - Parts Registry
Video - Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis Cell wall-deficient bacteria: basic principles and clinical significance. L. lactis does not produce spores (nonsporulating) and are not motile (nonmotile). Most types of bacteria cannot change to the endospore form. Life cycle of bacteria
The bacterial life cycle does not necessarily include sporulation. Sporulation requires the presence of free oxygen. 
Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] Fewer than 10 cases have been reported in the literature. Metombola is a minor Bantu language of Gabon. Neutrophil-specific granule deficiency ( previously known as lactoferrin deficiency) is a rare congenital immunodeficiency characterized  by an increased risk for pyogenic infections due to defective production of specific granules and gelatinase granules in patient neutrophils. One patient, heterozygous for the mutation, was found to be deficient in GFI1, a related gene. 5,10-Methenyltetrahydrofolate synthetase deficiency (MTHFS deficiency) is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations affecting the MTHFS gene, which encodes the enzyme 5,10-Methenyltetrahydrofolate synthetase.The disease starts at birth or in early infancy and presents with microcephaly, short stature, and developmental delay. Mutations of the MTHFS gene disrupt folate metabolism, which is very important for the proper development of the nervous system and myelination of nerve fibers.Patients present with cerebral folate deficiency, a condition in which there are reduced levels of 5-MTHF in the cerebrospinal fluid. However, contrary to other causes of cerebral folate deficiency, the use of folinic acid for treatment may be contraindicated due to excess levels of folinic acid in the organism of patients.The first case report of MTHFS deficiency was published in 2018. See also
Cerebral folate deficiency


== References == 
Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. [SEP] Ras also cooperates with Rho and Ras to activate other downstream signaling pathways. RhoA is activated primarily by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) via phosphorylation; due to large network of overlapping phosphorylation, a multitude of GEFs are utilized to enable specific signaling pathways. Transcriptional control
Activated RhoA also participates in regulating transcriptional control over other signal transduction pathways via various cellular factors. RhoA plays a pivotal role in G1 cell cycle progression, primarily through regulation of cyclin D1 and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (p21 and p27) expression. RhoA specifically suppresses p21 levels in normal and transformed cell lines via a p53-independent transcriptional mechanism while p27 levels are regulated using effector Rho-associated kinases. Interactions
RHOA has been shown to interact with:

Clinical significance
Cancer
Given that its overexpression is found in many malignancies, RhoA activity has been linked within several cancer applications due to its significant involvement in cancer signaling cascades. RhoA mediates androgen-responsiveness of these SRF genes; as a result, interference with RhoA has been shown to prevent the androgen regulation of SRF genes. Unexpectedly, this analysis also revealed a compensatory relationship between RhoA and RhoC at the level of both their expression and activation, and a reciprocal relationship between RhoA and Rac1 activation. 
Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] They are also more likely to receive blood transfusions, which carries risks for various conditions, including transfusion reactions, lung injury, circulatory overload and alloimmunization. Adverse effects from granulocyte transfusions include fever, chills, respiratory symptoms, transfusion-transmitted infections, and the development of antibodies against human leukocyte antigens, which can interfere with subsequent transfusions. Finally, people who receive granulocyte transfusions may develop antibodies against the human leukocyte antigens found on the surface of white blood cells, which can predispose them to transfusion reactions, decrease the lifespan of donor white blood cells in their circulation, and reduce the efficacy of platelet transfusions and allogeneic stem cell transplants. Leukostasis (also called symptomatic hyperleukocytosis) is a medical emergency most commonly seen in patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Symptoms of leukostasis start when blood levels of leukocytes reach over 100 x 10^9 / L (100,000 / microL). Theory 1
Increased blood viscosity due to large leukemic blast populations which are less deformable than mature leukocytes may lead to leukostasis. Rare complications of leukostasis include renal vein thrombosis, priapism, and acute ischemia of the leg. Diagnosis
The clinical signs and symptoms of leukostasis are non-specific but should be suspected in susceptible individuals with leukemia, a high white blood cell count (e.g., over 100,000), and new-onset neurologic or respiratory signs or symptoms. 
Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] This method reduces the infectious levels of disease-causing agents that may be found in donated blood components, while still maintaining good quality blood components for transfusion. Leukoreduction is the removal of white blood cells (or leukocytes) from the blood or blood components supplied for blood transfusion. After the removal of the leukocytes, the blood product is said to be leukoreduced. According to the meta-analysis, use of leukoreduced blood reduced the frequency of post-transfusion infection by 50%. In a previous study, Blumberg and others reported that a change to universal use of leukoreduced blood at Strong Memorial Hospital at University of Rochester reduced post-transfusion infection by 33-45%.However, other scientific studies question the effectiveness of leukoreduction. A March 2007 study by researchers at University of South Alabama Medical Center found no reduction of mortality or length of hospital stay in 439 trauma patients who received leukoreduced transfusions compared to 240 patients who did not. University of Washington researchers reported in October 2006 that a study of 286 transfused injury patients showed no reduction in mortality or length of stay, although a 16% reduction in rate of infection was shown with marginal statistical significance.Leukoreduction has the inadvertent effect of removing approximately 10% of red blood cells from a processed unit of Red Blood Cells. The Blood Products Advisory Committee of the Food and Drug Administration recommends that all transfused blood products undergo leukocyte reduction in order to offset the contribution of donor white blood cells to immune suppression. 
Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a [SEP] PIN1/2/3/4/7 in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana) localize at the plasma membrane (PM) where they serve as secondary active transporters involved in the efflux of auxin. PIN5 and 8 in Arabidopsis) localize mostly at the ER-membrane or have a dual PM and ER localisation (e.g. PIN6 in Arabidopsis). These PIN proteins regulate the partitioning of auxin within the cell. The PM-localized PIN proteins physically interact with a few members of the large PGP family of transporters that also work as auxin efflux carriers (PGP1 and PGP19 in Arabidopsis). The activity and localization of the PM-localized PIN proteins is regulated by several phosphorylations on their large cytosolic hydrophilic loop carried out by kinases of the AGC family (e.g. Pin is a small protein at 18 kDa and does not have a nuclear localization or export signal. reported that Pin1 has putative novel nuclear localization signal (NLS) and Pin1 interacts with importin α5 (KPNA1). 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a [SEP] PIN1/2/3/4/7 in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana) localize at the plasma membrane (PM) where they serve as secondary active transporters involved in the efflux of auxin. The PM-localized PIN proteins show asymmetrical localisations on the membrane and are therefore responsible for polar auxin transport. PIN5 and 8 in Arabidopsis) localize mostly at the ER-membrane or have a dual PM and ER localisation (e.g. PIN6 in Arabidopsis). These PIN proteins regulate the partitioning of auxin within the cell. The PM-localized PIN proteins physically interact with a few members of the large PGP family of transporters that also work as auxin efflux carriers (PGP1 and PGP19 in Arabidopsis). The activity and localization of the PM-localized PIN proteins is regulated by several phosphorylations on their large cytosolic hydrophilic loop carried out by kinases of the AGC family (e.g. reported that Pin1 has putative novel nuclear localization signal (NLS) and Pin1 interacts with importin α5 (KPNA1). 
Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] In molecular biology mir-M7 microRNA is a short RNA molecule. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. See also
MicroRNA

References
Further reading
External links

Page for mir-M7 microRNA precursor family at Rfam miR-720 is significantly downregulated following child delivery, thus suggesting a role in pregnancy as well as a possible placental derivation. miR-720 Upregulation
miR-720 is upregulated in myelodysplastic syndromes, in molar tooth germ in newborn mice following anti-miR-214 injection and in mesangial cells (specialised smooth muscle cells in the kidneys) treated with microRNA inhibitor. miR-279 fine-tunes JAK/STAT signaling in the ovary by negatively regulating stat (unlike the neurons, where it is reported to regulate upd). In molecular biology mir-767 microRNA is a short RNA molecule. See also
MicroRNA

References
Further reading
External links

Page for mir-767 microRNA precursor family at Rfam 
Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. [SEP] In molecular biology mir-M7 microRNA is a short RNA molecule. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. See also
MicroRNA

References
Further reading
External links

Page for mir-M7 microRNA precursor family at Rfam MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. miR-720 is significantly downregulated following child delivery, thus suggesting a role in pregnancy as well as a possible placental derivation. miR-720 Upregulation
miR-720 is upregulated in myelodysplastic syndromes, in molar tooth germ in newborn mice following anti-miR-214 injection and in mesangial cells (specialised smooth muscle cells in the kidneys) treated with microRNA inhibitor. In molecular biology mir-767 microRNA is a short RNA molecule. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. [SEP] Decreased  DNA Methylation I (DDM1), is a plant gene that encodes a nucleosome remodeler which facilitates DNA methylation. In virtually every organism analyzed, methylation in promoter regions correlates negatively with gene expression. This low level of methylation appears to reside in genomic sequence patterns that are very different from patterns seen in humans, or in other animal or plant species to date. In fungi
Many fungi have low levels (0.1 to 0.5%) of cytosine methylation, whereas other fungi have as much as 5% of the genome methylated. DNA methylation is not impervious to external conditions. Methylation sites
CoRSIVs are Correlated Regions of Systemic Interindividual Variation in DNA methylation. Sequence-Dependent Allele-Specific Methylation
DNA methylation imbalances between homologous chromosomes show sequence-dependent behavior. Recent studies have uncovered connections between nucleosome positioning and other epigenetic factors, such as DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation. 
Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. [SEP] In systemic lupus there are autoantibodies to DNA, which cannot evoke a T cell response, and limited evidence for T cell responses implicates nucleoprotein antigens. Environmental factors
Infectious diseases and parasites
An interesting inverse relationship exists between infectious diseases and autoimmune diseases. A paradoxical observation has been the strong association of certain microbial organisms with autoimmune diseases. Pathogenesis of autoimmunity
Several mechanisms are thought to be operative in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, against a backdrop of genetic predisposition and environmental modulation. Many autoimmune diseases (notably lupus erythematosus) are associated with such antibodies. It is thought that some autoantibody production is due to a genetic predisposition combined with an environmental trigger, such as a viral illness or a prolonged exposure to certain toxic chemicals. Usually, these factors contribute to lupus by influencing the immune system. Unlike autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus, in which the disease is caused by abnormalities of the adaptive immune system, people with autoinflammatory diseases do not produce autoantibodies or antigen-specific T or B cells. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] Ly49 is a family of membrane C-type lectin-like receptors expressed mainly on NK cells but also on other immune cells (some CD8+ and CD3+ T lymphocytes, intestinal epithelial lymphocytes (IELs), NKT cells, uterine NK cells (uNK) cells, macrophages or dendritic cells). Ly49 family is coded by Klra gene cluster and include genes for both inhibitory and activating paired receptors, but most of them are inhibitory. Inhibitory Ly49 receptors play a role in the recognition of self cells and thus maintain self-tolerance and prevent autoimmunity by suppressing NK cell activation. They express several types of inhibitory and activating receptors on their surface, including the Ly49 receptor family, which have roles in NK cell licensing, antiviral, and antitumor immunity,.NK cells are activated when signal from activating receptors outweighs inhibitory signals. Some Ly49 receptors have evolved to recognise specific viral proteins, for example Ly49H binds to murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) glycoprotein m157. Mouse strains without Ly49H are more susceptible to MCMV infection. Lipid rafts influence membrane fluidity and membrane protein trafficking, thereby regulating neurotransmission and receptor trafficking. References
External links
Ly-49+antigen at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. [SEP] Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell. The intermediate monocyte expresses high levels of CD14 and low levels of CD16 (CD14++CD16+ monocytes).While in humans the level of CD14 expression can be used to differentiate non-classical and intermediate monocytes, the slan (6-Sulfo LacNAc) cell surface marker was shown to give an unequivocal separation of the two cell types.Ghattas et al. Depending on which tissues they are expressed in, LY6 family members  have different roles. Protein structure
Ly6 proteins are characterized by the LU domain. Many Ly6 family members are expressed in hematopoietic precursors and differentiated hematopoietic cells in a lineage-specific manner and making them useful cell surface markers for leukocytes, facilitating identification of distinct leukocyte sub-population.Further, the Ly6 family proteins are also expressed, for example, by sperm, neurons, keratinocytes and epithelial cells. Function
Ly6 family proteins have different functions depending on expression in different tissues. Increased expression of Ly6E is associated with poor survival outcome in multiple malignancies as determined by a survey of more than 130 published clinical studies of gene expression studies on cancer tissue samples and adjacent normal tissues. Ly6E is associated with drug resistance and tumor immune escape in breast cancer. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] Monocytes are a type of leukocyte or white blood cell. The intermediate monocyte expresses high levels of CD14 and low levels of CD16 (CD14++CD16+ monocytes).While in humans the level of CD14 expression can be used to differentiate non-classical and intermediate monocytes, the slan (6-Sulfo LacNAc) cell surface marker was shown to give an unequivocal separation of the two cell types.Ghattas et al. Inflammatory monocytes (CX3CR1low, CCR2pos, Ly6Chigh, PD-L1neg), which are equivalent to human classical CD14++ CD16− monocytes and resident monocytes (CX3CR1high, CCR2neg, Ly6Clow, PD-L1pos), which are equivalent to human non-classical CD14+ CD16+ monocytes. Depending on which tissues they are expressed in, LY6 family members  have different roles. Many Ly6 family members are expressed in hematopoietic precursors and differentiated hematopoietic cells in a lineage-specific manner and making them useful cell surface markers for leukocytes, facilitating identification of distinct leukocyte sub-population.Further, the Ly6 family proteins are also expressed, for example, by sperm, neurons, keratinocytes and epithelial cells. Function
Ly6 family proteins have different functions depending on expression in different tissues. Increased expression of Ly6E is associated with poor survival outcome in multiple malignancies as determined by a survey of more than 130 published clinical studies of gene expression studies on cancer tissue samples and adjacent normal tissues. Ly6E is associated with drug resistance and tumor immune escape in breast cancer. 
Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] Expression
SHP-1 gene has two promoters: P-1, active in epithelial cells, and P-2, active in hemopoietic cells. In addition the expression of SHP-1 is low in epithelial cells and high in hemopoietic cells. SHP-1 level in epithelial cells increases and in hematopoietic cells decreases in cancer. Role in pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2
Dysregulation of WNK4 kinase activity
In 2001, four missense mutations in the WNK4 gene were identified in patients with pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 (PHAII) (Fig. SH3BP2 binds differentially to the SH3 domains of certain proteins of signal transduction pathways. These data suggests that Shp2 may be a proto-oncogene. Once activated by SRC phosphorylation, CagA binds to SHP2, allosterically activating it. Pathophysiology
In the two predominant mutations of NSML (Y279C and T468M) the mutations cause a loss of catalytic activity of the SHP2 protein (the gene product of the PTPN11 gene), which is a previously unrecognized behavior for this class of mutations. 
Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] Aspirin is contraindicated in patients with documented allergy or known platelet disorder. Prasugrel must not be given to patients with a history of ischemic stroke or aged 75 years or older. Antiarrhythmic agents are typically only given to individuals with life-threatening arrhythmias after a myocardial infarction and not to suppress the ventricular ectopy that is often seen after a myocardial infarction.Cardiac rehabilitation aims to optimize function and quality of life in those affected by a heart disease. Special cases
Cocaine
Cocaine associated myocardial infarction should be managed in a manner similar to other patients with acute coronary syndrome, except that beta blockers should not be used and benzodiazepines should be administered early. Carbomycin has been successful in treating neither staphylococcal sepsis nor bacterial endocarditis. There were no adverse reactions found to be associated with the use of carbomycin. Pirolazamide (SC-26,438) is an antiarrhythmic agent that was never marked. Following the clinical overuse of macrolides and azalides, ketolides have been developed to combat surfacing macrolide-azalide resistance among streptococci species. 
Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] Monteplase is an antithrombic proposed for use in acute myocardial infarction. The Macrolides are a class of natural products that consist of a large macrocyclic lactone ring to which one or more deoxy sugars, usually cladinose and desosamine, may be attached. Macrolides belong to the polyketide class of natural products. Some macrolides have antibiotic or antifungal activity and are used as pharmaceutical drugs. Rapamycin is also a macrolide and was originally developed as an antifungal, but is now used as an immunosuppressant drug and is being investigated as a potential longevity therapeutic.Macrolides are bacteriostatic in that they suppress or inhibit bacterial growth rather than killing bacteria completely. Uses
Antibiotic macrolides are used to treat infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria (e.g., Streptococcus pneumoniae) and limited Gram-negative bacteria (e.g., Bordetella pertussis, Haemophilus influenzae), and some respiratory tract and soft-tissue infections. The mechanism of action of macrolides is inhibition of bacterial protein biosynthesis, and they are thought to do this by preventing peptidyltransferase from adding the growing peptide attached to tRNA to the next amino acid (similarly to chloramphenicol) as well as inhibiting bacterial ribosomal translation. Side-effects
A 2008 British Medical Journal article highlights that the combination of some macrolides and statins (used for lowering cholesterol) is not advisable and can lead to debilitating myopathy. 
Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. [SEP] Role of endocytosis
Intracellular transport is an overarching category of how cells obtain nutrients and signals. In cellular biology, pinocytosis, otherwise known as fluid endocytosis and bulk-phase pinocytosis, is a mode of endocytosis in which small molecules dissolved in extracellular fluid are brought into the cell through an invagination of the cell membrane, resulting in their containment within a small vesicle inside the cell. Macropinocytosis
Macropinocytosis is a clathrin-independent endocytic mechanism that can be activated in practically all animal cells, resulting in uptake. Macropinocytosis is a solely degradative pathway: macropinosomes acidify and then fuse with late endosomes or endolysosomes, without recycling their cargo back to the plasma membrane.Some bacteria and viruses have evolved to induce macropinocytosis as a mechanism for entering host cells. Macropinosomes are a type of cellular compartment that form as a result of macropinocytosis. Function
Macropinosomes serve primarily in the uptake of solutes from the extracellular fluid. Regulation
PI3K and phosphoinositide phospholipase C activation have been shown to be necessary for macropinosome formation in fibroblasts. Role in pathogenesis
Because the process of macropinocytosis is non-specific, many pathogens take advantage of macropinosomes to infect their target cells. 
Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. [SEP] The potential role of succinylation is under investigation, but as addition of succinyl group changes lysine's charge from +1 to −1 (at physiological pH) and introduces a relatively large structural moiety (100 Da), bigger than acetylation (42 Da) or methylation (14 Da), it is expected to lead to more significant changes in protein structure and function.By analogy to acetylation, it has been suggested that succinyl-CoA is the cofactor of enzyme-mediated lysine succinylation. These reactions occur post-translation and are reversible.The mechanism for acetylation and deacetylation takes place on the NH3+ groups of lysine amino acid residues. Acetylation is an important modification of proteins in cell biology; and proteomics studies have identified thousands of acetylated mammalian proteins. Acetylation occurs as a co-translational and post-translational modification of proteins, for example, histones, p53, and tubulins. N-terminal acetylation plays an important role in the synthesis, stability and localization of proteins. Several proteins from prokaryotes and archaea are also modified by N-terminal acetylation. Protein localization
N-terminal acetylation has been shown that it can steer the localization of proteins. Not only can the acetylation state of a protein modify its activity but there has been recent suggestion that this post-translational modification may also crosstalk with phosphorylation, methylation, ubiquitination, sumoylation, and others for dynamic control of cellular signaling. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) are now standard treatment worldwide for P. falciparum malaria as well as malaria due to other species of Plasmodium. Combination therapies, featuring artemisinin or its derivatives alongside some other antimalarial drug, constitute the contemporary standard-of-care treatment regimen for malaria. Medical use
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends artemisinin or one of its derivatives ― typically in combination with a longer-lasting partner drug ― as frontline therapy for all cases of malaria. Adverse effects
Artemisinins are generally well tolerated at the doses used to treat malaria. Adverse effects in patients with acute P. falciparum malaria treated with artemisinin derivatives tend to be higher. A 2012 review reported that artemisinin-based therapies were the most effective drugs for treatment of malaria at that time; it was also reported to clear malaria parasites from patients' bodies faster than other drugs. Artemisinin and its derivatives are all potent antihelmintics. Artemisinin has proven to be the most effective anti-malarial drug ever produced. 
Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). [SEP] Thiopurine methyltransferase or thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the TPMT gene. Function
Thiopurine methyltransferase methylates thiopurine compounds. This enzyme metabolizes thiopurine drugs via S-adenosyl-L-methionine as the S-methyl donor and S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine as a byproduct. Clinical significance
Thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine are used as chemotherapeutic agents and immunosuppressive drugs. Pharmacology
TPMT is best known for its role in the metabolism of the thiopurine drugs such as azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine and 6-thioguanine. TPMT catalyzes the S-methylation of thiopurine drugs. Diagnostic use
Measurement of TPMT activity is encouraged prior to commencing the treatment of patients with thiopurine drugs such as azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine and 6-thioguanine. Methylene- MPT is subsequently converted, using coenzyme F420 as the electron source, to methyl- THMPT, catalyzed by F420-dependent methylene-THMPT reductase. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] FOLFOX is a chemotherapy regimen for treatment of colorectal cancer, made up of the drugs folinic acid (leucovorin, FOL), fluorouracil (5-FU, F), and oxaliplatin (Eloxatin, OX). The recommended dose schedule is as follows:
Day 1: Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 intravenous (IV) infusion in 250-500 mL D5W and leucovorin 200 mg/m2 IV infusion in D5W administered concurrently over 120 minutes in separate bags using a Y-line, followed by fluorouracil (5-FU) 400 mg/m2 IV bolus given over 2–4 minutes, followed by 5-FU 600 mg/m2 IV infusion in 500 mL D5W (recommended) as a 22-hour continuous infusion. "A randomized controlled trial of fluorouracil plus leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin combinations in patients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer". There are a variety of drugs used for cancer treatment. FOLFOXIRI is a chemotherapy regimen for The treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. The role of FOLFOXIRI in colorectal cancer has been reviewed.The chemotherapy regimen is made up of the following four drugs:

FOL – folinic acid (leucovorin), a vitamin B derivative that modulates/potentiates/reduces the side effects of fluorouracil;
F –   fluorouracil (5-FU), a pyrimidine analog and antimetabolite which incorporates into the DNA molecule and stops DNA synthesis;
OX – oxaliplatin (Eloxatin), a platinum-based antineoplastic agent, which inhibits DNA repair and/or DNA synthesis;
IRI – irinotecan (Camptosar), a topoisomerase inhibitor, prevents DNA from uncoiling and duplicating.It is usually given with bevacizumab, unlike FOLFIRINOX for treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer. Also, the doses (Day 1: irinotecan 165 mg/m2 IV, plus oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 IV; Day 1: leucovorin 400 mg/m2; Days 1–3: fluorouracil 1,600 mg/m2/day × 2 days (total 3,200 mg/m2 over 48 hours) continuous infusion starting on day 1; Day 1: bevacizumab 5 mg/kg IV; repeat cycle every 2 weeks) are slightly dissimilar to  FOLFIRINOX. The quality of life and survival rates of individuals that receive continuous hepatic artery infusion of floxuridine for colorectal cancer metastases is significantly higher than control groups. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] Radioresistance is the level of ionizing radiation that organisms are able to withstand. Ionizing-radiation-resistant organisms (IRRO) were defined as organisms for which the dose of acute ionizing radiation (IR) required to achieve 90% reduction (D10) is greater than 1,000 gray (Gy) Radioresistance is surprisingly high in many organisms, in contrast to previously held views. Radioresistance may be induced by exposure to small doses of ionizing radiation. Several cellular radioprotection mechanisms may be involved, such as alterations in the levels of some cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins and increased gene expression, DNA repair and other processes. Exposure to gamma radiation leads to cellular DNA damage including alterations in nitrogenous base-pairing, sugar-phosphate backbone damage, and double-stranded DNA lesions. The extraordinarily efficient cellular repair mechanisms that Deinoccocus species like D. radiodurans have evolved to repair heat-damage are likely also capable of reversing the effects of DNA damage wrought by ionizing radiation, such as by piecing back together any components of their genome that have been fragmented by the radiation.Bacillus sp. Radioresistance of cancer cells may be intrinsic or induced by the radiation therapy itself. The reduction in POLA1 expression is accompanied by marked reduction in cytosolic RNA:DNA hybrid molecules and a concomitant hyperactivation of the IRF3 pathway, with consequent overproduction of type I interferons.Moreover, POLA1 deficiency, typical for XLPDR, also impair direct cytotoxicity of NK cells. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] There is compelling evidence that autoimmunity against this class of G protein-coupled receptors results in a variety of pathologies:
Cardiovascular diseases and events:
Circulating autoantibodies to adrenergic receptors have been identified in numerous heart diseases and cardiac symptoms. Cardiomyopathy due to autoimmune dysregulation and production of autoantibodies has been seen in humans and reproduced in animal models. HIV) have been considered causes of eosinophilic endocarditis, a study of 20 patients concluded that viral myocarditis lacks the characteristic of eosinophil-induced damage in hearts taken during cardiac transplantation. Mice made hypereosinophilic by the forced overexpression of an interleukin-5 transgene (interleukin 5 stimulates eosinophil proliferation, activation, and migration) develop eosinophilic myocarditis. A similar eosinophilic endocarditis occurs in mice immunized with the cardiac muscle protein, mouse myosin. In the latter model, endocarditis is reduced by inhibiting the cytokine interleukin-4 or eosinophils and is exacerbated by concurrently blocking two cytokines, interferon gamma and interleukin-17A. Finally, certain eosinophil-attracting agents, viz., eotaxins, are elevated in the cardiac tissue of myosin-immunized mice that are concurrently depleted of interferon gamma and interleukin-17A. These findings suggest that eosinophilic myocarditis is caused by the abnormal proliferation and activation of eosinophils and that their directional migration into the heart is evoked by a set of cytokines and chemoattractants in mice and possibly humans. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] Initial observations showed removal of the thymus of a newborn mouse resulted in autoimmunity, which could be rescued by transplantation of CD4+ T cells. It is thought that the placental tissues which interface with maternal tissues not only try to escape immunological recognition by downregulating identifying MHC proteins but also actively induce a marked peripheral tolerance. The tumor microenvironment
Immune tolerance is an important means by which growing tumors, which have mutated proteins and altered antigen expression, prevent elimination by the host immune system. It may also be induced by the passive transfer of T cells specifically reactive to these myelin antigens.Depending on the antigen used and the genetic make-up of the animal, rodents can display a monophasic bout of EAE, a relapsing-remitting form, or chronic EAE. Some key differences between EAE in mice, and MS in humans include:

B-cells: Some research points to anti-CD20 B-cells being the basis of the autoimmune attacks. Therefore they are unable to mount many types of adaptive immune responses, including:

antibody formation that requires CD4+ helper T cells
cell-mediated immune responses, which require CD4+ and/or CD8+ T cells
delayed-type hypersensitivity responses (require CD4+ T cells)
killing of virus-infected or malignant cells (requires CD8+ cytotoxic T cells)
graft rejection (requires both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells)Because of the above features, nude mice have served in the laboratory to gain insights into the immune system, leukemia, solid tumors, AIDS and other forms of immune deficiency as well as leprosy. In addition, knockout mice with more complete defects in the immune system have been constructed (e.g. (Humans with mutations in FOXN1 also are athymic and immune deficient.) 
MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis [SEP] Brain
As a brain-enriched microRNA, miR-125b participates in neuronal differentiation but also in many diseases associated with degenerating brain tissues. MiR-125b promotes neuronal differentiation, thus levels of this microRNA get higher during neurogenesis. MiR-125b can contribute to the process of neuronal differentiation by targeting cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A), a negative regulator of the cell cycle. MiR-125b can even block terminal differentiation of hematopoietic progenitors and also regulate HSC homeostasis by shifting the balance of TGFβ and Wnt signaling pathways. miR-124 has been found to be the most abundant microRNA expressed in neuronal cells. In vertebrates, miR-9 is highly expressed in the brain, and is suggested to regulate neuronal differentiation. This observation highlights how microRNAs regulate pleiotropic neural genes, determining the divergence of sensory systems. MicroRNAs (miR) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. 
Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. [SEP] Beyond cancer, many gene expression studies are affected by tissue heterogeneity. The prevalence of tissue heterogeneity in publicly available gene-expression studies is estimated between 1% and 40%, varying by tissues of origin.Detected tissue heterogeneity may be used to weight samples in differential gene-expression analysis to reduce the impact of the heterogeneity. A phenotype microarray system enables one to monitor simultaneously the phenotypic reaction of cells to environmental challenges or exogenous compounds in a high-throughput manner. A microarray is a multiplex lab-on-a-chip. The fabrication of the microarray requires both biological and physical information, including sample libraries, printers, and slide substrates. The daughter cell containing the array expresses the gene of interest; the cell lacking the array does not. Motivation
Genotyping arrays used for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are based on tagging SNPs and therefore do not directly genotype all variation in the genome. For example in human genetics, genome-wide association studies collect genotypes in thousands of individuals at between 200,000-5,000,000 SNPs using microarrays. 
Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. [SEP] It is part of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis, also known as the mitochondrial pathway. MAC activity is detected by patch clamping mitochondria from apoptotic cells at the time of cytochrome c release.Members of the Bcl-2 protein family regulate apoptosis by controlling the formation of MAC: the pro-apoptotic members Bax and/or Bak form MAC, whereas the anti-apoptotic members like Bcl-2 or Bcl-xL prevent MAC formation. Apoptosis-inducing factor, mitochondria-associated 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the AIFM3 gene. Paraptosis was not recognized as a form of cell death by the Nomenclature Committee on Cell Death in their 2018 review article. Paraptosis does not demonstrate nuclear fragmentation, formation of apoptotic bodies, or definitive demonstration of chromatin condensation - all seen in apoptosis. Therefore, paraptosis was concluded to differ from apoptosis (cell death type 1) in being unaffected by inhibitors of apoptosis.In apoptosis, HMGB1, a chromatin protein, is retained within the nucleus to result in formations of apoptotic bodies, while in paraptosis HMGB1 is released.The most defining difference observed (as of April 2014) between paraptosis and autophagic cell death (cell death type 2) is paraptosis' lack of the characteristic autophagic vacuoles seen in autophagic cell death. Apoptotic death similar to that found in animals does not occur in plants, due to the cell wall of plant cells preventing phagocytosis. See also
Apoptosis
Autophagy
Cytotoxicity
Necrosis
Parthanatos
Programmed cell death


== References == 
Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. [SEP] Neuroplasticity can also occur as a consequence of targeted epigenetic modifications such as methylation and acetylation. Neuro-oncology
A multitude of genetic and epigenetic changes in DNA profiles in brain cells are thought to be linked to tumorgenesis. Epigenetic regulation of neurogenesis is the role that epigenetics (hertitable characteristics that do not involve changes in DNA sequence) plays in the regulation of neurogenesis (the production of neurons from neural stem cells). A number of specific miRNAs have been implicated as agents of epigenetic regulation in adult neurogenesis. The epigenetic machinery influences neural differentiation regulation (i.e. Increasing age can produce various epigenetic changes such as reduced global heterochromatin, nucleosome remodeling, altered histone marks, and changes in DNA methylation. As aging is the main risk for many neurological disorders, epigenetic dysregulation can in turn lead to alterations on the transcriptional level of genes involved in the pathogenesis of neural degenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, schizophrenia, and bipolar disease. While the cellular and molecular mechanisms of learning and memory have long been a central focus of neuroscience, it is only in recent years that attention has turned to the epigenetic mechanisms behind the dynamic changes in gene transcription responsible for memory formation and maintenance. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. [SEP] Abituzumab is a humanized IgG2 monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeted at CD51 (an integrin) currently in development by Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany in an attempt to prevent bone lesion metastases in castration-resistant prostate cancer. Cetixumab, a monoclonal antibody, that targets epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and irinotecan, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, can be used in combination as standard of care for treating colorectal cancer. This trial utilized Abituzumab in combination with luteinizing hormone antagonist/agonist treatment every three weeks in patients with confirmed bone lesions in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. Ascrinvacumab (PF-03446962) is a monoclonal antibody designed for the treatment of cancer.This drug was developed by Pfizer Inc.


== References == Tigatuzumab (CS-1008) is a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of cancer. As of October 2009, a clinical trial for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, Phase II trials for colorectal cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and ovarian cancer have been completed. The drug targets member 10b of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily (TNFRSF10B, better known as death receptor 5 or trail receptor 2), a protein with limited expression in normal tissues but overexpressed in many kinds of tumours, including colon, gastric, pancreatic, lung, and cervical.In 2015, a Phase I study was completed to investigate how biodistribution, quantitative tumor uptake, and antitumor response in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer was impacted by CS-1008. Nesvacumab is an experimental monoclonal antibody originally designed for the treatment of cancer. 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. [SEP] Okazaki fragments are short sequences of DNA nucleotides (approximately 150 to 200 base pairs long in eukaryotes) which are synthesized discontinuously and later linked together by the enzyme DNA ligase to create the lagging strand during DNA replication. Pathways
Two pathways have been proposed to process Okazaki fragments: the short flap pathway and the long flap pathway. The synthesis process will continue until the 5’end of the previous Okazaki fragment has arrived. Flap endonuclease 1
Flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) is responsible for processing Okazaki fragments. Dna2 endonuclease is responsible for the removal of the initiator RNA segment on Okazaki Fragments. For Okazaki maturation to occur, RNA primers must create segments on the fragments to be ligated. Once the template becomes discontinuous, it will create an Okazaki fragment. Uses in technology
Medical concepts associated with Okazaki fragments
Although cells undergo multiple steps in order to ensure there are no mutations in the genetic sequence, sometimes specific deletions and other genetic changes during Okazaki fragment maturation go unnoticed. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] Ascorbate and ascorbic acid are both naturally present in the body, since the forms interconvert according to pH. Pharmacology
Pharmacodynamics
Vitamin C – specifically, in the form of ascorbate – performs numerous physiological functions in the human body by serving as an enzyme substrate or cofactor and an electron donor. SVCT1 and SVCT2 import the reduced form of ascorbate across plasma membranes. In both vitamin C synthesizers (example: rat) and non-synthesizers (example: human) cells with few exceptions maintain ascorbic acid concentrations much higher than the approximately 50 micromoles/liter (µmol/L) found in plasma. For example, the ascorbic acid content of pituitary and adrenal glands can exceed 2,000 µmol/L, and muscle is at 200-300 µmol/L. Recent orders of birds and most mammals make ascorbic acid in their liver. A second argument for high intake is that serum ascorbic acid concentrations increase as intake increases until it plateaus at about 190 to 200 micromoles per liter (µmol/L) once consumption exceeds 1,250 milligrams. "Ascorbic acid". 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB2 gene.Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB1 gene. Interactions
GNB1 has been shown to interact with GNG4. Function
The Gβγ complex is an essential element in the GPCR signaling cascade. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(I)/G(S)/G(T) subunit beta-3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB3 gene.Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins ( G proteins), which integrate signals between  receptors and  effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(t) subunit alpha-2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNAT2 gene. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit beta-like protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB1L gene.This gene encodes a G-protein beta-subunit-like polypeptide which is a member of the WD repeat protein family. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit beta-4 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GNB4 gene.Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), which integrate signals between receptors and effector proteins, are composed of an alpha, a beta, and a gamma subunit. 
N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] Cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) is involved in the cleavage of the 3' signaling region from a newly synthesized pre-messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) molecule in the process of gene transcription. The binding of the polynucleotide adenylyltransferase responsible for actually synthesizing the tail is a necessary prerequisite for cleavage, thus ensuring that cleavage and polyadenylation are tightly coupled processes. "The 160-kD subunit of human cleavage-polyadenylation specificity factor coordinates pre-mRNA 3'-end formation". MNase mediated cleavage produces a library of target DNA sites bound to a protein of interest in situ. A research group has used CUT&RUN to identify intermediates involved in nucleosome disruption during DNA transcription, validating a general strategy for structural epigenomics. Cleavage factors are two closely associated protein complexes involved in the cleavage of the 3' untranslated region of a newly synthesized pre-messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule in the process of gene transcription. CUT&Tag-sequencing combines antibody-targeted controlled cleavage by a protein A-Tn5 fusion with massively parallel DNA sequencing to identify the binding sites of DNA-associated proteins. Tn5 mediated cleavage produces a library of target DNA sites bound to a protein of interest in situ. 
N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] Cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPSF) is involved in the cleavage of the 3' signaling region from a newly synthesized pre-messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) molecule in the process of gene transcription. "The 160-kD subunit of human cleavage-polyadenylation specificity factor coordinates pre-mRNA 3'-end formation". In abortive initiation, RNA polymerase re-winds and ejects the downstream portion of the unwound DNA, releasing the RNA, and reverting to the RNA polymerase-promoter open complex; in contrast, in productive initiation, RNA polymerase re-winds and ejects the upstream portion of the unwound DNA, breaking RNA polymerase-promoter interactions, escaping the promoter, and forming a transcription elongation complex.A 2006 paper that demonstrated the involvement of DNA scrunching in initial transcription proposed the idea that the stress incurred during DNA scrunching provides the driving force for both abortive initiation and productive initiation. CUT transcription occurs through RNA Polymerase II and initiates from nucleosome-depleted regions, often in an antisense orientation. The Nrd1-Nab3-Sen1 and TRAMP pathway
Transcription of CUTs is terminated by the Nrd1-Nab3-Sen1 complex. Relation with bidirectional promoters
The transcription start sites of CUTs are located within nucleosome free, non-overlapping transcript pairs. Additionally, serial analysis of gene expression has demonstrated that the location of CUT 3' ends can be found in close proximity to the start features of ORFs in both sense and antisense configurations, indicating that the end of CUT sequences lay within the 5' promoter region of expressed proteins. Like CUTs, SUT transcription start sites are also found at nucleosome free regions and are associated with the promoters of protein coding genes. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). [SEP] Zidovudine (ZDV), also known as azidothymidine (AZT), is an antiretroviral medication used to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS. In 2009, the State of California added zidovudine to its list of chemicals "known to the state of California to cause cancer and other reproductive harm." Prolonged AZT treatment can lead to HIV developing resistance to AZT by mutation of its reverse transcriptase. References
External links
"Zidovudine". Since zidovudine was approved in 1987, six nucleosides and one nucleotide reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) have been approved by FDA. The 3´hydroxyl group in the deoxyribose ring of thymidine is replaced by an azido group which gives us zidovudine. Lamivudine/nevirapine/zidovudine (3TC/NVP/AZT) is a fixed-dose combination antiretroviral medication used to treat HIV/AIDS. This was the NRTI called zidovudine. 
NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. [SEP] YAF2 human gene details in the UCSC Genome Browser. Gene
Human merlin is coded by the gene NF2 in Chromosome 22. Function
Merlin is a membrane-cytoskeleton scaffolding protein, i.e. Drosophila merlin is expressed in embryonic hindgut, salivary glands, and imaginal discs, and has apparently a slightly different role than in vertebrates.The phosphorylation of serine 518 is known to alter the functional state of merlin. The signaling pathway of merlin is proposed to include several salient cell growth controlling molecules, including eIF3c, CD44, protein kinase A, and p21 activated kinases. Work in Drosophila identified Merlin as an upstream regulator of the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway, a function that is conserved in mammals. The Hippo pathway is a well conserved signalling pathway that coordinately regulates cell proliferation and apoptosis.Mutations of the NF2 gene cause a human autosomal dominant disease called neurofibromatosis type 2. Large tumor suppressor kinase 2 (LATS2) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the LATS2 gene.This gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase belonging to the LATS tumor suppressor family and participates in the Hippo signaling pathway where it inactivates the effector proteins, YAP and WWTR1 (TAZ). 
NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. [SEP] Gene
Human merlin is coded by the gene NF2 in Chromosome 22. Function
Merlin is a membrane-cytoskeleton scaffolding protein, i.e. Drosophila merlin is expressed in embryonic hindgut, salivary glands, and imaginal discs, and has apparently a slightly different role than in vertebrates.The phosphorylation of serine 518 is known to alter the functional state of merlin. The signaling pathway of merlin is proposed to include several salient cell growth controlling molecules, including eIF3c, CD44, protein kinase A, and p21 activated kinases. Work in Drosophila identified Merlin as an upstream regulator of the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway, a function that is conserved in mammals. The Hippo pathway is a well conserved signalling pathway that coordinately regulates cell proliferation and apoptosis.Mutations of the NF2 gene cause a human autosomal dominant disease called neurofibromatosis type 2. Structure
The NURF complex in Drosophila contains four subunits: NURF301, NURF140, NURF55, and NURF38. In Drosophila, NURF interacts with the transcription factor GAGA to remodel chromatin at the hsp70 promoter, and null mutations in the Nurf301 subunit prevent larval metamorphosis. 
NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. [SEP] NFAT5 is a more recently discovered member of the NFAT family that has special characteristics that differentiate it from other NFAT members.Calcium signalling is critical to activation of NFATc1-4 because calmodulin (CaM), a well-known calcium sensor protein, activates the serine/threonine phosphatase calcineurin (CN). Signalling and Binding
Canonical signalling
Although phosphorylation and dephosphorylation are key for controlling NFAT function by masking and unmasking nuclear localization signals, as shown by the high number of phosphorylation sites in the NFAT regulatory domain, this dephosphorylation cannot occur without an influx of calcium ions.The classical signalling relies on activation of PLC through different receptors like TCR (PLCG1) or BCR (PLCG2). Only this longer inflow of calcium ions is capable of fully activating NFAT through the CaM/CN mediated dephosphorylation as stated above. DNA binding
Nuclear import of NFAT and its subsequent export is dependent on the calcium level inside of a cell. This important feature of NFAT transcription factors enables integration and coincidence detection of calcium signals with other signalling pathways such as ras-MAPK or PKC. As a drug target
Due to its essential role in the production of the T cell proliferative cytokine IL-2, NFAT signalling is an important pharmacological target for the induction of immunosuppression. Signaling pathway
Increases in the intracellular Ca2+ concentrations are often a result of IP3 activation. IP3 may also activate Ca2+ channels on the cell membrane indirectly, by increasing the intracellular Ca2+ concentration. 
NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. [SEP] Peroxynitrite (sometimes called peroxonitrite) is an ion with the formula ONOO−. It is a structural isomer of nitrate, NO−3

Preparation
Peroxynitrite can be prepared by the reaction of superoxide with nitric oxide:
NO  +  O−2   →   NO(O2)−It is prepared by the reaction of hydrogen peroxide with nitrite:
H2O2  +  NO−2 →  ONOO−  +  H2OIts presence is indicated by the absorbance at 302 nm (pH 12, ε302 = 1670 M−1 cm−1). It is these radicals (carbonate radical and nitrogen dioxide) that are believed to cause peroxynitrite-related cellular damage. The reaction produces peroxynitrite and depletes the bioactivity of NO. Additionally peroxynitrite can react with other molecules to form additional types of RNS including nitrogen dioxide (•NO2) and dinitrogen trioxide (N2O3) as well as other types of chemically reactive free radicals. Important reactions involving RNS include:

ONOO− + H+ → ONOOH (peroxynitrous acid) → •NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) + •OH (hydroxyl radical)
ONOO− + CO2 (carbon dioxide) → ONOOCO2− (nitrosoperoxycarbonate)
ONOOCO2− → •NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) + O=C(O•)O− (carbonate radical)
•NO + •NO2 ⇌ N2O3 (dinitrogen trioxide)

Biological targets
Peroxynitrite can react directly with proteins that contain transition metal centers. Another reaction is tyrosine nitration; however peroxynitrite does not react directly with tyrosine. Tyrosine reacts with other RNS that are produced by peroxynitrite. 
NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] The liver receptor homolog-1 (LRH-1) also known as totipotency pioneer factor NR5A2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5, group A, member 2) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the NR5A2 gene. References
Further reading
External links
NR5A2+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) The NR4A1 gene is a transcription factor important in the development of cells that secrete the hormone insulin-like 3 (INSL3). In general, the NR4A gene family regulates cell growth and differentiation. In the male reproductive system the NR4A1 gene is a promoter of insulin-like 3 in Leydig cells. NLRP5, short for NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 5, is an intracellular protein that plays a role in early embryogenesis. NLRP5 is also known as NACHT, LRR and PYD domains-containing protein 5 (NALP5), Mater protein homolog (MATER), PYPAF8, PAN11, and CLR19.8, and is one of 14 pyrin domain containing members of the NOD-like receptor family of cytoplasmic receptors known to mammals. In humans, the NLRP5 protein is encoded by the NLRP5 gene. 
Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. [SEP] Applications
Development of solid lipid nanoparticles is one of the emerging fields of lipid nanotechnology (for a review on lipid nanotechnology, see ) with several potential applications in drug delivery, clinical medicine and research, as well as in other disciplines. Due to their unique size-dependent properties, lipid nanoparticles offer the possibility to develop new therapeutics. Drug delivery
Solid lipid nanoparticles can function as the basis for oral and parenteral drug delivery systems. XNA-based aptamers can introduce additional chemical diversity to increase binding affinity or greater durability in serum or in vivo. Targets
Aptamer targets can include small molecules and heavy metal ions, larger ligands such as proteins, and even whole cells. These targets include lysozyme, thrombin, human immunodeficiency virus trans-acting responsive element (HIV TAR), hemin, interferon γ, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), prostate specific antigen (PSA), dopamine, and the non-classical oncogene, heat shock factor 1 (HSF1).Aptamers have been generated against cancer cells, prions, bacteria, and viruses. In therapeutic applications and precision medicine, aptamers can function as drugs, as targeted drug delivery vehicles, as controlled release mechanisms, and as reagents for drug discovery via high-throughput screening for small molecules and proteins. Recently, nanoparticles have aroused attention due to their potential application for effective drug delivery.Nanomaterials exhibit different chemical and physical properties or biological effects compared to larger-scale counterparts that can be beneficial for drug delivery systems. 
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. [SEP] Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are networks of extracellular fibers, primarily composed of DNA from neutrophils, which bind pathogens. NETs allow neutrophils to kill extracellular pathogens while minimizing damage to the host cells. NETs provide for a high local concentration of antimicrobial components and bind, disarm, and kill microbes extracellularly independent of phagocytic uptake. NET formation has also been shown to augment macrophage bactericidal activity in response to multiple bacterial pathogens.More recently, it has also been shown that not only bacteria but also pathogenic fungi such as Candida albicans induce neutrophils to form NETs that capture and kill C. albicans hyphal as well as yeast-form cells. Suicidal NETosis
Suicidal NETosis was first described in a 2007 study that noted that the release of NETs resulted in neutrophil death through a different pathway than apoptosis or necrosis. References
External links
Frontiers in Molecular Innate Immunity research topic about NET
"Molecular mechanisms involved in neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation", PhD thesis, Jyaysi Desai, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. ANCAs induce excess activation of neutrophils, resulting in the production of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), which cause damage to small blood vessels. It also localizes to neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), via its high affinity for DNA, an unusual property for serine proteases.As with other serine proteinases it contains a charge relay system composed of the catalytic triad of histidine, aspartate, and serine residues that are dispersed throughout the primary sequence of the polypeptide but that are brought together in the three dimensional conformation of the folded protein. 
New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. [SEP] Even after completing the full course of medication, there is no guarantee that the tuberculosis bacteria have all been killed. In the U.S., physicians talk about latent tuberculosis treatment because the medication does not actually prevent infection: the person is already infected and the medication is intended to prevent existing silent infection from becoming active disease. Treatment efficacy
There is no guaranteed "cure" for latent tuberculosis. Ciprofloxacin should not be used in the treatment of tuberculosis if other fluoroquinolones are available. have noted that wide-scale interventions have not had their desired effect, especially with regard to the spread of drug-resistant strains of TB. Lack of testing made it unclear which drugs the TDR-TB were resistant to. This is because the term defined as "totally drug resistant", has not been applied to the disease of tuberculosis. TDR-TB is relatively poorly documented, as many countries do not test patient samples against a broad enough range of drugs to diagnose such a comprehensive array of resistance. 
Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. [SEP] COPD
The most common indication for acute non-invasive ventilation is for acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. However, if respiratory failure does develop, recommencement of mechanical ventilation is recommended over NIV to treat this. History
Non-invasive ventilation has been used since 1940s for various indications, but its present-day use for chronic breathing problems arose in the 1980s for people with chronic respiratory muscle weakness, and in the 1990s on intensive care units and other acute care settings for acute respiratory failure.Since 2000 acute NIV has been used widely in the treatment of acute respiratory failure, particularly in people with COPD, including on general wards rather than the intensive care unit setting. Because mechanical ventilation serves only to provide assistance for breathing and does not cure a disease, the patient's underlying condition should be identified and treated in order to liberate them from the ventilator. If non-invasive ventilation or negative-pressure ventilation is used, then an airway adjunct is not needed. This type of ventilation is primarily used in neonates and pediatric patients who are failing conventional ventilation. Non-invasive ventilation can be considered for epidemics of COVID-19 where sufficient invasive ventilation capacity is not available (or in some milder cases), but pressurized protection suits for caregivers are recommended due to the risks of poorly fitting masks emitting contaminating aerosols. Disadvantages
NPVs do not work well if patient's lung compliance is decreased, or their lung resistance is increased. 
Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. [SEP] Mutations in RUNX1 are implicated in cases of breast cancer. In addition to hair follicle development, Runx1 is also implicated in skin and epithelial cancer development. RUNX1 in Pancreatic Cancer
High expression of RUNX1 is associated with adverse survival of pancreatic cancer patients and has tumor promoting potential in pancreatic cancer. Genetic suppression of the NOXA gene is mediated by the transcription factor RUNX1. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of RUNX1 de-represses the NOXA gene and induces apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells. Runx2 suppresses pre-osteoblast proliferation by affecting cell cycle progression in the G1 phase. Runx2 plays a role as a tumor suppressor of osteoblasts by halting cell cycle progression at G1. Most of this literature used RUNX3 promoter methylation status in various cancers as a proxy for its expression. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] Obesity in Greece is a growing health concern with health officials stating that it is one of the leading causes of preventable deaths in Greece. Obesity brings on health concerns such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. It results in a decreased life expectancy of 12–15 years primarily due to its association with obesity, little exercise, and smoking, while an increased rate of suicide plays a lesser role. Physical health
Several studies have shown that obese men tend to have a lower sperm count, fewer rapidly mobile sperm and fewer progressively motile sperm compared to normal-weight men.Obesity in Germany has created a cholesterol problem. Obesity causes an increased risk for colon cancer and breast cancer. Intelligence
Obesity in seniors shows that it makes seniors less intelligent. Obesity in France is a growing health issue. Social correlations
Obesity affects disproportionately low income individuals and is one marker of social inequality. 
Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. [SEP] Obesity and the environment aims to look at the different environmental factors that researchers worldwide have determined cause and perpetuate obesity. Obesity is a condition in which a person's weight is higher than what is considered healthy for their height, and is the leading cause of preventable death worldwide. Obesity can result from several factors such as poor nutritional choices, overeating, genetics, culture, and metabolism. Numerous studies aimed to provide insight into genetic, economic, and/or environmental causes of obesity. In first-world countries like the United States, the UK, Australia, and most Western European countries, evolution has led to an increased sedentary lifestyle and high rates of sugar and fat consumption, directly leading to obesity. Like many other medical conditions, obesity is the result of an interplay between environmental and genetic factors. A permanent increase in cortisol levels contribute to obesity. Diet plays an important role in the genesis of obesity. 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. [SEP] In molecular biology, non-coding RNAs (ncRNA) are RNA molecules that have a function but are not translated into proteins. Furthermore, several additional proteins are found in the small and large subunits of eukaryotic ribosomes, which do not have prokaryotic homologs. None of the eukaryote-specific protein elements is close enough to directly participate in catalysis. "Ribosomes". Recognizing that the tag peptide confers proteolysis, the trans-translation model for tmRNA action was proposed.While details of the trans-translation mechanism are under investigation it is generally agreed that tmRNA first occupies the empty A site of the stalled ribosome. Synthetic ribosomes are artificial small-molecules that can synthesize peptides in a sequence-specific matter.David Alan Leigh's lab built synthetic ribosome using a chemical structure based on a rotaxane.The Cédric Orelle research group created ribosomes with tethered and inseparable subunits (or Ribo-T). For example, those that are encoded by lncRNAs are less likely to be conserved given lncRNAs themselves do not have high sequence conservation. Category:Peptides 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs [SEP] The location for IRES elements is often in the 5'UTR, but can also occur elsewhere in mRNAs. Location
IRESs are commonly located in the 5'UTR of RNA viruses and allow translation of the RNAs in a cap-independent manner. Ribosome recruitment in eukaryotes is generally mediated by the 5' cap present on eukaryotic mRNAs. Internal ribosome entry site (IRES)
Eukaryotic ribosomes are known to bind to transcripts in a mechanism unlike the one involving the 5' cap, at a sequence called the internal ribosome entry site. In molecular biology, the 5.8S ribosomal RNA (5.8S rRNA) is a non-coding RNA component of the large subunit of the eukaryotic ribosome and so plays an important role in protein translation. The 5.8S ribosomal RNA is used to better understand other rRNA processes and pathways in the cell.The 5.8S rRNA is homologous to the 5' end of non-eukaryotic LSU rRNA. The 5.8S rRNA is initially transcribed along with the 18S and 28S rRNA in the 45S preribosomal RNA, along with the ITS 1 and ITS 2 (Internal transcribed spacer) and a 5’ and 3’ ETS (External transcribed spacer). RNA, ribosomal 5, also known as RNR5, is a human gene. 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] Generally individuals, including strict vegetarians, synthesize enough L-carnitine in vivo.Carnitine exists as one of two stereoisomers (the two enantiomers d-carnitine (S-(+)-) and l-carnitine (R-(−)-)). Adults eating mixed diets of red meat and other animal products ingest some 60–180 mg of carnitine per day, while vegans consume about 10–12 mg per day. One study found that vegans showed no signs of carnitine deficiency. Vegans get noticeably less (about 10–12 mg) since their diets lack these carnitine-rich animal-derived foods. In general, omnivorous humans each day consume between 2 and 12 µmol kg−1 of body weight, accounting for 75% of carnitine in the body. "vegans do not participate in the omnivore based diet.") Studies are mixed on this point.Proponents of ethical omnivorism may themselves concede that "vegetarian and vegan diets tend to be more environmentally friendly", while still seeing ethical omnivorism as a means to increase dietary sustainability to those unwilling or unable to give up meat. However, in practice, compared to non-vegetarians, vegetarians on average have an increased consumption of:

Fruits
Vegetables
Avocados
Non-fried potatoes
Whole grains
Legumes
Soy foods
Nuts
SeedsIn comparison to non-vegetarians, practising vegetarians on average have a decreased consumption of:

Dairy products
Eggs
Refined grains
Added fats
Sweets
Snacks
Non-water (often sweetened) beveragesThis difference is observed, but is not required to be vegetarian. 
Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. [SEP] In contrast, tolerant bacteria have the same minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) as susceptible bacteria, and differ in the duration of the treatment that they can survive. Owing to their transient nature and relatively low abundance, it is hard to isolate persister cells in sufficient numbers for experimental characterization, and only a few relevant genes have been identified to date. B. subtilis can divide symmetrically to make two daughter cells (binary fission), or asymmetrically, producing a single endospore that is resistant to environmental factors such as heat, desiccation, radiation and chemical insult which can persist in the environment for long periods of time. The wrong decision can be catastrophic: a vegetative cell will die if the conditions are too harsh, while bacteria forming spores in an environment which is conducive to vegetative growth will be out competed. A resting spore is a resistant cell, used to survive adverse environmental conditions. Formation, morphology and germination
The formation of resting spores is considered to be the consequence of environmental stress. However, as laboratory experiments have shown, light limitation could trigger resting spore formation, which might have allowed many spore forming diatoms to survive a mass extinction event such as the cretaceous.In conjunction with survival through adverse environmental conditions, the resting spore is considered important for seeding with cells that can await opportune conditions and start a population. Sda protein domain is a checkpoint which prevents the formation of spores. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] In 1999, the same group demonstrated that mice where PD-1 was knocked down were prone to autoimmune disease and hence concluded that PD-1 was a negative regulator of immune responses. PD-1 is expressed on the surface of activated T cells, B cells, and macrophages, suggesting that compared to CTLA-4, PD-1 more broadly negatively regulates immune responses. Function
Several lines of evidence suggest that PD-1 and its ligands negatively regulate immune responses. Reduced T cell proliferation was also correlated with attenuated IL-2 secretion and together, these data suggest that PD-1 negatively regulates T cell responses.Experiments using PD-L1 transfected DCs and PD-1 expressing transgenic (Tg) CD4+ and CD8+ T cells suggest that CD8+ T cells are more susceptible to inhibition by PD-L1, although this could be dependent on the strength of TCR signaling. Triggering PD-1, expressed on monocytes and up-regulated upon monocytes activation, by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function.In mice, expression of this gene is induced in the thymus when anti-CD3 antibodies are injected and large numbers of thymocytes undergo apoptosis. Many tumor cells express PD-L1, an immunosuppressive PD-1 ligand; inhibition of the interaction between PD-1 and PD-L1 can enhance T-cell responses in vitro and mediate preclinical antitumor activity. T lymphocytes exhibit elevated expression of PD-1 in cases of chronic HIV infection. Immune blockade of PD-1 resulted in restoration of T cell inflammatory phenotype necessary to combat the progression of disease. 
PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. [SEP] T regulatory cell adhesion to antigen presenting dendritic cell causes sequestration of Fascin-1, an actin-bundling protein essential for immunological synapse formation, and skews Fascin-1–dependent actin polarization in antigen presenting dendritic cells toward the T reg cell adhesion zone. Cortactin (from "cortical actin binding protein") is a monomeric protein located in the cytoplasm of cells that can be activated by external stimuli to promote polymerization and rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton, especially the actin cortex around the cellular periphery. When activated, it will recruit Arp2/3 complex proteins to existing actin microfilaments, facilitating and stabilizing nucleation sites for actin branching. Thus, polymerization and branching of actin is promoted in areas of the cell where cortactin is localized. Cortactin is very active in lamellipodia, protrusions of the cell membrane formed by actin polymerization and treadmilling that propel the cell along a surface as it migrates towards some target.Cortactin acts as a link between extracellular signals and lamellipodial “steering.” When a receptor tyrosine kinase on the cell membrane binds to an adhesion site, for example, cortactin will be phosphorylated locally to the area of binding, activate and recruit Arp2/3 to the actin cortex in that region, and thus stimulate cortical actin polymerization and movement of the cell in that direction. Macrophages, highly motile immune cells that engulf cellular debris and pathogens, are propelled by lamellipodia and identify/migrate toward a target via chemotaxis; thus, cortactin must also be activated by receptor kinases that pick up a large variety of chemical signals.Studies have implicated cortactin in both clathrin-mediated endocytosis and clathrin-independent endocytosis. Clinical significance
PDPN has been studied extensively in the cancer field. Moreover, it can be upregulated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in the tumor stroma, where it has been associated with poor prognosis.In squamous cell carcinomas, PDPN is believed to play a key role in the cancer cell invasiveness by controlling invadopodia, and thus mediating efficient ECM degradation. 
PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] Inhibition of PTGS1 (COX-1) reduces the basal production of cytoprotective PGE2 and PGI2 in the stomach, which may contribute to gastric ulceration. Studies with human pharmacology and genetics, genetically manipulated rodents, and other animal models and randomized trials indicate that this is due to suppression of PTGS2 (COX-2)-dependent cardioprotective prostaglandins,  prostacyclin in particular.The expression of PTGS2 (COX-2) is upregulated in many cancers. The overexpression of PTGS2 (COX-2) along with increased angiogenesis and SLC2A1 (GLUT-1) expression is significantly associated  with gallbladder carcinomas. Furthermore, the product of PTGS2 (COX-2), PGH2 is converted by prostaglandin E2 synthase into PGE2, which in turn can stimulate cancer progression. Consequently, inhibiting PTGS2 (COX-2) may have benefit in the prevention and treatment of these types of cancer.COX-2 expression was found in human idiopathic epiretinal membranes. Additionally, oxytocin stimulates the expression of PTGS2 in myometrial cells.The mutant allele PTGS2 5939C carriers among the Han Chinese population have been shown to have a higher risk of gastric cancer. This deletion caused increased tumor growth in retinoblastoma, suggesting that loss or inactivation of a tumor suppressor gene can increase tumorigenicity. Dubbed Proto-oncogenes with Tumor suppressor function, these genes act as “double agents” that both positively and negatively regulate transcription. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] Genes and proteins
PKG are serine/threonine kinases that are present in a variety of eukaryotes ranging from the unicellular organism Paramecium to humans. Two PKG genes, coding for PKG type I (PKG-I) and type II (PKG-II), have been identified in mammals. Tissue distribution
In general, PKG-I and PKG-II are expressed in different cell types. PKG-II has been detected in renal cells, zona glomerulosa cells of the adrenal cortex, club cells in distal airways, intestinal mucosa, pancreatic ducts, parotid and submandibular glands, chondrocytes, and several brain nuclei, but not in cardiac and vascular myocytes.Specifically, in smooth muscle tissue, PKG promotes the opening of calcium-activated potassium channels, leading to cell hyperpolarization and relaxation, and blocks agonist activity of phospholipase C, reducing liberation of stored calcium ions by inositol triphosphate. PKG expression levels account for differences in forR and forS allele frequency and therefore behavior as Rover individuals show higher PKG expression than Sitter individuals, and the Sitter phenotype can be converted to Rover by over-expression of the dg2 gene. Activating ligands
GPR99 appears to be the receptor for alpha-ketoglutarate (AKG) and CysLTs. CyslTs and AKG have the following relative potencies in binding to GPR99-bearing cells, LTE4>>LTC4=LTD4>AKG; LTE4 is able to stimulate responses in these cells at concentrations as low as picomole/liter. Phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit gamma isoform is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PIK3CG gene. 
PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. [SEP] Expression
PPAR-α is primarily activated through ligand binding. Physiological function
All PPARs heterodimerize with the retinoid X receptor (RXR) and bind to specific regions on the DNA of target genes. See for a review and critique of the roles of PPAR gamma in cancer. Pharmacology and PPAR modulators
PPARα and PPARγ are the molecular targets of a number of marketed drugs. PPARs form heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and these heterodimers regulate transcription of various genes. The activation of PPAR gamma by these and other ligands may be responsible for inhibiting the growth of cultured human breast, gastric, lung, prostate and other cancer cell lines.During embryogenesis, PPARG first substantially expresses in interscapular brown fat pad. PPAR agonists are drugs which act upon the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor. Classification
PPAR-alpha and PPAR-gamma are the molecular targets of a number of marketed drugs. 
PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. [SEP] Physiological function
All PPARs heterodimerize with the retinoid X receptor (RXR) and bind to specific regions on the DNA of target genes. Pharmacology and PPAR modulators
PPARα and PPARγ are the molecular targets of a number of marketed drugs. Expression
PPAR-α is primarily activated through ligand binding. RXR heterodimerizes with subfamily 1 nuclear receptors including CAR, FXR, LXR, PPAR, PXR, RAR, TR, and VDR. PPAR agonists are drugs which act upon the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor. Classification
PPAR-alpha and PPAR-gamma are the molecular targets of a number of marketed drugs. Promiscuous RXR also heterodimerises with PPAR members. PPARs form heterodimers with retinoid X receptors (RXRs) and these heterodimers regulate transcription of various genes. 
Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. [SEP] The effects of exercise on cognition have important implications for improving academic performance in children and college students, improving adult productivity, preserving cognitive function in old age, preventing or treating certain neurological disorders, and improving overall quality of life.In healthy adults, aerobic exercise has been shown to induce transient effects on cognition after a single exercise session and persistent effects on cognition following regular exercise over the course of several months. People who regularly perform an aerobic exercise (e.g., running, jogging, brisk walking, swimming, and cycling) have greater scores on neuropsychological function and performance tests that measure certain cognitive functions, such as attentional control, inhibitory control, cognitive flexibility, working memory updating and capacity, declarative memory, spatial memory, and information processing speed. Consistent aerobic exercise over a period of several months induces clinically significant improvements in executive functions and increased gray matter volume in nearly all regions of the brain, with the most marked increases occurring in brain regions that give rise to executive functions. In particular, consistent aerobic exercise has been shown to improve attentional control, information processing speed, cognitive flexibility (e.g., task switching), inhibitory control, working memory updating and capacity, declarative memory, and spatial memory. The kids who participated in vigorous physical activity scored three points higher, on average, on their academic test, which consisted of math, science, English, and world studies.Animal studies have also shown that exercise can impact brain development early on in life. This guidance is based upon a moderate amount of high-quality evidence which supports the efficacy of regular physical exercise (twice weekly over a 6-month period) for improving cognitive symptoms in individuals with mild cognitive impairment. The reviews found beneficial effects of physical exercise on cognitive function, the rate of cognitive decline, and the ability to perform activities of daily living in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. A subsequent systematic review of longitudinal studies also found higher levels of physical activity to be associated with a reduction in the risk of dementia and cognitive decline; this review further asserted that increased physical activity appears to be causally related with these reduced risks. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] Following infection with HIV-1, the rate of clinical disease progression varies between individuals. Rapid progressors
A small percentage of HIV-infected individuals rapidly progress to AIDS if they fail to take the medication within four years after primary HIV-infection and are termed Rapid Progressors (RP). Prediction of progression rates
During the initial weeks after HIV infection, qualitative differences in the cell-mediated immune response are observed that correlate with different disease progression rates (i.e., rapid progression to WHO stage 4 and the rapid loss of CD4+ T cell levels versus normal to slow progression to WHO stage 4 and the maintenance of CD4+ T cell counts above 500/µl). HIV subtype variation and effect on progression rates
The HIV-1 subtype that an individual becomes infected with can be a major factor in the rate of progression from sero-conversion to AIDS. Multiple studies of HIV-infected persons have shown that presence of one copy of this mutation, named CCR5-Δ32 (CCR5 delta 32) delays progression to the condition of AIDS by about 2 years.The National Institute of Health (NIH) has funded research studies to learn more about this genetic mutation. Efficacy
Heterosexual men
As of 2020, past research has shown that circumcision reduces the risk of HIV infection in heterosexual men, although these studies have had limitations.The WHO Expert Group on Models To Inform Fast Tracking Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision In HIV Combination Prevention in 2016 found "large benefits" of circumcision in settings with high HIV prevalence and low circumcision prevalence. In 2009, a Cochrane review which included the results of the three randomized controlled trials found "strong" evidence that the acquisition of HIV by a man during sex with a woman was decreased by 54% (95% confidence interval, 38% to 66%) over 24 months if the man was circumcised. With the imminent end of hostilities and a government of transition, population movements associated with increased stability and economic revitalization will exacerbate the spread of HIV, which is now localized in areas most directly affected by the presence of troops and war-displaced populations. 
Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. [SEP] Peroxynitrate (or peroxonitrate) refers to salts of the unstable peroxynitric acid, HNO4. Peroxynitrite (sometimes called peroxonitrite) is an ion with the formula ONOO−. It is a structural isomer of nitrate, NO−3

Preparation
Peroxynitrite can be prepared by the reaction of superoxide with nitric oxide:
NO  +  O−2   →   NO(O2)−It is prepared by the reaction of hydrogen peroxide with nitrite:
H2O2  +  NO−2 →  ONOO−  +  H2OIts presence is indicated by the absorbance at 302 nm (pH 12, ε302 = 1670 M−1 cm−1). It is these radicals (carbonate radical and nitrogen dioxide) that are believed to cause peroxynitrite-related cellular damage. Peroxynitrous acid (HNO3) is a reactive nitrogen species (RNS). Peroxynitrous acid is also important in atmospheric chemistry. Nitrotyrosine is a product of tyrosine nitration mediated by reactive nitrogen species such as peroxynitrite anion and nitrogen dioxide. Peroxynitrite and/or nitrative stress may participate in the pathogenesis of diabetes.Research shows that nitrotyrosine levels can be reduced by N-acetyl cysteine, which is a precursor to glutathione, one of the body's primary endogenous antioxidants. 
Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. [SEP] The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP1R) is a receptor protein found on beta cells of the pancreas and on neurons of the brain. GLP1R is composed of two domains, one extracellular (ECD) that binds the C-terminal helix of GLP-1, and one transmembrane (TMD) domain that binds the N-terminal region of GLP-1. Activated GLP1R stimulates the adenylyl cyclase pathway which results in increased insulin synthesis and release of insulin. Consequently, GLP1R has been a target for developing drugs usually referred to as GLP1R agonists to treat diabetes mellitus. Huntington's disease
The diabetic, pancreatic, and neuroprotection implications of GLP1R are also thought to be potential therapies for treating the diabetes and energy metabolism abnormalities associated with Huntington's disease affecting the brain and periphery. GLP-1 binding to its G protein-coupled receptor activates various different pathways including the growth factor receptor and is coupled to pathways stimulating mitogenesis. The GLP-1R is a G protein-coupled receptor that is dependent on glucose and GLP-1 is a peptide hormone that acts directly on the beta cell to stimulate insulin secretion by activating signal transduction when glucose is present. APLP1 along with APLP2 are important modulators of glucose and insulin homeostasis. 
Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. [SEP] Function
Podosomes are thought to be intimately connected to cellular motility within tissue microenvironments through coordinating degradation of the extracellular matrix with cellular movement. The migration of cells is essential to proper embryonic development and, in maturity, to wound healing and the inflammatory response. Examples of these motile cell behaviors include: transendothelial migration of dendritic cells, migration of aortic endothelial cells for arterial vessel remodeling, and tissue infiltration by macrophages. Some researchers suspect that podosomes may be implicated in the migration of neural crest cells. Adding to the known functionalities of podosomes, research suggests that these dynamic structures also exhibit mechanosensory attributes. Various integrin receptors monitor the mechanical properties of the cellular microenvironment and can influence and initiate formation of a podosome. Once fully formed, the integrity of the matrix substratum dictates the lifespan of the podosome with increased stiffness leading to longer endurance and closer spacing between podosome sites.Some studies indicates also a putative role for podosomes even in the regulation of bone marrow stem cell's function. It has been proposed that podosomes are important in the mobilisation of MPCs in the event of physiological need. 
Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] The Polymeal is a diet-based approach to combatting heart disease, proposed in December 2004 by Oscar Franco, a Colombian public health scientist at the University Medical Centre in Rotterdam, Netherlands. Franco and his colleagues suggest the "Polymeal" as a natural alternative to the "Polypill", a multi-drug-based strategy for reducing heart disease. History
The study claims that adherence to the polymeal diet would delay the average onset of heart attack by nine years among men and by eight years among women. Since the Polymeal is based on principles of combating inflammation, this diet could be extended to the following foods:
fruits and vegetables (as the staple)
ginger root
potatoes
fish (other than catfish and tilapia)
grass-fed beef (as opposed to grain-fed)
chicken and eggs
herbs and spices
olive oil
butter (ghee)
coconut oil
nuts
dark chocolate (at least 85% chocolate)
much water
green tea
red wine (dry and aged)
turmeric (Curcuma longa)

References
Franco OH, Bonneux L, de Laet C, Peeters A, Steyerberg EW, Mackenbach JP. The Polymeal: a more natural, safer, and probably tastier (than the Polypill) strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%. A healthy cardiac diet "allows for an estimated 25–30% of total calories from fat" mostly from mono and polyunsaturated fats. OmniHeart demonstrated that partial replacement of carbohydrate with either protein (about half from plant sources) or with unsaturated fat (mostly monounsaturated fat) can further reduce blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and coronary heart disease risk. The study will directly evaluate the effect of Polypill tablets on cardiovascular death and hospitalizations compared to lifestyle modification during 5 years of follow-up; unlike most of the studies that only investigate the impact of Polypill on indirect surrogate markers of cardiovascular diseases such as blood pressure or lipid profile. 
Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. [SEP] Apoptosis inhibition
This protein was reported to be specifically cleaved by CASP3-like caspases, which thus leads to a dramatic activation of CDK2, and may be instrumental in the execution of apoptosis following caspase activation. Arp2/3 complex (Actin Related Protein 2/3 complex) is a seven-subunit protein complex that plays a major role in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. The Arp2/3 complex was named after it was identified in 1994 by affinity chromatography from Acanthamoeba castellanii, though it had been previously isolated in 1989 in a search for proteins that bind  to actin filaments in Drosophila melanogaster embryos. However, the Arp2/3 complex stimulates actin polymerization by creating a new nucleation core. The nucleation core activity of Arp2/3 is activated by Nucleation Promoting Factors (NPFs) including members of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome family protein (WASP, N-WASP, WAVE, and WASH proteins). Cellular uses of Arp2/3
The Arp2/3 complex appears to be important in a variety of specialized cell functions that involve the actin cytoskeleton. The Arp2/3 complex also regulates the intracellular motility  of endosomes, lysosomes, pinocytic vesicles, and mitochondria. Arp2/3 mutations in Arabidopsis thaliana result in abnormal filament organization, which in turn affects the expansion of trichomes, pavement cells, hypocotyl cells, and root hair cells. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] Cervical cancer screening is a medical screening test designed to identify abnormal, potentially precancerous cells within the cervix as well as cells that have progressed to early stages of cervical cancer. An additional goal is to decrease mortality from cervical cancer by identifying cancerous lesions in their early stages and providing treatment prior to progression to more invasive disease.Currently available screening tests fall into three categories: molecular, cytologic and visual inspection. types 16, 18, 31, 45) are more likely to develop Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia, due to the effects that HPV has on DNA.The screening process utilizes nucleic acid amplification testing to look for DNA or RNA of the virus present within cervical cells. Some tests can identify up to 14 different types of high risk strains.Accuracy of HPV testing report:

sensitivity 88% to 91% (for detecting CIN 3 or higher) to 97% (for detecting CIN2+)
specificity 73% to 79% (for detecting CIN 3 or higher) to 93% (for detecting CIN2+)

Cytologic
Conventional Pap smear
In the conventional Pap smear, the collected cells are smeared on a microscope slide, and a fixative is applied. According to the 2015 European guidelines for cervical cancer screening, routine HPV primary screening should not begin under 30 years of age. Primary testing for oncogenic HPV can be used in a population-based programme for cervical cancer screening. Sensitivity analysis captures the ability of Pap smears to correctly identify women with cervical cancer. Background
Knowing that human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the main cause of cervical cancer, the second most common cancer in women living in low-resource settings, has led to the development of vaccines that protect people from HPV associated diseases, and HPV tests that detect presence of the virus. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] An  inflammatory cytokine or proinflammatory cytokine is a type of signaling molecule (a cytokine) that is secreted from immune cells like helper T cells (Th) and macrophages, and certain other cell types that promote inflammation. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. A balance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines is necessary to maintain health. Inflammatory cytokines are predominantly produced by T helper cells (Th) and macrophages and involved in the upregulation of inflammatory reactions. Function
Inflammatory cytokines play a role in initiating the inflammatory response and to regulate the host defence against pathogens mediating the innate immune response. A balance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines is necessary to maintain health. Proinflammatory mediators cause inflammation after ligands  in the heart vasculature activate immune cells. Inflammation
The production and activities of the SPM suggest a new view of inflammation wherein the initial response to foreign organisms, tissue injury, or other insults involves numerous soluble cell signaling molecules that not only recruit various cell types to promote inflammation but concurrently cause these cells to produce SPM which feed back on their parent and other cells to dampen their pro-inflammatory activity and to promote repair. 
Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. [SEP] UBL domains of larger proteins are sometimes known as UBX domains. Proteins associated with ubiquitin and SUMO signaling are highly enriched in the genomes of embryophytes. Growth cones are molecularly specialized, with transcriptomes and proteomes that are distinct from those of their parent cell bodies. Ubiquitin is a small (8.6 kDa) regulatory protein found in most tissues of eukaryotic organisms, i.e., it is found ubiquitously. The protein
Ubiquitin is a small protein that exists in all eukaryotic cells. DUBs cleave these proteins to produce active ubiquitin. Ubiquitination, or ubiquitin conjugation to proteins, is a crucial process for cell cycle progression and cell proliferation and development. Various studies have shown that defects or alterations in ubiquitination processes are commonly associated with or present in human carcinoma. 
Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. [SEP] Phosphatase and tensin homolog (mutated in multiple advanced cancers 1), pseudogene 1, also known as PTENP1, is a human pseudogene. which has a partial reactivated function as a competing endogenous RNA regulating  the tumor suppressor gene PTEN. Competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs, also refer as miRNA sponges) hypothesis: ceRNAs regulate other RNA transcripts (e.g., PTEN) by competing for shared microRNAs. Multiple classes of ncRNAs (lncRNAs, circRNAs, pseudogenes) and protein-coding mRNAs function as key ceRNAs (sponges) and to regulate the expression of mRNAs in plants and mammalian cells.This competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) databases and resources is a compilation of databases and web portals and servers used for ceRNA prediction and ceRNA networks. Gametogenetin binding protein 1 (pseudogene) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the GGNBP1 gene. LINE-1 type transposase domain containing 1 pseudogene 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the L1TD1P1 gene. MicroRNAs function to regulate the expression levels of other genes by several mechanisms. Pituitary tumor-transforming 3, pseudogene is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PTTG3P gene. 
Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] Telomestatin induces the formation of basket-type G-quadruplex (G4) structures from hybrid-type G-quadruplexes in the telomeric region. With the abundance of G-quadruplexes in vivo, these structures hold a biologically relevant role through interactions with the promoter regions of oncogenes and the telomeric regions of DNA strands. Telomeres, rich in guanine and with a propensity to form g-quadruplexes, are located at the terminal ends of chromosomes and help maintain genome integrity by protecting these vulnerable terminal ends from instability. The formation of these quadruplexes in telomeres has been shown to decrease the activity of the enzyme telomerase, which is responsible for maintaining length of telomeres and is involved in around 85% of all cancers. The potential positive and negative roles of quadruplexes in telomere replication and function remains controversial. For therapeutic advances, stabilizing the G-quadruplexes of cancerous cells can inhibit cell growth and replication leading to the cell's death. Promoter Regions
Along with the association of G-quadruplexes in telomeric regions of DNA, G-quadruplex structures have been identified in various human proto-oncogene promoter regions. Therapeutics
Telomeres are generally made up of G-quadruplexes and remain important targets for therapeutic research and discoveries. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. [SEP] Potassium iodine saturates the thyroid gland with safe iodine and protects it against radioactive iodine. Jan Wolff and Israel Lyon Chaikoff at the University of California, Berkeley: in 1948, they reported that injection of iodine in rats almost completely inhibited organification (thyroglobulin iodination) in the thyroid gland. Excess iodide transiently inhibits thyroid iodide organification. Mechanism
Via the Plummer effect, a high iodine concentration inhibits the proteolysis of thyroglobulin and the release of pre-formed thyroid hormones from thyroid follicles. Clinical use
Thyroid conditions
Iodine-131 (131I) is the most common RNT worldwide and uses the simple compound sodium iodide with a radioactive isotope of iodine. The iodide ion is selectively taken up by the thyroid gland. Both benign conditions like thyrotoxicosis and certain malignant conditions like papillary thyroid cancer can be treated with the radiation emitted by radioiodine. The beta radiation released damages both normal thyroid tissue and any thyroid cancer that behaves like normal thyroid in taking up iodine, so providing the therapeutic effect, whilst most of the gamma radiation escapes the patient's body.Most of the iodine not taken up by thyroid tissue is excreted through the kidneys into the urine. 
Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] In the 1980s, rapamycin was also found to have anticancer activity although the exact mechanism of action remained unknown until many years later.In the 1990s there was a dramatic change in this field due to studies on the mechanism of action of rapamycin and the identification of the drug target. It was found that rapamycin inhibited cellular proliferation and cell cycle progression. Since then, rapamycin has also shown to be effective for preventing coronary artery re-stenosis and for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. This novel soluble rapamycin derivative had a favorable toxicological profile in animals. Rapamycin and rapalogs
Rapamycin and rapalogs (rapamycin derivatives) are small molecule inhibitors, which have been evaluated as anticancer agents. Mechanism of action
The studies of rapamycin as immunosuppressive agent enabled us to understand its mechanism of action. Rapamycin inhibitors and rapalogs can target tumor growth both directly and indirectly. Rapamycin has also shown to induce p53-independent apoptosis in certain types of cancer. 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems [SEP] The bacterial phosphoenolpyruvate: sugar phosphotransferase system (PTS) is a multi-protein system involved in the regulation of a variety of metabolic and transcriptional processes. The phosphotransferases system (PTS-GFL) superfamily is a superfamily of phosphotransferase enzymes that facilitate the transport of glucose, glucitol (G), fructose (F) and lactose (L). Histidine phosphotransfer domains and histidine phosphotransferases (both often abbreviated HPt) are protein domains involved in the "phosphorelay" form of two-component regulatory systems. Regulation
The increased complexity of the phosphorelay system compared to orthodox two-component signaling provides additional opportunities for regulation and improves the specificity of the response. : 192  Although there is very little cross-talk between orthodox two-component systems, phosphorelays allow more complex signaling pathways; examples include a bifurcated pathway with multiple downstream outputs, as in the case of the Caulobacter crescentus ChpT HPt involved in cell cycle regulation, or, alternatively, pathways in which more than one histidine kinase controls a single response regulator, such as the sporulation pathway in Bacillus subtilis, which can give rise to complex temporal variations. The bacterial phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase system (PTS) transports and phosphorylates its sugar substrates in a single energy-coupled step. Specificity
The phosphotransferase system is involved in transporting many sugars into bacteria, including glucose, mannose, fructose and cellobiose. References
External links
Phosphoenolpyruvate+Sugar+Phosphotransferase+System at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] Many arthropod-borne neurotropic viruses, like West Nile virus, spread to the brain primarily via the blood system by crossing the blood–brain barrier in what is called hematogenous dissemination. Interferons bind to receptors on the surface of a cell, initiating protein signaling pathways within the cell. Interferon stimulated genes can act as an initial response to pathogen invasion, slowing down viral replication and increasing expression of immune signaling complexes. ISGs induced by type I interferon are associated with viral replication suppression and increase expression of immune signaling proteins. Expression
ISGs are genes whose expression can be stimulated by interferon, but may also be stimulated by other pathways. Specifically, type I and type III interferons are antiviral cytokines, triggering ISGs that combat viral infections. IFIT genes suppress viral infection primarily by limiting viral RNA and DNA replication. Interferon stimulates genes that help active immune response and suppress infection at almost all stages of infection. 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] Many arthropod-borne neurotropic viruses, like West Nile virus, spread to the brain primarily via the blood system by crossing the blood–brain barrier in what is called hematogenous dissemination. Interferons bind to receptors on the surface of a cell, initiating protein signaling pathways within the cell. Interferon stimulated genes can act as an initial response to pathogen invasion, slowing down viral replication and increasing expression of immune signaling complexes. ISGs induced by type I interferon are associated with viral replication suppression and increase expression of immune signaling proteins. Expression
ISGs are genes whose expression can be stimulated by interferon, but may also be stimulated by other pathways. Specifically, type I and type III interferons are antiviral cytokines, triggering ISGs that combat viral infections. IFIT genes suppress viral infection primarily by limiting viral RNA and DNA replication. Interferon stimulates genes that help active immune response and suppress infection at almost all stages of infection. 
Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. [SEP] CTCF also occurs frequently at the boundaries of sections of DNA bound to the nuclear lamina. Using chromatin immuno-precipitation (ChIP) followed by ChIP-seq, it was found that CTCF localizes with cohesin genome-wide and affects gene regulatory mechanisms and the higher-order chromatin structure. DNA binding
CTCF binds to the consensus sequence CCGCGNGGNGGCAG (in IUPAC notation). CTCF's binding is disrupted by CpG methylation of the DNA it binds to. More than 30,000 CTCF binding sites have been characterized. The human genome contains anywhere between 15,000 and 40,000 CTCF binding sites depending on cell type, suggesting a widespread role for CTCF in gene regulation. In addition CTCF binding sites act as nucleosome positioning anchors so that, when used to align various genomic signals, multiple flanking nucleosomes can be readily identified. https://www.ctcfemory.com/ A Group for families affected by CTCF mutations 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] Regulatory T cells actively suppress activation of the immune system and prevent pathological self-reactivity, i.e. The critical role regulatory T cells play within the immune system is evidenced by the severe autoimmune syndrome that results from a genetic deficiency in regulatory T cells (IPEX syndrome – see also below). A related suggestion with regard to interleukin 2 is that activated regulatory T cells take up interleukin 2 so avidly that they deprive effector T cells of sufficient to avoid apoptosis. While the immunosuppressive function of regulatory T cells prevents the development of autoimmune disease, it is not desirable during immune responses to infectious microorganisms. This immune cell infiltration can result in the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells of the islets, which plays a major role in the pathogenesis, the disease development, of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Diabetes mellitus type 2, in contrast, is now thought to result from autoimmune attacks on the pancreas and/or insulin resistance. One of the prominent autoimmune regulatory mechanisms is a sub-population of T cells called ‘regulatory T cells’ (previously known as ‘suppressor T cells’), which restrict autoimmune activity. Alteration of regulatory T cell activity:  Suppressing regulatory T cell activity following injury can allow a more robust autoimmune response to take place. 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] Histone H2A.Z is a protein that in humans is encoded by the H2AZ1 gene. Positioning of H2A.Z containing nucleosomes around transcription start sites has now been shown to affect the downstream gene expression.Recent evidence also points to a role for H2A.Z in repressing a subset of ncRNAs, derepressing CUTs, as well as mediation higher order chromatin structure formation. A model proposed that the acetylation of H3 histones activates gene transcription by attracting other transcription related complexes. This suggests that specific histone site acetylation has a regulatory role in gene transcriptional activation. Studies on histone modifications may reveal many novel therapeutic targets. Histone H2A type 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AM gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H1.2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H1C gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins responsible for nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. Histone H2A type 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HIST1H2AG gene.Histones are basic nuclear proteins that are responsible for the nucleosome structure of the chromosomal fiber in eukaryotes. 
Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] Ribosomopathies are diseases caused by abnormalities in the structure or function of ribosomal component proteins or rRNA genes, or other genes whose products are involved in ribosome biogenesis. Ribosomopathies can arise from abnormalities of either rRNA or the various RPs.The nomenclature of rRNA subunits is derived from each component's Svedberg unit, which is an ultracentrifuge sedimentation coefficient, that is affected by mass and also shape. (5q- MDS),(cite)(cite) North American Indian childhood cirrhosis (NAIC), isolated congenital asplenia (ICAS), and Bowen–Conradi syndrome (BWCNS), CHARGE syndrome and ANE syndrome (ANES).The associated chromosome, OMIM genotype, phenotype, and possible disruption points are shown:

Several ribosomopathies share features such as inherited bone marrow failure, which is characterized a reduced number of blood cells and by a predisposition to cancer. p53
The p53 pathway is central to the ribosomopathy phenotype. Tumor suppressors like Rb and p53, on the other hand, can suppress ribosome biogenesis. Ribosomopathy has been linked to the pathology of various malignancies. Several ribosomopathies are associated with an increased rate of cancer. Additionally, acquired defects in ribosomal proteins that have not been implicated in congenital ribosomopathies have been found in T-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, stomach cancer and ovarian cancer. 
S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. [SEP] S-nitrosylation has diverse regulatory roles in bacteria, yeast and plants and in all mammalian cells. Histone acetylation and deacetylation are essential parts of gene regulation. At the same time, glucose metabolism maintains the NAD+/NADH ratio, and NAD+ participates in SIRT-mediated histone deacetylation. GAPDH moves between the cytosol and the nucleus and may thus link the metabolic state to gene transcription.In 2005, Hara et al. The study demonstrated that GAPDH is S-nitrosylated by NO in response to cell stress, which causes it to bind to the protein SIAH1, a ubiquitin ligase. GAPDH is activated via tyrosine phosphorylation by Src. Through this catabolic process, GSNOR regulates the cellular concentrations of GSNO and plays a central role in regulating the levels of endogenous S-nitrosothiols and controlling protein S-nitrosylation-based signaling. GAPDH is phosphorylating. 
Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] Sildenafil, sold under the brand name Viagra, among others, is a medication used to treat erectile dysfunction and pulmonary arterial hypertension. Medical uses
Sexual dysfunction
The primary indication of sildenafil is treatment of erectile dysfunction (inability to sustain a satisfactory erection to complete sexual intercourse). Antidepressant-associated sexual dysfunction
Tentative evidence suggests that sildenafil may help men who experience antidepressant-induced erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil's trade name, Viagra, is widely recognized in popular culture, and the drug's association with treating erectile dysfunction has led to its recreational use. Studies on the effects of sildenafil when used recreationally are limited, but suggest it has little effect when used by those who do not have erectile dysfunction. Without sexual stimulation, and therefore lack of activation of the NO/cGMP system, sildenafil should not cause an erection. Health care providers may prescribe generic sildenafil for erectile dysfunction. Medical uses
Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitors such as sildenafil (Viagra), tadalafil (Cialis), and vardenafil (Levitra) are clinically indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. 
Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. [SEP] BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL2L10, BCL2L13, BCL2L14
BOK
MCL1

See also
Bcl-2 inhibitor, anti-cancer drugs targeted at this family of proteins
B-cell CLL/lymphoma, a wider group
The BCL-2 Database, the reference database on BCL-2 proteins

References

As of this edit, this article uses content from "1.A.21 The Bcl-2 (Bcl-2) Family", which is licensed in a way that permits reuse under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, but not under the GFDL. Bcl-2 (B-cell lymphoma 2), encoded in humans by the BCL2 gene, is the founding member of the Bcl-2 family of regulator proteins that regulate cell death (apoptosis), by either inhibiting (anti-apoptotic) or inducing (pro-apoptotic) apoptosis. It was the first apoptosis regulator identified in any organism.Bcl-2 derives its name from B-cell lymphoma 2, as it is the second member of a range of proteins initially described in chromosomal translocations involving chromosomes 14 and 18 in follicular lymphomas. Normal physiological function
BCL-2 is localized to the outer membrane of mitochondria, where it plays an important role in promoting cellular survival and inhibiting the actions of pro-apoptotic proteins. Role in disease
Damage to the Bcl-2 gene has been identified as a cause of a number of cancers, including melanoma, breast, prostate, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and lung cancer, and a possible cause of schizophrenia and autoimmunity. The over-expression of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein in lymphocytes alone does not cause cancer. Bcl-2 expression is frequent in small cell lung cancer, accounting for 76% cases in one study. BCL2 family members form oligomers or heterodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. 
Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] SUMO enzymatic cascade catalyzes the dynamic posttranslational modification process of sumoylation (i.e. The Small Ubiquitin-related Modifier, SUMO-1, is a ubiquitin-like family member that is conjugated to its substrates through three discrete enzymatic steps (see the figure on the right): activation, involving the E1 enzyme (SAE1/SAE2); conjugation, involving the E2 enzyme (UBE2I); substrate modification, through the cooperation of the E2 and E3 protein ligases.SUMO pathway modifies hundreds of proteins that participate in diverse cellular processes. SUMOylation is a post-translational modification involved in various cellular processes, such as nuclear-cytosolic transport, transcriptional regulation, apoptosis, protein stability, response to stress, and progression through the cell cycle.SUMO proteins are similar to ubiquitin and are considered members of the ubiquitin-like protein family. Function
SUMO modification of proteins has many functions. It is thought that the E3 ligase promotes the efficiency of SUMOylation and in some cases has been shown to direct SUMO conjugation onto non-consensus motifs. These functions include acting as E3 SUMO-protein ligases during SUMOylation, which is an important process in transcriptional regulation. E3 SUMO-protein ligase PIAS3 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the PIAS3 gene. Function
PIAS3 protein also functions  as a SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier)-E3 ligase which catalyzes the covalent attachment of a SUMO protein to specific target substrates. 
Statins decrease blood cholesterol. [SEP] Statins are the most common cholesterol-lowering drugs. Statins are effective in lowering LDL cholesterol and so are widely used for primary prevention in people at high risk of cardiovascular disease, as well as in secondary prevention for those who have developed cardiovascular disease.Side effects of statins include muscle pain, increased risk of diabetes mellitus, and abnormal blood levels of liver enzymes. Medical uses
Statins are usually used to lower blood cholesterol levels and reduce risk for illnesses related to atherosclerosis, with a varying degree of effect depending on underlying risk factors and history of cardiovascular disease. In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Children
In children statins are effective at reducing cholesterol levels in those with familial hypercholesterolemia. Researchers hypothesize that statins prevent cardiovascular disease via four proposed mechanisms (all subjects of a large body of biomedical research):
Improve endothelial function
Modulate inflammatory responses
Maintain plaque stability
Prevent blood clot formationIn 2008, the JUPITER trial showed statins provided benefit in those who had no history of high cholesterol or heart disease, but only in those with elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels, an indicator for inflammation. The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. 
Statins increase blood cholesterol. [SEP] The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. Pharmacology
Sustained elevations of cholesterol in the blood increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. Statins are the most common cholesterol-lowering drugs. Statins are effective in lowering LDL cholesterol and so are widely used for primary prevention in people at high risk of cardiovascular disease, as well as in secondary prevention for those who have developed cardiovascular disease.Side effects of statins include muscle pain, increased risk of diabetes mellitus, and abnormal blood levels of liver enzymes. High cholesterol levels have been associated with cardiovascular disease.There are various forms of statins, some of which include atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin. In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Inhibiting cholesterol synthesis
By inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase, statins block the pathway for synthesizing cholesterol in the liver. 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] Compared to warfarin they have fewer interactions with other medications. Newer non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants appear to have fewer life-threatening bleeding events compared to warfarin. In contrast, those with a high risk of stroke derive most benefit from anticoagulant treatment with warfarin or similar drugs. However, in the case of warfarin, if someone with AF has a yearly risk of stroke that is less than 2%, then the risks associated with taking warfarin outweigh the risk of getting a stroke from AF. With the likely availability of new oral anticoagulants that avoid the limitations of warfarin (and may even be safer), more widespread use of oral anticoagulation therapy for stroke prevention in AF is likely. for cardioversion), heparin or similar drugs achieve the required level of protection much quicker than warfarin, which will take several days to reach adequate levels.In the initial stages after an embolic stroke, anticoagulation may be risky, as the damaged area of the brain is relatively prone to bleeding (hemorrhagic transformation). While there is a theoretical concern of causing a transient prothrombotic state with the initiation of warfarin, a study comparing the initiation of warfarin alone with warfarin and low molecular weight heparin shows no significant difference in the concentrations of endogenous anticoagulants or in markers of active clot formation. Chronic anticoagulation
Among patients with nonvalvular AF, anticoagulation with warfarin can reduce stroke by 60% while antiplatelet agents can reduce stroke by 20%. 
Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. [SEP] Most insects experiencing extended cold periods are observed to modify the membrane lipids within the body. Lipohypertrophy is a lump under the skin caused by accumulation of extra fat at the site of many subcutaneous injections of insulin. In a sense, the "opposite" of injection site lipohypertrophy is injection site lipoatrophy, in which the subcutaneous fat around an injected area "melts away" over a few weeks or months, leaving unsightly, well-demarcated depressions in the skin. Localized lipodystrophy is a skin condition characterized by the loss of subcutaneous fat localized to sites of insulin injection. Lipoatrophy is the term describing the localized loss of fat tissue. : 496–7

See also
Lipodystrophy
List of cutaneous conditions
Skin lesion


== References == Subcutaneous fat necrosis of the newborn  is a rare form of lobular panniculitis occurring in newborns that is usually self-remitting and non-recurring. It has been suggested that the brown fat seen in newborns is more sensitive to hypoxic injury than fat seen in adults, and that such hypoxia, usually in the context of a complicated birth, leads to the fat necrosis. 
Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease [SEP] Poor nutrition is a chronic problem often linked to poverty, food security, or a poor understanding of nutritional requirements. Poor health can be caused by a lack of required nutrients, or for some vitamins and minerals, too much of a required nutrient. Malnutrition
The term malnutrition addresses 3 broad groups of conditions:

Undernutrition, which includes wasting (low weight-for-height), stunting (low height-for-age) and underweight (low weight-for-age)
Micronutrient-related malnutrition, which includes micronutrient deficiencies or insufficiencies (a lack of important vitamins and minerals) or micronutrient excess
Overweight, obesity and diet-related noncommunicable diseases (such as heart disease, stroke, diabetes and some cancers).In developed countries, the diseases of malnutrition are most often associated with nutritional imbalances or excessive consumption; there are more people in the world who are malnourished due to excessive consumption. Poor nutrition leaves children and adults more susceptible to contracting life-threatening diseases such as diarrheal infections and respiratory infections. Childhood is a particularly important time to achieve good nutrition status, because poor nutrition has the capability to lock a child in a vicious cycle of disease susceptibility and recurring sickness, which threatens cognitive and social development. Under nutrition includes being underweight for one's age, too short for one's age (stunted), dangerously thin (wasted), and deficient in vitamins and minerals (micronutrient malnutrient). The Maternal and Child Nutrition Study Group estimate that under nutrition, "including fetal growth restriction, stunting, wasting, deficiencies of vitamin A and zinc along with suboptimum breastfeeding—is a cause of 3.1 million child deaths and infant mortality, or 45% of all child deaths in 2011".When humans are undernourished, they no longer maintain normal bodily functions, such as growth, resistance to infection, or have satisfactory performance in school or work. Nutrition access disparities
Occurring throughout the world, lack of proper nutrition is both a consequence and cause of poverty. 
Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. [SEP] The released neurotransmitter may then move across the synapse to be detected by and bind with receptors in the postsynaptic neuron. Once released, a neurotransmitter enters the synapse and encounters receptors. Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) are a family of biomolecules – nearly all of which are peptides or small proteins – that support the growth, survival, and differentiation of both developing and mature neurons. Neurotrophic factors also promote the initial growth and development of neurons in the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system, and they are capable of regrowing damaged neurons in test tubes and animal models. Some neurotrophic factors are also released by the target tissue in order to guide the growth of developing axons. Other neurotrophic factors
Several other biomolecules that have identified as neurotrophic factors include: glia maturation factor, insulin, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP), interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-3 (IL-3), interleukin-5 (IL-5), interleukin-8 (IL-8), macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and neurotactin. The mechanisms underlying neural facilitation are exclusively pre-synaptic; broadly speaking, PPF arises due to increased presynaptic Ca2+ concentration leading to a greater release of neurotransmitter-containing synaptic vesicles. An incoming action potential permits the release of neurotransmitters to propagate the signal to the post synaptic cell. 
T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. [SEP] The regulatory T cells (Tregs  or Treg cells), formerly known as suppressor T cells, are a subpopulation of T cells that modulate the immune system, maintain tolerance to self-antigens, and prevent autoimmune disease. Populations
T regulatory cells are a component of the immune system that suppress immune responses of other cells. Regulatory T cells actively suppress activation of the immune system and prevent pathological self-reactivity, i.e. Vitamin A and TGF-beta promote T cell differentiation into regulatory T cells opposed to Th17 cells, even in the presence of IL-6. While the immunosuppressive function of regulatory T cells prevents the development of autoimmune disease, it is not desirable during immune responses to infectious microorganisms. Suppressor T cells are also known as CD25+–Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (nTregs), and reduce inflammation. Both cytokines are inhibitory to helper T cells; TGF-β suppresses the activity of most of the immune system. Differentiation
Like conventional regulatory T cells (Treg), induction of regulatory Treg17 cells could play an important role in modulating and preventing certain autoimmune diseases. 
TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. [SEP] References
External links
Immunological Synapse - Cell Centered Database CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3) is a protein complex and T cell co-receptor that is involved in activating both the cytotoxic T cell (CD8+ naive T cells) and T helper cells (CD4+ naive T cells). These chains associate with the T-cell receptor (TCR) and the CD3-zeta (ζ-chain) to generate an activation signal in T lymphocytes. The TCR, CD3-zeta, and the other CD3 molecules together constitute the TCR complex. The T-cell receptor (TCR) is a protein complex found on the surface of T cells, or T lymphocytes, that is responsible for recognizing fragments of antigen as peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. The cytoplasmic tail of the TCR is extremely short, hence the CD3 adaptor proteins contain the signalling motifs needed for propagating the signal from the triggered TCR into the cell. When the TCR is triggered, T cells form an immunological synapse allowing them to stay in contact with the antigen presenting cell for several hours. It offers an explanation for how TCR binding to its ligand triggers T-cell activation, based on size-sensitivity for the molecules involved. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. [SEP] Tumor necrosis factor, alpha-induced protein 3 or A20 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP3 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression is rapidly induced by the tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Using knockout mouse models of TNFAIP3 and its transcriptional repressor (i.e. KCHIP3), TNFAIP3 has been shown to be critical for limiting inflammation by terminating endotoxin- and TNF-induced NF-kappa B responses. Interactions
TNFAIP3 has been shown to interact with TNIP1, TRAF1, TRAF2, IKBKG, TAX1BP1, YWHAB, YWHAZ, TRAF6 and YWHAH. Association with rheumatoid arthritis
The TNFAIP3 locus is implicated as a positively associated factor in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). TNFAIP3 interacting protein 3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP3 gene. BTB/POZ domain-containing protein TNFAIP1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFAIP1 gene.This gene was identified as a gene whose expression can be induced by the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) in umbilical vein endothelial cells. TNFAIP3-interacting protein 2 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNIP2 gene. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] Use in cosmetics
α-Tocopheryl acetate is often used in dermatological products such as skin creams. α-Tocopheryl acetate is used as an alternative to tocopherol itself because the phenolic hydroxyl group is blocked, providing a less acidic product with a longer shelf life. Tocopheryl acetate was first synthesized in 1963 by workers at Hoffmann-La Roche.Although there is widespread use of tocopheryl acetate as a topical medication, with claims for improved wound healing and reduced scar tissue, reviews have repeatedly concluded that there is insufficient evidence to support these claims. It is made by esterifying α-tocopherol with acetic acid. Progesterone/hydroxyprogesterone heptanoate/α-tocopherol palmitate (P4/OHPH/VE), sold under the brand name Tocogestan, is a combination medication of progesterone (P4), a short-acting progestogen, hydroxyprogesterone heptanoate (OHPH), a long-acting progestogen, and α-tocopherol palmitate, a prodrug of α-tocopherol and form of vitamin E, which was previously used in France to support pregnancy in women but is no longer available. In doing so, it prevents the effects of these hormones in prostate cancer.Abiraterone acetate was described in 1995, and approved for medical use in the United States and the European Union in 2011. Prostate cancer
In people previously treated with docetaxel survival is increased by 3.9 months (14.8 months versus 10.9 months for placebo).In people with castration-refractory prostate cancer but who had not received chemotherapy those who received abiraterone acetate had a progression-free survival of 16.5 months rather than 8.3 months with placebo. After a median follow-up period of 22.2 months, overall survival was better with abiraterone acetate.Abiraterone acetate may be useful for prevention of the testosterone flare at the initiation of GnRH agonist therapy in men with prostate cancer. 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] Arguments against the sugary drinks tax
The criteria on what drinks are taxed may not include substitutes like fruit juice, energy-dense snacks and biscuits. Consumption
According to a 2019 review of research on sugar drink taxes, the taxes successfully reduced consumption of sugar drinks and reduced adverse health consequences.In general, the theory of supply and demand predicts that the effect of taxes is to raise the consumer price of a good, and lower the quantity consumed. There were no plans to reduce the sugar content in the high sugar drinks. Fruit juices and water do not seem to have been affected by the tax." India
40% tax on sugary soda from 1 July 2017. Beverage manufacturers are taxed according to the volume of sugar-sweetened beverages they produce or import. Research funded by soda companies are 34 times more likely to find soda has no significant health impacts on obesity or diabetes.Taxing soda can lead to a reduction in overall consumption, according to a scientific study published in the Archives of Internal Medicine in March 2010. This proposed taxation measure was not however linked to the anticipated health outcomes of reduced sugar sweetened beverage consumption. 
Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] A teaching hospital is a hospital or medical centre that provides medical education and training to future and current health professionals. Teaching hospitals are almost always affiliated with one or more universities and are often co-located with medical schools.Teaching hospitals use a residency program to educate qualified physicians, podiatrists, dentists, and pharmacists who are receiving training after attaining the degree of MD, DPM, DDS, DMD, PharmD, DO, BDS, BDent, MBBS, MBChB, or BMed. North America
United States
The first teaching hospital in the United States was founded at the College of Philadelphia (now the University of Pennsylvania) in 1765, when medical students at the college began taking bedside instruction at the Pennsylvania Hospital (an institution that predated the medical school by several years). Teaching hospitals often justify this additional cost factor by boasting that their quality of care rises above non-teaching hospitals, or ensuring the patient that they are improving medicine of the future by having their procedure done with medical trainees present. Oceania
Australia
According to the Medical Journal of Australia, Australian teaching hospitals typically receive less funding for research than they do in similarly-situated countries. The late 1800s and early 1900s saw several attempts at instituting a teaching hospital to be affiliated with a medical school, but plans fell through until 1928, when Royal Prince Alfred Hospital became Australia's first teaching hospital, to educate students of the University of Sydney. "History And Development Of Teaching Hospitals In England". These hospitals do not receive payment for their services and are not reimbursement by Medicare, Medical, health insurance, or the Children's Health Insurance Program. 
Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Tetraspanin-12 (Tspan-12) also known as tetraspan NET-2 (NET2) or transmembrane 4 superfamily member 12 (TM4SF12) is a tetraspanin protein that in humans is encoded by the TSPAN12 gene. Tetraspanin-12 is found in the membrane of a variety of cells. TSPAN12 is a significant contributor to primary and metastatic cancer and is responsible for protecting β-catenin from degradation. Tetraspanin-3 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TSPAN3 gene.The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. TSPAN3 human gene details in the UCSC Genome Browser. Chemical exposure
Benzene, a chemical classified as being carcinogenic to humans, is associated with increased risk of T-ALL, as well as other forms of leukemia. Moreover, the protein has been observed to interact with PTP1B to influence the MAPK pathway in acute myeloid leukemia. Trioxsalen (trimethylpsoralen (TMP), trioxysalen (INN) or Trisoralen) is a furanocoumarin and a psoralen derivative. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. [SEP] In addition to DNA repair, D. radiodurans use LEA proteins (Late Embryogenesis Abundant proteins) expression to protect against desiccation.In this context, also the robust S-layer of D. radiodurans through its main protein complex, the S-layer Deinoxanthin Binding Complex (SDBC), strongly contributes to its extreme radioresistance. Moreover, there are other uncommon applications of Deinococcus radiodurans. Disulfide bond formation protein B (DsbB) is a protein component of the pathway that leads to disulfide bond formation in periplasmic proteins of Escherichia coli (P0A6M2) and other bacteria. Single-strand DNA-binding protein (SSB) is a protein found in Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria, that binds to single-stranded regions of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). Active E. coli SSB is composed of four identical 19 kDa subunits. DsbC is one of 6 proteins in the Dsb family in prokaryotes. The other proteins are DsbA, DsbB, DsbD, DsbE and DsbG. The structure of DsbC from E. coli as reported by McCarthy et al. 
The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] MDA5 (melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5) is a RIG-I-like receptor dsRNA helicase enzyme that  is encoded by the IFIH1 gene in humans. MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. It is generally believed that MDA5 recognizes double stranded RNA (dsRNA) over 2000nts in length, however it has been shown that whilst MDA5 can detect and bind to cytoplasmic dsRNA, it is also activated by a high molecular weight RNA complex composed of ssRNA and dsRNA. The signaling cascades in MDA5 is initiated via CARD domain. MDA5 has also been shown to interact with a number of chemical modifications of RNA. It comprises 2 CARD domains located at the N-terminus, a hinge region and the helicase domain which is made up of the domains RecA-like Hel1 and Hel2. In molecular biology, TBR5 is a member of the C/D class of snoRNA which contain the C (UGAUGA) and D (CUGA) box motifs. Like its counterpart in yeast, this subunit may be shared by the other two DNA-directed RNA polymerases. 
The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. [SEP] MDA5 (melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5) is a RIG-I-like receptor dsRNA helicase enzyme that  is encoded by the IFIH1 gene in humans. MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. It is generally believed that MDA5 recognizes double stranded RNA (dsRNA) over 2000nts in length, however it has been shown that whilst MDA5 can detect and bind to cytoplasmic dsRNA, it is also activated by a high molecular weight RNA complex composed of ssRNA and dsRNA. Function
As a pattern recognition receptor
MDA5 is able to detect long dsRNA, the genomic RNA of dsRNA viruses as well as replicative intermediates of both positive and negative sense RNA viruses. MDA5 has also been shown to interact with a number of chemical modifications of RNA. MDA5 is able to detect the absence of the 2′-O-methylation, bind to this type of RNA and initiate an immune response. Structure
MDA5 is classified as an ATP-dependent DExD/H box RNA helicase. Haloacid dehalogenase like hydrolase domain containing 5 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the HDHD5 gene. 
The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. [SEP] MDA5 is part of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family, which also includes RIG-I and LGP2, and functions as a pattern recognition receptor capable of detecting viruses. It is generally believed that MDA5 recognizes double stranded RNA (dsRNA) over 2000nts in length, however it has been shown that whilst MDA5 can detect and bind to cytoplasmic dsRNA, it is also activated by a high molecular weight RNA complex composed of ssRNA and dsRNA. Function
As a pattern recognition receptor
MDA5 is able to detect long dsRNA, the genomic RNA of dsRNA viruses as well as replicative intermediates of both positive and negative sense RNA viruses. MDA5 has also been shown to interact with a number of chemical modifications of RNA. MDA5 is able to detect the absence of the 2′-O-methylation, bind to this type of RNA and initiate an immune response. CD155 (cluster of differentiation 155), also known as the poliovirus receptor, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PVR gene. Together with MDA5 (melanoma differentiation-associated 5) and LGP2 (laboratory of genetics and physiology 2), this family of cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) are sentinels for intracellular viral RNA that is a product of viral infection. MDA5 ligands are poorly characterized, but the preference is for long double-stranded RNA (>2000 bp), such as the replicative form of picornavirus RNA that is found in picornavirus-infected cells. 
The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] This program allows living donors to donate their kidney before their Intended Recipient receives a kidney. The exchanges also reduce waiting times for patients needing kidney transplants. The study found that the health care cost savings of kidney exchanges are substantial. In 2015, the National Kidney Registry completed 360 KPD transplants which accounted for 62% of all U.S. KPD transplants and more than the combined volume of all other KPD programs in world. The improved outcomes from KPD transplants are opening the door for more compatible pair participation in KPD, allowing patient with compatible living donor to essentially trade-up and get a better matched kidney. Specifically a better matched kidney lasts longer and may allow for a lower dosage of post-transplant immunosuppressive medications. Also a better matched kidney transplant is correlated with a lower lifetime mortality rate.For compatible pairs, not only does a better match lead to a better outcome, but it also directly helps other patients with incompatible donors find a match and get transplanted. See also
Optimal kidney exchange - an optimization problem faced by kidney exchange programs, aiming to arrange the exchanges in a way that maximizes the number of transplants or some other objective. 
The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. [SEP] Apart from the WW domain, the modular structure of YAP1 contains a proline-rich region at the very amino terminus, which is followed by a TID (TEAD transcription factor interacting domain). Function
YAP1 is a transcriptional co-activator and its proliferative and oncogenic activity is driven by its association with the TEAD family of transcription factors, which up-regulate genes that promote cell growth and inhibit apoptosis. When the Hippo pathway is not activated, YAP1/TAZ enter the nucleus and regulate gene expression.It is reported that several genes are regulated by YAP1, including Birc2, Birc5, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), amphiregulin (AREG), Cyr61, Hoxa1 and Hoxc13. Instead, when inside the nucleus, they regulate gene expression through TEAD1-4 which are sequence-specific transcription factors that mediate the main transcriptional output of the Hippo pathway. The YAP/TAZ and TEAD interaction competitively inhibits and actively dissociates the TEAD/VGLL4 interaction which functions as a transcriptional repressor. It is the H3 helix that enables TEAD proteins to bind DNA.Another conserved domain of TEAD1 is located at the C terminus of the protein. It allows the binding of cofactors and has been called the YAP1 binding domain, because it is its ability to bind this well-known TEAD proteins co-factor that led to its identification. Finally the complex TEAD/VGLL4 acts as a default transcriptional repressor.The interaction between YAP (Yes Associated Protein 65), TAZ, a transcriptional coactivator paralog to YAP, and all TEAD proteins was demonstrated both in vitro and in vivo. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. [SEP] The United States National Research Council had conducted a survey, and compiled a report, on United States Research-Doctorate Programs approximately every 10 years, although the time elapsed between each new ranking had sometimes exceeded 10 years. Privacy concerns
With the expansion of the database in 2003, it also became an offence for suspects to fail to provide a DNA sample, with punishment ranging from a prison sentence of between six months and two years, and a fine of between €7500 and €30000. Rose's Law is the observation that the number of quibits on chips doubles about every 18 months. The UK's NDNAD is the foremost and largest forensic DNA database of its kind in the world – containing nearly 10% of the population, compared to 0.5% in the USA.The data held on the National DNA Database consists of both demographic sample data and the numerical DNA profile. In April 2010 the Crime and Security Act 2010  established that DNA profiles and fingerprints of anyone convicted of a recordable offence would be stored permanently, while those obtained on arrest, even when no conviction follows, would be stored for 6 years, renewable on new arrests.On 18 May 2011 the UK supreme court also ruled, by a majority, that the ACPO DNA retention guidelines at the time were unlawful because they were incompatible with article 8 of the ECHR. This act allowed the police to retain fingerprint and DNA data on NDNAD indefinitely for most people convicted of a recordable crime. Privacy concerns
The UK DNA database is one of the world's largest, and has prompted concerns from some quarters as to its scope and usage. "In addition, the NPIA says that the ¨National¨ DNA Database continues to provide police with the most effective tool for the prevention and detection of crime since the development of fingerprint analysis over 100 years ago. 
The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. [SEP] The Tiffeneau–Demjanov rearrangement (TDR) is the chemical reaction of a 1-aminomethyl-cycloalkanol with nitrous acid to form an enlarged cycloketone. Discovery
The reaction now known as the Tiffeneau–Demjanov rearrangement (TDR) was discovered in two steps. Since the early 1950s, it had been postulated by many that the TDR mechanism involved a carbonium ion. However, distribution of positive charge is still important in this mechanism as it does explain much of the observed behavior of the TDR. Certain 1-alkyl-2-iminopyrimidines also display this type of rearrangement. (2)

Transition-metal-catalyzed versions of the rearrangement are known, and mechanisms vary. In organometallic chemistry, a tuck-in complex usually refers to derivatives of Cp* ligands wherein a methyl group is deprotonated and the resulting methylene attaches to the metal. The term "tucked in" was coined to describe derivatives of organotungsten complexes. 
The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] There is a substantial base of evidence showing that Housing First is both an effective solution to homelessness and a form of cost savings, as it also reduces the use of public services like hospitals, jails, and emergency shelters. This case management provides stability for homeless individuals, which increases their success. Further, stable housing also results in reduced drinking among homeless alcoholics. A study of homeless people in New York City with serious mental illness found that providing supportive housing to the individuals directly resulted in a 60% decrease in emergency shelter use for clients, as well as decreases in the use of public medical and mental health services and city jails and state prisons. Research on the overall costs to the taxpayer of supportive housing has consistently found the costs to the taxpayer to be about the same or lower than the alternative of a chronically homeless person sleeping in a shelter. The use of supportive housing has been shown to be cost-effective, resulting in reductions in the use of shelter, ambulance, police/jail, health care, emergency room, behavior health, and other service costs. Economic impact on society
Studies cited by supporters (who represent the advocacy and provider sectors listed below) conclude that supportive housing is a cost-effective solution for the problems of several populations; it is substantially less costly than most alternatives used to address the problems of homeless people, including shelters, institutions and hospitals. Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann, Ltd. ISBN 0-750-62248-2, 9780750622486; OCLC 1302619886
Friedman, Donna Haig, et al., Preventing Homelessness and Promoting Housing Stability: A Comparative Analysis, The Boston Foundation, June 2007. 
The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] Crisis attributes rising homelessness to a shortage of social housing, housing benefits not covering private rents and a shortage of homeless prevention schemes for people leaving care.Of the people experiencing homelessness who died in 2017, the average age was 44 for men and 42 for women. Prevention
To prevent homelessness the charity Crisis maintains the public sector should:
Build 100,500 social homes a year to address the needs of people experiencing homelessness and those on low income. poverty) are ultimately responsible for the sequence of events that results in homelessness. Liberty has argued that these ordinances are illegal and that people experiencing homelessness often lack the access to the legal aid support needed to challenge them. Placing occupancy caps on homeless shelters to reduce violence
Ensuring that LGBT youth are not placed with another youth that is overtly hostile or demeaning of LGBT individuals. Funding was the most common factor cited as an obstacle to combating homelessness among LGBT youth. Homelessness has been found to be a factor in dramatically shortening a person's life expectancy. The reasons for homelessness can be characterized into three groups: those who lack stable, social relationships and are "predisposed to personal vulnerabilities", those who lack access to affordable housing, and those who can not afford or receive proper healthcare. 
The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. [SEP] The study concluded that statin treatment for primary prevention reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) events by 31% after nearly five years of treatment. The discovery of HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA) reductase inhibitors, called statins, was a breakthrough in the prevention of hypercholesterolemia and related diseases. The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. Statin drug design
The ideal statin should have the following properties:
High affinity for the enzyme active site
Marked selectivity of uptake into hepatic cells compared with non-hepatic cells
Low systemic availability of active inhibitory equivalents
Relatively prolonged duration of effect.One of the main design objectives of statin design is the selective inhibition of HMGR in the liver, as cholesterol synthesis in non-hepatic cells is needed for normal cell function and inhibition in non-hepatic cells could possibly be harmful. Type 2 statins all exist in their active hydroxy-acid forms. The statins that have the ability to be metabolized by multiple CYP isoenzymes may therefore avoid drug accumulation when one of the pathways is inhibited by co-administered drugs. Adverse effects
Adverse effects are comparable to other statins. The participants enrolled at 349 sites across Australia, Europe, and North America between November 2000 and December 2001, and the study concluded that statin treatment for secondary prevention reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) events and that atorvastatin had a more marked effect than pravastatin. 
The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. [SEP] ML-SA1 is a chemical compound which acts as an "agonist" (i.e. channel opener) of the TRPML family of calcium channels. TRPML1 is important for the function of lysosomes, and ML-SA1 has been used to study several disorders resulting from impaired lysosome function, including mucolipidosis type IV and Niemann-Pick's disease type C, as well as other conditions such as stroke and Alzheimer's disease. ML2-SA1 (EVP-22) is a chemical compound which acts as an "agonist" (i.e. channel opener) for the TRPML2 calcium channel, with high selectivity for TRPML2 and no significant activity at the related TRPML1 and TRPML3 channels. Mps one binder kinase activator-like 1A, also known as Mob1 homolog 1A, is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MOBKL1A gene. Monolysocardiolipin acyltransferase (MLCL AT-1) is a mitochondrial acyltransferase that facilitates the remodeling of monolysocardiolipin (MLCL) into cardiolipin. MLCL AT-1 is likely a splice variant of the alpha subunit of MTP. 
The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] A granuloma is an aggregation of macrophages that forms in response to chronic inflammation. Definition
In pathology, a granuloma is an organized collection of macrophages.In medical practice, doctors occasionally use the term granuloma in its more literal meaning: "a small nodule". Histiocytes (specifically macrophages) are the cells that define a granuloma. The macrophages in granulomas are often referred to as "epithelioid". In terms of the underlying cause, the difference between granulomas and other types of inflammation is that granulomas form in response to antigens that are resistant to "first-responder" inflammatory cells such as neutrophils and eosinophils. Within the inflammation in the gut wall, granulomas are often found and are a clue to the diagnosis. Granulocytes are
cells in the innate immune system characterized by the presence of specific granules in their cytoplasm. Following the inflammatory response, granulation tissue form. 
The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. [SEP] H3K79me2 is detected in the transcribed regions of active genes. H3K4me3 is an epigenetic modification to the DNA packaging protein Histone H3 that indicates tri-methylation at the 4th lysine residue of the histone H3 protein and is often involved in the regulation of gene expression. H3K4me3 is commonly associated with the activation of transcription of nearby genes. H3K4me3 also plays an important role in the genetic regulation of stem cell potency and lineage. The tri-methylation denotes the methylation present in H3K4me3. H3K4me3 is one of the least abundant histone modifications; however, it is highly enriched at active promoters near transcription start sites (TSS)  and positively correlated with transcription. Role in stem cells and embryogenesis
Regulation of gene expression through H3K4me3 plays a significant role in stem cell fate determination and early embryo development. H3K4me3 in embryonic cells is part of a bivalent chromatin system, in which regions of DNA are simultaneously marked with activating and repressing histone methylations. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] The activity of nonmuscle myosin II is regulated by phosphorylation of a regulatory light chain, such as MYL12B. This phosphorylation results in higher ATPase activity and the assembly of myosin II filaments. This cardiac ventricular RLC isoform is distinct from that expressed in skeletal muscle (MYLPF), smooth muscle (MYL12B) and cardiac atrial muscle (MYL7).Ventricular myosin light chain-2 (MLC-2v) refers to the ventricular cardiac muscle form of myosin light chain 2 (Myl2). MLC-2v interacts with the neck/tail region of the muscle thick filament protein myosin to regulate myosin motility and function. RLC and the second ventricular light chain, essential light chain (ELC, MYL3), are non-covalently bound to IQXXXRGXXXR motifs in the 9 nm S1-S2 lever arm of the myosin head, both alpha (MYH6) and beta (MYH7) isoforms. It has been proposed that RLC phosphorylation promotes a "swing-out" of myosin heads, facilitating weak-to-strong crossbridge binding to actin per unit calcium. MLC-2v phosphorylation at Ser14 and Ser15 increases myosin lever arm stiffness and promotes myosin head diffusion, which altogether slow down myosin kinetics and prolong the duty cycle as a means to fine-tune myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity to force. Variations in myosin cycling kinetics and contractile properties as a result of differential MLC-2v phosphorylation (Ser14/15) influence both epicardial and endocardial myofiber tension development and recovery to control cardiac torsion and myofiber strain mechanics.A number of human studies have implicated loss of MLC-2v phosphorylation in the pathogenesis of human dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. [SEP] Monocytopoiesis is the process which leads to the production of monocytes (and, subsequently, macrophages). Macrophage activation syndrome  is a severe, potentially life-threatening, complication of several chronic rheumatic diseases of childhood. There is uncontrolled activation and proliferation of macrophages, and T lymphocytes, with a marked increase in circulating cytokines, such as IFN-gamma, and GM-CSF. See also
Cytokine release syndrome

References
External links

Macrophage Activation Syndrome, MedScape If untreated, this increased inflammation can result in reduced immune response, pneumonia, lymphoid tissue damage, and death. Elevated cytokine production alters the innate immune response which leads to abnormal T-cell and B-Cell function that decreases control of viral replication and host defense. However, excessive inflammation causes dangerous levels of reactive oxygen species which cause oxidative stress to tissues. It is most characterized by an increase in interactions with white blood cells (leukocytes), and it is associated with the early states of atherosclerosis and sepsis, among others. 
The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. [SEP] TMEM275 (Transmembrane protein 275) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TMEM275 gene. Domains
TMEM275 has two, highly-conserved, helical trans-membrane regions. Protein level regulation
Subcellular Localization
TMEM275 is predicted to be within the plasma membrane or the endoplasmic reticulum's membrane. The TMEM219/IGFBP3 signaling pathway is experimentally shown to regulate pancreatic beta cell function. TMEM267 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TMEM267 gene. The TMEM267 protein was claimed to be localized in the nucleoplasm of cells. The extracellular and intracellular regions of the TMEM267 protein are predicted to be a combination of alpha helices and beta sheets, but there is not a consensus. Gene attributes
General information
The TMEM247 gene is located on chromosome 2 at c2p21, nucleotide: 46,479,565-46,484,425. 
The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. [SEP] Mutations in MLH1 and MSH2 are linked with the disease. These genes code for DNA mismatch repair genes, and mutations increase the risk of developing cancerous qualities.Many patients who have sebaceous neoplasms with mutations in MSH2 and MLH1 do not in fact have Muir–Torre syndrome. Approximately 70% of tumors associated with the MTS have microsatellite instability. Subsequent investigations using genome-wide paired-end sequencing and  SNP array analysis have found similar patterns of chromothripsis in various human cancers, e.g., melanomas, sarcomas and colorectal, lung and thyroid cancers. Micronuclei are structures  formed by mitotic errors in the transition from metaphase to anaphase. The direct link between the APOBEC deaminases and kataegistic clusters of mutations was recently obtained by expressing hyperactive deaminase in yeast cells. Pan-cancer analysis aims to examine the similarities and differences among the genomic and cellular alterations found across diverse tumor types. Pan-cancer studies
Pan-cancer studies aim to detect the genes whose mutation is conducive to oncogenesis, as well as recurrent genomic events or aberrations between different tumors. 
The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. [SEP] Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) or Lynch syndrome is an autosomal dominant genetic condition that is associated with a high risk of colon cancer as well as other cancers including endometrial cancer (second most common), ovary, stomach, small intestine, hepatobiliary tract, upper urinary tract, brain, and skin. Colorectal cancer diagnosed before age 50
2. Colorectal cancer with MSI-high pathology in a person who is younger than 60 years of age
4. Colorectal cancer diagnosed in a person with one or more first-degree relative with colorectal cancer or Lynch syndrome associated tumour diagnosed under age 50
5. External links

FAQs on HNPCC Archived 2007-08-15 at the Wayback Machine from the National Institute of Health
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Lynch syndrome
hnpcc at NIH/UW GeneTests
National Cancer Institute: Genetics of Colorectal Cancer information summary Reduction in C11orf53 gene expression is associated with increased odds of occurrence of colorectal cancer. Specifically sequence variation (rs3802842) close to the C11orf53 gene locus that lowers the expression of C11orf53 has been observed in the  colonic mucosal cells immediately adjacent to colon cancer tumors. This region (ST2; GeneID: 6761) on chromosome 11 represents a putative locus that is associated with various forms of cancer. 
The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. [SEP] A role for TET1 in cancer was reported in 2003 showing that it acted as a complex with MLL (myeloid/lymphoid or mixed-lineage leukaemia 1) (KMT2A), a positive global regulator of gene transcription that is named after its role cancer regulation. Base excision repair then replaces 5mC with C.

Clinical significance
The most striking outcome of aberrant TET activity is its association with the development of cancer. Damaging variants in TET2 were attributed as the cause of several myeloid malignancies around the same time as the protein’s function was reported for TET-dependent oxidation. In mice the depletion of TET2 skewed the differentiation of haematopoietic precursors, as well as amplifying the rate of haematopoietic or progenitor cell renewal.Somatic TET2 mutations are frequently observed in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), MDS/MPN overlap syndromes including chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML), acute myeloid leukaemias (AML) and secondary AML (sAML).TET2 mutations have prognostic value in cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML). "Nonsense" and "frameshift" mutations in this gene are associated with poor outcome on standard therapies in this otherwise favorable-risk patient subset.Loss-of-function TET2 mutations may also have a possible causal role in atherogenesis as reported by Jaiswal S. et al, as a consequence of clonal hematopoiesis. WIT pathway
TET2 is mutated in 7%–23% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients. Breast cancer patients with high TET1 levels had significantly higher survival probabilities than patients with low TET1 levels.Degradation of TET1 in hypoxia-induced EMT lung cancer cells led to reduced metastasis rates and cells. Role in disease
If the TP53 gene is damaged, tumor suppression is severely compromised. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] Forkhead box O3, also known as FOXO3 or FOXO3a, is a human protein encoded by the FOXO3 gene. Clinical significance
Deregulation of FOXO3a is involved in tumorigenesis, for example translocation of this gene with the MLL gene is associated with secondary acute leukemia. Downregulation of FOXO3a activity is often seen in cancer (e.g. Association with longevity
Genetic variation in FOXO3 has been shown to be associated with healthspan and longevity in humans. In the Innate Immune system, FOXO1 has been proved to enhance inflammation through increasing formulation of several proinflammatory genes. References
External links
FOXO1A+protein,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. The Foxp3 gene is also mutated in IPEX syndrome (Immunodysregulation, Polyendocrinopathy, and Enteropathy, X-linked). So, Foxp3 polymorphism (rs3761548) might contribute to cancer development like gastric cancer through influencing Treg cell activity and secretion of immunomodulatory cytokines such as IL-10, IL-35, and TGF-β. 
The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. [SEP] The endocardial heart tubes derive from the visceral mesoderm and initially are formed by a confluence of angioblastic blood vessels on either side of the embryonic midline. The myocardium forms from mesoderm cells surrounding the heart tube, while the epicardium develops from other cells, most likely from neural crest cells. When cloned in suspension they form cardiospheres, which when cultured in a myogenic differentiation medium, attach and differentiate into beating cardiomyocytes. Heart development, also known as cardiogenesis, refers to the prenatal development of the heart. Early development
The heart derives from embryonic mesodermal germ layer cells that differentiate after gastrulation into mesothelium, endothelium, and myocardium. Mesothelial pericardium forms the outer lining of the heart. This has formed from cardiac myoblasts  and blood islands as forerunners of blood cells and vessels. In mammals, cardiac electrical activity originates from specialized myocytes of the sinoatrial node (SAN) which generate spontaneous and rhythmic action potentials (AP). 
The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. [SEP] The one-child policy (Simplified Chinese: 一孩政策) was a population planning initiative in China implemented between 1979 and 2015 to curb the country's population growth by restricting many families to a single child. "The abolition may not achieve a significant benefit, as a CBC News analysis indicated: "Repealing the one-child policy may not spur a huge baby boom, however, in part because fertility rates are believed to be declining even without the policy's enforcement. Previous easings of the one-child policy have spurred fewer births than expected, and many people among China's younger generations see smaller family sizes as ideal." According to the Journal of Economic Perspectives, "existing studies indicate either a modest or minimal effect of the fertility change induced by the one-child policy on children education". At the same time, the one-child policy reduces the economic burden for each family. Statement of the effect of the policy on birth reduction
The Chinese government, quoting Zhai Zhenwu, director of Renmin University's School of Sociology and Population in Beijing, estimates that 400 million births were prevented by the one-child policy as of 2011, while some demographers challenge that number, putting the figure at perhaps half that level, according to CNN. This growth slowed because of the one-child policy instituted in 1979. The overall goal of the one-child policy was to keep the total population within 1.2 billion through the year 2000, on the premise that the Four Modernizations program would be of little value if population growth was not brought under control. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] Cancer pharmacogenomics is the study of how variances in the genome influences an individual’s response to different cancer drug treatments. Pharmacokinetic genes
Cancer pharmacogenomics has also contributed to the understanding of how pharmacokinetic genes affect the exposure to cancer drugs, which can help predict patient sensitivity to treatment toxicity. It has been established that the TPMT genotype of a patient can affect the levels of exposure to the active metabolites, which has an impact in the treatment toxicity and efficacy. Pharmacogenomics analyzes how the genetic makeup of a patient affects their response to drugs. It deals with the influence of acquired and inherited genetic variation on drug response, by correlating DNA mutations (including single-nucleotide polymorphisms, copy number variations, and insertions/deletions) with pharmacokinetic (drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination), pharmacodynamic (effects mediated through a drug's biological targets), and/or immunogenic endpoints.Pharmacogenomics aims to develop rational means to optimize drug therapy, with regard to the patients' genotype, to achieve maximum efficiency with minimal adverse effects. Pharmacogenomics study the inherited genetic differences in drug metabolic pathways (and other pharmacological principles, like enzymes, messengers and receptors) which can affect individual responses to drugs, both in terms of therapeutic effect as well as adverse effects. Drug-metabolizing enzymes
The majority of clinically actionable pharmacogenetic variation occurs in genes that code for drug-metabolizing enzymes, including those involved in both phase I and phase II metabolism. He was especially known for his work on factors affecting the use of tamoxifen to treat breast cancer such as variability in the level of the CYP2D6 enzyme. 
The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. [SEP] Double-strand breaks
Double-strand breaks, in which both strands in the double helix are severed, are particularly hazardous to the cell because they can lead to genome rearrangements. Three mechanisms exist to repair double-strand breaks (DSBs): non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), microhomology-mediated end joining (MMEJ), and homologous recombination (HR):

In NHEJ, DNA Ligase IV, a specialized DNA ligase that forms a complex with the cofactor XRCC4, directly joins the two ends. MMEJ is an additional error-prone inaccurate repair pathway for double-strand breaks. Genome-wide distribution of DNA repair in human somatic cells
Differential activity of DNA repair pathways across various regions of the human genome causes mutations to be very unevenly distributed within tumor genomes. Epigenetic alterations can accompany DNA repair of oxidative damage or double-strand breaks. In human cells, oxidative DNA damage occurs about 10,000 times a day and DNA double-strand breaks occur about 10 to 50 times a cell cycle in somatic replicating cells (see DNA damage (naturally occurring)). See also
References
External links

 Media related to DNA repair at Wikimedia Commons
Roswell Park Cancer Institute DNA Repair Lectures
A comprehensive list of Human DNA Repair Genes
3D structures of some DNA repair enzymes
Human DNA repair diseases
DNA repair special interest group
DNA Repair Archived 12 February 2018 at the Wayback Machine
DNA Damage and DNA Repair
Segmental Progeria
DNA-damage repair; the good, the bad, and the ugly
Heavy Metal Exposure Influences Double Strand Break DNA Repair Outcomes Apart from its original function in bacterial immunity, the Cas9 protein has been heavily utilized as a genome engineering tool to induce site-directed double-strand breaks in DNA. 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] In pregnancy, there is an increased susceptibility and/or severity of several infectious diseases. Risk factors such as diabetes, chronic blood pressure and multiple pregnancies can increase the risk of developing placental disease. Causes
Preeclampsia is considered to be linked with Placental Disease, as well as intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and placental abruptions are risk factors that lead to placental disease. Risk factors
Risk factors associated with placental disease are as follows:
Smoking cigarettes and use other forms of drugs such as cocaine. Diabetes mellitus
Maternal age less than 20 years or over the age of 35
Multiple pregnancies
Chronic high blood pressure
Being underweight or obeseAlso, chronic renal disease, collagen vascular disease, thrombophilia, and cardiovascular disease increase the risk of developing placental disease. Epidemiology
Placental disease is more common in preterm gestation than with full term. Women who endured placental disease within the first pregnancy has an increased risk of the disease progressing within future pregnancies. Preeclampsia is diagnosed in 3-5% of pregnancies that place them at risk of developing placental disease. 
The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. [SEP] Because of the detrimental effect on their mental stability, inmates in solitary confinement often resort to self-harm; this behavior is more common in women than in men. Other studies show that juvenile women may be sentenced more harshly than their male counterparts

During incarceration
Prevalence of mental illness
Several studies have found that rates of mental illness in prisons are higher than those in the general population and that rates of mental illness in women's prisons are higher than those in men's prisons. According to a report through the Bureau of Justice Statistics, female prisoners are about twice as likely than male prisoners to have a history of mental health problems.A study through the Mental Health Prevalence Project which used "three major indicators of mental illness: diagnosis of a serious mental illness, history of inpatient psychiatric care, and psychotropic medication use" found that female offenders have "on average, twice the rate of various indicators as males." Female inmates who experience co-occurring disorders are four times more likely than other female inmates to receive severe disciplinary punishment. Female inmates are more likely than male inmates to be diagnosed with depression, substance abuse, developmental disabilities, bipolar disorder, PTSD, and eating disorders. "It has been found that female inmates are medicated at  higher rates than their male counterparts. Studies suggest "that female inmates' behaviour is more likely than males' to be 'psychiatrized' by correctional staff". According to the study "female inmates who perpetrated acts of violence against others and/or property, or who demonstrated aggressiveness or agitation, were significantly more likely than men exhibiting similar behaviors to be placed in mental health units". 
The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. [SEP] Familial amyloidosis symptoms are centered around neuropathological and cardiac problems. Symptoms and signs
Symptoms of cardiac amyloidosis are a combination of heart failure and amyloid deposition in various other organs. Amyloid deposition in the heart causes restrictive diastolic heart failure that progresses to systolic heart failure.Cardiac manifestations include:

Dyspnea on exertion
Peripheral edema and ascites
Pericardial effusion
Arrhythmias (secondary to disruption of the normal electrical system of the heart)
Atrial arrhythmias (such as atrial fibrillation)
First/second degree heart blocks
Syncope
Elevated neck veins and jugular venous pressure
Myocardial ischemia/Angina (secondary to amyloid deposition in the small arteries of the heart)Myocardial oxygen demand is increased in patients with cardiac amyloidosis, regardless of changes to coronary perfusion.For patients with light-chain amyloidosis, there can be depositions of amyloid into numerous different organs. Amyloidosis presents with ventricle and valvular thickening, biatrial enlargement, restrictive filling pattern, with normal to mildly reduced systolic function and decreased diastolic filling. Cardiac amyloidosis produces specific alterations to the functionality of the heart. Echocardiography can be utilized to detect this specific pattern (relative preservation of the apical myocardium with decreased longitudinal strain in the mid and basal sections), which is 90–95% sensitive and 80–85% specific for cardiac amyloidosis. As expected, with cardiac damage and dysfunction, there can be an elevation of these markers in patients with cardiac amyloidosis. T2 signal is also increased in AL-CM and ATTR-CM but the signal is greater in AL-CM before starting chemotherapy.Late gadolinum enhancement (LGE) can determine the severity of deposition of amyloid in heart tissue. 
The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. [SEP] The ERG is composed of electrical potentials contributed by different cell types within the retina, and the stimulus conditions (flash or pattern stimulus, whether a background light is present, and the colors of the stimulus and background) can elicit stronger response from certain components.If a dim flash ERG is performed on a dark-adapted eye, the response is primarily from the rod system. Sufficiently bright flashes will elicit ERGs containing an a-wave (initial negative deflection) followed by a b-wave (positive deflection). The pattern ERG (PERG), evoked by an alternating checkerboard stimulus, primarily reflects activity of retinal ganglion cells. In 1908, Einthoven and Jolly divided the ERG response into three components: A-wave, B-wave, and C-wave. As a part of the retina, bipolar cells exist between photoreceptors (rod cells and cone cells) and ganglion cells. Unlike most neurons, bipolar cells communicate via graded potentials, rather than action potentials. Glutamate, the neurotransmitter contained in bipolar cells, generates spontaneous activity in ganglion cells. Waves are still present after bipolar cells establish synaptic connection with amacrine and ganglion cells.Additional activity involved in retinal waves includes the following. 
The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. [SEP] The Kinesin 8 family has been shown to play an important role in chromosome alignment during mitosis. Kinesin 8 family members KIF18A in humans and Kip3 in  yeast have been shown to be in vivo plus-end directed microtubule depolymerizers. Then KIFAP3 (KAP3, kinesin superfamily associated protein–3) binds to the tail domain to form a heterotrimeric motor. The interaction of KBP with Kif15 is necessary for the localization of Kif15 to the microtubule plus-end at the spindle equator. Function
KIF11 (also known as kinesin-5 and Eg5) is a homotetramer which cross-links anti-parallel microtubules in the mitotic spindle to maintain spindle bipolarity. Kinesin-5 motors assemble into a bipolar homotetrameric structure that is capable of sliding apart bundles of anti-parallel oriented microtubules. Their interaction is necessary for Kinesin-5 localization to the mitotic spindle, for stabilizing the spindle, and for spindle pole segregation. This experiment showed that Kinesin-5 was indeed capable of carrying out the role that had been proposed for it in mitosis – sliding oppositely oriented microtubules in the mitotic spindle. 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. [SEP] The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is molecular machine used by a wide range of Gram-negative bacterial species to transport effectors from the interior (cytoplasm or cytosol) of a bacterial cell across the cellular envelope into an adjacent target cell. While often reported that the T6SS was discovered in 2006 by researchers studying the causative agent of cholera, Vibrio cholerae, the first study demonstrating that T6SS genes encode a protein export apparatus was actually published in 2004, in a study of protein secretion by the fish pathogen Edwardsiella tarda.Since then, it is estimated that at least a quarter of all pathogenic and non-pathogenic proteobacterial genomes encode for a T6SS, including pathogens of animals, plants, and humans, as well as soil, environmental or marine bacteria. The T6SS of Vibrio cholerae has a dual role, being able to target both bacterial and eukaryotic cells. All characterized bacterial-targeting T6SS proteins act as toxins, either by killing or preventing the growth of target cells. T6SS-positive bacterial species prevent T6SS-mediated intoxication towards self and kin cells by producing immunity proteins specific to each secreted toxin. Bacterial effectors are proteins secreted by pathogenic bacteria into the cells of their host, usually using a type 3 secretion system (TTSS/T3SS), a type 4 secretion system (TFSS/T4SS) or a Type VI secretion system (T6SS). Bacterial Effector Proteins and their domains/motifs (from Paul Dean's lab)
T3DB – A database of Type 3 Secretion System (T3SS) proteins 
T3SE – T3SS Database
BEAN 2.0: an integrated web resource for the identification and functional analysis of type III secreted effectors


== References == Overview
The type II secretion system is a membrane-bound protein complex found in Gram-negative bacteria that is used to secrete proteins found in the cytoplasm of the bacteria into the extracellular space outside of the cell. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] Clinical development for head and neck cancer and colorectal cancer have been discontinued, but phase I trials in combination with cobimetinib are evaluating safety for treatment of solid tumors. Durvalumab plus tremelimumab plus platinum–etoposide was not associated with a significant improvement in overall survival versus platinum–etoposide (hazard ratio [HR] 0·82 [95% CI 0·68–1·00]; p=0·045); median overall survival was 10·4 months (95% CI 9·6–12·0) versus 10·5 months (9·3–11·2). Checkpoint inhibitor therapy is a form of cancer immunotherapy. Some cancers can protect themselves from attack by stimulating immune checkpoint targets. Checkpoint therapy can block inhibitory checkpoints, restoring immune system function. Clinical trials have also shown some benefits of anti-CTLA-4 therapy on lung cancer or pancreatic cancer, specifically in combination with other drugs.However, patients treated with check-point blockade (specifically CTLA-4 blocking antibodies), or a combination of check-point blocking antibodies, are at high risk of suffering from immune-related adverse events such as dermatologic, gastrointestinal, endocrine, or hepatic autoimmune reactions. The immune-related response criteria (irRC) is a set of published rules that define when tumors in cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progress") during treatment, where the compound being evaluated is an immuno-oncology drug. It has no cross-reactivity with other members of the interleukin-1 family, including interleukin-1 alpha.Common side effects include infections (colds and upper respiratory tract infections), abdominal pain and injection-site reactions. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] Autoimmunity
Immunotoxic agents can increase the occurrence of immune system attacks on self molecules. These agents are known for causing disturbances to the carefully regulated immune system and increasing the development of autoimmunity. Changes in the circulating regulatory and responder T cells are good indicators of an autoimmune response induced by an immunotoxic agent. Clinical trials have also shown some benefits of anti-CTLA-4 therapy on lung cancer or pancreatic cancer, specifically in combination with other drugs.However, patients treated with check-point blockade (specifically CTLA-4 blocking antibodies), or a combination of check-point blocking antibodies, are at high risk of suffering from immune-related adverse events such as dermatologic, gastrointestinal, endocrine, or hepatic autoimmune reactions. Adverse effects
Immunological adverse effects may be caused by checkpoint inhibitors. Checkpoint inhibitor induced colitis is an inflammatory condition affecting the colon (colitis), which is caused by cancer immunotherapy (checkpoint inhibitor therapy). Histologic inflammation may occur as early as 1–2 weeks after immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy, well before the onset of symptoms.Anti-PD-1 induced colitis may lead to more CD8+ T cell inflammation, whereas Anti-CTLA4 induced colitis may involve more CD4+ T cell infiltration and higher mucosal levels of the inflammatory molecule TNF alpha. Epidemiology
The prevalence of checkpoint inhibitor induced colitis varies depending on the regimen of immunotherapy. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. [SEP] A ureohydrolase is a type of hydrolase enzyme. The ureohydrolase superfamily includes arginase (EC 3.5.3.1), agmatinase (EC 3.5.3.11), formiminoglutamase (EC 3.5.3.8) and proclavaminate amidinohydrolase (EC 3.5.3.22). Ure2, or Ure2p, is a yeast protein encoded by a gene known as URE2 (systematic designation YNL229C). The Ure2 protein can also form a yeast prion known as [URE3]. The gene prefix "URE" stands for ureidosuccinate transport, as the Ure2 protein in its native state is responsible for repressing nitrogen catabolism of glutamine by controlling the GLN3 transcription factor. Ure2 protein also plays a role in responding to oxidative stress.Ure2p is a protein composed of 354 amino acids and has a molecular weight of 40,226. References
External links
URE2 at the Saccharomyces Genome Database Function
The SLC14A1 codes for a urea transporter (UTB) that is expressed in erythrocytes and kidney. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. [SEP] Molecular nickel hydrides
A large number of nickel hydride complexes are known. Nickel is an essential nutrient for many microorganisms, where it participates in a variety of cellular processes. However, excessive levels of nickel ions in cell can be fatal to the cell. Nickel ion concentration in the cell is regulated through the nik operon. Iron–nickel (Fe–Ni) clusters are metal clusters consisting of iron and nickel, i.e. This is due to charge transfer from nickel's 4s orbital and iron atoms to nickel's 3d orbitals. Fe–Ni clusters in biology
Fe–Ni metal clusters are crucial for energy production in many bacteria. Structure
The geometry of the nickel(II) ion is square planar. 
Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. [SEP] Dapsone, also known as 4,4'-sulfonyldianiline (SDA) or diaminodiphenyl sulfone (DDS), is an antibiotic commonly used in combination with rifampicin and clofazimine for the treatment of leprosy. Medical uses
Infections
Dapsone is commonly used in combination with rifampicin and clofazimine for the treatment of leprosy. It is also used for toxoplasmosis in people unable to tolerate trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole.Dapsone by mouth was one of the first medications used to treat moderate to severe acne vulgaris, and is still occasionally prescribed for the treatment of severe cases. A topical form of dapsone is also effective with potentially less side effects.It is unclear if the combination with pyrimethamine is useful in the prevention of malaria. Dapsone is effective and safe in persons with moderate, severe, or refractory cutaneous lupus erythematosis. Dapsone is effective and safe for treatment of second-line therapy for people with chronic spontaneous urticaria in those for whom antihistamines and other first-line agents have failed. There are no clinical trials but there are many case reports that dapsone is effective at doses of 25 mg/day to 200 mg/day for treatment of relapsing polychondritis. However, dapsone can potentially cause severe side effects, meaning that sometimes steroids or other antibiotics should be used instead, although these alternative treatments are much less effective.An August 2015 review notes that dapsone is reported to be effective against generalized granuloma annulare.Dapsone has been used as a monomer in the design of dye adsorbent polymers. 
There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. Statins are also noncompetitive with the cosubstrate NADPH (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate). HMGR statin binding site
Studies have shown that statins bind reversibly to the HGMR enzyme. Structure-activity relationship (SAR)
All statins have the same pharmacophore so the difference in their pharmacodynamic effect is mostly based on the substituents. Adverse effects
Adverse effects are comparable to other statins. Thus despite reducing LDL cholesterol by a much lesser amount with fluvastatin than atorvastatin and rosuvastatin, fluvastatin reduced myocardial infarction similarly to atorvastatin and to a greater degree than rosuvastatin. Hip Fractures: A Practical Guide to Management. The first statin drug available to the general public was lovastatin. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] On the contrary, disease will not develop in the individual who does not reach the liability threshold. MODY 3 or HNF1A-MODY is a form of maturity-onset diabetes of the young. Long-term diabetic complications can occur if blood glucose levels are not adequately controlled. High-sensitivity measurements of C-reactive protein may help to distinguish between HNF1A-MODY and other forms of diabetes

References


== External links == HNF4 (Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 4) is a nuclear receptor protein mostly expressed in the liver, gut, kidney, and pancreatic beta cells that is critical for liver development. In humans, there are two isoforms of HNF4, HNF4α and HNF4γ, encoded by two separate genes HNF4A and HNF4G respectively. Ligands
HNF4 was originally classified as an orphan receptor that exhibits constitutive transactivation activity apparently by being continuously bound to a variety of fatty acids. Pathology
Mutations in the HNF4A gene have been linked to maturity onset diabetes of the young 1 (MODY1).This seems to be caused by HNF4-a's [1] role in the synthesis of SHBG, which is known to be severely diminished in patients with insulin-resistance. 
Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. [SEP] Knee-high compression stockings are used not only to help increase circulation, but also to help prevent the formation of blood clots in the lower legs. Compression stockings are beneficial in reducing symptomless deep vein thrombosis among airline passengers flying for 7 hours or more.Pharmacological (warfarin, unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin) and mechanical measures (graded compression stockings, intermittent pneumatic compression devices, and venous foot pumps) are used to prevent venous thromboembolism (VTE) in clinical practice. Graduated compression stockings can effectively prevent VTE in hospitalized patients by applying different pressure to the leg. The meta-analysis of general surgical patients revealed that graduated compression stockings decreased their risk of developing VTE by 68% compared to placebo.Twenty randomized controlled trials analyzed the effectiveness of graduated compression stockings alone or with other additional prophylaxis in prevention of deep vein thrombosis. They concluded that graduated compression stockings are effective in deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis in patients who have undergone general and orthopedic surgery.Combining graduated compression stockings with other mechanical and pharmacological measures can increase the effectiveness of VTE prophylaxis by 60%. was done to compare knee-high and thigh-high graded compression stockings in regards of deep vein thrombosis prevention in medical and surgical patients. The analysis determined that there was a 6% risk of developing deep vein thrombosis when wearing knee-high stockings and 4% when wearing thigh-high stockings, but also found significant heterogeneity, and thus it concluded that there is not enough evidence that one length is superior to the other, and suggests that knee-high compression stockings should be the first choice for the deep vein thrombosis prevention in medical and surgical patients. Compression garments worn on the legs can help prevent deep vein thrombosis and reduce swelling, especially while traveling. 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] Evidence does not support its use in infantile colic. Dihydrochandonium is an aminosteroid non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent. Styramate is a muscle relaxant and anticonvulsant drug. At therapeutic doses, it does not produce significant sedative effects. Its myosin inhibitory properties are very similar to those of blebbistatin. Pirolazamide (SC-26,438) is an antiarrhythmic agent that was never marked. However, nobody appeared on the Official Start List. As a result of the rapid atrial rate, some of the atrial activity fails to get through the AV node in an antegrade direction but can alter the rate at which a subsequent atrial impulse is conducted. 
Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. [SEP] In immunology, a memory B cell (MBC) is a type of B lymphocyte that forms part of the adaptive immune system. Class switching allows memory B cells to secrete different types of antibodies in future immune responses. A fraction of the B cells with BCRs cognate to the antigen differentiate into memory B cells that survive long-term in the body. Memory T cells are a subset of T lymphocytes that might have some of the same functions as memory B cells. Homeostatic maintenance
Clones of memory T cells expressing a specific T cell receptor can persist for decades in our body. This model predicts that effector T cells can transit into memory T cells and survive, retaining the ability to proliferate. The single unifying theme for all memory T cell subtypes is that they are long-lived and can quickly expand to large numbers of effector T cells upon re-exposure to their cognate antigen. Memory T cells
Memory T cells can be both CD4+ and CD8+. 
Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. [SEP] Glioblasts differentiate into astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. However, immunorejection of a functional transplanted brain has been reported in monkeys. Neural precursor cells in the human SVZ are known to yield offspring which can then produce glial cells or even migrate and form new neurons in specific areas such as the mammalian olfactory bulb. Subsequent differentiation of glial cell populations results in function-specialized glial lineages. Functions of glial-derived cell lineages are reviewed by Baumann and Hauw. Recently it has been shown that engrafting human glial progenitor cell in the nascent mice brains will cause the cells to differentiate into astrocytes. They did an experiment to attempt to repair trauma to the Central Nervous System of an adult rat by replacing the glial cells. When the glial cells were injected into the injury of the adult rat's spinal cord, astrocytes were generated by exposing human glial precursor cells to bone morphogenetic protein (bone morphogenetic protein is important because it is considered to create tissue architecture throughout the body). 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. [SEP] Both OECs and neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) have been successfully transplanted in the central nervous system of adult rats and have had either positive or neutral results as a method of neurogenesis and axonal regeneration; however, neither method has been shown to have long term beneficial effects, as cell survival is usually less than 1% after transplantation. Glia, also called glial cells (gliocytes) or neuroglia, are non-neuronal cells in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and the peripheral nervous system that do not produce electrical impulses. However, detailed studies have found no evidence that 'mature' glia, such as astrocytes or oligodendrocytes, retain mitotic capacity. In the past, glia had been considered to lack certain features of neurons. For example, glial cells were not believed to have chemical synapses or to release transmitters. Clinical significance
While glial cells in the PNS frequently assist in regeneration of lost neural functioning, loss of neurons in the CNS does not result in a similar reaction from neuroglia. For the majority of the twentieth century, scientists had disregarded glial cells as mere physical scaffolds for neurons. Sergey Fedoroff (1925 in Latvia – 2012 in Canada) was a researcher in tissue cultures, who helped establish that it was impossible to regenerate nerve cells. 
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. [SEP] They include interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6, IL-12, and IL-18, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), interferon gamma (IFNγ), and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and play an important role in mediating the innate immune response. IL-1α and TNF are both acute-phase cytokines that act to promote fever and inflammation. IL-10 also inhibits IL-1α synthesis. Interleukin 10 (IL-10), also known as human cytokine synthesis inhibitory factor (CSIF), is an anti-inflammatory cytokine. IL-1α and IL-1β, the most studied members, have strong proinflammatory effects and share a natural antagonist, IL-1Ra. It counteracts the effects of both IL-1α and IL-1β. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) is an interleukin that acts as both a pro-inflammatory cytokine and an anti-inflammatory myokine. IL-6's role as an anti-inflammatory myokine is mediated through its inhibitory effects on TNF-alpha and IL-1 and its activation of IL-1ra and IL-10. 
UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] Moreover, TRM cells themself represent a diverse populations because of the specializations for the resident tissues. Essential part of T cell development forms process called VDJ recombination, mediated by RAG recombinases, that stochastically changes DNA sequences of T cell receptors (TCR) and endows them with diverse recognition specificity. While cTECs control the functionality of TCRs during the process called positive selection, Medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs) that home in the inner part of the thymus- medulla, present on their MHC molecules self-peptides, generated mostly by protein Autoimmune regulator, to eliminate T cells with self-reactive TCRs via processes of central tolerance e.g. Knockout of this gene revealed only slight reduction in positive selection of CD8 T cells, but TCR repertoire of these cells was shown to be limited  and they revealed impaired immunological properties e.g. Memory T cell inflation phenomenon is the formation and maintenance of a large population of specific CD8+ T cells  in reaction to cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection. Especially in the elderly, long-term CMV infection leads to a rapid increase the number of CMV-specific T cells. The graft contains donor T cells (T lymphocytes) that can be beneficial for the recipient by eliminating residual malignant cells. "The dichotomous functions of passenger leukocytes in solid-organ transplantation". 
UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] TCD can reduce the risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), which is a common issue in transplants. In haploidentical hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, in vivo TCD suppressed lymphocytes early on. In contrast, both in vivo TCD with alemtuzumab and in vitro TCD with CD34+ selection performed comparably.Although TCD is beneficial to prevent GVHD there are some problems it can cause a delay in recovery of the immune system of the transplanted individual and a decreased Graft-versus-tumor effect. Another method is addition of cells back into the graft, after a comprehensive TCD method, examples are re-introduction of natural killer cells (NK), γδ T-cells and T regulatory cells (Tregs).Early on it was apparent that TCD was good for preventing GVHD, but also led to increased graft rejection, this problem can be solved by transplanting more hematopoietic stem cells. Depleting αβ T cells from the infused graft spares γδ T cells and NK cells promotes their homeostatic reconstitution, thus reducing the risk of GVHD.In vitro TCD selectively with an anti-T12 monoclonal antibody lowers the rate of acute and chronic GVHD post allogeneic BMT. More specifically, central tolerance is necessary because T cell receptors (TCRs) and B cell receptors (BCRs) are made by cells through random somatic rearrangement. The graft contains donor T cells (T lymphocytes) that can be beneficial for the recipient by eliminating residual malignant cells. "The dichotomous functions of passenger leukocytes in solid-organ transplantation". 
Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. [SEP] Ubiquitin is a protein that in humans is encoded by the UBB gene. Polyubiquitin-C is a protein encoded by the UBC gene in humans. Polyubiquitin-C is one of the sources of ubiquitin, along with UBB, UBA52, and RPS27A.UBC gene is one of the two stress-regulated polyubiquitin genes (UBB and UBC) in mammals. Protein
In polyubiquitin-C, the C-terminus of a given ubiquitin molecule is covalently conjugated to either the N-terminal residue or one of seven lysine residues of another ubiquitin molecule. Different linking of ubiquitin chains results in distinct conformations. Function
The diversity of polyubiquitin-C means that ubiquitylation contributes to the regulation of many cellular events. The ubiquitin ligase activity of RNF144A catalyzes ubiquitin linkages at the K6-, K11- and K48- positions of ubiquitin in vitro, and is regulated by self-association through its transmembrane domain.The biological functions of RNF144A is/are relatively unknown beyond its intrinsic enzymatic activity. Interactions
Trim63/MuRF1 has been shown to be an E3 ubiquitin ligase. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] In contrast to standard lumbar puncture by palpation, the use of ultrasound imaging may reduce the number of failed punctures, needle insertions, and needle redirections. The procedure can be performed with the help of ultrasound, fluoroscopy, or CT to guide the practitioner in the placement of the needle. Ultrasound has also resulted in an exponential rise in fascial plane blocks

Common local anesthetics
Local anesthetics are broken down into two categories: ester-linked and amide-linked. An additional effect of low-intensity ultrasound could be its potential to disrupt the blood–brain barrier for drug delivery. Setting
Emergency ultrasound is used to quickly diagnose a limited set of injuries or pathologic conditions, specifically those where conventional diagnostic methods would either take too long or would introduce greater risk to a person (either by transporting the person away from the most closely monitored setting, or exposing them to ionizing radiation and/or intravenous contrast agents).Point of care ultrasound has been used in a wide variety of specialties and has increased in use in the last decade as ultrasound machines have become more compact and portable. Pericardiocentesis, a procedure in which a needle is used to drain the effusion, can utilize ultrasound guidance of a needle to decrease the risk of hitting lungs, heart or other vital organs

Monitoring therapy
Emergency ultrasound can not only diagnose, but also monitor a person's response to therapeutic interventions. Procedural guidance
Using ultrasound to guide needles during procedures may improve success and decrease complications in procedures performed by multiple specialties, including central and venous access, arterial cannulation, thoracentesis, paracentesis, pericardiocentesis, arthrocentesis, regional anesthesia, incision and drainage of abscesses, localization and removal of foreign bodies, lumbar puncture, biopsies, and other procedures. To describe each of these fully is beyond the scope of this entry, and impossible as the use of ultrasound is expanding rapidly:

Testicular Pain – Evaluation for testicular torsion, orchitis, epididymitis, hernia
Pelvic Pain – Evaluation for ovarian torsion, ovarian cyst, and ovarian cyst rupture
IVC – Evaluation of volume status and estimation of fluid responsiveness
The RUSH exam for Shock or Hypotension
Bones - Evaluation for fractures

Training
Emergency and point-of-care ultrasound is taught in a variety of settings. 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. [SEP] Function
DNA damage and repair
p53 plays a role in regulation or progression through the cell cycle, apoptosis, and genomic stability by means of several mechanisms:

It can activate DNA repair proteins when DNA has sustained damage. Suppression of p53 plays important roles in cancer stem cell phenotype, induced pluripotent stem cells and other stem cell roles and behaviors, such as blastema formation. Other
Apart from the cellular and molecular effects above, p53 has a tissue-level anticancer effect that works by inhibiting angiogenesis. Regulation
p53 acts as a cellular stress sensor. First, the half-life of the p53 protein is increased drastically, leading to a quick accumulation of p53 in stressed cells. Role in disease
If the TP53 gene is damaged, tumor suppression is severely compromised. Loss of p53 creates genomic instability that most often results in an aneuploidy phenotype.Increasing the amount of p53 may seem a solution for treatment of tumors or prevention of their spreading. Thus, pharmacological reactivation of p53 presents itself as a viable cancer treatment option. 
Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. [SEP] West Nile virus (WNV) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes West Nile fever. Climate change
Like other tropical diseases which are expected to have increased spread due to climate change, there is concern that changing weather conditions will increase West Nile Virus spread. Lists general information and resources for West Nile Virus West Nile fever is an infection by the West Nile virus, which is typically spread by mosquitoes. West Nile neuroinvasive disease (WNND), which occurs in less than 1 percent of cases, is when the virus infects the central nervous system resulting in meningitis, encephalitis, meningoencephalitis or a poliomyelitis-like syndrome. West Nile virus encephalitis (WNE) is the most common neuroinvasive manifestation of WNND. "West Nile Virus". Lists general information and resources for West Nile Virus. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy is as effective as medications, such as bupropion, in helping people quit smoking for at least six months. All forms of nicotine replacement therapy, including nicotine gum, patches, nasal spray, inhalers, and lozenges, have similar success rates in terms of helping people stop smoking. Using a few different nicotine replacement methods in combination may improve success rates in stopping tobacco use. Additionally, using nicotine replacement with counseling has been proven to improve tobacco abstinence rates. Higher doses increase the chance of stopping smoking for a period of six months and more. Combining nicotine patch treatment with a faster nicotine-delivery means, like nicotine gum or spray, improves the likelihood of successful treatment. Bupropion is a norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, while zonisamide is an anticonvulsant acting as a sodium channel blocker, T-type calcium channel blocker, and weak carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. It is generally preferred over benzodiazepines because it does not activate the receptors that make drugs like alprazolam addictive.Buspirone has no immediate anxiolytic effects, and hence has a delayed onset of action; its full clinical effectiveness may require 2–4 weeks to manifest itself. 
Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. [SEP] A venule  is a very small vein in the microcirculation that allows blood to return from the capillary beds to drain into the venous system via increasingly larger veins. When the post-capillary venules increase in diameter to 50μm they can incorporate smooth muscle and are known as muscular venules. Veins contain approximately 70% of total blood volume, while about 25% is contained in the venules. Many venules unite to form a vein. When the post-capillary venules increase in diameter to 50μm they can incorporate smooth muscle and are known as muscular venules. Compared with arterioles, the venules are larger with much weaker muscular coat. An arteriole is a small-diameter blood vessel in the microcirculation that extends and branches out from an artery and leads to capillaries.Arterioles have muscular walls (usually only one to two layers of smooth muscle cells) and are the primary site of vascular resistance. Microvasculature comprises the microvessels – venules and capillaries of the microcirculation, with a maximum average diameter of 0.3 millimeters. 
Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. [SEP] A venule  is a very small vein in the microcirculation that allows blood to return from the capillary beds to drain into the venous system via increasingly larger veins. Post-capillary venules are the smallest of the veins with a diameter of between 10 and 30 micrometres (μm). Many venules unite to form a vein. The middle layer is poorly developed so that venules have thinner walls than arterioles. Compared with arterioles, the venules are larger with much weaker muscular coat. Arterioles carry the blood to the capillaries, which are not innervated, have no smooth muscle, and are about 5-8 μm in diameter. Blood flows out of the capillaries into the venules, which have little smooth muscle and are 10-200 μm. The blood flows from the venules into the veins. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. [SEP] Women with vitamin D deficiency who have been through multiple pregnancies are at elevated risk of osteomalacia. Pre-eclampsia:  There has been an association of vitamin D deficiency and women who develop pre-eclampsia in pregnancy. Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. Maternal vitamin D deficiency can cause prenatal neurodevelopmental defects, which influence neurotransmission, altering brain rhythms and the metabolism of dopamine. In this disorder, vitamin D is believed to be involved in the development of the brain during the gestational period. Pregnancy
Low levels of vitamin D in pregnancy are associated with gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, and small (for gestational age) infants. Pregnant women who take an adequate amount of vitamin D during gestation may experience a lower risk of pre-eclampsia and positive immune effects. Vitamin D supplementation is also likely to reduce the risk of gestational diabetes, undersized babies and of their poor rate of growth. 
Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. [SEP] Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. Vitamin D is essential for the normal development of the nervous system. Maternal vitamin D deficiency can cause prenatal neurodevelopmental defects, which influence neurotransmission, altering brain rhythms and the metabolism of dopamine. One study of children in a hospital in Uganda, however, showed no significant difference in vitamin D levels of malnourished children compared to non-malnourished children. Breastfeeding
Infants who exclusively breastfeed need a vitamin D supplement, especially if they have dark skin or have minimal sun exposure. According to ABS the Vitamin D supplementation was said to not be a contributing factor as supplement use was similar across all weight ranges. Pregnancy
Pregnancy also poses as another high risk factor for vitamin D deficiency. The status levels of vitamin D during the last stages of pregnancy directly impact the newborns first initial months of life. 
Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] Breast size and cancer risk
Some factors of breast morphology, including their density, are clearly implicated in breast cancer. The association between obesity, as defined by a body mass index of 30 or higher, and risk of a variety of types of cancer has received a considerable amount of attention in recent years. Obesity has been associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer, 
pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer (among postmenopausal women), endometrial cancer, kidney cancer, thyroid cancer, liver cancer and gallbladder cancer. Obesity may also lead to increased cancer-related mortality. Mechanisms
The mechanisms by which obesity may increase the risk of cancer are not well understood, but it is believed that the combined effects of the adipose tissue environment and the endocrine alterations that accompany it among obese people both interact to promote tumor initiation and progression. Breast cancer
Obesity has been found to decrease the risk of breast cancer among African and Caucasian women, but increase it among Asian women. Obesity is also associated with decreased survival among women with breast cancer, regardless of whether the cancer is pre- or post-menopausal. Thyroid cancer
Obese people are at a higher risk of thyroid cancer than are their normal weight counterparts. 
aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] The characteristic attributes of the tumor metabolome are high glycolytic enzyme activities, the expression of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2, increased channeling of glucose carbons into synthetic processes, such as nucleic acid, amino acid and phospholipid synthesis, a high rate of pyrimidine and purine de novo synthesis, a low ratio of Adenosine triphosphate and Guanosine triphosphate to Cytidine triphosphate and Uridine triphosphate, low Adenosine monophosphate levels, high glutaminolytic capacities, release of immunosuppressive substances and dependency on methionine. In addition to cell-autonomous changes that drive a cancer cell to proliferate and contribute to tumorigenesis, it has also been observed that alterations in whole-organism metabolism such as obesity are associated with heightened risks for a variety of cancers. Role of signalling pathway in cancer metabolism
The protein AKT1 (also known as Protein Kinase B or PKB) in the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway is an important driver of the tumor glycolytic phenotype and stimulates ATP generation. This energy pathway is upregulated in cancer, which may represent a therapeutic target as cancer cells are thought to be more dependent on glutamine than healthy cells. These tumors use glutamine or the structurally related amino acid glutamate as an energy source and a chemotactic sensor in the brain, which increases their malignancy and may explain why these tumors grow so invasive. Warburg's hypothesis suggests that tumor cells proliferate quickly and aggressively by obtaining energy or ATP, through high glucose consumption and lactate production. Aminoglycoside-3'-phosphotransferase (APH(3')), also known as aminoglycoside kinase, is an enzyme that primarily catalyzes the addition of phosphate from ATP to the 3'-hydroxyl group of a 4,6-disubstituted aminoglycoside, such as kanamycin. He hypothesized that cancer, malignant growth, and tumor growth are caused by the fact that tumor cells mainly generate energy (as e.g., adenosine triphosphate / ATP) by non-oxidative breakdown of glucose (a process called glycolysis). 
cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. [SEP] In order to make a powerful secondary infection response, cytokine and chemokine signaling between XCR1+ DCs and NK cells must occur. References
External links
"Chemokine Receptors: XCR1". For WLA-generated structures, a typical ligand design consists of a phosphine-based strong binding group and a weak-binding group containing O, S, Se, or N. More recent reports have utilized N-heterocyclic carbenes (NHC) as the strong-binding moiety. As described above, the weak Y–M bond can be easily displaced by a coordinating ligands including Cl−, CO, CH3CN, RCO2−, and a variety of nitriles/isonitriles (Figure 2). The strong-binding moieties adopt cis-coordination geometry around the metal center in these complexes, regardless of the identities of the strong-binder. Significantly, the structural changes induced by small molecule regulators Cl− and CO transition this system from a catalytically inactive state to a very active one in a highly reversible fashion. Cell–cell signaling
In this type of signaling, specific membrane-bound ligands bind to a cell’s membrane. Cells use mainly the receptor integrin to interact with ECM proteins. 
mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. [SEP] mTOR Complex 2 (mTORC2) is an acutely rapamycin-insensitive protein complex formed by serine/threonine kinase mTOR that regulates cell proliferation and survival, cell migration and cytoskeletal remodeling. Function
Though less understood than mTORC1, mTORC2 has been shown to respond to growth factors and to modulate cell metabolism and cell survival, thanks to its activation of the survival kinase Akt. mTORC2 phosphorylates the serine/threonine protein kinase Akt/PKB at a serine residue S473 as well as serine residue S450. Regulation and signaling
mTORC2 appears to be regulated by insulin, growth factors, and serum. Downstream signaling
mTORC2 controls cell survival and proliferation mainly through phosphorylation of several members of the AGC (PKA/PKG/PKC) protein kinase family. mTORC2 plays a pivotal role in phosphorylation and thus in activation of Akt, which is a vital signaling component downstream from PI3K once active, and also in phosphorylation of SGK1, PKC  and HDACs. Role in disease
Since mTORC2 plays a crucial role in metabolic regulation, it can be linked to many human pathologies. mTORC1 activity plays a critical role in the growth and proliferation of stem cells. 
p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] CEACAM16 is a gene which encodes carcinoembryonic antigen. KIAA1166 is a human gene. Sometimes the term is used to suggest that a condition is not dangerous or serious.Malignancy in cancers is characterized by anaplasia, invasiveness, and metastasis. This cell transformation can occur through either "DNA integration or cellular-DNA alteration of growth regulator genes".Inflammation can also play a role in triggering malignancy as it can promote stages of tumour formation. At the same time, inflammatory cells can also interact with malignant cells to form an inflammatory tumour microenvironment. This environment increases the likelihood of forming malignant cells through blockage of anti-tumour immunity. Once this occurs, the inflammatory tumour microenvironment begins to send out tumour-promoting signals to epithelial cells, triggering the formation of malignant cells. The treatment process also utilises HPD's capability of accumulating at higher levels in malignant tissues compared to most other tissues.In the case of deeply pigmented or larger tumours, a stronger course of this treatment process is required in order to be effective. 
