Can masks reduce corona infections when worn by a large proportion of the population? [SEP] Properly worn masks both limit the respiratory droplets and aerosols spread by infected individuals and help protect healthy individuals from infection.Reviews of various kinds of scientific studies have concluded that masking is effective in protecting the individual against COVID-19. In April 2020, the WHO acknowledged that wearing a medical mask can limit the spread of certain respiratory viral diseases including COVID-19 but claimed that medical masks would create a false sense of security and neglect of other necessary measures, such as hand hygiene.The early WHO advice on limited mask usage was scrutinized for several reasons. In August 2020, the CDC added that exhalation valves or vents in masks do not help prevent the person wearing the mask from spreading COVID-19 to others.In a November 2020 scientific brief, the CDC reiterated their recommendation for the community use of masks and specifically non-valved multi-layer cloth masks to prevent transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Efficacy
A systemic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of masks published in The BMJ in November 2021 showed that with 95% confidence, masks reduced COVID incidence by between 25% and 71%. Observational studies have shown evidence that masks reduce the community's spread of COVID-19. Filtration effectiveness generally improves with thread count.The use of a face mask can result in significant risk reduction of infection with epidemic-causative beta coronaviruses. A retrospective case-control study from Thailand documented that, among more than 1,000 people interviewed as part of contact tracing investigations, those who reported having always worn a mask during high-risk exposures experienced a greater than 70% reduced risk of acquiring infection compared with people who did not wear masks under these circumstances. In addition, the CDC said the benefit of universal masking, including reductions in infections and mortality, has been demonstrated in community-level analyses by a set of studies involving the Massachusetts hospital system, the German city Jena, the American state Arizona, a panel of 15 American states and Washington, D.C., Canada nationally, and the United States nationally.In addition to studying the impact of mask-wearing on transmission in a community, direct studies can be done on whether a mask filters out virus-carrying particles from the air. 
Can homeopathic preparations with Anamirta cocculus help against dizziness? [SEP] Anamirta cocculus (Marathi: काकमारी) is a Southeast Asian and Indian climbing plant. Its practitioners, called homeopaths, believe that a substance that causes symptoms of a disease in healthy people can cure similar symptoms in sick people; this doctrine is called similia similibus curentur, or "like cures like". Practitioners claim that such preparations, upon oral intake, can treat or cure disease.All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology contradicts homeopathy. They also asked the Department of Health in the UK to add homeopathic remedies to the list of forbidden prescription items.In 2015, the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia found that "there are no health conditions for which there is reliable evidence that homeopathy is effective". The Russian Commission on Pseudoscience has said homeopathy is not safe because "patients spend significant amounts of money, buying medicines that do not work and disregard already known effective treatment." A related report concluded that claims of homeopathy effectiveness "are not accepted by most modern medical experts and do not constitute competent and reliable scientific evidence that these products have the claimed treatment effects." It has been studied for use as anticonvulsant with mixed results. About 5ml to 10ml of this liquid formula is applied twice a day to symptoms such as "colds with accumulation of damp in the interior and summer-heat and dampness marked by headache, dizziness and feeling of heaviness in the head, sensation of stuffiness in the chest, distending pain in the epigastrium and abdomen, vomiting and diarrhea". 
Can zeolite alleviate or prevent health problems? [SEP] Zeolite A is a well-known example. Zeolites confine molecules into small spaces, which causes changes in their structure and reactivity. Equally important are the mineral properties of zeolites. Zeolites are also used in the management of leaks of radioactive materials. Natural and Synthetic Zeolites. "La roca magica: Uses of natural zeolites in agriculture and industry". "Zeolites". "Zeolites: Physical Aspects and Environmental Applications". 
Does paxlovid protect unvaccinated people with risk factors from severe or even fatal covid 19 disease? [SEP] Patients with mild to moderate symptoms who are in the risk groups can take nirmatrelvir/ritonavir (marketed as Paxlovid) or remdesivir, either of which reduces the risk of serious illness or hospitalization. In the US, the Biden Administration COVID-19 action plan includes the Test to Treat initiative, where people can go to a pharmacy, take a COVID test, and immediately receive free Paxlovid if they test positive.Highly effective vaccines have reduced mortality related to SARS-CoV-2; however, for those awaiting vaccination, as well as for the estimated millions of immunocompromised persons who are unlikely to respond robustly to vaccination, treatment remains important. Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, sold under the brand name Paxlovid, is a co-packaged medication used as a treatment for COVID‑19. With the extension of the emergency authorization in August 2022, the FDA updated a checklist to help evaluate potential drug interactions and other patient factors before prescribing Paxlovid, including more than 120 drugs which are either contraindicated, should be avoided or held from use, or require dose adjustments or special monitoring.Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir is said to be safe in combination with over-the-counter pain- and fever-reducing medications like acetaminophen (paracetamol; Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Motrin). As of August 2022 the treatment guidelines, which German family doctors follow, have not been updated since February 2022 and recommend Paxlovid only in unvaccinated risk patients, i.e. In July 2022, the US FDA allowed state-licensed pharmacists to prescribe it to people with COVID‑19 at high risk of progressing to severe disease.In December 2022, after China abandoned its Zero Covid policy and Paxlovid was in short supply, the powerful and elite in China scrambled to purchase Paxlovid and give it as a valuable gift. Vaccination is extremely important in helping us in the fight against COVID‑19 and we need to use the vaccines we have to protect us from the devastating effects". Vaccination is the most effective way to protect against severe illness or death from COVID-19. 
Does starting school later improve health, learning success, and quality of life in adolescents? [SEP] In the United States, the start school later movement is an interdisciplinary effort by health professionals, sleep researchers, educators, community advocates, parents, students, and other concerned citizens working for school hours that give students an opportunity to get enough sleep at optimal times. Not only do students consistently get significantly more sleep on school nights when their schools move to later start times, but later school hours have been consistently linked with improved school performance, reduced impulsiveness, and greater motivation, as well as with lower rates of depression, tardiness, truancy, and morning automobile accidents. Recent (2011) studies suggest that early school start times disproportionately hurt economically disadvantaged students and may even negatively impact future earning potential of students, offsetting any financial savings to the school system attributed to earlier hours. Many positive benefits to students were found, including:

Improved attendance and enrollment rates
Less sleeping in class
Less student-reported depression
Fewer student visits to school counselors for behavioral and peer issues
More even temperament at homeA longitudinal follow-up study of the Minneapolis Public Schools after five years revealed that these and other positive benefits had persisted. Health and safety impact of early school hours
Later school starts are associated with increased sleep for students. Early school start times have been associated with drowsy driving in new teen drivers and higher car crash rates. Equity
The impact of later start times on school performance—including reduced truancy, absenteeism, and increased overall academic achievement—is approximately double in economically disadvantaged students. Economic impact
A 2017 report by the RAND Corporation concluded that delaying school start times to 8:30 a.m. is a cost-effective, population-level strategy that would significantly impact public health and the U.S. economy, with benefits quickly outweighing any immediate costs. 
Does the F.X. Mayr cure have health benefits? Can it prevent diseases or treat them? [SEP] The American Cancer Society has stated: "There is no scientific evidence that 714-X is effective in treating any type of cancer or any other illness." Cilofexor (also known as GS-9674) is a nonsteroidal farnesoid X receptor (FXR) agonist in clinical trials for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). In rat models and human clinical trials of NASH it has been shown to reduce fibrosis and steatosis, and in human clinical trials of PSC it improved cholestasis and reduced markers of liver injury.It is being developed by the pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences


== References == Fosmanogepix is an experimental antifungal drug being developed by Pfizer. It is being investigated for its potential to treat various fungal infections including aspergillosis, candidaemia, and coccidioidomycosis.Fosmanogepix is a prodrug and is converted into the active drug form, manogepix, after administration. Fesoterodine (INN, used as the fumarate under the brand name Toviaz) is an antimuscarinic drug developed by Schwarz Pharma AG to treat overactive bladder syndrome (OAB). The International Clinical Research Centre at St. Anne’s University Hospital in Brno (FNUSA-ICRC) is a next-generation research and development center that focuses on finding new methods, technologies and medicines used to prevent, diagnose and treat cardiovascular and neurological diseases and disorders such as heart failure, coronary syndromes, hypertension, cardiac arrhythmia, sleep apnea, stroke, dementia and Alzheimer’s disease. Foliglurax (developmental code names PXT-002331, DT2331) is a positive allosteric modulator of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 (mGluR4), which is under development by Prexton Therapeutics for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. 
Does the consumption of soy foods or soy isoflavones affect the appearance of acne skin? [SEP] Soy isoflavones are a group of compounds found in and isolated from the soybean. Neither isoflavones nor soy have been shown to affect male reproductive hormones in healthy individuals. Soy is among the eight most common foods inducing allergic reactions in children and adults. In many countries, packaged food labels are required to list ingredients, and soy is identified as an allergen. Packaged foods, school meals, and restaurant foods may contain soy ingredients. The Nebraska government states that soy proteins from processed foods in the breast milk of nursing mothers may cause intolerance in infants. Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America
Soy Allergy at the Food Allergy Initiative Several studies indicate that only 25 to 30 percent of the adult populations of Western countries produce (S)-equol after eating soy foods containing isoflavones, while 50 to 60 percent of adults from Japan, Korea, and China are equol-producers. 
Does extract from the Damiana plant (Turnera diffusa) help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] Turnera diffusa, known as damiana, is a shrub native to southern Texas in the United States, Central America, Mexico, South America, and the Caribbean. In folklore, the plant was believed to be an aphrodisiac, hence its sometimes used binomial synonym, Turnera aphrodisiaca. Phytochemistry
Damiana contains damianin; tetraphyllin B; gonzalitosin I; arbutin; tricosan-2-one; acacetin; p-cymene; β-sitosterol; 1,8-cineole; apigenin; α-pinene; β-carotene; β-pinene; tannins; thymol; and hexacosanol. The extract from damiana has been found to suppress aromatase activity, including the isolated compounds pinocembrin and acacetin. Like other PDE5 inhibitors, it is used to treat erectile dysfunction. Herbal viagra is a herbal product advertised as treating erectile dysfunction. Many different products are advertised as herbal viagra, but with varying ingredients. It is taken in herbal medicine for pain relief and other uses. 
Is the homeopathic remedy Neradin effective for erectile dysfunction? [SEP] Herbal viagra is a herbal product advertised as treating erectile dysfunction. No clinical trials or scientific studies support the effectiveness of any of these ingredients for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and some products have been found to contain drugs and other adulterants, and have been the subject of FDA and FTC warnings and actions to remove them from the market.The name "herbal viagra" is taken from the brand name Viagra, under which drug company Pfizer sells sildenafil citrate, a drug used to treat erectile dysfunction. Viagra has become a generic term for many people discussing drugs designed to treat erectile dysfunction, even those which do not contain sildenafil.Herbal viagras, contrary to what the name suggests, do not normally contain sildenafil citrate. The nicotinic acid (niacin; vitamin B3) derived from estrapronicate was said to enhance the nutrient, relaxant, and antiadipose effects of the estrogenic component.The pharmacokinetics of nandrolone undecanoate in this combination preparation have been studied as well as compared to nandrolone alone (Dynabolon). Avanafil is a PDE5 inhibitor approved for erectile dysfunction by the FDA on April 27, 2012 and by EMA on June 21, 2013. Medical use
Avanafil is used to treat erectile dysfunction (ED). It has been investigated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and symptoms associated with benign prostate hyperplasia. "Beyond testosterone cypionate: evidence behind the use of nandrolone in male health and wellness". 
Does regular HPV testing in addition to the recommended Pap smear detect more precancerous lesions than just the Pap smear alone? [SEP] Further tests are unlikely to detect recurrence of cancer but do bring the risk of giving false positive results, which would lead to unnecessary further testing.More frequent Pap smears may be needed to follow up after an abnormal Pap smear, after treatment for abnormal Pap or biopsy results, or after treatment of cancer ( cervical, colon, etc. Pap smears may be supplemented with HPV DNA testing. Cervical cancer screening, such as the Papanicolaou test ("pap smear"), or examination of the cervix after applying acetic acid, can detect both early cancer and abnormal cells that may develop into cancer. Because of the link between HPV and cervical cancer, the ACS currently recommends early detection of cervical cancer in average-risk asymptomatic adults primarily with cervical cytology by Pap smear, regardless of HPV vaccination status. Co-testing with a Pap test and HPV test is recommended because it decreases the rate of false-negatives. These tests can detect HPV infections before cell abnormalities are evident. Cervical cancer screening, such as with the Papanicolaou test (pap) or looking at the cervix after using acetic acid, can detect early cancer or abnormal cells that may develop into cancer. Further, Pap smears are not as effective at detecting adenocarcinomas, so where Pap screening programs are in place, a larger proportion of the remaining cancers are adenocarcinomas. 
Can monk's pepper reduce PMS symptoms? PMS is the abbreviation for premenstrual syndrome. This refers to complaints that occur in the days before menstruation. [SEP] Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a disruptive set of emotional and physical symptoms that regularly occur in the one to two weeks before the start of each menstrual period. Premenstrual symptoms generally do not cause substantial disruption, and qualify as PMS in approximately 20% of pre-menopausal women. Antidepressants of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors class may be used to treat the emotional symptoms of PMS.Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) is a more severe condition that has greater psychological symptoms. This class of medication may cause PMS-related symptoms in some and may reduce physical symptoms in others. Treating PMS as a psychological situation also makes it difficult to address menstrual exacerbation of other conditions, including catamenial epilepsy, menstrual migraine, and cyclical asthma.The limitation of PMS to premenstrual symptoms, rather than having a diagnosis that covers all symptoms associated with the menstrual cycle, has also been criticized. Psychotherapy
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has been shown to be effective for reducing premenstrual symptoms in women with (retrospectively-reported) PMS. Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS)
Symptoms may include irritability, bloating, depression, food cravings, aggressiveness, and mood swings. Symptoms in advance of menstruation that do interfere with normal life are called premenstrual syndrome (PMS). 
Can olive leaf extract reduce high blood pressure? [SEP] Chemical compounds
Olive phenolics are much more concentrated in the leaves compared with olive fruit or olive oil: 1450 mg total phenolics/100 g fresh leaf vs. 110 mg/100 g fruit and 23 mg/100 ml extra virgin olive oil. Elenolic acid is a component of olive oil and olive leaf extract. Culinary uses
Olive leaves are sometimes used in deluxe Chinese cuisine. Historical uses
Historically the benefits of olive leaves have been used in traditional medicine practices as folk remedies for the treatment of various illnesses. Studies suggest that olive leaf extract could help balance blood sugar in type 2 diabetes patients. However, scientific evidence for health effects of using olive leaf extract has been deemed insufficient by the European Food Safety Authority to prove any cause-and-effect relationship. It is one of the preferred treatments for high blood pressure in pregnancy. History
The combination has been studied in clinical trials; one test showed it reduced blood pressure during a 24-hour period and was well tolerated. 
Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] However, a 2006 systematic review of scientific research on supplementation with green-lipped mussel found "little consistent and compelling evidence" of any benefit for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis. Lines in the water: a history of Greenshell mussel farming in New Zealand. A disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) is a disease-modifying drug that would inhibit or even reverse the progression of osteoarthritis. Since the main hallmark of osteoarthritis is cartilage loss, a typical DMOAD would prevent the loss of cartilage and potentially regenerate it. Other DMOADs may attempt to help repair adjacent tissues by reducing inflammation. Several approved drugs are being investigated as repurposed agents in the treatment of osteoarhritis such as liraglutide (anti-diabetic and anti-obesity drug: NCT02905864), Metformin (anti-diabetic drug: NCT04767841, NCT05034029), Zoledronic acid (anti-osteoporotic drug: NCT04303026), etc.Paroxetine has been deemed to have dmoad activity. It might also displace native mussels by introducing harmful parasites and diseases.The green mussel is edible and used widely in several Asian cuisines. This is one of the joints where most humans develop osteoarthritis with age. 
Can probiotics lower blood sugar in type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Glycemic control
According to an umbrella review of meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials, probiotics supplementation reduces glucose homeostasis. People receiving probiotics were 73% more likely to experience disease remission and over 2x as likely to report improvement in symptoms compared to those receiving a placebo, with no clear difference in minor or serious adverse effects. Pregnancy
A Cochrane systematic review found no good evidence that probiotics were of benefit in reducing the risk of gestational diabetes, but good evidence that they increased the risk of pre-eclampsia. One literature review found Lactobacillus probiotic supplements appeared to increase vaginal lactobacilli levels, thus reducing the incidence of vaginal infections in otherwise healthy adult women. The probiotic group also showed decreased concentrations of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-8 but increased antimicrobial peptide hBD-2. The intestinal bacteria Prevotella copri and Bacteroides vulgatus have been connected with type 2 diabetes. A 2019 review found evidence of benefit from dietary fiber.In those with impaired glucose tolerance, a 2019 systematic review found moderate-quality evidence that Metformin, when compared to diet and exercise or a placebo intervention, appeared to delay or reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. There is not enough evidence to determine if lifestyle interventions affect mortality in those who already have type 2 diabetes.As of 2015, there is insufficient data to recommend nonnutritive sweeteners, which may help reduce caloric intake.An elevated intake of microbiota-accessible carbohydrates can help reducing the effects of T2D.A 2022 umbrella review concluded that, red and white meat consumption is associated with an increased risk contrary to dairy products which have a diminished risk. 
Can the so-called Tupler technique help against rectus diastasis? [SEP] If medical treatment does not reduce a patient's urinary symptoms, a TURP may be considered following a careful examination of the prostate or bladder through a cystoscope. If TURP is contraindicated, a urologist may consider a simple prostatectomy, in and out catheters, or a supra-pubic catheter to help a patient void urine effectively. Erectile dysfunction may be seen in some patients, however, many have reported that erectile function improved after TURP.Additionally, transurethral resection of the prostate is associated with a low risk of mortality. Crunches may increase the diastasis recti separation. In extreme cases diastasis recti is corrected with a cosmetic surgery procedure known as an abdominoplasty by creating a plication, or folding, of the linea alba and suturing it together, which results in a tighter abdominal wall. "Nevertheless, the following exercises are often recommended to help build abdominal strength, which may or may not help reduce the size of diastasis recti:
Core contraction – In a seated position, place both hands on abdominal muscles. Consultation of a professional physiotherapist is recommended for correct exercise routines.Furthermore, in a review of treatment methods for diastasis recti abdominis, besides strengthening exercises there are other options to treat DRA by postural training; education and training for proper lifting mechanisms; manual therapy (which includes soft tissue mobilization); myofascial release; Noble technique (i.e., manual approximation of abdominal muscles during partial sit-up); and abdominal bracing and taping. Surgery
In extreme cases, diastasis recti is corrected with a cosmetic surgery procedure known as an abdominoplasty by creating a plication or folding of the linea alba and suturing together. 
Can CBD (cannabidiol) help with migraines or other headaches? [SEP] Cannabidiol (CBD) is a phytocannabinoid discovered in 1940. As of 2019, clinical research on CBD included studies related to anxiety, cognition, movement disorders, and pain, but there is insufficient high-quality evidence that cannabidiol is effective for these conditions. Side effects
Research indicates that cannabidiol may reduce adverse effects of THC, particularly those causing intoxication and sedation, but only at high doses. Canine osteoarthritis
CBD's ability to help regulate the endocannabinoid system and reduce the release of excitatory neurotransmitters could result in a retrograde inhibitory signal that lessens chronic pain responses. The National Hockey League Alumni Association began a project with Canopy Growth to determine if CBD or other cannabis products might improve neurological symptoms and quality of life in head-injured players. Numerous professional athletes use CBD, primarily for treating pain. Clinical endocannabinoid deficiency (CECD) is a medical theory that proposes that a deficiency of endocannabinoids is the underlying pathophysiology of migraines, fibromyalgia, and irritable bowel syndrome. Cannabidivarin (CBDV, GWP42006) is a non-intoxicating psychoactive cannabinoid found in Cannabis. 
Can laser irradiation of blood by infusion needle (hemolaser treatment) relieve discomfort or help with diseases? [SEP] Blood irradiation therapy is an alternative medical procedure in which the blood is exposed to low-level light (often laser light) for therapeutic reasons. Types
Intravenous laser blood irradiation
Intravenous or intravascular laser blood irradiation (ILBI) involves the in-vivo illumination of the blood by feeding low level laser light generated by a 1–3 mW helium–neon laser at a wavelength of 632.8 nanometers (nm) into a vascular channel, usually a vein in the forearm, under the assumption that any therapeutic effect will be circulated through the circulatory system. Transcutaneous laser blood irradiation
Transcutaneous therapy applies laser light on unbroken skin in areas with large numbers of blood vessels (such as the forearm). Laser medicine consists in the use of lasers in medical diagnosis, treatments, or therapies, such as laser photodynamic therapy, photorejuvenation, and laser surgery. Lasers are used to treat cancer in several different ways. Treatment strategies
Lasers also may be used to relieve certain symptoms of cancer, such as bleeding or obstruction. In addition, the effects of laser therapy may not last long, so doctors may have to repeat the treatment for a patient to get the full benefit.Lasers also may be used to relieve certain symptoms of cancer, such as bleeding or obstruction. During the procedure, a laser is used to finely cauterize ocular blood vessels to attempt to bring about various therapeutic benefits. 
In everyday life, when breathing with an FFP2 mask or ordinary mouth-nose protection, do you get as much oxygen as without a mask? [SEP] The simple face mask can deliver higher flow rates than nasal cannula  (6–10 liters per minute) for an FiO2 of 40–60% oxygen. FFP standard masks (where FFP stands for filtering facepiece) cover the nose, mouth and chin and may have inhalation and/or exhalation valves.EN 149 defines three classes of such particle half masks, called FFP1, FFP2 and FFP3, according to their filtering efficiency. FFP2 mask
Aerosol filtration percentage: 94% minimum
Internal leak rate: maximum 8%This mask offers protection in various areas such as the glass industry, foundry, construction, pharmaceutical industry and agriculture. Nevertheless, FFP2 and FFP3 masks are commonly used for this purpose in medical practice. However, the filtering performance of correctly worn N95/FFP2 type filtering respirators is clearly superior to surgical and to cloth masks and for influenza, work by the UK Health and Safety executive found that live virus penetrated all surgical masks tested but properly fitted respirators reduced the viral dose by a factor of at least a hundred. In December 2021, a study in PNAS found that when two people wear surgical masks, while the infectious is speaking, the risk of infection remains below 30% after one hour, but when both wear a well-fitting FFP2 mask, it is 0.4%.In February 2022, a study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that surgical masks worn at indoor public venues can reduce the chances of testing positive for COVID-19 by 66%, while tightfitting N95 and KN95 masks can reduce the odds of infection by 83%. The use of training masks, however, has no measurable effect on haemoglobin, hematocrit levels and oxygen transport in athletes, as they do not alter the oxygen concentration of the air taken in. This is especially relevant to elite athletes, where the pulmonary system may become a limiting factor.During a 6-week high-intensity training program, moderately trained subjects using training masks were found to have improved their endurance capacity (VO2 max) and power output significantly. 
Can CBD help with period pain? [SEP] Dysmenorrhea, also known as period pain, painful periods or menstrual cramps, is pain during menstruation. Thus resulting in shorter, less painful menstruation. NSAIDs
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen and naproxen are effective in relieving the pain of primary dysmenorrhea. A 2009 systematic review found limited evidence that the low or medium doses of estrogen contained in the birth control pill reduces pain associated with dysmenorrhea. Heat is effective compared to NSAIDs and is a preferred option by many patients, as it is easy to access and has no known side effects.Tamoxifen has been used effectively to reduce uterine contractility and pain in dysmenorrhea patients.There is some evidence that exercises performed 3 times a week for about 45 to 60 minutes, without particular intensity, reduces menstrual pain. Reviews have found promising evidence for Chinese herbal medicine for primary dysmenorrhea, but that the evidence was limited by its poor methodological quality.A 2016 Cochrane review of acupuncture for dysmenorrhea concluded that it is unknown if acupuncture or acupressure is effective. One study indicated that in nulliparous individuals with primary dysmenorrhea, the severity of menstrual pain decreased significantly after age 40.A survey in Norway showed that 14 percent of females between the ages of 20 to 35 experience symptoms so severe that they stay home from school or work. Abnormal cannabidiol (Abn-CBD) is a synthetic regioisomer of cannabidiol, which unlike most other cannabinoids produces vasodilator effects, lowers blood pressure, and induces cell migration, cell proliferation and mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in microglia, but without producing any psychoactive effects. 
Can a bioresonance device like "Bioscan" or "Vieva Vital Analyser" measure mineral and vitamin deficiencies or detect health problems? [SEP] Biothesiometry is a noninvasive medical test used to quantify the perception of vibration by measuring its threshold. The test is done through a biothesiometer, which is composed of a handheld probe wired to a display unit. Biochemical detection is the science and technology of detecting biochemicals and their concentration where trace analysis is concerned this is usually done by using a quartz crystal microbalance, which measures a mass per unit area by measuring the change in frequency of a quartz crystal resonator. BioAnalyt has developed a patented test kit, consisting of a portable measuring instrument and specially designed reagent vials which enable a valid proof of the nutritional content in food and nutrient supply of people within a few minutes. BioAnalyt's test kits can be used to measure the key micronutrients (for example, Vitamin A, iron and iodine) and enable the monitoring of the progress of these interventions. Authors: Rohner F, Kangambèga M, Khan N. PLoS One, 2015
Assessment of a portable device to quantify vitamin A in fortified foods (flour, sugar, and milk) for quality control. Many countries have mandated vitamin food fortification programs to prevent commonly occurring vitamin deficiencies.Conversely, hypervitaminosis refers to symptoms caused by vitamin intakes in excess of needs, especially for fat-soluble vitamins that can accumulate in body tissues.The history of the discovery of vitamin deficiencies progressed over centuries from observations that certain conditions – for example, scurvy – could be prevented or treated with certain foods having high content of a necessary vitamin, to the identification and description of specific molecules essential for life and health. Individual vitamin deficiencies
Water-soluble vitamins
Fat-soluble vitamins
Prevention
Food fortification
Food fortification is the process of adding micronutrients (essential trace elements and vitamins) to food as a public health policy which aims to reduce the number of people with dietary deficiencies within a population. 
Does arthroscopy (joint endoscopy) help with osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] It is technically possible to do an arthroscopic examination of almost every joint, but is most commonly used for the knee, shoulder, elbow, wrist, ankle, foot, and hip. The procedures are more commonly performed to treat meniscus injury and to perform anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction.While knee arthroscopy is commonly used for partial meniscectomy (trimming a torn meniscus) on middle aged to older adults with knee pain, the claimed positive results seem to lack scientific evidence. Many studies have shown the outcomes from knee arthroscopic surgery for osteoarthritis and degenerative meniscal tears are no better than the outcomes from placebo (fake) surgery or other treatments (such as exercise therapy).During an average knee arthroscopy, a small fiberoptic camera (the arthroscope) is inserted into the joint through a small incision, about 4 mm (1/8 inch) width. Knee osteoarthritis
The BMJ Rapid Recommendations group makes a strong recommendation against arthroscopy for osteoarthritis on the basis that there is high quality evidence that there is no lasting benefit and less than 15% of people have a small short-term benefit. It is claimed that German surgeons have continued to perform knee arthroscopy and instead claim rebates on the basis of a sub-diagnosis, such as meniscal tear.A 2017 meta-analysis confirmed that there is only a very small and usually unimportant reduction in pain and improvement in function at 3 months (e.g. Arthroscopic surgery, however, does not appear to result in benefits to adults when performed for knee pain in patients with osteoarthritis who have a meniscal tear. Hip arthroscopy is a widely adopted treatment for a range of conditions, including labral tears, femoroacetabular impingement, osteochondritis dissecans. Arthroscopy (also called arthroscopic surgery) is a minimally invasive surgical procedure on a joint in which a treatment or just an examination is performed using an arthroscope, an endoscope that is inserted into the joint through a small incision. 
Do dietary supplements containing silicon (e.g. as "organic silicon" or silica) have health benefits? [SEP] Medical grade silicones are silicones tested for biocompatibility and are appropriate to be used for medical applications. Silicon carbide is an inorganic compound. They are mainly used to produce silicone polymers as described above. They are the silicon analogs of cyclopentadienes and are of current academic interest due to their electroluminescence and other electronic properties. Silicateins are enzymes which catalyse the formation of biosilica from monomeric silicon compounds (such as silicic acid)  extracted from the natural environment. Their presence is responsible for the absorption properties of silica gel. Organosilanols occur as intermediates in industrial processes such as the manufacturing of silicones. Moreover, organosilanols occur as metabolites in the biodegradation of small ring silicones in mammals. 
Can regular intake of cranberry juice or cranberry extract prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] Despite a long-held reputation for providing antibacterial activity against urinary tract infections (UTIs), cranberry juice has no such proven effects, as determined by a Cochrane review of completed clinical research and a scientific panel for the European Food Safety Authority which concluded a cause-and-effect relationship could not be established between cranberry consumption and risk of UTIs. Cranberry juice and urinary tract infection
In 2008, there was tentative evidence that long-term use of cranberry juice might help prevent symptomatic urinary tract infections (UTIs), but this finding was refuted in 2012 with a conclusion that "14 further studies suggest that cranberry juice is less effective than previously indicated," and "cranberry juice cannot currently be recommended for the prevention of UTIs." The European Food Safety Authority reviewed the evidence and concluded a cause and effect relationship has not been established between the consumption of cranberry products and reducing the risk of UTIs.One systematic review in 2017 showed that cranberry products significantly reduced the incidence of UTIs, indicating that cranberry products may be effective particularly for individuals with recurrent infections. When the quality of meta-analyses on the efficacy of cranberry products for preventing or treating UTIs was examined, large variation was evident, resulting from inconsistencies in clinical research methods.In September 2017, Ocean Spray, a major cranberry juice manufacturer, submitted a health claim petition to the FDA. According to the FDA's February 2018 response letter, the company had "requested that FDA authorize a health claim for the relationship between the consumption of cranberry juice products and a reduced risk of recurrent urinary tract infection in healthy women." Regulations
Labeling
In 2020, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced that a qualified health claim would be allowed on cranberry juice product labels for reduced risk of recurrent urinary tract infection in healthy women consuming 8 US fluid ounces (240 mL) per day of a fruit juice product containing at least 27% cranberry juice. An example of the label claim provided by the FDA was: "Consuming one serving (8 oz) each day of a cranberry juice beverage may help reduce the risk of recurrent urinary tract infection (UTI) in healthy women. "The Historical Origins of Interstitial Cystitis". 
Will women who have recurrent bladder infections get rid of them faster if they take cranberry products only after the disease is already there??? [SEP] Oral medications like pentosan polysulfate and medications placed directly into the bladder via a catheter sometimes work to repair and rebuild this damaged/wounded lining, allowing for a reduction in symptoms. Preliminary evidence suggests these agents are efficacious in reducing symptoms of interstitial cystitis, but further study with larger, randomized, controlled clinical trials is needed. Cranberry fruit rot (CFR) is a disease complex of multiple fungal agents affecting the American cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon). If cranberries are immediately processed after harvest, growers focus on preventing field rot while with fresh market cranberries, growers seek to prevent storage rot. There is no known bacterial pathogen that plays a role in CFR or any major disease on cranberry, potentially due to the low pH conditions on the cranberry fruit. Host and symptoms
In cranberries, the fruit rot pathogens can infect before or after harvest. Urinary bladder disease includes urinary bladder inflammation such as cystitis, bladder rupture and bladder obstruction (tamponade). Cystitis is common, sometimes referred to as urinary tract infection (UTI) caused by bacteria, bladder rupture occurs when the bladder is overfilled and not emptied while bladder tamponade is a result of blood clot formation near the bladder outlet. 
Can extract from St. John's wort relieve the symptoms of depression? Is it similarly effective as drugs against depression (antidepressants)? [SEP] Hyperforin may be involved in the pharmacological effects of St. John's wort, specifically in its antidepressant effects. Pharmacodynamics
Hyperforin may be a constituent responsible for the antidepressant and anxiolytic properties of the extracts of St. John's wort. Natural and semi-synthetic analogues of Hyperforin

Antidepressant research
Two meta-analyses of preliminary clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of St. John's wort for treating mild-to-moderate depression indicated a response similar to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and with better tolerance, although the long-term generalization of study results was limited by the short duration (4–12 weeks) of reviewed studies. The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that of other antidepressants, and the differences are mostly confined to side effects. Depression
Multiple controlled clinical trials established efficacy of sertraline for the treatment of depression. For severe depression, sertraline is as good as clomipramine but is better tolerated. It may also contribute to the potential antidepressant effect of Hypericum perforatum extracts. There is tentative evidence that it may have fewer side effects than some other antidepressants. 
Does the Zisano bracelet strengthen the immune system, increase endurance and performance or reduce fatigue? [SEP] A hologram bracelet or  energy bracelet is a small rubber wristband supposedly fitted with a hologram. Until 2010, Power Balance said that their bracelets helped improve an athlete's strength, balance and flexibility because the holograms are embedded with an "electrical frequency" that restores the body's "electrical balance" on contact with its natural energy field. A 2011 study by RMIT University's School of Health Sciences found that there was an overall decrease in the balance and stability of wearers, although it was not statistically significant and the overall conclusion was that the bracelets had no effect on performance. The Australian Skeptics group found that the bracelets has no more than a placebo effect.Research by the University of Wales Institute, Cardiff, commissioned by the BBC, also found that wearing the bracelets had no effect on performance in standard sports industry tests, adding that neither the physiology or the biology of wearers was changed. Sports psychologist Victor Thompson says the bracelets play on superstition, simply giving people the expectation that they can improve their sporting performance. See also
Amulet
Energy (esotericism)
Ionized bracelet
List of topics characterized as pseudoscience
Magnet therapy
Mood ring
Quackery
Talisman


== References == It has also been shown to delay the onset of fatigue in exercise. The authors hypothesize that if the immune system is constantly displaying an allergic reaction to a metal present in the body, this will alert the HPA axis inducing fatigue-like symptoms. 
Does microimmunotherapy improve symptoms of allergies, cancer, joint inflammation, autoimmune diseases, dementia or various viral infections? [SEP] Immunoglobulin therapy is also used for a number of other conditions, including in many autoimmune disorders such as dermatomyositis in an attempt to decrease the severity of symptoms. As a result of immunoglobulin treatment of T cells, the findings showed reduced levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-10 in T cell-microglia co-culture. Cancer immunotherapy (sometimes called immuno-oncology) is the stimulation of the immune system to treat cancer, improving on the immune system's natural ability to fight the disease. Allergen immunotherapy, also known as desensitization or hypo-sensitization, is a medical treatment for environmental allergies, such as insect bites, and asthma. Sublingual immunotherapy has been demonstrated to be effective against rhinoconjunctivitis and asthma symptoms. The scientific community describes allergen immunotherapy as a scientific solution that helps not only patients with allergies but also positively impacts the quality of life of them and others around them. Thus they serve as immunomodulators in immunotherapy (therapy that makes use of immune responses), which can be helpful in treating cancer (where targeted therapy often relies on the immune system being used to attack cancer cells) and in treating autoimmune diseases (in which the immune system attacks the self), such as some kinds of arthritis and dermatitis. "Immunotherapy makes use of BRMs to enhance the activity of the immune system to increase the body's natural defense mechanisms against cancer", whereas BRMs for rheumatoid arthritis aim to reduce inflammation. 
Can ginkgo extract improve mental performance in dementia patients? [SEP] The MIND diet also includes recommendations for specific foods, like leafy greens and berries, that have been scientifically shown to slow cognitive decline. Specifically, the inclusion of leafy greens and berries have been shown in separate human and rodent studies to protect against cognitive decline. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. MIND diet is associated with better cognitive functioning independently of common brain pathology, suggesting that the MIND diet may contribute to cognitive resilience in the elderly. Studies have shown that nicergoline also increases nerve growth factor in the aged brain. Another study assessed the efficacy of Yizhi capsule in treating senile dementia. The results showed that Yizhi capsule could remarkably increase mini-mental state examination (MMSE) and Hamilton Depression Scale (HDS) marks of patients with vascular dementia. The study concluded that the data indicate that Yizhi capsule is a relatively good preparation for prevention of vascular dementia.A Cochrane review in 2007, however, concluded that none of the studies conducted up to that time used methods that could provide strong evidence that the capsules are an effective treatment. 
Does pine wood improve sleep? [SEP] It was located in a pine wood as pine trees were thought to be beneficial in the treatment of the disease. The Pine series was a fleet of sleeping cars built by Pullman-Standard in 1953. Each of the sleeping cars had a name ending in Pine such as Georgia Pine or Whispering Pine, reflecting the road's Southern heritage. History
Pinewood is known for its dense forest of pine trees. Pine trees were thought to be beneficial for sufferers of the disease. (Colloquially, the term morning wood (or less commonly, morning glory) is also used, although this is more commonly used to refer specifically to an erection beginning during sleep and persisting into the period just after waking.) "Morning wood" is one of several similar slang or colloquial terms referring to the phenomenon of nocturnal penile tumescence (erection during and immediately following sleep). It is a common species of pine woods in Europe. 
Do spermidine supplements or a spermidine-rich diet reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia? Do they help with existing dementia? [SEP] As of 2017, the product had failed to show a significant effect in decreasing the rate of cognitive decline or delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease, but appeared to cause minor improvement in verbal memory in some people in the very early stages of the disease. Dementia can be prevented by reducing the risk factors for vascular disease such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking, physical inactivity and depression. Another meta-analysis showed that not only did aerobic exercise reduce the risk of dementia but it may also slow cognitive decline in those with dementia.The effect of physical activity is not limited to vascular effects. Non-fish meat, on the other hand, increases the risk of Alzheimer's, because of its high content of saturated fat.Niacin (vitamin B3) is also believed to prevent dementia as research shows those who have the highest levels of niacin in their blood, are believed to have the lowest risk of developing dementia or having cognitive decline. Steroid hormones
Estrogen may also help in the prevention of dementia but cannot help when dementia is already present and when cognitive function is already impaired. NSAIDs
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. The study showed that all the diets can be protective against the development of Alzheimer’s disease when they are strictly followed. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. 
Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] However, a 2006 systematic review of scientific research on supplementation with green-lipped mussel found "little consistent and compelling evidence" of any benefit for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis. Dietary supplements
Fatty acids
There has been a growing interest in the role of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids to reduce inflammation and alleviate the symptoms of RA. A review examined the effect of marine oil omega-3 fatty acids on pro-inflammatory eicosanoid concentrations; leukotriene4 (LTB4) was lowered in people with rheumatoid arthritis but not in those with non-autoimmune chronic diseases. Collectively, the current evidence is not strong enough to determine that supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids or regular consumption of fish are effective treatments for rheumatoid arthritis. There is beneficial effect in using a Mediterranean diet and Dong diet for a reduction in the number of tender joints, stiffness, and pain.Vitamins
Adequate Vitamin concentrations may provide an important defence against the increased oxidant stress in patients with RA. Food containing high source of vitamin E to help treat Rheumatoid Arthritis include almonds, avocados, spinach, sunflower seeds and peanut butter. Food containing high source of fluoride to help treat Rheumatoid Arthritis include tomatoes, oranges, bell peppers and grapefruit, which you should eat in moderation. Clinical use: Rheumatoid arthritis. 
Does covid vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting long-lasting symptoms (long covid) in case of corona infection? [SEP] One rule of thumb is that long COVID represents symptoms that have been present for longer than two months, though there is no reason to believe that this choice of cutoff is specific to infection with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) term Post-Covid Conditions qualifies long covid as symptoms four or more weeks after first infection. The risk of long COVID was associated with disease severity; people with asymptomatic infection did not have increased risk of long COVID symptoms compared to people who had never been infected. COVID-19 vaccination reduces the risk of long COVID, but by how much is unclear, as the available studies differ widely and are of limited quality. Clearing the Fog: From Surviving to Thriving with Long COVID—A Practical Guide. A COVID‑19 vaccine is a vaccine intended to provide acquired immunity against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‑19). However, immunity from the vaccines has been found to wane over time, requiring people to get booster doses of the vaccine to maintain protection against COVID‑19.The COVID‑19 vaccines are widely credited for their role in reducing the spread of COVID‑19 and reducing the severity and death caused by COVID‑19. COVID-19 vaccines may protect against myocarditis due to subsequent COVID-19 infection. 
Can the preventive intake of lysine prevent cold sores (lip herpes) and genital herpes? Can lysine help when the blisters are already there? [SEP] A cold sore, also known as a fever blister and herpes labialis, is a type of infection by the herpes simplex virus that affects primarily the lip. The colloquial terms for this condition ("cold sore" and "fever blister") come from the fact that herpes labialis is often triggered by fever, for example, as may occur during an upper respiratory tract infection (i.e. Rather than utilizing antifungal creams, angular herpes simplex is treated in the same way as a cold sore, with topical antiviral drugs. In general, both types can cause oral or genital herpes.Cold sores are the result of the virus reactivating in the body. When reactivation occurs, the virus travels down the nerves to the skin where it may cause blisters (cold sores) around the lips or mouth area.In case of Herpes zoster the nose can be affected.Cold sore outbreaks may be influenced by stress, menstruation, sunlight, sunburn, fever, dehydration, or local skin trauma. Acyclovir is an antiviral medication and reduces the pain and the number of lesions in the initial case of genital herpes. Suppressive therapy for recurrent genital herpes
Suppressive therapy has been shown effective in reducing recurrent genital herpes in as high as 80% which can tremendously help in improving quality of life since patients claim having minimal symptomatic episodes. Furthermore, long-term treatment of genital herpes with valacyclovir daily has shown to decrease the rates of transmission. 
Do hormonal contraceptives to swallow (the "pill") affect endurance performance in women? [SEP] One 1994 study found that women using birth control pills blinked 32% more often than those not using the contraception.On the other hand, the pills can sometimes improve conditions such as dysmenorrhea, premenstrual syndrome, and acne, reduce symptoms of endometriosis and polycystic ovary syndrome, and decrease the risk of anemia. Heart and blood vessels
Combined oral contraceptives increase the risk of venous thromboembolism (including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE)).While lower doses of estrogen in COC pills may have a lower risk of stroke and myocardial infarction compared to higher estrogen dose pills (50 μg/day), users of low estrogen dose COC pills still have an increased risk compared to non-users. Other women experience reductions in libido while on the pill, or decreased lubrication. A growing body of research evidence has suggested that hormonal contraception may have an adverse effect on women's psychological health. Progestins found in certain formulations of oral contraceptive pills can limit the effectiveness of weight training to increase muscle mass. Combined oral contraception may also reduce bone density. Pill Failure can happen with contraceptive pills and inadvertent pregnancies happen.Use of oral contraceptive can impair muscle gains in young women. The metabolic impact of oral contraceptives are significant and  contraceptive pills can increase the risk of  heart attacks. 
Does the pill affect the muscle strength of women?? [SEP] Failure to take pills during the placebo week does not impact the effectiveness of the pill, provided that daily ingestion of active pills is resumed at the end of the week.The placebo, or hormone-free, week in the 28-day pill package simulates an average menstrual cycle, though the hormonal events during a pill cycle are significantly different from those of a normal ovulatory menstrual cycle. The evidence was not strong enough to be certain that contraceptive methods do not cause some weight change, but no major effect was found. Other women experience reductions in libido while on the pill, or decreased lubrication. Sexual desire
In 2012, The Journal of Sexual Medicine published a review of research studying the effects of hormonal contraceptives on female sexual function that concluded that the sexual side effects of hormonal contraceptives are not well-studied and especially in regards to impacts on libido, with research establishing only mixed effects where only small percentages of women report experiencing an increase or decrease and majorities report being unaffected. A growing body of research evidence has suggested that hormonal contraception may have an adverse effect on women's psychological health. Progestins found in certain formulations of oral contraceptive pills can limit the effectiveness of weight training to increase muscle mass. One study claims that the pill may affect what male body odors a woman prefers, which may in turn influence her selection of partner. Combined oral contraception may also reduce bone density. 
Does whole-body cryotherapy in the cold chamber improve health? [SEP] As a cryotherapy technique, cryomassage is said to reactivate the immune system, mobilize the endocrine system and neurohumoral system, improve health, and help to fight stress and fatigue.In moderate doses, cold is said to be a cure for many diseases, including gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer. General cryomassage is said to initiate tissue regeneration and reparation process, improve muscular blood circulation, eliminate metabolic waste and hypoxia. Cryotherapy decreases the temperature of tissue surface to minimize hypoxic cell death, edema accumulation, and muscle spasms, all of which ultimately alleviate discomfort and inflammation. Main uses
Proponents say that cryotherapy may reduce pain and inflammation, help with mental disorders, support exercise recovery performance and improves joint function. Post-surgical management includes cryotherapy. Cryotherapy may slightly reduce the amount of blood loss and pain. Whole body cryotherapy
An increasing amount of research is done on the effects of whole-body cryotherapy (WBC) on exercise, beauty, and health. The FDA points out that the effects of Whole Body Cryotherapy lacks evidence and should be researched more.Cryotherapy treatment involves exposing individuals to extremely cold dry air (below −100 °C) for two to four minutes. 
Does transcranial pulse stimulation (TPS) improve mental performance in people with Alzheimer's dementia? Can the treatment improve the quality of life of those affected? [SEP] Nevertheless, as important as these effects are, the main support for the use of stimulation therapies is the improvement in the patient daily life routine they suppose.A study published in 2006 tested the effects of Cognitive Stimulation Therapy (CST) on the demented elderly’s quality of life. This is another study that supports the efficacy of CST, demonstrating that the elderly that have dementia greatly benefit from this treatment.. Just like it was tested in the 2006 study, the improvement of the participants' cognitive abilities can ultimately improve their daily lives since it helps with social influences being able to speak, remember words etc.In July 2015 UK NHS trials were reported of a robot seal from Japan being in the management of distressed and disturbed behaviour in dementia patients. It can be contrasted with cranial electrotherapy stimulation, which generally uses alternating current the same way, as well as transcranial magnetic stimulation.Research shows increasing evidence for tDCS as a treatment for depression. There is evidence of very low to moderate quality that tDCS can improve activities of daily living assessment after stroke but further research is needed to evaluate how long this effect is sustained.Transcranial direct-current stimulaiton is also used to augment speech therapy in patients with acquired language disorders like aphasia, or to help maintain language abilities in the case of primary progressive aphasia, a neurodegenerative condition. The lasting modulation of cortical excitability produced by tDCS makes it an effective solution to facilitate rehabilitation and treat a range of neuropsychiatric disorders. Techniques such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) or transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can be used. TMS stimulates cortical tissue without the pain sensations produced in transcranial electrical stimulation. Research
TMS has shown potential therapeutic effect on neurologic conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, persistent vegetative states, epilepsy, stroke related disability, tinnitus, multiple sclerosis, schizophrenia, and traumatic brain injury.With Parkinson's disease, early results suggest that low frequency stimulation may have an effect on medication associated dyskinesia, and that high frequency stimulation improves motor function. 
Can low-level laser therapy reduce pain from knee or hip osteoarthritis? [SEP] Whereas high-power lasers are used in laser medicine to cut or destroy tissue, it is claimed that application of low-power lasers relieves pain or stimulates and enhances cell function. Some studies suggest that LLLT may be modestly effective, in relieving short-term pain for rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain, acute and chronic neck pain, tendinopathy, and possibly, chronic joint disorders. He went on to show that low level HeNe light could accelerate wound healing in mice.By the 1970s, he was applying low level laser light to treat people with skin ulcers. By 1987, companies selling lasers were claiming that they could treat pain, accelerate healing of sports injuries, and treat arthritis, but there was little evidence for this at that time. Names
Under the medical subject heading Low Level Light Therapy the terms following terms are accepted as alternative terms; LLLT, Laser Biostimulation, Laser Phototherapy, Low-Level Laser Therapy, Low-Power Laser Irradiation, Low-Power Laser Therapy, and Photobiomodulation Therapy. A 2019 systematic review and meta-analysis found evidence for pain reduction in osteoarthritis. Mouth
Similarly, the use of lasers to treat chronic periodontitis and to speed healing of infections around dental implants is suggested, but there is insufficient evidence to indicate a use superior to traditional practices. GreenLight Laser Therapy has been increasingly performed as an alternative to transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) in order to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia with several studies demonstrating comparable results with fewer side effects and complications. 
Can low-level laser therapy reduce wrist osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] Whereas high-power lasers are used in laser medicine to cut or destroy tissue, it is claimed that application of low-power lasers relieves pain or stimulates and enhances cell function. Some studies suggest that LLLT may be modestly effective, in relieving short-term pain for rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain, acute and chronic neck pain, tendinopathy, and possibly, chronic joint disorders. By 1987, companies selling lasers were claiming that they could treat pain, accelerate healing of sports injuries, and treat arthritis, but there was little evidence for this at that time. A 2019 systematic review and meta-analysis found evidence for pain reduction in osteoarthritis. Mouth
Similarly, the use of lasers to treat chronic periodontitis and to speed healing of infections around dental implants is suggested, but there is insufficient evidence to indicate a use superior to traditional practices. Treatment
Post-traumatic wrist osteoarthritis can be treated conservatively or with a surgical intervention. However, the amount of pain that can be suppressed by nonsurgical therapy is limited and with the progression of the wrist osteoarthritis surgical treatment is inevitable.In stage I surgical treatment often consists of neurectomy of the posterior interosseous nerve and is often combined with other procedures. This surgical intervention is often needed as treatment for patients with wrist osteoarthritis. 
Does blood type affect the likelihood that Covid 19 disease will take a severe course or lead to death? [SEP] As a result, COVID-19 became the deadliest respiratory pandemic in recent American history. These variants contribute to the continuation of the COVID-19 pandemic. The report said endemicity could give rise to a new pandemic of long COVID that would cause significant strain on nations' economies and healthcare systems because of the health and social care required to treat people.As of March 2023, it was not possible to predict the infection patterns COVID-19 would settle on, though as with other coronaviruses it seemed possible the pattern would not be a seasonal one of the kind seen with influenza. In fact, having type O blood predisposes to bleeding, as 30% of the total genetic variation observed in plasma vWF is explained by the effect of the ABO blood group, and individuals with group O blood normally have significantly lower plasma levels of vWF (and Factor VIII) than do non-O individuals. Mosquito-borne diseases
Although it is highly unlikely that COVID-19 can be transmitted by mosquitoes, the pandemic nevertheless has a large impact on the control of mosquito-borne diseases such as malaria or dengue fever. Research demonstrates patients infected with influenza as well as Covid are over twice as likely to die as patients with only Covid. COVID-19 can also cause severe disease in children. For instance, a study showed how COVID-19 may cause microvascular brain pathology and endothelial cell-death, disrupting the blood–brain barrier. 
Do mouth rinses with hydroxyapatite, for example the products "Linola sept mouth rinse" and "Karex Abwehr", protect against SARS-CoV-2 infection? [SEP] Caphosol (EUSA Pharma) is a mouth rinse designed to moisten, lubricate and clean the oral cavity including the mucosa of the mouth, tongue and oropharynx which has been shown to prevent and treat oral mucositis in patients receiving radiation therapy or chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer. This  trial demonstrated that Caphosol, used in conjunction with fluoride treatments, offers significant benefits over standard care, and is a significant adjunct in the management of oral mucositis associated with high-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Patients at risk of oral mucositis were given Caphosol, and instructed to rinse 4–10 times daily, depending on the severity of the mucositis. Sarakan Mouthwash is an alcohol-free anti-plaque mouth rinse which contains the same natural oil flavourings as the toothpaste, and an anti-plaque bacterial agent to get rid of micro-organisms in the mouth and help promote better gum health. This bacterium has been added to chewing gum, but it does not remove the need to brush one's teeth. It is used to treat COVID-19 in those infected by SARS-CoV-2. A study found that it is orally active against SARS-CoV-2 in ferrets.DRIVE then licensed molnupiravir for human clinical studies to Miami-based company Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, which later partnered with Merck & Co. to develop the drug further.The primary data supporting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) emergency use authorization for molnupiravir are from MOVe-OUT, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial studying molnupiravir for the treatment of non-hospitalized participants with mild to moderate COVID-19 at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19 and/or hospitalization. However it results in faster recovery and reduced viral load.In February 2023, Merck reported that the phase 3 MOVe-AHEAD trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Lagevrio compared to placebo in preventing the spread of SARS-CoV-2 within households did not meet its primary endpoints.With more than 1,500 participants who were free of COVID-19 and lived with someone who was recently diagnosed with the virus, patients treated with Lagevrio were 23.6% less likely than those on placebo to develop COVID after 14 days. 
Does CBD (cannabidiol) relieve symptoms of mild to moderate covid-19 disease? [SEP] Abnormal cannabidiol (Abn-CBD) is a synthetic regioisomer of cannabidiol, which unlike most other cannabinoids produces vasodilator effects, lowers blood pressure, and induces cell migration, cell proliferation and mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in microglia, but without producing any psychoactive effects. Pharmacodynamics
Research of the effects on abnormal cannabidiol in mice has indicated that atypical cannabinoids have therapeutic potential in a variety of inflammatory conditions, including those of the gastrointestinal tract. Cannabidiol (CBD) is a phytocannabinoid discovered in 1940. As of 2019, clinical research on CBD included studies related to anxiety, cognition, movement disorders, and pain, but there is insufficient high-quality evidence that cannabidiol is effective for these conditions. Side effects
Research indicates that cannabidiol may reduce adverse effects of THC, particularly those causing intoxication and sedation, but only at high doses. Epidiolex documentation lists sleepiness, insomnia and poor quality sleep, decreased appetite, diarrhea, and fatigue.In November 2019, the FDA issued concerns about the safety of cannabidiol, stating that CBD use has potential to cause liver injury, interfere with the mechanisms of prescription drugs, produce gastrointestinal disorders, or affect alertness and mood. Canine osteoarthritis
CBD's ability to help regulate the endocannabinoid system and reduce the release of excitatory neurotransmitters could result in a retrograde inhibitory signal that lessens chronic pain responses. In December 2020, the European Commission concluded that CBD should not be considered as drug and can be qualified as food.Cannabidiol is listed in the EU Cosmetics Ingredient Database (CosIng). 
Does CBD or cannabis use protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on the cannabis industry. Cannabidiol
Cannabidiol (CBD) is a non-psychoactive cannabinoid extracted from the cannabis plant. Cannabidiol (CBD) is a phytocannabinoid discovered in 1940. As of 2019, clinical research on CBD included studies related to anxiety, cognition, movement disorders, and pain, but there is insufficient high-quality evidence that cannabidiol is effective for these conditions. Nevertheless, CBD is a herbal dietary supplement promoted with unproven claims of particular therapeutic effects. CBD does not have the same psychoactivity as THC, and can negate the psychoactive effects of THC on the body if both are present. The National Hockey League Alumni Association began a project with Canopy Growth to determine if CBD or other cannabis products might improve neurological symptoms and quality of life in head-injured players. The Canadian government states that CBD products "are subject to all of the rules and requirements that apply to cannabis under the Cannabis Act and its regulations." 
Do sedatives and sleeping pills such as benzodiazepines and related substances increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia? [SEP] Worsening of psychiatric symptoms
The long-term use of benzodiazepines may have a similar effect on the brain as alcohol, and are also implicated in depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), mania, psychosis, sleep disorders, sexual dysfunction, delirium, and neurocognitive disorders (including benzodiazepine-induced persisting dementia which persists even after the medications are stopped). Nonbenzodiazepines such as zaleplon and zolpidem and low doses of sedating antidepressants are sometimes used as alternatives to benzodiazepines.Long-term use of benzodiazepines is associated with increased risk of cognitive impairment and dementia, and reduction in prescribing levels is likely to reduce dementia risk. The association of a history of benzodiazepine use and cognitive decline is unclear, with some studies reporting a lower risk of cognitive decline in former users, some finding no association and some indicating an increased risk of cognitive decline.Benzodiazepines are sometimes prescribed to treat behavioral symptoms of dementia. Cognitive impairing effects of benzodiazepines that occur frequently in the elderly can also worsen dementia. This meta-analysis found that long-term use of benzodiazepines was associated with moderate to large adverse effects on all areas of cognition, with visuospatial memory being the most commonly detected impairment. Controversial associations
Beyond the well established link between benzodiazepines and psychomotor impairment resulting in motor vehicle accidents and falls leading to fracture; research in the 2000s and 2010s has raised the association between benzodiazepines (and Z-drugs) and other, as of yet unproven, adverse effects including dementia, cancer, infections, pancreatitis and respiratory disease exacerbations. Dementia
A number of studies have drawn an association between long-term benzodiazepine use and neuro-degenerative disease, particularly Alzheimer's disease. It has been determined that long-term use of benzodiazepines is associated with increased dementia risk, even after controlling for protopathic bias. 
Does taking polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as omega-3 and omega-6, reduce ADHD symptoms in children? [SEP] Developmental disabilities
One meta-analysis concluded that omega−3 fatty acid supplementation demonstrated a modest effect for improving ADHD symptoms. A Cochrane review of PUFA (not necessarily omega−3) supplementation found "there is little evidence that PUFA supplementation provides any benefit for the symptoms of ADHD in children and adolescents", while a different review found "insufficient evidence to draw any conclusion about the use of PUFAs for children with specific learning disorders". Another review concluded that the evidence is inconclusive for the use of omega−3 fatty acids in behavior and non-neurodegenerative neuropsychiatric disorders such as ADHD and depression.A 2015 meta-analysis of the effect of omega−3 supplementation during pregnancy did not demonstrate a decrease in the rate of preterm birth or improve outcomes in women with singleton pregnancies with no prior preterm births. A 2020 review suggested that omega 3 supplementation has no effect on global cognitive function but has a mild benefit in improving memory in non-demented adults.A 2022 review found promising evidence for prevention of cognitive decline in people who regularly eat long-chain omega 3 rich foods. A co-author of the study said to Time, "Our analysis suggests that there is currently no evidence that omega-3 fatty acid supplements provide a benefit for memory or concentration in later life". "Excess Omega-6 Fats Thwart Health Benefits from Omega-3 Fats". Omega-3 fatty acids that support brain development and function are alpha-linolenic acid, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). This study also showed hindered brain waves in kittens whose mother were fed low omega-3 and omega-6 diets which is a significant indicator, that these fatty acids aid in the development of the feline brain at a juvenile stage.Though young felines are not efficient at producing omega-3 fatty acids naturally, it is critical for cognitive function and brain development in regard to brain waves and glucose uptake. 
Do infusions of vitamin C relieve symptoms of chronic fatigue or long covid? [SEP] Vitamin C has long been promoted in alternative medicine as a treatment for the common cold, cancer, polio, and various other illnesses. The book promoted the idea that taking large amounts of vitamin C could reduce the duration and severity of the common cold. Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. However, in trials with participants who were under heavy short-term physical stress—specifically marathon runners, skiers, and soldiers in subarctic conditions, vitamin C halved the incidence of colds. The same review reported that for people who took vitamin C on a regular basis, the vitamin shortened the duration of colds in adults by 8% and in children by 14%. However, taking vitamin C on a regular basis did reduce the average duration by 8% in adults and 14% in children, and also reduced severity of colds. The authors of the Cochrane review concluded that:

The failure of vitamin C supplementation to reduce the incidence of colds in the general population indicates that routine vitamin C supplementation is not justified … Regular supplementation trials have shown that vitamin C reduces the duration of colds, but this was not replicated in the few therapeutic trials that have been carried out. Nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin C on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin C is beneficial for them." 
Does taking probiotics shorten the duration of acute infectious diarrhea? [SEP] Treatment
Meta-analyses have concluded that probiotics may protect against antibiotic-associated diarrhea in both children and adults. Diarrhea
Some probiotics are suggested as a possible treatment for various forms of gastroenteritis. As a treatment for infectious diarrhea probiotics are of no benefit to people who have the condition for more than two days, and there is no evidence they lessen the duration of diarrhea overall. In a review that covered 34 masked, randomized, placebo-controlled trials related to diarrhea and probiotics, it was concluded that there was an overall reduction of 52% in antibiotic associated diarrhea, an 8% reduction in traveller’s diarrhea, and a 34% reduction in other types of acute diarrhea. A 2002 review showed that Lactobacillus reduced the average duration of acute diarrhea by 0.7 days and stool frequency by 1.6 on the second day of treatment. Moreover, there has been evidence showing that probiotics can prevent children and infants from gastroenteritis (also known as stomach flu), which may also cause diarrhea to occur. In a review of six trials related to antibiotic-associated diarrhea in 766 children aged one month to six years, there was an overall reduction in AAD when children were fed probiotics. Persistent diarrhea
A 2013 review suggested probiotics are effective in treating persistent diarrhea in children, though more research is needed. 
Does high-dose vitamin D slow down the course of disease in multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] These findings suggest that vitamin D potentially affects the development of neurons as well as their maintenance and survival. In several recent studies, higher vitamin D levels have been associated with lower risks of developing Alzheimer's disease. Based on this correlation and other studies, the higher intake of vitamin D is associated with a lower risk for MS. Research has also shown that in relation to geological position (latitude), patients who later developed MS saw an earlier age of onset of symptoms in the more northern latitudes than in the Southern Hemisphere
The mechanism for this association is not fully established, however, a proposed mechanism involves inflammatory cytokines. For example genes can be upregulated or downregulated when the highly active form of vitamin D, 1, 25-alpha dihydroxyvitamin D3 binds to the VDR on chromosomal regions of gene expression that manage the balance or ratio between differentiating immune cells into Th1 and Th2 T cell proteins
 The upregulation of Th 2 T cell proteins, like IL-4 and TGF-Beta, are the main focus of some research which aims to minimize the effects seen in the model organism disease EAE (experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis), studied for its similarities to Multiple Sclerosis.Though this study of gene regulation is observed within murine models, it focuses on MS orthologs to humans and research has shown that it may also help to manage: Rheumatoid Arthritis, Diabetes mellitus type 1, Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), cardiovascular disease (CVD), and other chronic inflammatory diseases

Epilepsy and seizures
Seizures are disturbances in brain activities where neurons fire abnormally. Getting enough vitamin D can help stave off "autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, many types of cancer, dementia, types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, and respiratory tract infections. The rationale behind the use of Vitamin D supplementation is that studies show an association between vitamin D deficiency and increasing progression of MS, as well as the anti-inflammatory effects of vitamin D. However available evidence suggests vitamin D supplementation, irrespective of the form and dose used, provides no apparent benefit for people with MS for measures such as relapse recurrence of, disability worsening and MRI lesions while effects on health‐related quality of life and fatigue are unclear.For antioxidant therapy, studies have shown that reactive oxidative species lead to the formation of multiple sclerosis lesions in which antioxidants can help induce neuroprotective and immunomodulatory effects. Evidence suggests vitamin D supplementation, irrespective of the form and dose, provides no benefit for people with MS; this includes for measures such as relapse recurrence, disability, and MRI lesions while effects on health‐related quality of life and fatigue are unclear. Vitamin D levels have also been correlated with MS; lower levels of vitamin D correspond to an increased risk of MS, suggesting a reduced prevalence in the tropics – an area with more Vitamin D-rich sunlight – strengthening the impact of geographical location on MS development. 
Does taking taiga root extract strengthen the immune system? Can it make vaccinations more effective or tolerable? [SEP] Once the plant, fruit, or plant derived product is ingested orally, it stimulates the immune system. Specifically, it stimulates both the mucosal and humoral immune systems. From these studies, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease has supported that edible vaccines can safely trigger an immune response, however, it is also known that they are far from being able to begin large scale human testing for autoimmunity and infectious diseases. Vaccination is the administration of a vaccine to help the immune system develop immunity from a disease. Vaccines given after exposure to smallpox are reported to offer some protection from disease or may reduce the severity of disease. It is widely accepted that the benefits of preventing serious illness and death from infectious diseases greatly outweigh the risks of rare serious adverse effects following immunization. Costs and benefits
On the whole, vaccinations induce a net benefit to society. Anti-tetanus immunoglobulin, also known as tetanus immune globulin (TIG) and tetanus antitoxin, is a medication made up of antibodies against the tetanus toxin. 
Can ozone therapy, in which autologous blood is treated with ozone and recycled, favorably influence the course of COVID-19 disease? [SEP] Ozone therapy is an alternative medical treatment that introduces ozone or ozonides to the body. Proposed uses
Ozone therapy consists of the introduction of ozone into the body via various methods, usually involving its mixture with various gases and liquids before injection, with potential routes including the vagina, rectum, intramuscular (in a muscle), subcutaneously (under the skin), or intravenously (directly into veins). Ozone can also be introduced via autohemotherapy, in which blood is drawn from the patient, exposed to ozone and re-injected into the patient.This therapy has been proposed as a primary or adjunct therapy for various diseases, including osteoarthritis, herniated disk, chronic wounds, hepatitis B and C, herpes zoster, HIV-AIDS, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer's dementia, and Lyme disease, though supportive evidence for some of these applications is limited. For treatment of HIV/AIDS, although ozone deactivates the viral particles outside the body, well-designed studies have shown there is no benefit for living patients.The United States Food and Drug Administration initially stated in 1976, and reiterated its position in 2006, that when inhaled, ozone is a toxic gas which has no demonstrated safe medical application, though their position statements primarily deal with its potential for causing inflammation and pulmonary edema in the lungs. Proponents suggest that its effects are tissue dependent, though the subject is still debated.Other serious incidents reported include transmission of hepatitis C, and one case of a heart attack following some hours after autohemotherapy.Ozone-based treatments can be associated with central nervous system toxicity, termed Ozone Induced Encephalopathy (OIE). Forms include platelet-rich plasma (PRP), and autologous conditioned serum (ACS).It is possible that ozonated or UV autohemotherapy may have real efficacy and effectiveness in autoimmune diseases, if they are immunomodulatory in some way (such as by interfering with the deranged autoantibodies), but this mechanism of action, if it exists, is not yet well understood; it is also logical that whatever molecular changes the ozone and UV bring about are unlikely to act specifically on just the desired target molecules, meaning that risks are involved. Scientific research
In 2022, autohemotherapy was studied for its effect on ME/CFS, in which 220 patients were treated with oxygen-ozone autohemotherapy for X weeks, at least two 30min long sessions per week. See also
Ozone therapy
Discolysis
Collagen induction therapy


== References == 
Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea better than a placebo? [SEP] Dimenhydrinate, sold under the brand name Dramamine, among others, is an over-the-counter drug used to treat motion sickness and nausea. Medical uses
Nausea
Dimenhydrinate is an over-the-counter (OTC) antihistamine indicated for the prevention and relief of nausea and vomiting from a number of causes, including motion-sickness and post-operative nausea. Recreational use
Dimenhydrinate is recreationally used as a deliriant. Brand names
Dimenhydrinate is marketed under many brand names: in the U.S., Mexico, Turkey, Serbia, and Thailand as Dramamine; in Ukraine as Driminate; in Canada, Costa Rica, and India as Gravol; in Iceland as Gravamin; in Russia and Croatia as Dramina; in South Africa and Germany as Vomex; in Australia and Austria as Vertirosan; in Brazil as Dramin; in Colombia as Mareol; in Ecuador as Anautin; in Hungary as Daedalon; in Indonesia as Antimo; in Italy as Xamamina or Valontan; in Peru as Gravicoll; in Poland and Slovakia as Aviomarin; in Portugal as Viabom, Vomidrine, and Enjomin; in Spain as Biodramina; in Israel as Travamin; and in Pakistan as Gravinate. "Comparison of cinnarizine/dimenhydrinate fixed combination with the respective monotherapies for vertigo of various origins: a randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, multicentre study". "Cinnarizine and dimenhydrinate in the treatment of vertigo in medical practice". This led to the conclusion that transdermal scopolamine is likely a better option for the treatment of motion sickness in naval crew and other sea travelers. It does not have much antiemetic effect when symptoms are due to motion sickness. 
Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea as well as the proven drug scopolamine??? [SEP] Dimenhydrinate, sold under the brand name Dramamine, among others, is an over-the-counter drug used to treat motion sickness and nausea. Medical uses
Nausea
Dimenhydrinate is an over-the-counter (OTC) antihistamine indicated for the prevention and relief of nausea and vomiting from a number of causes, including motion-sickness and post-operative nausea. Scopolamine, also known as hyoscine, or Devil's Breath, is a natural or synthetically produced tropane alkaloid and anticholinergic drug that is used as a medication to treat motion sickness and postoperative nausea and vomiting. Additionally, scopolamine has also proven to be clinically effective for palliatively treating more obscure forms of motion sickness, such as the poorly understood Sopite Syndrome; which can change mood, cognitive functions and a sufferer's overall sense of well-being in a more profound way than the stereotypical symptoms of motion sickness like nausea and vertigo. With a precise dosage, the NASA spray formulation has been shown to work faster and more reliably than the oral form to treat motion sickness.Although certain pharmacological agents such as stimulant drugs could pose theoretical contraindications due to their possible physiological potentiation or synergism in regards to cardiovascular stress when paired with scopolamine, stimulants in combination with scopolamine have still been safely studied and even shown effective for combating symptoms of severe motion sickness. The combination of scopolamine and d-amphetamine is reportedly the most effective in preventing the symptoms of severe motion sickness, but due to the abuse potential of amphetamine; it is not usually included or suggested in the medical literature. A 2016 study published in the journal of CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics tested scopolamine at different doses in combination with d-amphetamine, modafinil, and caffeine for motion sickness. This led to the conclusion that transdermal scopolamine is likely a better option for the treatment of motion sickness in naval crew and other sea travelers. 
Does short-term fasting improve quality of life in cancer? [SEP] Preoperative fasting is the practice of a surgical patient abstaining from eating or drinking ("nothing by mouth") for some time before having an operation. Pulmonary aspiration
The main hypothesized benefit of preoperative fasting is to prevent pulmonary aspiration of stomach contents while under the effects of general anesthesia. Aspiration of as little as 30–40 mL can be a significant cause of suffering and death during an operation and therefore fasting is performed to reduce the volume of stomach contents as much as possible. Increased fasting times leads to decreased injury if aspiration occurs.The latest guidelines do not support preoperative fasting, as there is no difference in residual gastric fluid volume, pH or gastric emptying rate following semi-solid meals or drinks, whether in obese or lean individuals. Dopamine fasting is a form of digital detox, involving temporarily abstaining from addictive technologies such as social media, listening to music on technological platforms, and Internet gaming, and can be extended to temporary deprivation of social interaction and eating. Catherine of Siena (1347–1380) was known to fast for long periods of time and, towards the end of her life, when her disease was at its worst, the only food she consumed was a single consecrated Host given to her as part of the daily Eucharist. She considers cases such as that of Julian of Norwich and other Christian anchorites, as using fasting as a legitimate means for communing with Christ.American social historian Joan Jacobs Brumberg suggests in Fasting Girls: The History of Anorexia Nervosa (1987) that anorexia mirabilis no longer exists not because the motives of those who starve themselves have changed, but because the paradigms for coding these behaviors have shifted. Fasting then was a means of exercising some control, taking power back for the individual and as such it is similar to one of the underlying factors in anorexia nervosa today. 
Does short-term fasting reduce the side effects of chemotherapy for cancer??? [SEP] The chemotherapy drug gets absorbed by the cancer. Evidence suggests that cancer patients may develop the side effects of nausea and vomiting in anticipation of chemotherapy. Other measures
Other non-drug measures may include:

Diet: Small palatable meals are normally tolerated better than big meals in people affected by nausea and vomiting in cancer. Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is a common side-effect of many cancer treatments. Neuroleptic agents are now indicated for rescue treatment and the control of breakthrough nausea and vomiting.Some studies and patient groups say that the use of cannabinoids derived from cannabis during chemotherapy greatly reduces the associated nausea and vomiting, and enables the patient to eat. See also
Chemotherapy


== References == These effects can impair a chemotherapy patient's ability to understand and make decisions regarding treatment, perform in school or employment and can reduce quality of life. Authors report resting metabolism in this area is associated with performance on short-term memory tasks.While post-treatment studies suggest significant negative side effects of chemotherapy on cognition, other studies have indicated that there may be baseline vulnerability factors which could contribute to cognitive impairment development. 
Are extracts of Artemisa annua (annual mugwort) or the active ingredient artemisinin obtained from it effective against coronavirus? [SEP] The drink is produced from a species under the Artemisia genus from which artemisinin is extracted for malaria treatment. Autoimmune disease
Artemisinin derivatives may suppress immune reactions, such as inflammation. Artemisia annua, also known as sweet wormwood, sweet annie, sweet sagewort, annual mugwort or annual wormwood (Chinese: 黄花蒿; pinyin: huánghuāhāo), is a common type of wormwood native to temperate Asia, but naturalized in many countries including scattered parts of North America.An extract of A. annua, called artemisinin (or artesunate), is a medication used to treat malaria. Artemisinin and other phytochemicals
In 1971, scientists demonstrated the plant extracts had antimalarial activity in primate models, and in 1972, the active ingredient, artemisinin (formerly referred to as arteannuin), was isolated and its chemical structure described. An improved extract was obtained by using a low-temperature, ether-based extraction method, further showing the artemisinin derivative, artemether, to be an effective antimalarial drug.Artemisinin is a sesquiterpene lactone with an endoperoxide bridge and has been produced as an antimalarial drug. Artemisia vulgaris, the common mugwort, is a species of flowering plant in the daisy family Asteraceae. It is one of several species in the genus Artemisia commonly known as mugwort, although Artemisia vulgaris is the species most often called mugwort. References
External links

Mugwort in 'The complete herbal' by Culpeper
Mugwort 'A modern herbal' by Mrs. Grieve
"Artemisia vulgaris". 
Can zinc mitigate the progression of Covid-19? [SEP] The use of zinc supplements at doses in excess of 75 mg/day within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms has been shown to reduce the duration of cold symptoms by about 1 day in adults. The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Mechanism of action
The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Zinc has been known for many years to have an effect on cold viruses in the laboratory. Higher quality studies disproved Zelenko's claims, finding that zinc, hydroxychloroquine, and azithromycin did not improve serious outcomes of COVID-19. Specifically it is used to treat zinc deficiency and to prevent the condition in those at high risk. Increasing the amount of zinc in the soil and thus in crops and animals is an effective preventive measure. In its regulatory role, zinc is involved in the regulation of nucleoproteins and the activity of various inflammatory cells. 
Does zinc preventively protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Mechanism of action
The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Zinc has been known for many years to have an effect on cold viruses in the laboratory. Zinc supplements help prevent disease and reduce mortality, especially among children with low birth weight or stunted growth. Specifically it is used to treat zinc deficiency and to prevent the condition in those at high risk. References
External links
"Zinc Sulfate". Higher quality studies disproved Zelenko's claims, finding that zinc, hydroxychloroquine, and azithromycin did not improve serious outcomes of COVID-19. Fact-checkers noted the lack of scientific support for Zelenko's claims of Z-Stack's ingredients boosting immunity, killing the virus that causes COVID-19, and preventing hospitalization.In January 2022, Zelenko claimed that children are more likely to die from COVID-19 vaccines than from COVID-19. 
Does a cold spray with trypsin protect against colds or covid-19? Does the spray reduce symptoms and duration of illness? [SEP] Some placebo-controlled trials have found that it is ineffective against some forms of cough, including acute cough in children. Similarly, a 2014 systematic review showed that garlic may prevent occurrences of the common cold but there was insufficient evidence of garlic in treating the common cold and studies reported adverse effects of a rash and odour. A 2009 review found that the evidence supporting the effectiveness of zinc is mixed with respect to cough, and a 2011 Cochrane review concluded that zinc "administered within 24 hours of onset of symptoms reduces the duration and severity of the common cold in healthy people". Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. Despite being controversial at the beginning of the pandemic in 2020, corticosteroids like dexamethasone showed clinical benefit in treating COVID-19, once randomized controlled trials were performed in 2020. Therapeutics and COVID-19: living guideline (Report). A 2016 systematic review found that oseltamivir slightly reduced the time it takes for the symptoms of influenza to be alleviated, and that it also increased the risk of "nausea, vomiting, [and] psychiatric events in adults and vomiting in children." A systematic review of systematic reviews found low to moderate evidence that it decreases the risk of getting symptomatic influenza by 1 to 12% (a relative decrease of 64 to 92%). 
Does injecting low-dose Corona vaccine into the skin (mesotherapy vaccination, microvaccination) protect against Covid-19 as well as proven full-dose vaccination into muscle? [SEP] CoronaVac, also known as the Sinovac COVID-19 vaccine, is a whole inactivated virus COVID-19 vaccine developed by the Chinese company Sinovac Biotech. As of July 2021, CoronaVac was the most widely used COVID-19 vaccine in the world, with 943 million doses delivered.As of October 14, 2021, CoronaVac is the COVID-19 vaccine with the most doses administered worldwide.It was reported in December, 2021, that a study jointly conducted by the LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKUMed), and the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CU Medicine), showed that a third dose of the Comirnaty vaccine given to those who received two doses of either Comirnaty or CoronaVac provides protective levels of measured antibodies against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. Three doses of CoronaVac, however, did not provide adequate levels of protective antibodies by the same measure, in direct contradiction to claims made by the vaccine manufacturer.In October 2022, a Hong Kong study found that two doses of CoronaVac gave a protection of only 64% to 75% for older adults. The effectiveness of CoronaVac vaccine after the second dose was 66% (95% CI, 65–67%) in preventing symptomatic disease, 88% (87–88%) for hospitalization, 90% (89–91%) for ICU admission, and 86% (85–88%) in preventing COVID-19 related deaths. The greatest increases were seen with a heterologous Oxford–AstraZeneca vaccine booster, resulting in 96% effectiveness against hospitalization and 93% against symptomatic disease.A study by the University of Hong Kong in December 2021 found that a third dose of CoronaVac does not provide sufficient protection against the Omicron variant, directly contradicting the vaccine manufacturer's claim and a study by the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile that it does.In April 2022, a Singapore study by infectious diseases experts from the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Ministry of Health found that CoronaVac recipients were 4.59 times more likely to have severe COVID-19 as well as 2.37 times more likely to be infected, compared to those who took the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. In the vaccine group (N=4953), there were 85 COVID cases, 5 cases requiring medical attention, and no severe cases or deaths.On 1 April 2021, a preliminary report from a phase III clinical trial in Chile revealed that CoronaVac is safe and induces humoral and cell-mediated immunity in adults (18–59 years old) and the elderly (60 years or older) similar to previous phase II trials conducted in China with the same age groups and immunization schedule consisting of two doses with a 14-day interval. Medical uses
The Moderna COVID‑19 vaccine is used to provide protection against infection by the SARS‑CoV‑2 virus in order to prevent COVID‑19.The vaccine is given by intramuscular injection into the deltoid muscle of the arm. The vaccine is known as "COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna Intramuscular Injection". 
Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish (Kren) prevent recurrent cystitis? [SEP] Cirsium muticum, also known as swamp thistle, marsh thistle, dunce-nettle, or horsetops, is a North American species of plants in the family Asteraceae, native to central and eastern Canada and the central and eastern United States. It may help with incontinence, urinary frequency, and urinary urgency.Benefits appear similar to other medications in the class. It is of the antimuscarinic class and works by decreasing bladder contractions.Solifenacin was approved for medical use in the United States in 2004. Medical use
It is used to treat overactive bladder. It may help with incontinence, urinary frequency, and urinary urgency.Benefits appear similar to other antimuscarinics such as oxybutynin, tolterodine, and darifenacin.It is also used to treat neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO), a form of bladder dysfunction related to neurological impairment, in children ages two years and older. Reductions in spontaneous bladder contractions, bladder pressure and number of incontinence episodes were also observed in both studies. This prevents excessive excretion of K+ in urine and decreased retention of water, preventing hypokalemia.Because these diuretics are weakly natriuretic, they do not cause clinically significant blood pressure changes and thus, are not used as primary therapy for hypertension. Other diuretics
While not classically considered potassium-sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors (ACEis) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are anti-hypertensive drugs with diuretic effects that decrease renal excretion of potassium. 
Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish alleviate the symptoms of cystitis as well as an antibiotic??? [SEP] Cirsium muticum, also known as swamp thistle, marsh thistle, dunce-nettle, or horsetops, is a North American species of plants in the family Asteraceae, native to central and eastern Canada and the central and eastern United States. "Cirsium muticum –Swamp Thistle". It contains esterified ampicillin and sulbactam.Sultamicillin is better absorbed from the gut than ampicillin/sulbactam, decreasing the chances of diarrhea and dysentery. Urinary tract infections - pyelonephritis, cystitis caused by Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella and Staphylococcus aureus. Conversely, the elimination of sultamicillin's active constituents (ampicillin and sulbactam) is reduced by probenecid and probably by the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) aspirin, indometacin and phenylbutazone. Various antibiotics, such as metronidazole and furan are used in aquarium care. : 475 
Western medicine and bodily care (including tampon use, for instance) make the female genitalia unnaturally full of toxins, a process that can be reversed by the natural practice of vaginal steaming (the authors note that such accounts use language derived from Western medicine—"symptoms", "decline", "ailments"). ISBN 90-04-15681-X
Carola Koenig, Specialized Hydro-, Balneo-and Medicinal Bath Therapy. 
Does mistletoe therapy help against cancer or can it improve the quality of life of cancer patients? [SEP] The Cahilla gathered the fruits November through April and boiled them into a paste with a sprinkle of wood ash added to the pot.Desert mistletoe plants, but not the berries, contain phoratoxins which can easily lead to death via slowed heart rate, increased blood pressure, convulsions, or cardiac arrest. Phoradendron tomentosum, the leafy mistletoe, hairy mistletoe or Christmas mistletoe, is a plant parasite. Leafy mistletoe seldom kill but they do rob their hosts of moisture and some minerals, causing stress during drought and reducing crop productions on fruit and nut trees. Although mistletoe is photosynthetic, it is an obligate, semi parasitic evergreen plant that infects host plants to derive support, water, and essential elements. This true mistletoe is used as greenery in Christmas decorations.Many species of hardwood trees are affected by mistletoe, but oaks and hickories are most commonly attacked. The American Cancer Society states that "Reviews of medical records of people who have been treated with Essiac do not support claims that this product helps people with cancer live longer or that it relieves their symptoms." Cancer Research UK also notes that there is "no scientific evidence that Essiac can help to treat cancer" and cautions "Always ask your doctors and nurses about whether any complementary or alternative cancer therapy you are thinking of using might interact with your other treatments." See also
List of ineffective cancer treatments

References
Further reading
Clinic of Hope: The Story of Rene Caisse and Essiac, by Donna Ivey, 2004, ISBN 1550025201 
Can homeopathic remedies prevent colds in children? [SEP] Homeoprophylaxis, or homeopathic prophylaxis, is the use of homeopathy as a preventive medicine or immunisation against serious infectious diseases. The Society's position statement "does not endorse the use of homeopathic medicines as an alternative to vaccination for the prevention of serious infectious diseases" though, somewhat conflictingly, also suggests that "homeoprophylaxis may be effective in certain circumstances". Alternative treatments used for the common cold include numerous home remedies and alternative medicines. Practitioners claim that such preparations, upon oral intake, can treat or cure disease.All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology contradicts homeopathy. Homeopathy maintains that treating diseases by directly alleviating their symptoms, as is sometimes done in conventional medicine, is ineffective because all "disease can generally be traced to some latent, deep-seated, underlying chronic, or inherited tendency". The Russian Commission on Pseudoscience has said homeopathy is not safe because "patients spend significant amounts of money, buying medicines that do not work and disregard already known effective treatment." A related report concluded that claims of homeopathy effectiveness "are not accepted by most modern medical experts and do not constitute competent and reliable scientific evidence that these products have the claimed treatment effects." The same review reported that for people who took vitamin C on a regular basis, the vitamin shortened the duration of colds in adults by 8% and in children by 14%. 
Can homeopathic remedies relieve colds in children?? [SEP] Alternative treatments used for the common cold include numerous home remedies and alternative medicines. Practitioners claim that such preparations, upon oral intake, can treat or cure disease.All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology contradicts homeopathy. Homeopathy maintains that treating diseases by directly alleviating their symptoms, as is sometimes done in conventional medicine, is ineffective because all "disease can generally be traced to some latent, deep-seated, underlying chronic, or inherited tendency". The Russian Academy of Sciences considers homeopathy a "dangerous 'pseudoscience' that does not work", and "urges people to treat homeopathy 'on a par with magic'". The Russian Commission on Pseudoscience has said homeopathy is not safe because "patients spend significant amounts of money, buying medicines that do not work and disregard already known effective treatment." A related report concluded that claims of homeopathy effectiveness "are not accepted by most modern medical experts and do not constitute competent and reliable scientific evidence that these products have the claimed treatment effects." In 2015, the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia concluded that there is "no reliable evidence that homeopathy is effective and should not be used to treat health conditions that are chronic, serious, or could become serious". A 2007 review states that, "alternative therapies (i.e., Echinacea, vitamin C, and zinc) are not recommended for treating common cold symptoms; however,...Vitamin C prophylaxis may modestly reduce the duration and severity of the common cold in the general population and may reduce the incidence of the illness in persons exposed to physical and environmental stresses." 
Do agents containing uridine and/or cytidine improve the symptoms of polyneuropathy? [SEP] Another trial testing scrambler therapy with patients with CIPN found patient-reported neuropathy symptoms and quality-of-life to be improved from baseline status. A number of different disorders may cause polyneuropathy, including diabetes and some types of Guillain–Barré syndrome. Signs and symptoms
Among the signs/symptoms of polyneuropathy, which can be divided (into sensory and hereditary) and are consistent with the following:
Sensory polyneuropathy – ataxia, numbness, muscle wasting and paraesthesiae. Additionally, BP control in those with diabetes is helpful, while intravenous immunoglobulin is used for multifocal motor neuropathy.According to Lopate, et al., methylprednisolone is a viable treatment for chronic inflammatory demyelinative polyneuropathy (which can also be treated with intravenous immunoglobulin). The authors also indicate that prednisone has greater adverse effects in such treatment, as opposed to intermittent (high-doses) of the aforementioned medication.According to Wu, et al., in critical illness polyneuropathy supportive and preventive therapy are important for the affected individual, as well as, avoiding (or limiting) corticosteroids. Current Treatment Options in Neurology. Peripheral Neuropathy & Neuropathic Pain: Into The Light. High levels of purines are known to increase uric acid production and may aggravate or lead to conditions such as gout.Harvard researchers report that omega-3 fatty acids and uridine, two substances in foods such as fish, walnuts, molasses, and sugar beets, prevented depression in rats as effectively as antidepressant drugs. 
Can treatments with ultrasound relieve the pain of osteoarthritis? [SEP] There is some evidence that ultrasound is more effective than placebo treatment for treating patients with arthritis pain, a range of musculoskeletal injuries and for promoting tissue healing. In a critical review, it was demonstrated that therapeutic ultra sound was effective in improving pain, function, and cartilage repair in knee osteoarthritis. A meta-analysis found that ultrasound therapy is effective in reducing pain, increasing ROM, and reducing WOMAC functional scores in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Knee Oseteoarthritis
According to recent research, therapeutic ultrasound has not shown any significant improvement for chronic low back pain, chronic neck pain, and hip pain in combination with other physiotherapeutic techniques. The evidence demonstrated that therapeutic ultrasound significantly relieved pain, increases range of motion, and reduced WOMAC functional scores in patients with knee osteoarthritis when compared to the placebo group. In a separate meta-analysis, it reinforced the use of therapeutic ultrasound by deeming it as a safe non-pharmalogical treatment option that may provide additional pain relief as well as functional improvement when used secondarily to therapy in patients with knee osteoarthritis. "The effectiveness of ultrasound treatment for the management of kneeosteoarthritis: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study". It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. 
Does regular exercise reduce the severity and duration of colds and other respiratory infections? [SEP] Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. However, in trials with participants who were under heavy short-term physical stress—specifically marathon runners, skiers, and soldiers in subarctic conditions, vitamin C halved the incidence of colds. The same review reported that for people who took vitamin C on a regular basis, the vitamin shortened the duration of colds in adults by 8% and in children by 14%. It is regarded as safe to perform moderate exercise if the symptoms are confined to the head, including runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat. Vitamins C and D
Vitamin C supplementation does not affect the incidence of the common cold, but may reduce its duration. Despite some uncertainty due to small study sizes, there is some evidence that exercise may reduce severity of symptoms but had no impact on number of episodes or number of symptom days per episode.Viruses that cause RTI are more transmissible at very high or low relative humidity; ideal humidity for indoor spaces is between 40 and 60%. There is, of course, no reason why asthma and exercise-induced bronchoconstriction should not co-exist but the distinction is important because without successful treatment of underlying asthma, treatment of an exercise component will likely be unsuccessful. References
External links
"Tips to Remember: Exercise-induced asthma". 
Can regular exercise prevent you from getting a cold or other respiratory infections??? [SEP] While exercise does not cause asthma, it is frequently an asthma trigger.It might be expected that people with E.I.B. There is, of course, no reason why asthma and exercise-induced bronchoconstriction should not co-exist but the distinction is important because without successful treatment of underlying asthma, treatment of an exercise component will likely be unsuccessful. References
External links
"Tips to Remember: Exercise-induced asthma". Fact sheet: Exercise-induced asthma It is regarded as safe to perform moderate exercise if the symptoms are confined to the head, including runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat. Vitamins C and D
Vitamin C supplementation does not affect the incidence of the common cold, but may reduce its duration. Despite some uncertainty due to small study sizes, there is some evidence that exercise may reduce severity of symptoms but had no impact on number of episodes or number of symptom days per episode.Viruses that cause RTI are more transmissible at very high or low relative humidity; ideal humidity for indoor spaces is between 40 and 60%. Moderate exercise in sedentary subjects with a naturally acquired URTI probably does not alter the overall severity and duration of the illness. 
Can cold showers, cold baths or cold water treading according to Kneipp prevent colds and respiratory infections in adults? [SEP] In sports therapy, an ice bath, or sometimes cold-water immersion or cold therapy, is a training regimen usually following a period of intense exercise in which a substantial part of a human body is immersed in a bath of ice or ice-water for a limited duration.While it is becoming increasingly popular and accepted among athletes in a variety of sports, the method is controversial, with a risk of hypothermia, with the possibility of shock leading to sudden death. Evidence supporting cold water immersion as part of an athletic training regimen remains inconclusive, with some studies suggesting a mild benefit such as reducing muscle damage and discomfort and alleviating delayed onset muscle soreness, with other studies suggesting that cold water immersion may slow muscle growth and interfere with an overall training regimen. Ice baths versus cold baths
Several sources suggest that cold baths (60–75 °F, 16–24 °C) were preferable to ice baths. Physiotherapist Tony Wilson of the University of Southampton said that extremely cold temperatures were unnecessary and a "cold bath" would be just as effective as an ice bath. Research has shown that ice baths four times per week in a congested training schedule of professional rugby players reduced muscle soreness while attenuating the decline in jump performance compared to those who didn't ice bath. Hydropathy; or The Cold Water Cure, as practised by Vincent Priessnitz, at Graefenberg, Silesia, Austria (5th ed.). Every Man His Own Doctor; The Cold Water, Tepid Water, and Friction Cure, as applicable to every disease to which the human frame is subject. Every Man His Own Doctor; The Cold Water, Tepid Water, and Friction Cure, as applicable to every disease to which the human frame is subject. 
Can the Wim Hof method - consisting of breathing training, meditation and acclimatization to cold - strengthen the immune system of healthy people and thus prevent infectious diseases? [SEP] He attributes these feats to his Wim Hof Method (WHM), a combination of frequent cold exposure, breathing techniques and meditation. Wim Hof Method
Hof markets a regimen called the Wim Hof Method (WHM), which involves willpower, exposure to cold water, and breathing techniques.Hof states that his method can reduce symptoms of several diseases including: rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis , coronavirus and Parkinson's disease. Studies on Hof individually
In 2012, a case study led by a group of researchers in The Netherlands and published by the journal Psychosomatic Medicine found that his "concentration/meditation during ice immersion" greatly reduced his "ex vivo proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine response":"The concentration/meditation technique used by this particular individual seems to evoke a controlled stress response. Studies on Wim Hof Method
In 2014, a paper published in PNAS extended the 2012 case study of Wim Hof with a randomized group of twenty-four healthy volunteers, twelve of whom were trained with the Wim Hof Method:"In conclusion, we demonstrate that voluntary activation of the sympathetic nervous system results in epinephrine release and subsequent suppression of the innate immune response in humans in vivo. Kilimanjaro, a group of 26 trekkers who were trained in the Wim Hof Method used the breathing techniques to largely prevent and, if needed, reverse symptoms of AMS:"In comparison with previous studies, this report may suggest that acclimatization, as well as AMS symptom relief, can be safely accelerated. "In 2015, a proof-of-principle study demonstrated that the WHM can attenuate the inflammatory response, "through practicing techniques that are relatively easy to learn within a short time frame", but "It remains to be determined whether the results of this study using an acute model of inflammation in healthy volunteers can be extrapolated to patients with chronic autoimmune diseases. A 2022 study found that a "4 week intervention exercise based on the pillar of the Wim Hof breathing method was not effective in improving the breathing economy of adolescent elite endurance runners." See also
Breathwork
Diaphragmatic breathing
Hormesis
Ice bath
Kundalini
Meditation
Tummo
Yoga

References
External links

Official website
Wim Hof at IMDb
UnfoldingMaps.com – Interview with Wim Hof by podcast Unfolding Maps (2020)
VICE Documentary
YesTheory Documentary 
Do saw palmetto preparations improve the symptoms of benign enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia) in the longer term compared to placebo? [SEP] Uses and research
Saw palmetto extract is commonly sold as a dietary supplement intended to improve symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)—also called prostate gland enlargement—which is a common condition among men as they age. Saw palmetto extract has been studied in clinical trials as a possible treatment for people with prostate cancer and for men with lower urinary tract symptoms associated with BPH. As of 2020, there is insufficient scientific evidence that saw palmetto extract is effective for treating cancer or BPH and its symptoms.One 2016 review of clinical studies with a standardized extract of saw palmetto (called Permixon) found that the extract was safe and may be effective for relieving BPH-induced urinary symptoms compared with a placebo.Saw palmetto extract has taken by people to manage hair loss. Surgery and bleeding risk
In a case report, a patient taking saw palmetto extract had increased bleeding time during surgery. One clinical trial pre-treated prostate surgery patients with saw palmetto for five weeks prior to the surgery, because there was evidence from earlier literature that such pre-treatment reduced operative bleeding. PSA test interference
Saw palmetto has been shown to reduce the levels of PSA in the blood, a hormone produced by the prostate and used as a marker by healthcare providers to evaluate the presence of prostate cancer. The combination of saw palmetto extract with estrogen products should be used with caution.When used in combination with an anticoagulant or anti-platelet drug, saw palmetto extract can increase the risk of bleeding by enhancing the anticoagulation or anti-platelet effects. Particularly, several systematic reviews found that saw palmetto extract, while one of the most commonly used, is no better than a placebo both in symptom relief and in decreasing prostate size. 
Does honey help against acute cough in children? [SEP] Evidence for antibiotics, antivirals, bronchodilators, or nebulized epinephrine is either unclear or not supportive.About 10% to 30% of children under the age of two years are affected by bronchiolitis at some point in time. The majority of evidence suggests that hypertonic saline is safe and effective at improving respiratory symptoms of mild to moderate bronchiolitis after 24 hours of use. Additionally, there are adverse effects to the use of bronchodilators in children such as tachycardia and tremors, as well as adding increased financial expenses.Several studies have shown that bronchodilation with β-adrenergic agents such as salbutamol may improve symptoms briefly but do not affect the overall course of the illness or reduce the need for hospitalization. Epinephrine
The current state of evidence suggests that nebulized epinephrine is not indicated for children with bronchiolitis except as a trial of rescue therapy for severe cases.Epinephrine is an α and β adrenergic agonist that has been used to treat other upper respiratory tract illnesses, such as croup, as a nebulized solution. Evidence to support interventions for the cough, other than antibiotics, is poor. Honey is added as a binding agent to make the pill. A throat lozenge (also known as a cough drop, sore throat sweet, troche, cachou, pastille or cough sweet) is a small, typically medicated tablet intended to be dissolved slowly in the mouth to temporarily stop coughs, lubricate, and soothe irritated tissues of the throat (usually due to a sore throat or strep throat), possibly from the common cold or influenza. Honey lozenges are also available. 
Can Artemisia tea cure malaria as well as drugs? [SEP] Medical use
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends artemisinin or one of its derivatives ― typically in combination with a longer-lasting partner drug ― as frontline therapy for all cases of malaria. The longer-lived partner drug kills the remaining parasites and provides some lingering protection from reinfection.For severe malaria, the WHO recommends intravenous or intramuscular treatment with the artemisinin derivative artesunate for at least 24 hours. Adverse effects
Artemisinins are generally well tolerated at the doses used to treat malaria. However, the WHO does not recommend the use of A. annua plant materials, including tea, for the prevention and treatment of malaria.In 2013, Sanofi announced the launch of a production facility in Garessio, Italy, to manufacture the antiplasmodial drug on a large scale. A 2012 review reported that artemisinin-based therapies were the most effective drugs for treatment of malaria at that time; it was also reported to clear malaria parasites from patients' bodies faster than other drugs. Artemisinin-based combination therapy may be used by mouth in persons that can tolerate it after 24 hours by injection.Artesunate is preferred over parenteral quinine for severe malaria treatment. Artesunate was shown to prevent more deaths from severe malaria than quinine in two large multicentre randomized controlled trials from Africa and Asia. Specifically it is recommended to treat uncomplicated falciparum malaria. 
Does thyme help against cough? [SEP] Many viruses and bacteria benefit, from an evolutionary perspective, by causing the host to cough, which helps to spread the disease to new hosts. In adults with a chronic cough, i.e. In the vast majority of cases, acute coughs, i.e. Inflammation may increase sensitivity to other existing issues such as allergies, and treatment of other causes of coughs (such as use of an air purifier or allergy medicines) may help speed recovery. Treatment of the asthma should make the cough go away. Coughing helps clear those secretions out. It does not alleviate coughing to the same extent as dextromethorphan but it shortens the cough duration better than placebo and salbutamol. References
As of this edit, this article uses content from "Acute cough: a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge", which is licensed in a way that permits reuse under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, but not under the GFDL. 
Does coenzyme Q10 relieve muscle discomfort during treatment with statins? [SEP] Statins
It has been suggested that the myo-toxicity of statins is due to impairment of CoQ biosynthesis, but the evidence supporting this was deemed controversial in 2011.While statins may reduce coenzyme Q10 in the blood it is unclear if they reduce coenzyme Q10 in muscle. Statin myopathy
CoQ10 has been routinely used to treat muscle breakdown associated as a side effect of use of statin medications. A 2018 meta-analysis concluded that there was preliminary evidence for oral CoQ10 reducing statin-associated muscle symptoms, including muscle pain, muscle weakness, muscle cramps and muscle tiredness. "Coenzyme Q10". Research has shown that Coenzyme Q10 supplementation helps to counteract endothelial dysfunction and has anti-inflammatory effects. As such, Coenzyme Q10 supports good cardiovascular function. Biomedical and Clinical Aspects of Coenzyme Q, Vol. Compared with placebo, Coenzyme Q10 supplementation improved endothelial dysfunction in statin-treated type 2 diabetic patients. 
Does Chaga mushroom help against cancer or other diseases? [SEP] Inonotus obliquus, commonly called chaga (a Latinisation of the Russian word чага), is a fungus in the family Hymenochaetaceae. Some people consider chaga medicinal.Inonotus obliquus is found most commonly in the Circumboreal Region of the Northern Hemisphere, where it is distributed in birch forests. Common names
The name chaga () comes from the Russian name of the fungus, чага, čaga, which in turn is borrowed from the word for "mushroom" in Komi, тшак, tšak, the language of the indigenous peoples in the Kama River Basin, west of the Ural Mountains. This fungus has been used in eastern Asia as a popular remedy for many illnesses like cancer, diabetes, and other stomach ailments. In modern pharmacology, the Inonotus hispidus has aided in lowering blood glucose levels, showing anti-tumor responses and improving overall health in mice. He is known for the claim that cancer is caused by the fungus Candida albicans, and has argued that cancer is a form of candida overgrowth. The American Association for Cancer Research has recently written that research shows an association between fungi, including Candida, and cancer but has not determined causation. Heathline has an older article that declares that cancer is not a fungus and does not arise from Candida but cites the above article by the American Association for Cancer. 
Can filtering out blue light using blue filter glasses or night mode settings on smartphone, tablet or laptop screens have a beneficial effect on sleep? [SEP] Red Moon is a free software application for the Android operating system, designed to filter blue light from the device's display, helping reduce eye strain during night-time use and disruption of sleep patterns. The feature changes the color temperature of the display towards the warmer part of the color spectrum that reduces some of the blue light from the screen. Apple claims that the feature may help users have a better night's sleep by filtering blue wavelengths from the display, which suppress melatonin biosynthesis. Effectiveness
Changing the color temperature of the display from blue towards yellow (without dimming the screen) was shown to have no effect on sleep outcomes (sleep latency, duration, efficiency and wake after sleep onset) in a 2021 study on 167 college undergraduates and to be insufficient for preventing the impact on melatonin suppression. See also
Electronic media and sleep
f.lux
Redshift (software)
Night Light, a feature of the Creator's Update of Windows 10
Light-on-dark color scheme


== References == This reduces the intensity of blue light reaching the retina. Some users find dark mode displays more visually appealing, and claim that it can reduce eye strain. In November 2018, Google confirmed that dark mode on Android saved battery life. 
Is strophanthin an effective cardiovascular drug? [SEP] k-Strophanthidin is a cardenolide found in species of the genus Strophanthus. Galenical preparations of strophanthus came to be commonly prescribed for cardiac patients. The inotropic and toxic effect of strophanthidin is already tested in failing human myocardium where it can be used therapeutically to strengthen the failing heart if dosed correctly. "Different effects of acute intravenous administration of k-strophanthidin and prenalterol on the diastolic phase of left ventricular function in patients with coronary arterial disease". "Effects of acute K-strophantidin administration on left ventricular relaxation and filling phase in coronary artery disease". "Mechanistic insight into the functional and toxic effects of Strophanthidin in the failing human myocardium". Today it is used medicinally to treat heart failure. When used clinically, this compound provides a rapid onset of vascular stimulant action. 
Can regular intake of vitamin C prevent colds? [SEP] Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. Research
According to the most recently published Cochrane review on vitamin C and the common cold, one gram per day or more of vitamin C does not influence common cold incidence in the general community, i.e., it does not prevent colds. The same review reported that for people who took vitamin C on a regular basis, the vitamin shortened the duration of colds in adults by 8% and in children by 14%. The book promoted the idea that taking large amounts of vitamin C could reduce the duration and severity of the common cold. Common cold
A frequently cited meta-analysis calculated that various doses of vitamin C (daily doses under 0.2 grams were excluded) do not prevent the common cold in the general community, although 0.25 to 1 g/day of vitamin C halved the incidence of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. As of 2014, at least 16 studies had found that vitamin C supplements did not prevent the common cold and had minimal effect at best in shortening cold lengths. However, taking vitamin C on a regular basis did reduce the average duration by 8% in adults and 14% in children, and also reduced severity of colds. Nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin C on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin C is beneficial for them." 
Can taking vitamin C after the onset of a cold relieve symptoms or shorten the illness? [SEP] There is no effect of taking vitamin C in doses up to 8 grams per day after a cold has already begun. The same review reported that for people who took vitamin C on a regular basis, the vitamin shortened the duration of colds in adults by 8% and in children by 14%. The book promoted the idea that taking large amounts of vitamin C could reduce the duration and severity of the common cold. Routine vitamin C supplements do not reduce the risk or severity of the common cold, though they may reduce its duration. Vitamins C and D
Vitamin C supplementation does not affect the incidence of the common cold, but may reduce its duration. As of 2014, at least 16 studies had found that vitamin C supplements did not prevent the common cold and had minimal effect at best in shortening cold lengths. However, taking vitamin C on a regular basis did reduce the average duration by 8% in adults and 14% in children, and also reduced severity of colds. Nevertheless, given the consistent effect of vitamin C on the duration and severity of colds in the regular supplementation studies, and the low cost and safety, it may be worthwhile for common cold patients to test on an individual basis whether therapeutic vitamin C is beneficial for them." 
Do saline nasal rinses and nasal sprays or inhaling with steam from saline solution help with colds? [SEP] Nasal irrigation can also refer to the use of saline nasal spray or nebulizers to moisten the mucous membranes. Medical uses
Nasal irrigation can be an effective therapy to relieve symptoms of acute sinusitis caused by upper respiratory tract infections such as the common cold. Mechanism of action
Flushing the nasal cavity can soothe inflamed tissue and remove irritants like allergens; it may help clear mucus.Typical use involves the pouring or pumping of saline water through one nostril and letting it drain from the other. Nasal sprays for local effect are quite common. A mist of saline solution containing sodium chloride is delivered to help moisturize dry or irritated nostrils. They can also relieve nasal congestion and remove airborne irritants such as pollen and dust thereby providing sinus allergy relief. Isotonic saline nasal sprays are commonly used in infants and children to wash out the thick mucus from the nose in case of allergic rhinitis. Hypertonic solutions may be more useful at drawing moisture from the mucous membrane and relieving nasal congestion. 
Do remedies with ginseng help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] Herbal viagra is a herbal product advertised as treating erectile dysfunction. Viagra has become a generic term for many people discussing drugs designed to treat erectile dysfunction, even those which do not contain sildenafil.Herbal viagras, contrary to what the name suggests, do not normally contain sildenafil citrate. Ginsenosides have been observed to increase internal antioxidant enzymes and act as a free-radical scavenger. Some ginsenosides have also been shown to be partial agonists of steroid hormone receptors. Although ginseng has been used in traditional medicine over centuries, modern clinical research is inconclusive about its medical effectiveness. There is no substantial evidence that ginseng is effective for treating any medical condition and, in the United States, for example, its use has not been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a prescription drug. A 2021 review indicated that ginseng had "only trivial effects on erectile function or satisfaction with intercourse compared to placebo".Although the roots are used in traditional Chinese medicine, the leaves and stems contain larger quantities of the phytochemicals than the roots, and are easier to harvest. Ginseng, the Divine Root: The Curious History of the Plant That Captivated the World. 
Can taking spermidine prolong life? Can it prevent diseases? [SEP] Spermidine is a polyamine compound (C7H19N3) found in ribosomes and living tissues and having various metabolic functions within organisms. Spermidine is a longevity agent in mammals due to various mechanisms of action, which are just beginning to be understood. Spermidine has been tested and discovered to encourage hair shaft elongation and lengthen hair growth. Spermidine has also been found to “upregulate expression of the epithelial stem cell-associated keratins K15 and K19, and dose-dependently modulated K15 promoter activity in situ and the colony forming efficiency, proliferation and K15 expression of isolated human K15-GFP+ cells in vitro.”

Biochemical actions
Spermidine's known actions include:

Inhibits neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)
Binds and precipitates DNA
Polyamine plant growth regulator

Sources
Good dietary sources of spermidine are aged cheese, mushrooms, soy products, legumes, corn, and whole grains. Note - spermidine content varies by source and age. Spermidine has also been reported to protect the heart from aging and prolong the lifespan of mice, while in humans it was correlated with lower blood pressure. Spermidine may play a role in male and female fertility. Fertile men have higher spermidine levels than men who are infertile, and spermidine supplementation has been shown to help maintain a healthy hormone balance and reduce oxidative stress. 
Can capsules or tablets with lactase improve the symptoms of lactose intolerance and make dairy products more tolerable? [SEP] Regular consumption of dairy food by lactase deficient individuals may also reduce symptoms of intolerance by promoting colonic bacteria adaptation. Rehabituation to dairy products
Regular consumption of dairy foods containing lactose can promote a colonic bacteria adaptation, enhancing a favorable microbiome, which allows people with primary lactase deficiency to diminish their intolerance and to consume more dairy foods. Lactose intolerance can also be managed by ingesting live yogurt cultures containing lactobacilli that are able to digest the lactose in other dairy products. Gastroenterologists suggest that Lactagen can relieve symptoms of lactose intolerance, but relief may not be permanent.Since Lactagen was a natural dietary supplement, it was not regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. This related adaption reduces lactose intolerance symptoms.In an interview with the Washington Post, gastroenterologist Theodore Bayless of Johns Hopkins School of Medicine suggested that such a course can relieve symptoms of lactose intolerance, but the relief would not be permanent, particularly if the user were to take antibiotics at a later date. People who have deficiency of lactase, and consume dairy products, may experience the symptoms of lactose intolerance. Lactase can be purchased as a food supplement, and is added to milk to produce "lactose-free" milk products. Medical use
Lactase supplements are sometimes used to treat lactose intolerance. 
Can weighted blankets help with sleep disorders? [SEP] A weighted blanket is a heavy blanket that is used to aid sleep and reduce anxiety. Scientific evidence for their efficacy is inconclusive, and experts assert that more research is needed to determine if weighted blankets actually lessen the impact of anxiety or insomnia. Although early research indicates that weighted blankets may be an appropriate therapeutic tool when it comes to reducing anxiety, reviews of current medical literature note that research in this area is sparse.Other studies have indicated that weighted blankets may reduce anxiety and, as a result, allow the wearer to fall asleep more quickly. Safety and efficacy
A 2018 systematic review, which investigated the effectiveness of using weighted blankets to decrease anxiety and insomnia, found that weighted blankets may be an appropriate therapeutic tool in reducing anxiety in limited settings and populations. However, the researchers also found that there is not enough evidence to suggest they are helpful with insomnia, and that more research is needed to "define guidelines for the use of weighted blankets in clinical practice and to investigate the underlying mechanism of action. Weighted blankets did not significantly improve anxiety or sleep in the study.Scientists caution that studies on the safety of weighted blankets in healthy adults cannot be generalized to children, and even less so to children with disabilities. In a 2014 study, researchers tried to use weighted blankets to improve the sleep quality of autistic children. The study found that use of a weighted blanket did not help the children sleep for a longer period of time, fall asleep significantly faster, or wake less often. 
Does the drug remdesivir prevent COVID-19 deaths? [SEP] During the COVID‑19 pandemic, remdesivir was approved or authorized for emergency use to treat COVID‑19 in numerous countries.Remdesivir was originally developed to treat hepatitis C, and was subsequently investigated for Ebola virus disease and Marburg virus infections before being studied as a post-infection treatment for COVID‑19.Remdesivir is a prodrug that is intended to allow intracellular delivery of GS-441524 monophosphate and subsequent biotransformation into GS-441524 triphosphate, a ribonucleotide analogue inhibitor of viral RNA polymerase.The most common side effect in healthy volunteers is raised blood levels of liver enzymes. In vitro experiments
An in vitro study of remdesivir assessing antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 was performed. The results found that remdesivir functioned well as an inhibitor of the infection. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved remdesivir based on the agency's analysis of data from three randomized, controlled clinical trials that included participants hospitalized with mild-to-severe COVID‑19. The FDA approved remdesivir based primarily on evidence from three clinical trials (NCT04280705, NCT04292899, and NCT04292730) of 2043 hospitalized participants with COVID‑19. Meanwhile, the Public Health Agency of Canada's COVID-19 Clinical Pharmacology Task Group recommended that remdesivir only be administered to hospitalized patients as part of a randomized controlled trial due to limited information on risks and benefits.In January 2022, the Canadian component of the WHO Solidarity Trial reported that in-hospital people with COVID‑19 treated with remdesivir had 17% lower relative risk of death (18.7% versus 22.6% death rates) and 47% reduced relative risk for needing oxygen and mechanical ventilation (8.0% versus 15.0%) compared to people receiving standard-of-care treatments.In September 2022, the WHO updated their guidelines to recommend use of remdesivir for both non-hospitalized and hospitalized patients. Because GS-441524 is the main circulating metabolite of remdesivir and because GS-441524 has similar potency against SARS-Cov-2 in vitro, some researchers have argued for the direct administration of GS-441524 as a COVID‑19 treatment. "How Remdesivir, New Hope for Covid-19 Patients, Was Resurrected". 
Does magnetic resonance therapy improve complaints of knee osteoarthritis or herniated discs (e.g. pain)? [SEP] In osteoarthritis, the choice of treatment is based on pain and decreased function, but radiography can be useful before surgery in order to prepare for the procedure. Physical therapy has been shown to improve function, and may delay or prevent the need for knee replacement. There is no evidence that CPM therapy leads to a clinically significant improvement in range of motion, pain, knee function, or quality of life. Diagnosis
Knee MRIs should be avoided for knee pain without symptoms or effusion, unless there are non-successful results from a functional rehabilitation program.In some diagnosis, such as in knee osteoarthritis, magnetic resonance imaging does not prove to be clear for its determination. Management
Although surgery has a role in repairing traumatic injuries and broken bones, surgeries such as arthroscopic lavage do not provide significant or lasting improvements to either pain or function to people with  knee pain, and therefore should almost never be performed. Effective treatments for knee pain include physical therapy exercises, pain-reducing drugs such as ibuprofen, joint stretching, knee replacement surgery, and weight loss in people who are overweight.Overall, a combination of interventions seems to be the best choice when treating knee pain. Concerns
New research by Robert Litchfield, September 2008,  of the University of Western Ontario concluded that routinely practised knee surgery is ineffective at reducing joint pain or improving joint function in people with osteoarthritis. The researchers did  however find that arthroscopic surgery did help a minority of patients with milder symptoms, large tears or other damage to the meniscus — cartilage pads that improve the congruence between femur and tibia bones. 
Are oral zinc supplements effective for treating a cold (chill)? [SEP] Zinc supplements (frequently zinc acetate or zinc gluconate lozenges) are a group of dietary supplements that are commonly used for the treatment of the common cold. The use of zinc supplements at doses in excess of 75 mg/day within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms has been shown to reduce the duration of cold symptoms by about 1 day in adults. The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Effectiveness
A 2016 meta-analysis on zinc acetate-lozenges and the common cold in 199 patients found that colds were 2.7 days shorter by zinc lozenge usage. This estimate is to be compared with the 7 day average duration of colds in the three trials.A 2015 meta-analysis on zinc lozenges and the common cold found no difference in the effects of zinc acetate lozenges on diverse respiratory symptoms. Zinc lozenges shortened the duration of muscle ache by 54%, but there was no significant effect on the duration of headache and fever.A 2013 review which said that zinc supplementation might be helpful for the common cold was withdrawn by the Cochrane Collaboration over concerns of plagiarism and about the data used. Mechanism of action
The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Zinc has been known for many years to have an effect on cold viruses in the laboratory. 
Do oral zinc supplements prevent a cold??? [SEP] Zinc supplements (frequently zinc acetate or zinc gluconate lozenges) are a group of dietary supplements that are commonly used for the treatment of the common cold. The use of zinc supplements at doses in excess of 75 mg/day within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms has been shown to reduce the duration of cold symptoms by about 1 day in adults. The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Effectiveness
A 2016 meta-analysis on zinc acetate-lozenges and the common cold in 199 patients found that colds were 2.7 days shorter by zinc lozenge usage. This estimate is to be compared with the 7 day average duration of colds in the three trials.A 2015 meta-analysis on zinc lozenges and the common cold found no difference in the effects of zinc acetate lozenges on diverse respiratory symptoms. Zinc lozenges shortened the duration of muscle ache by 54%, but there was no significant effect on the duration of headache and fever.A 2013 review which said that zinc supplementation might be helpful for the common cold was withdrawn by the Cochrane Collaboration over concerns of plagiarism and about the data used. Mechanism of action
The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Zinc has been known for many years to have an effect on cold viruses in the laboratory. 
Is colloidal gold good for health? [SEP] Colloidal gold is a sol or colloidal suspension of nanoparticles of gold in a fluid, usually water. The book introduces information on the formation of colloidal gold and its medical uses. Physical properties
Optical
Colloidal gold has been used by artists for centuries because of the nanoparticle’s interactions with visible light. See also
Colloidal gold
Chemotherapy

References


== Reference notes == Recent studies have concluded that gold is inert and safe for internal medicine, but there is still ongoing research as to the effects of gold when applied for other purposes in the body. The gold number of some colloids are given below. MedicineNet.com
"About gold treatment:  What is it? Health effects
Gold is a particularly non-reactive element and is not absorbed during the digestion process, so it is safe to eat. 
Do probiotics alleviate the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome? [SEP] Three RCTs showed a significant improvement in Irritable Bowel Syndrome – Severity Scoring System, while 1 RCT showed a significant improvement only in symptoms of constipation. Probiotics
Probiotics can be beneficial in the treatment of IBS; taking 10 billion to 100 billion beneficial bacteria per day is recommended for beneficial results. Some yogurt is made using probiotics that may help ease symptoms of IBS. A probiotic yeast called Saccharomyces boulardii has some evidence of effectiveness in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome.Certain probiotics have different effects on certain symptoms of IBS. Most clinical studies show probiotics do not improve straining, sense of incomplete evacuation, stool consistency, fecal urgency, or stool frequency, although a few clinical studies did find some benefit of probiotic therapy. The evidence is conflicting for whether probiotics improve overall quality of life scores.Probiotics may exert their beneficial effects on IBS symptoms via preserving the gut microbiota, normalisation of cytokine blood levels, improving the intestinal transit time, decreasing small intestine permeability, and by treating small intestinal bacterial overgrowth of fermenting bacteria. Inflammatory bowel disease
The use of oral probiotic supplements to modify the composition and behaviour of the microbiome has been considered as a possible therapy for both induction and maintenance of remission in people with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Irritable bowel syndrome
Probiotics are under study for their potential to affect irritable bowel syndrome, although uncertainty remains around which type of probiotic works best, and around the size of possible effect. 
Do you get a stomach ache if you eat cherries or other stone fruit and then drink water? [SEP] Cherry juice is a fruit juice consisting of the juice of cherries. Some studies have suggested that consuming the juice from the Montmorency cherry may promote "muscle recovery following intense exercise". Beverage production
Pure cherry juice has a strong flavor and can have high acidity, so when produced commercially as a beverage product it is sometimes diluted with water to make it more palatable. "Tart Cherry Juice in Athletes: A Literature Review and Commentary". Symptoms may include abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, flatulence, and nausea. Unfortunately, too much acid can denature it, so it should not be taken on an empty stomach. The sugar and acid levels of the cherries are severely impacted, resulting in tasteless fruits, lacking both sweetness and flavor. Some vegetables and fruits often placed in acidulated water are apples, avocados, celeriac, potatoes and pears. 
Can acoustic CR ® neuromodulation according to Tass help with tinnitus? [SEP] A review of tinnitus retraining therapy trials indicates that it may be more effective than tinnitus masking. TRT is imputed to work by interfering with the neural activity causing the tinnitus at its source, in order to prevent it from spreading to other parts of the nervous systems such as the limbic and autonomic nervous systems. This is intended to acclimate the brain to reducing its emphasis on the tinnitus versus the external sound. Research
Sound therapy for tinnitus may be more effective if the sound is patterned (i.e. For people with severe or disabling tinnitus, techniques that are minimally surgical, involving magnetic or electrical stimulation of areas of the brain that are involved in auditory processing, may suppress tinnitus. Alternatives
Cognitive behavioral therapy
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), the counselling part of TRT, as a generalized type of psychological and behavioral counselling, has also been used by itself in the management of tinnitus. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Clinical Guidelines. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Patient Counseling Guide. 
Is ivermectin an effective drug for treating covid 19 disease? [SEP] The World Health Organization (WHO), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) all advise against using ivermectin in an attempt to treat or prevent COVID-19. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, laboratory research suggested ivermectin might have a role in preventing or treating COVID-19. Clinical guidance
In February 2021, Merck, the developer of the drug, issued a statement saying that there is no good evidence ivermectin is effective against COVID‑19, and that attempting such use may be unsafe. After reviewing the evidence on ivermectin, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) advised against its use for prevention or treatment of COVID‑19 and that "the available data do not support its use for COVID‑19 outside well-designed clinical trials." Ivermectin is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in treating any viral illness, and the U.S. National Institutes of Health COVID‑19 Treatment Guidelines state that there is insufficient evidence for ivermectin to allow for a recommendation for or against its use. The World Health Organization advised that ivermectin should not be used to treat COVID‑19 except in a clinical trial. Multiple major health organizations, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the European Medicines Agency, and the World Health Organization have stated that ivermectin is not authorized or approved to treat COVID-19. COVID-19
During the COVID-19 pandemic, ivermectin was researched for possible utility in preventing and treating COVID-19, but no good evidence of benefit was found. 
Does ivermectin lower the risk of death in covid-19? [SEP] The World Health Organization (WHO), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) all advise against using ivermectin in an attempt to treat or prevent COVID-19. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, laboratory research suggested ivermectin might have a role in preventing or treating COVID-19. Clinical guidance
In February 2021, Merck, the developer of the drug, issued a statement saying that there is no good evidence ivermectin is effective against COVID‑19, and that attempting such use may be unsafe. After reviewing the evidence on ivermectin, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) advised against its use for prevention or treatment of COVID‑19 and that "the available data do not support its use for COVID‑19 outside well-designed clinical trials." The World Health Organization advised that ivermectin should not be used to treat COVID‑19 except in a clinical trial. The Brazilian Health Regulatory Agency, Brazilian Society of Infectious Diseases, and Brazilian Thoracic Society issued position statements advising against the use of ivermectin for prevention or treatment of early-stage COVID‑19. Scientists targeted
In July 2021 Andrew Hill, a senior research fellow at Liverpool University, published a meta-analysis of ivermectin use for COVID which suggested it may be beneficial. COVID-19
During the COVID-19 pandemic, ivermectin was researched for possible utility in preventing and treating COVID-19, but no good evidence of benefit was found. 
Can green tea protect against coronavirus infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] Covid-Organics (CVO) is an Artemisia-based drink that Andry Rajoelina, president of Madagascar, claims can prevent and cure Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). As of 2020, GC376 is being investigated as treatment for COVID-19. COVID-19
Since GC376 shows broad-spectrum activity against coronavirus, early on during the pandemic of 2020 it was suggested as a potential treatment for COVID-19. As of July 2021, CoronaVac was the most widely used COVID-19 vaccine in the world, with 943 million doses delivered.As of October 14, 2021, CoronaVac is the COVID-19 vaccine with the most doses administered worldwide.It was reported in December, 2021, that a study jointly conducted by the LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKUMed), and the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CU Medicine), showed that a third dose of the Comirnaty vaccine given to those who received two doses of either Comirnaty or CoronaVac provides protective levels of measured antibodies against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. The greatest increases were seen with a heterologous Oxford–AstraZeneca vaccine booster, resulting in 96% effectiveness against hospitalization and 93% against symptomatic disease.A study by the University of Hong Kong in December 2021 found that a third dose of CoronaVac does not provide sufficient protection against the Omicron variant, directly contradicting the vaccine manufacturer's claim and a study by the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile that it does.In April 2022, a Singapore study by infectious diseases experts from the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Ministry of Health found that CoronaVac recipients were 4.59 times more likely to have severe COVID-19 as well as 2.37 times more likely to be infected, compared to those who took the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. In the vaccine group (N=4953), there were 85 COVID cases, 5 cases requiring medical attention, and no severe cases or deaths.On 1 April 2021, a preliminary report from a phase III clinical trial in Chile revealed that CoronaVac is safe and induces humoral and cell-mediated immunity in adults (18–59 years old) and the elderly (60 years or older) similar to previous phase II trials conducted in China with the same age groups and immunization schedule consisting of two doses with a 14-day interval. Variants
On 10 March, Instituto Butantan Director Dimas Covas said CoronaVac was efficacious against three variants of COVID-19 in the country; Alpha (lineage B.1.1.7), Beta (lineage B.1.351), and lineage B.1.1.28 (identified in Brazil), from which Gamma and Zeta (lineages P.1 and P.2) descend.Preliminary results from a large study of health care workers suggest one dose of CoronaVac is still about 50% effective against symptomatic COVID-19 in Manaus. The Coronavirus Act 2020 (c. 7) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that granted the government emergency powers to handle the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Does vitamin D alleviate autism symptoms in children? [SEP] In recent studies, several associations between low levels of vitamin D, or hypovitaminosis D, and neuropsychiatric disorders have begun to surface. Research suggests that vitamin D may function as a modulator in brain development and as a neuroprotectant. These findings suggest that vitamin D potentially affects the development of neurons as well as their maintenance and survival. Current research is underway investigating whether vitamin D is a factor contributing to normal brain functioning. Studies suggest that low vitamin D levels could play a role in PD, and in one case report, vitamin D supplements lessened parkinsonian symptoms. Schizophrenia: Vitamin D deficiency is associated with the development of schizophrenia. Vitamin D is essential for the normal development of the nervous system. Other studies suggest that vitamin D supplementation can provide a protective role in reducing the incidence or severity of respiratory infections.Vitamin D deficiency has long been associated with tuberculosis. 
Does glutathione improve the tolerability of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] Buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) is a sulfoximine derivative which reduces levels of glutathione and is being investigated as an adjunct with chemotherapy in the treatment of cancer. Glutathione (GSH, ) is an antioxidant in plants, animals, fungi, and some bacteria and archaea. Glutathione is capable of preventing damage to important cellular components caused by sources such as reactive oxygen species, free radicals, peroxides, lipid peroxides, and heavy metals. Glutathione enhances the function of citrulline as part of the nitric oxide cycle. Conjugation
Glutathione facilitates metabolism of xenobiotics. In plants
In plants, glutathione is involved in stress management. In its reduced form, glutathione plays a key role in the regulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the cell. Therefore, these susceptible organisms have intrinsic mechanisms to protect from oxidative damage; glutathione plays a key role in most of these antioxidant mechanisms.Once reduced, glutathione interacts with these reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. 
Does carnosine relieve autism symptoms in children? [SEP] Since beta-alanine is the limiting substrate, supplementing just beta-alanine effectively increases the intramuscular concentration of carnosine. Carnosine can increase the Hayflick limit in human fibroblasts, as well as appearing to reduce the telomere shortening rate. Waring found that most people with autism conditions have a deficiency in a key detoxification pathway involved with sulfation. Select publications
Waring R.H., Klovrza L.V., "Sulphur Metabolism in Autism". The Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) is a behavior rating scale intended to help diagnose autism. Although there is no gold standard among rating scales in detecting autism, CARS is frequently used as part of the diagnostic process. The anserine-treated mice overall performed better on a spatial memory test (Morris Water Maze).A human study on 84 elderly subjects showed that subjects who took anserine and carnosine supplements for one year showed increased blood flow in the prefrontal cortex on MRI.A study demonstrated that the free N-terminal of histidine on anserine and carnosine protect against zinc-caused neurotoxicity and regulate the Arc pathway in which Arc protein is used to produce dendrite protein for connecting nerve cells.Both Anserine and Carnosine are chelating agents for copper and other transition metals. See also

Carnosine


== References == 
Can echinacea protect against Sars-CoV-2 infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] Medical uses
Ensitrelvir is indicated for the treatment of COVID-19. Hydroxychloroquine inhibits the action of cathepsin L in endolysosomes, but because cathepsin L cleavage is minor compared to TMPRSS2 cleavage, hydroxychloroquine does little to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection.Several countries initially used chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine for treatment of persons hospitalized with COVID-19 (as of March 2020), though the drug was not  formally approved through clinical trials. In fall of 2020, the National Institutes of Health issued treatment guidelines recommending against the use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 except as part of a clinical trial.In 2021, hydroxychloroquine was part of the recommended treatment for mild cases in India.In 2020, the speculative use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 threatened its availability for people with established indications (malaria and auto-immune diseases). Timeline
Chloroquine was initially recommended by Indian, Chinese, South Korean and Italian health authorities for the treatment of COVID-19, although these agencies and the US CDC noted contraindications for people with heart disease or diabetes. The experimental treatment was first authorized only for emergency use for people hospitalized but unable to receive treatment in a clinical trial.On 1 April 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) issued guidance that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are only to be used in clinical trials or emergency use programs.On 9 April 2020, the National Institutes of Health began the first clinical trial to assess whether hydroxychloroquine is safe and effective to treat COVID-19. A randomized, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial amongst healthcare workers found that oral hydroxychloroquine did not help prevent COVID-19 infections when used as pre-exposure prophylaxis.British researchers are studying whether the drug is effective when used for prevention. Echinocandins also have displayed activity against Candida biofilms, especially in synergistic activity with amphotericin B and additive activity with fluconazole. In vitro and mouse models show echinocandins may also enhance host immune responses by exposing highly antigenic beta-glucan epitopes that can accelerate host cellular recognition and inflammatory responses. 
Does amygdalin, the toxin from the seeds of apricots and other stone fruits, help against cancer? [SEP] Amygdalin (from Ancient Greek: ἀμυγδαλή amygdalē "almond") is a naturally occurring chemical compound found in many plants, most notably in the seeds (kernels) of apricots, bitter almonds, apples, peaches, cherries, and plums. Eating amygdalin will cause it to release cyanide in the human body, and may lead to cyanide poisoning.Since the early 1950s, both amygdalin and a chemical derivative named laetrile have been promoted as alternative cancer treatments, often under the misnomer vitamin B17 (neither amygdalin nor laetrile is a vitamin). This provides a natural defense system.Amygdalin is contained in stone fruit kernels, such as almonds, apricot (14 g/kg), peach (6.8 g/kg), and plum (4–17.5 g/kg depending on variety), and also in the seeds of the apple (3 g/kg). Later research showed that sulfuric acid hydrolyzes it into D-glucose, benzaldehyde, and prussic acid; while hydrochloric acid gives mandelic acid, D-glucose, and ammonia.In 1845 amygdalin was used as a cancer treatment in Russia, and in the 1920s in the United States, but it was considered too poisonous. A 2015 systematic review from the Cochrane Collaboration found: The claims that laetrile or amygdalin have beneficial effects for cancer patients are not currently supported by sound clinical data. The U.S. National Institutes of Health evaluated the evidence separately and concluded that clinical trials of amygdalin showed little or no effect against cancer. Amygdalin (Laetrile) is a toxic drug that is not effective as a cancer treatment". The European Food Safety Agency's Panel on Contaminants in the Food Chain has studied the potential toxicity of the amygdalin in apricot kernels. 
Can ginkgo extract relieve the symptoms of tinnitus? [SEP] alternative medicine – Vitamin, antioxidant, and herbal preparations (notably Ginkgo biloba extract, also called EGb761) are advertised as treatments or cures for tinnitus. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Clinical Guidelines. It decreases the stress those with tinnitus feel. Tinnitus: A Multidisciplinary Approach (2nd ed.). Tinnitus: pathophysiology and treatment. Textbook of Tinnitus. Ginkgo leaf extract is commonly used as a dietary supplement, but there is no scientific evidence that it supports human health or is effective against any disease. Systematic reviews have shown there is no evidence for effectiveness of ginkgo in treating high blood pressure, menopause-related cognitive decline, tinnitus, post-stroke recovery, or altitude sickness. 
Do remedies with ginkgo help against tinnitus in people with dementia? [SEP] This is intended to acclimate the brain to reducing its emphasis on the tinnitus versus the external sound. Researchers note there is a large placebo component to tinnitus management. Hearing aids
If tinnitus is associated with hearing loss, a tuned hearing aid that amplifies sound in the frequency range of the hearing loss (usually the high frequencies) may effectively mask tinnitus by raising the level of environmental sound, in addition to the benefit of restoring hearing. Other
Numerous non-TRT methods have been suggested for the treatment or management of tinnitus. alternative medicine – Vitamin, antioxidant, and herbal preparations (notably Ginkgo biloba extract, also called EGb761) are advertised as treatments or cures for tinnitus. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Clinical Guidelines. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Patient Counseling Guide. Treatment involves listening to music at specific frequencies that cause a patients tinnitus to be filtered out. 
Does garlic protect against corona infections? [SEP] Garlic common latent virus (GarCLV) is a plant virus member of the genus Carlavirus that has been found infecting garlic globally. As a result, it is often widespread among garlic crop. The virus single infection in garlic is usually symptomless, but in mixed infections with leek yellow stripe virus (LYSV, Potyvirus) or onion yellow dwarf virus (OYDV, Potyvirus) could form ‘garlic viral complex’ which increases severity of the other viruses infection. Pseudomonas salomonii is a Gram-negative bacterium that infects garlic (Allium sativum). Garlic allergy or allergic contact dermatitis to garlic is a common inflammatory skin condition caused by contact with garlic oil or dust. It is not limited to hand contact, but can also be induced, with different symptoms, by inhaling garlic dust or ingesting raw garlic, though the latter cases are relatively rare. DADS penetrates through most types of commercial gloves, and thus wearing gloves while handling garlic has proven inefficient against the allergy. Treatment includes avoiding any contact with garlic oil or vapours, as well as medication, such as administering acitretin (25 mg/day, orally) or applying psoralen and ultraviolet light to the affected skin area over a period of 12 weeks (PUVA therapy). 
Does garlic protect against a cold (chill)?? [SEP] Even before the discovery of vitamin C, folklore had it that certain fruits were effective in both preventing and treating the cold. Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. Research
According to the most recently published Cochrane review on vitamin C and the common cold, one gram per day or more of vitamin C does not influence common cold incidence in the general community, i.e., it does not prevent colds. However, in trials with participants who were under heavy short-term physical stress—specifically marathon runners, skiers, and soldiers in subarctic conditions, vitamin C halved the incidence of colds. It mostly affects people who cut and handle fresh garlic, such as chefs, and presents on the tips of the thumb, index and middle fingers of the non-dominant hand (which typically hold garlic bulbs during the cutting). DADS penetrates through most types of commercial gloves, and thus wearing gloves while handling garlic has proven inefficient against the allergy. Tulbaghia violacea, known as society garlic (also known as pink agapanthus, wild garlic, sweet garlic, spring bulbs, or spring flowers) is a species of flowering plant in the family Amaryllidaceae, indigenous to southern Africa (KwaZulu-Natal and Cape Province), and reportedly naturalized in Tanzania and Mexico.Growing to 60 cm (24 in) tall by 25 cm (10 in) wide, it is a clump-forming perennial with narrow leaves and large clusters of fragrant, violet flowers from midsummer to autumn (fall). Snow Mountain garlic (also known as Allium sativum L., Allium schoenoprasum, and Kashmiri garlic), is a subspecies of garlic which is found in the mountainous in Jammu and Kashmir. 
Do dietary supplements with magnesium and/or zinc improve symptoms in children with ADHD? [SEP] Prevalence
From 12% to 64% of families of a child with ADHD use an alternative therapy, with the lower estimates likely come from narrower definitions of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Zinc sulfate is used medically as a dietary supplement. Medical uses
The use of zinc sulfate supplements together with oral rehydration therapy decreases the number of bowel movements and the time until the diarrhea stops. Its use in this situation is recommended by the World Health Organization.There is some evidence zinc is effective in reducing hepatic and neurological symptoms of Wilson's disease.Zinc sulfate is also an important part of parenteral nutrition. The use of zinc supplements at doses in excess of 75 mg/day within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms has been shown to reduce the duration of cold symptoms by about 1 day in adults. Oral magnesium supplements has been demonstrated to improve insulin sensitivity and lipid profile. A 2016 meta-analysis not restricted to diabetic subjects found that increasing dietary magnesium intake, while associated with a reduced risk of stroke, heart failure, diabetes, and all-cause mortality, was not clearly associated with lower risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) or total cardiovascular disease (CVD).A 2021 study on blood from 4,400 diabetic patients over 6 to 11 years reported that "People with higher levels of magnesium in the blood were found to have a significantly lower risk of cardiovascular disease", and also of diabetic foot and diabetic retinopathy. The safety and tolerability of serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate was examined in an open-label trial of 238 participants with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 6 to 12 years of age (Study 2). 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae relieve discomfort from a cold ("chill")? [SEP] Chemical Composition
Carrageenans are abundant in the cell walls of some red algae, where they provide the thallus with additional flexibility to protect it from the impacts of herbivory, wave action, and desiccation. Carrageenans or carrageenins ( KARR-ə-GHEE-nənz; from Irish  carraigín 'little rock') are a family of natural linear sulfated polysaccharides that are extracted from red edible seaweeds. Carrageenans are widely used in the food industry, for their gelling, thickening, and stabilizing properties. Carrageenan is a vegetarian and vegan alternative to gelatin in some applications, so may be used to replace gelatin in confectionery and other food. The resulting carrageenan solution is then concentrated by evaporation. Carrageenans, The Seaweed Site: information on marine algae. Even before the discovery of vitamin C, folklore had it that certain fruits were effective in both preventing and treating the cold. It was developed as a potential analgesic, and blocks the development of hyperalgesia following exposure to cold temperatures or chronic morphine administration. 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent colds? [SEP] Chemical Composition
Carrageenans are abundant in the cell walls of some red algae, where they provide the thallus with additional flexibility to protect it from the impacts of herbivory, wave action, and desiccation. Carrageenans or carrageenins ( KARR-ə-GHEE-nənz; from Irish  carraigín 'little rock') are a family of natural linear sulfated polysaccharides that are extracted from red edible seaweeds. The resulting carrageenan solution is then concentrated by evaporation. Carrageenans, The Seaweed Site: information on marine algae. Edible algae based vaccination is a vaccination strategy under preliminary research to combine a genetically engineered sub-unit vaccine and an immunologic adjuvant into Chlamydomonas reinhardtii microalgae. Even before the discovery of vitamin C, folklore had it that certain fruits were effective in both preventing and treating the cold. The same review reported that for people who took vitamin C on a regular basis, the vitamin shortened the duration of colds in adults by 8% and in children by 14%. M. stellatus has been used in home remedies to treat coughs, colds, and sore throats by mixing it with C. crispus and other herbs, spices, and sweeteners. 
Can the "Miracle Mineral Supplement" MMS (sodium chlorite) cure diseases or alleviate ailments? [SEP] Miracle Mineral Supplement, often referred to as Miracle Mineral Solution, Master Mineral Solution, MMS or the CD protocol, is a branded name for an aqueous solution of chlorine dioxide, an industrial bleaching agent, that has been falsely promoted as a cure for illnesses including HIV, cancer and the common cold. In 2016, Humble said that MMS "cures nothing". In August 2009, a Mexican woman travelling with her American husband on a yacht in Vanuatu took MMS to supposedly prevent malaria. In the UK, the Food Standards Agency released a warning, following the initial warnings from Health Canada and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, stating that "MMS is a 28% sodium chlorite solution which is equivalent to industrial-strength bleach. They also warned that patients affected by serious diseases could be tempted to stop their treatments in favour of this fraudulent treatment.A similar notice was released in July 2010 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration warning that MMS, which is prepared by mixing sodium chlorite solution with an acid (such as the juice of citrus fruits), produces chlorine dioxide, "a potent bleach used for stripping textiles and industrial water treatment." The FDA released another warning in August 2019, saying that it has continued to receive reports of illness caused by consuming MMS.MMS is not approved for the treatment of any disease and, according to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, chronic exposure to small doses of chlorine dioxide could cause reproductive and neurodevelopmental damage. However, the claim that MMS can cure COVID-19, or any other disease, is not based on any scientific evidence. Andreas Ludwig Kalcker is a German resident in Switzerland who has dedicated himself to the promotion of the Miracle Mineral Solution (MMS), whose consumption can cause abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, intoxication or kidney failure. 
Does MMS help with an infection with the coronavirus (Covid-19)? [SEP] Treatments that help with the symptoms and support body functioning may be used.Previous infection with MERS can confer cross-reactive immunity to SARS-CoV-2 and provide partial protection against COVID-19. Prevention
While the mechanism of spread of MERS-CoV is currently not known, based on experience with prior coronaviruses, such as SARS, the WHO currently recommends that all individuals coming into contact with MERS suspects should (in addition to standard precautions):
Wear a medical mask
Wear eye protection (i.e. In the SARS outbreak the virus was not cultured from people after the resolution of their symptoms.It is believed that the existing SARS research may provide a useful template for developing vaccines and therapeutics against a MERS-CoV infection. Middle East respiratory syndrome–related coronavirus (MERS-CoV), or EMC/2012 (HCoV-EMC/2012), is the virus that causes Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). MERS coronavirus EMC/2012 (MERS coronavirus Erasmus Medical Center/2012) is a strain of coronavirus isolated from the sputum of the first person to become infected with what was later named Middle East respiratory syndrome–related coronavirus (MERS-CoV), a virus that causes Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). Effect of vaccination
The Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Janssen COVID-19 vaccines provide effective protection against COVID-19, including against severe disease, hospitalisation, and death, and "a growing body of evidence suggests that COVID-19 vaccines also reduce asymptomatic infection and transmission" as chains of transmission are interrupted by vaccines. Interactions with the immune system
The M protein in MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV, and SARS-CoV-2 has been described as an antagonist of interferon response.The M protein is immunogenic and has been reported to be a determinant of humoral immunity. "Covid-19: Novel Coronavirus Outbreak". 
Does colloidal silver ("silver water") work against infection with the coronavirus or other pathogens? Does it have any other health benefits? [SEP] : 29  The World Health Organization (WHO) includes silver in a colloidal state produced by electrolysis of silver electrodes in water, and colloidal silver in water filters as two of a number of water disinfection methods specified to provide safe drinking water in developing countries. Since about 1990, there has been a resurgence of the promotion of colloidal silver as a dietary supplement, marketed with claims of it being an essential mineral supplement, or that it can prevent or treat numerous diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, arthritis, HIV/AIDS, herpes, and tuberculosis. There is no evidence that colloidal silver treats or prevents any medical condition, and it can cause serious and potentially irreversible side effects such as argyria.In August 1999, the U.S. FDA banned colloidal silver sellers from claiming any therapeutic or preventive value for the product, although silver-containing products continue to be promoted as dietary supplements in the U.S. under the looser regulatory standards applied to supplements. Quackwatch states that colloidal silver dietary supplements have not been found safe or effective for the treatment of any condition. The Los Angeles Times stated that "colloidal silver as a cure-all is a fraud with a long history, with quacks claiming it could cure cancer, AIDS, tuberculosis, diabetes, and numerous other diseases".It may be illegal to market as preventing or treating cancer, and in some jurisdictions illegal to sell colloidal silver for consumption. This produced very favorable results when compared with its predecessors, silk and catgut.Prior to the introduction of modern antibiotics, colloidal silver was used as a germicide and disinfectant. "Integrative Medicine: Colloidal Silver". See also
Silver compounds
Colloidal silver
Environmental implications of nanotechnology

References
External links
The Silver Nano Health System, Introduction to Samsung Silver Nano 
Is whole-body vibration therapy effective in preventing bone fractures in osteoporosis sufferers? [SEP] Whole body vibration is a generic term used when vibrations (mechanical oscillations) of any frequency are transferred to the human body. Exposures and limits have been estimated in the ISO 5349-1 for hand-transmitted vibration.Whole body vibration training as a form of physical exercise can offer some fitness and health benefits, but it is not clear if it is as beneficial as regular physical exercise. A 2018 meta-analysis showed that whole body vibration can improve bone mineral density in the lumbar spine of postmenopausal women as well as the femoral neck density of postmenopausal women younger than 65. Training effects
A 2018 meta-analysis concluded that whole body vibration improved lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) in postmenopausal women, and enhanced femoral neck BMD in postmenopausal women younger than 65 years.A review in 2014 concluded that there is little and inconsistent evidence that acute or chronic whole body vibration could improve the performance of competitive or elite athletes.Cochrane reviews have concluded that there is insufficient evidence of effect of whole body vibration training on functional performance of people with neurodegenerative disease, or in disease-related problems in people with fibromyalgia.Some research supports benefits for arthritis and knee pain. History
The application of manual vibration to the human body therapeutically has been known for centuries. Benefits
Circulation
Low frequency (<30 Hz) whole body vibrations of restricted energy levels showed improvements in circulation. Loading exercise for bone density preservation and improvement is supported by bone health societies and organizations, including the International Osteoporosis Foundation, the National Osteoporosis Foundation, the National Osteoporosis Society of the United Kingdom, and the World Health Organization.The basis of osteogenic loading stems from Wolff's law, which shows that the force or loading on bone through its axis, can stimulate the bone's natural function of increasing in density. It has not however been found to be significantly effective in increasing bone healing.It is believed to work through the active stimulation of osteoblast proliferation and differentiation as evidenced by increased levels of DNA synthesis and of the osteoblast markers osteocalcin and alkaline phosphatase. 
Does regular gargling with antimicrobial mouthwashes protect against contracting coronavirus? Does it help get better faster if you have Covid 19 disease? [SEP] Usually mouthwashes are antiseptic solutions intended to reduce the microbial load in the mouth, although other mouthwashes might be given for other reasons such as for their analgesic, anti-inflammatory or anti-fungal action. A fluoride mouthrinse can be used at a different time of the day to brushing.Gargling is where the head is tilted back, allowing the mouthwash to sit in the back of the mouth while exhaling, causing the liquid to bubble. Gargling is practiced in Japan for perceived prevention of viral infection. Some manufacturers of mouthwash state that their antiseptic and antiplaque mouthwashes kill the bacterial plaque that causes cavities, gingivitis, and bad breath. Mouthwashes based on essential oils could be more effective than traditional mouthcare as anti-gingival treatments. Povidone/iodine (PVP-I)
A 2005 study found that gargling three times a day with simple water or with a povidone-iodine solution was effective in preventing upper respiratory infection and decreasing the severity of symptoms if contracted. While research has shown that chlorhexidine is more effective than a saline solution, where access to pharmaceuticals is limited a salt solution has the benefit of being less expensive, more readily available, and easy to produce.A small study of a commercial sea salt rinse used for routine oral hygiene found no significant benefit in fighting plaque or gingivitis.Gargling with salt water has been shown to reduce the incidence of upper respiratory infections, such as the common cold. It is also the washing of one's mouth and throat with a liquid, such as mouthwash, that is kept in motion by breathing through it with a gurgling sound.A traditional home remedy of gargling warm saltwater is sometimes recommended to soothe a sore throat.One study in Japan has shown that gargling water a few times a day will lower the chance of upper respiratory infections such as common colds, though some medical authorities are skeptical. 
Can inhalation with budesonide spray relieve symptoms of covid-19? [SEP] Allergic rhinitis
Budesonide in the form of nasal sprays is a treatment for allergic rhinitis. Research
COVID-19
Budesonide was recommended in April 2021 by the UK's NHS to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis for those aged 50 years of age and older. After a University of Oxford research team found in a trial with 1,700 patients that budesonide could benefit many people over 50 with COVID-19 symptoms, it was recommended from 12 April 2021, by the National Health Service in the UK for general practitioners (GPs) to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis. Results of a large-scale trial published in August 2021 suggest that inhaled budesonide improves the time of recovery and people's well-being during the recovery process. The recommendation was withdrawn in December 2021 citing the need for more research.Inhalational budesonide was added to the recommended treatment for cases of COVID-19 in India in April 2021. "Budesonide Nasal Spray". "Budesonide Oral Inhalation". "Budesonide Oral Inhalation". 
Can budesonide spray inhalation for covid-19 reduce the risk of hospitalization, severe or even fatal outcome? [SEP] Allergic rhinitis
Budesonide in the form of nasal sprays is a treatment for allergic rhinitis. Research
COVID-19
Budesonide was recommended in April 2021 by the UK's NHS to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis for those aged 50 years of age and older. After a University of Oxford research team found in a trial with 1,700 patients that budesonide could benefit many people over 50 with COVID-19 symptoms, it was recommended from 12 April 2021, by the National Health Service in the UK for general practitioners (GPs) to treat COVID-19 on a case-by-case basis. Results of a large-scale trial published in August 2021 suggest that inhaled budesonide improves the time of recovery and people's well-being during the recovery process. The recommendation was withdrawn in December 2021 citing the need for more research.Inhalational budesonide was added to the recommended treatment for cases of COVID-19 in India in April 2021. "Budesonide Nasal Spray". "Budesonide Oral Inhalation". "Budesonide Oral Inhalation". 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent infection with coronavirus? Can it alleviate a covid 19 disease that has already broken out? [SEP] Edible algae based vaccination is a vaccination strategy under preliminary research to combine a genetically engineered sub-unit vaccine and an immunologic adjuvant into Chlamydomonas reinhardtii microalgae. Carrageenans or carrageenins ( KARR-ə-GHEE-nənz; from Irish  carraigín 'little rock') are a family of natural linear sulfated polysaccharides that are extracted from red edible seaweeds. Carrageenan is a vegetarian and vegan alternative to gelatin in some applications, so may be used to replace gelatin in confectionery and other food. Many red algal species produce different types of carrageenans during their developmental history. The resulting carrageenan solution is then concentrated by evaporation. Carrageenans, The Seaweed Site: information on marine algae. As of July 2021, CoronaVac was the most widely used COVID-19 vaccine in the world, with 943 million doses delivered.As of October 14, 2021, CoronaVac is the COVID-19 vaccine with the most doses administered worldwide.It was reported in December, 2021, that a study jointly conducted by the LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong (HKUMed), and the Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CU Medicine), showed that a third dose of the Comirnaty vaccine given to those who received two doses of either Comirnaty or CoronaVac provides protective levels of measured antibodies against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. In the vaccine group (N=4953), there were 85 COVID cases, 5 cases requiring medical attention, and no severe cases or deaths.On 1 April 2021, a preliminary report from a phase III clinical trial in Chile revealed that CoronaVac is safe and induces humoral and cell-mediated immunity in adults (18–59 years old) and the elderly (60 years or older) similar to previous phase II trials conducted in China with the same age groups and immunization schedule consisting of two doses with a 14-day interval. 
Does the product "BestProvita Diabetin" improve blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetes or does it prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] Prevention of type 2 diabetes can be achieved with both lifestyle changes and use of medication. Diabetes prevention is achieved through weight loss and increased physical activity, which can reduce the risk of diabetes by 50% to 60%. A combination of diet and physical activity promotion through counselling and support programs decrease weight, improve systolic blood pressure, improve cholesterol levels and decrease risk of diabetes.Increasing physical activity may be helpful in preventing type 2 diabetes, particularly if undertaken soon after a carbohydrate rich meal that increases blood sugar levels. Breastfeeding may also be associated with the prevention of type 2 diabetes in mothers.There is evidence relating consumption of coffee with prevention of type 2 diabetes. Lifestyle interventions are, however, more effective than metformin alone at preventing diabetes regardless of weight loss, though evidence suggests that lifestyle interventions and metformin together can be effective treatment in patients who are at a higher risk of developing diabetes.A Cochrane systematic review assessed the effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors in people with impaired glucose tolerance, impaired fasting blood glucose, elevated glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c).It was found that Acarbose appeared to reduce incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2 when compared to placebo, however there was no conclusive evidence that acarbose compare to diet and exercise, metformin, placebo, no intervention improved all-cause mortality, reduced or increased risk of cardiovascular mortality, serious or non-serious adverse events, non-fatal stroke, congestive heart failure, or non-fatal myocardial infarction.The same review found that there was no conclusive evidence that voglibose compared to diet and exercise or placebo reduced incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2, or any of the other measured outcomes.Many other medications are well known to modify risk of diabetes 2 although in most cases they are prescribed for reasons unrelated to diabetes 2. Blocking SGLT-2 reduces blood glucose by blocking glucose reabsorption in the kidney and thereby excreting glucose (i.e., blood sugar) via the urine. Inhibition of DPP-4 slows their inactivation, thereby potentiating their action, leading to lower plasma glucose levels, hence its utility in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Managing the Patient with Type II Diabetes. 
Do blueberries improve blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes or do they prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] Prevention of type 2 diabetes can be achieved with both lifestyle changes and use of medication. A combination of diet and physical activity promotion through counselling and support programs decrease weight, improve systolic blood pressure, improve cholesterol levels and decrease risk of diabetes.Increasing physical activity may be helpful in preventing type 2 diabetes, particularly if undertaken soon after a carbohydrate rich meal that increases blood sugar levels. Breastfeeding may also be associated with the prevention of type 2 diabetes in mothers.There is evidence relating consumption of coffee with prevention of type 2 diabetes. Promotion of healthy eating and physical activity, smoking cessation and the safe consumption of alcohol are also vital to reduce and prevent type 2 diabetes. There is not enough evidence to suggest that cinnamon improves blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes. A 2021 review showed that consumption of tree nuts (walnuts, almonds, and hazelnuts) reduced fasting blood glucose in diabetic people.Culturally appropriate education may help people with type 2 diabetes control their blood sugar levels for up to 24 months. There is not enough evidence to determine if lifestyle interventions affect mortality in those who already have type 2 diabetes.As of 2015, there is insufficient data to recommend nonnutritive sweeteners, which may help reduce caloric intake.An elevated intake of microbiota-accessible carbohydrates can help reducing the effects of T2D.A 2022 umbrella review concluded that, red and white meat consumption is associated with an increased risk contrary to dairy products which have a diminished risk. It did, however, show reduction of risk of developing type 2 diabetes when compared to a placebo or to no treatment. 
Do self-performed nasal drill tests in symptom-free individuals detect coronavirus infection as reliably as professionally performed rapid tests using swabs from the nasopharynx? [SEP] A nasopharyngeal swab is a device used for collecting a sample of nasal secretions from the back of the nose and throat. Médecins Sans Frontières strongly endorsed the use of rapid tests in lower- and middle-income countries, noting "COVID-19 antigen tests can deliver rapid and actionable results, ensuring timely identification of people infected with the virus at the community level". COVID-19 rapid antigen tests (RATs) detect antigenic proteins on the surface of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. 2021
By January 2021, the Council of the European Union advocated greater use of rapid tests, noting that "should research prove that rapid antigen tests can be conducted by the testee themselves.... self-testing with or without professional guidance could also be considered." Rapid antigen tests for the detection of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, have been commonly used during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, optical immunoassay RSTs have been found to have a much higher sensitivity of 94%.Although an RST cannot distinguish GAS infection from asymptomatic carriage of the organism, most authorities recommend antibiotic treatment in the event of a positive RST result from a person with a sore throat. The FDA also gave emergency authorization for New York to obtain an automated coronavirus testing machine.In a March 13 press conference, the Trump administration announced a campaign to conduct tests in retail store parking lots across the country, but this was not widely implemented.On March 13, drive-through testing in the U.S. began in New Rochelle, Westchester County, as New Rochelle was the U.S. town with the most diagnosed cases at that time. Viral testing can identify if a person is currently infected with SARS-CoV-2. 
Are rapid antigen tests as reliable as slower PCR tests? Does a negative (inconspicuous) rapid test result reliably exclude an infection with the coronavirus? [SEP] Rapid antigen tests for the detection of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, have been commonly used during the COVID-19 pandemic. They provide same-day results within two hours, typically in approximately 20 minutes.The European Union defines that a rapid test means qualitative or semi-quantitative in vitro-diagnostic medical devices, used singly or in a small series, which involve non-automated procedures and have been designed to give a fast result.Lateral flow tests are probably the most known type of rapid diagnostic tests, similar to pregnancy tests, but there exist other systems as dipsticks, vertical flow, etc. However, the tests have a sensitivity of 70%-72%, which is lower than COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests' sensitivity of 88%-96%. Médecins Sans Frontières strongly endorsed the use of rapid tests in lower- and middle-income countries, noting "COVID-19 antigen tests can deliver rapid and actionable results, ensuring timely identification of people infected with the virus at the community level". COVID-19 rapid antigen tests (RATs) detect antigenic proteins on the surface of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. Both studies suggested that rapid antigen mass testing helped to suppress the pandemic in the country, although according to the former study the effect of mass testing on the pandemic was temporary and started to dissipate after about two weeks.The United Kingdom continued their ongoing rapid test development programme using the Innova rapid test, with increasing urgency as COVID-19 cases increased across Europe. Stella Kyriakides, commissioner for Health and Food Safety, said "Rapid antigen tests offer us speed, reliability and quick responses to isolate COVID cases. 2021
By January 2021, the Council of the European Union advocated greater use of rapid tests, noting that "should research prove that rapid antigen tests can be conducted by the testee themselves.... self-testing with or without professional guidance could also be considered." 
Does CBD help with sleep disorders? [SEP] Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia also have been shown to effectively improve sleep in TBI patients. Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is a technique for treating insomnia without (or alongside) medications. CBT-I aims to improve sleep habits and behaviors by identifying  and changing the thoughts and the behaviors that affect the ability of a person to sleep or sleep well. Thus it is not surprising that treating insomnia with CBT-I can help to improve mood disorders. A study in 2008 showed that augmenting antidepressant medication with CBT-I in patients with major depressive disorder and comorbid insomnia helped to alleviate symptoms for both disorders. For example, a study conducted in 2014 looked at whether CBT-I improved sleep in those with PTSD along with other PTSD related symptoms. The study showed improved sleep and improved psychosocial functioning.Other studies even suggest that CBT-I in combination with imagery rehearsal therapy helps improve sleep-related PTSD symptoms. CBT-I has been shown to improve sleep continuity and reduce impairment in daily functioning due to pain in such individuals.CBT-I has been shown to be effective in geriatric patients with insomnia as well. 
Are heavy (ex-)smokers less likely to die of lung cancer if they regularly participate in lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT)? [SEP] Lung cancer screening is critically important because of the incidence and prevalence of lung cancer. It has been estimated that radiation exposure from repeated screening studies could induce cancer formation in a small percentage of screened subjects, so this risk should be mitigated by a (relatively) high prevalence of lung cancer in the population being screened. This trial led to a recommendation in the United States that CT screening be used on people at high risk for developing lung cancer in an effort to detect the cancer earlier and reduce mortality. A comprehensive evidence review by the European Commission's Scientific Advice Mechanism recommended lung cancer screening for current and ex-smokers, combined with smoking cessation programmes. The trial led to a recommendation in the United States in 2013 that CT screening be used on people at high risk for developing lung cancer in an effort to detect the cancer earlier and reduce mortality. When their initial findings were published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the researchers reported that low-dose CT scanning was associated with a 20% decrease in deaths from lung cancer, and that this effect was visible in both current smokers and former smokers. The director of the National Cancer Institute's director, Harold Varmus, said that early analysis results appeared to indicate that CT scans detected more lung cancers, at an earlier and more treatable stage, and that CT scans could therefore reduce the number of deaths in patients at high risk of lung cancer. "Reduced Lung-Cancer Mortality with Low-Dose Computed Tomographic Screening". 
Can lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT) also do harm??? [SEP] Lung cancer screening refers to cancer screening strategies used to identify early lung cancers before they cause symptoms, at a point where they are more likely to be curable. Lung cancer screening is critically important because of the incidence and prevalence of lung cancer. Risks of screening
Low-dose CT screening has been associated with falsely positive test results which may result in unneeded treatment. This study was recognized for providing supporting evidence for using CT to screen for lung cancer and for encouraging others to reflect on the merits and drawbacks of other types of screening. This trial led to a recommendation in the United States that CT screening be used on people at high risk for developing lung cancer in an effort to detect the cancer earlier and reduce mortality. The trial led to a recommendation in the United States in 2013 that CT screening be used on people at high risk for developing lung cancer in an effort to detect the cancer earlier and reduce mortality. The director of the National Cancer Institute's director, Harold Varmus, said that early analysis results appeared to indicate that CT scans detected more lung cancers, at an earlier and more treatable stage, and that CT scans could therefore reduce the number of deaths in patients at high risk of lung cancer. "Reduced Lung-Cancer Mortality with Low-Dose Computed Tomographic Screening". 
Does hydroxychloroquine reduce the likelihood of dying from covid-19 disease? [SEP] In fall of 2020, the National Institutes of Health issued treatment guidelines recommending against the use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 except as part of a clinical trial.In 2021, hydroxychloroquine was part of the recommended treatment for mild cases in India.In 2020, the speculative use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 threatened its availability for people with established indications (malaria and auto-immune diseases). A Veterans Affairs study released results on 21 April suggesting COVID-19-hospitalized patients treated with hydroxychloroquine were more likely to die than those who received no drug treatment at all, after correcting for clinical characteristics.On 24 April 2020, the FDA cautioned against using the drug outside a hospital setting or clinical trial after reviewing case reports of adverse effects including ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation and in some cases death. In July, the U.S. President Donald Trump once again promoted the use of the drug contradicting various public health officials, including National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director Dr. Anthony Fauci.In November 2020, a U.S. National Institutes of Health clinical trial evaluating the safety and effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of adults with COVID-19 formally concluded that the drug provided no clinical benefit for COVID-19 treatment and recommended against its use.A Cochrane review from February 2021 came to the conclusion, that hydroxychloroquine has little or no effect on the risk of death. Researchers supporting prophylactic administration of hydroxychloquine note that results from human trials have suggested that hydroxychloroquine may decrease the duration of both viral shedding and symptoms if the drug is administered early.On 3 June, results were published from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 821 participants which found that hydroxychloroquine did not prevent symptomatic COVID-19 illness when used for post-exposure prophylaxis. A randomized, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial amongst healthcare workers found that oral hydroxychloroquine did not help prevent COVID-19 infections when used as pre-exposure prophylaxis.British researchers are studying whether the drug is effective when used for prevention. The speculative use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 threatens its availability for people with established indications. The questionable data were used in studies published in The Lancet and The New England Journal of Medicine in May 2020, suggesting that COVID-19 patients on hydroxychloroquine had a "significantly higher risk of death". The Lancet study claimed that the dataset of hospital records showed that patients taking hydroxychloroquine were more likely to die in hospital, and prompted the World Health Organization to halt global trials of the drug to treat COVID-19. 
Does hydroxychloroquine prevent covid-19 infection??? [SEP] Chloroquine, along with hydroxychloroquine, was an early  experimental treatment for COVID-19. Hydroxychloroquine inhibits the action of cathepsin L in endolysosomes, but because cathepsin L cleavage is minor compared to TMPRSS2 cleavage, hydroxychloroquine does little to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection.Several countries initially used chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine for treatment of persons hospitalized with COVID-19 (as of March 2020), though the drug was not  formally approved through clinical trials. In fall of 2020, the National Institutes of Health issued treatment guidelines recommending against the use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 except as part of a clinical trial.In 2021, hydroxychloroquine was part of the recommended treatment for mild cases in India.In 2020, the speculative use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 threatened its availability for people with established indications (malaria and auto-immune diseases). Beginning in March 2020, Trump began promoting hydroxychloroquine to prevent or treat COVID-19, citing small numbers of anecdotal reports. The authors came to the conclusion that no further trials of hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine for treatment of COVID-19 should be carried out.On 26 April 2021, in its amended clinical management protocol for COVID-19, the Indian Ministry of Health lists hydroxycholoquine for use in patients during the early course of the disease. Researchers supporting prophylactic administration of hydroxychloquine note that results from human trials have suggested that hydroxychloroquine may decrease the duration of both viral shedding and symptoms if the drug is administered early.On 3 June, results were published from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 821 participants which found that hydroxychloroquine did not prevent symptomatic COVID-19 illness when used for post-exposure prophylaxis. A randomized, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial amongst healthcare workers found that oral hydroxychloroquine did not help prevent COVID-19 infections when used as pre-exposure prophylaxis.British researchers are studying whether the drug is effective when used for prevention. In mid-2020 amid the COVID-19 pandemic, a video went viral on social media platforms in which Immanuel said hydroxychloroquine can cure COVID-19, and that public health measures such as social distancing and the wearing of face masks were ineffective and unnecessary. 
Do preparations containing rockrose have a preventive or soothing effect on colds (chills) and other upper respiratory tract infections? Can they protect against infections with the coronavirus? [SEP] Cold medicines are a group of medications taken individually or in combination as a treatment for the symptoms of the common cold and similar conditions of the upper respiratory tract. A 2007 review states that, "alternative therapies (i.e., Echinacea, vitamin C, and zinc) are not recommended for treating common cold symptoms; however,...Vitamin C prophylaxis may modestly reduce the duration and severity of the common cold in the general population and may reduce the incidence of the illness in persons exposed to physical and environmental stresses." Similarly, a 2014 systematic review showed that garlic may prevent occurrences of the common cold but there was insufficient evidence of garlic in treating the common cold and studies reported adverse effects of a rash and odour. Even before the discovery of vitamin C, folklore had it that certain fruits were effective in both preventing and treating the cold. After scientific identification of vitamin C in the early part of the 20th century, research began into the possible effects of the vitamin against the common cold. Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. Research
According to the most recently published Cochrane review on vitamin C and the common cold, one gram per day or more of vitamin C does not influence common cold incidence in the general community, i.e., it does not prevent colds. Its anticholinergic properties can theoretically relax the pulmonary alveoli and reduce phlegm production. 
Can Medistus Antivirus Lozenges protect against colds, flu, covid-19, or other respiratory infections? [SEP] A low-pH throat lozenge containing dichlorobenzyl alcohol (1.2 mg) and amylmetacresol (0.6 mg) has been found to deactivate respiratory syncytial virus and SARS-Cov, but not adenovirus or rhinovirus. Ingredients
Lozenges may contain benzocaine, an anaesthetic, or eucalyptus oil. Several brands of throat lozenges contain dextromethorphan. Honey lozenges are also available. Antibiotics, however, should not be used, as all colds are caused by viruses, and there is no good evidence that cough medicines are effective.The common cold is the most frequent infectious disease in humans. Research directions
Antivirals have been tested for effectiveness in the common cold; as of 2009, none had been both found effective and licensed for use. Preliminary research indicates that influenza vaccination does not prevent COVID-19, but may reduce the incidence and severity of COVID-19 infection. "Several trials have reported that LAIVs can boost virus-specific CTLs as well as mucosal and serum antibodies and provide broad cross-protection against heterologous human influenza A viruses." 
Does Spirulina help with obesity? [SEP] Spirulina is a biomass of cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) that can be consumed by humans and animals. Food and nutrition
Spirulina is being investigated to address food security and malnutrition, and as dietary support in long-term space flight or Mars missions. Its advantage for food security is that it needs less land and water than livestock to produce protein and energy.Dried spirulina contains 5% water, 24% carbohydrates, 8% fat, and about 60% (51–71%) protein .As seen in the table of nutritional value, provided in its typical supplement form as a dried powder, a 100-g amount of spirulina supplies 290 kilocalories (1,200 kJ) and is a rich source (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) of numerous essential nutrients, particularly protein, B vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin, and niacin, providing 207%, 306%, and 85% DV, respectively), and dietary minerals, such as iron (219% DV) and manganese (90% DV). Animals and aquaculture
Various studies on spirulina as an alternative feed for animal and aquaculture have been done. Research
According to the U.S. National Institutes of Health, scientific evidence is insufficient to recommend spirulina supplementation for any human condition, and more research is needed to clarify whether consumption yields any benefits. Administration of spirulina has been investigated as a way to control glucose in people with diabetes, but the European Food Safety Authority rejected those claims in 2013. Spirulina has been studied as a potential nutritional supplement for adults and children affected by HIV, but there was no conclusive effect on risk of death, body weight, or immune response. Spirulina doses of 10 to 19 grams per day over several months have been used safely. 
Does spirulina have a health-promoting effect??? [SEP] Food and nutrition
Spirulina is being investigated to address food security and malnutrition, and as dietary support in long-term space flight or Mars missions. Its advantage for food security is that it needs less land and water than livestock to produce protein and energy.Dried spirulina contains 5% water, 24% carbohydrates, 8% fat, and about 60% (51–71%) protein .As seen in the table of nutritional value, provided in its typical supplement form as a dried powder, a 100-g amount of spirulina supplies 290 kilocalories (1,200 kJ) and is a rich source (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) of numerous essential nutrients, particularly protein, B vitamins (thiamin, riboflavin, and niacin, providing 207%, 306%, and 85% DV, respectively), and dietary minerals, such as iron (219% DV) and manganese (90% DV). Vitamin B12
Spirulina contains no vitamin B12 naturally, and spirulina supplements are not considered to be a reliable source of vitamin B12, as they contain predominantly pseudovitamin B12 (Coα-[α-(7-adenyl)]-Coβ-cyanocobamide), which is biologically inactive in humans. Research
According to the U.S. National Institutes of Health, scientific evidence is insufficient to recommend spirulina supplementation for any human condition, and more research is needed to clarify whether consumption yields any benefits. Administration of spirulina has been investigated as a way to control glucose in people with diabetes, but the European Food Safety Authority rejected those claims in 2013. Spirulina has been studied as a potential nutritional supplement for adults and children affected by HIV, but there was no conclusive effect on risk of death, body weight, or immune response. The U.S. National Institutes of Health describes spirulina supplements as "possibly safe", provided they are free of microcystin contamination, but "likely unsafe" (especially for children) if contaminated. Today millions of health conscious people enjoy the health benefits of spirulina in myriad products worldwide. 
Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) help against coronavirus or others in throat infections? [SEP] Use in hospitals
Vaporized hydrogen peroxide has been investigated as an airborne disinfectant and infection control measure for hospitals and has been shown to reduce incidence of nosocomial infections from a number of pathogens. H2O2 vapor has been used in hospitals to eradicate causal agents, e.g., antibiotic-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae, from the environment and prevent infection of subsequent patients. It is also a disinfectant/cleaning agent that stabilizes hydrogen peroxide so that it can be used for extended periods of time. Properties
A 2% solution of accelerated hydrogen peroxide achieves a high level of disinfection in 5 minutes and is suitable for disinfecting hard plastic medical devices such as endoscopes. In addition to being an excellent fungicide, chemicals using accelerated hydrogen peroxide have been suggested by some papers to be safer for humans and more environmentally friendly.In research done in 2016, accelerated hydrogen peroxide demonstrated effectiveness against the foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), swine vesicular disease virus (SVDV), along with Senecavirus A.Effectiveness against ringworm and parvovirus has also been cited by veterinarians. Usage
Recommendation by the World Health Organization
The WHO has announced that AHP is particularly effective in disinfecting hospital facilities, and cites accelerated hydrogen peroxide as one of the disinfectants that are used for adequate sterilization.Japan
In May 2020, accelerated hydrogen peroxide was utilized for disinfection when there was a rapid spread of COVID-19 on board the cruise vessel Costa Atlantica while anchored by the Mitsubishi Nagasaki Shipyard, according to Japanese media. Canada
During the SARS pandemic in 2003, the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care of Ontario published a training bulletin citing accelerated hydrogen peroxide solutions as effective agents against emergency vehicles and equipment used in transporting SARS infected patients.As of October 2020, Health Canada includes accelerate hydrogen peroxide disinfectants as effective solutions against SARS-CoV-2, the novel Coronavirus.United States
Between the years 2006 and 2011, amid risks of powerful bacteria such as Clostridioides difficile and MRSA infecting patients by adhering onto hospital facilities, Hunterdon Medical Center, which used accelerated hydrogen peroxide based disinfectants for sanitation, cut C. diff and MRSA infection rates by 79% and 66% respectively.United Kingdom
In a 2007 guidance report by the Norovirus Working Group in the Health Protection Agency, together with the Maritime and Coastguard Agency, accelerated hydrogen peroxide has been reported to show effectiveness against feline calicivirus, a surrogate for norovirus. A low-pH throat lozenge containing dichlorobenzyl alcohol (1.2 mg) and amylmetacresol (0.6 mg) has been found to deactivate respiratory syncytial virus and SARS-Cov, but not adenovirus or rhinovirus. 
Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide have health risks? [SEP] Use in hospitals
Vaporized hydrogen peroxide has been investigated as an airborne disinfectant and infection control measure for hospitals and has been shown to reduce incidence of nosocomial infections from a number of pathogens. In 2014, Advanced Sterilization Products (ASP), sovaldi the manufacturer of the Sterrad hydrogen peroxide gas plasma sterilizer, issued a letter to hospital risk managers warning them that hydrogen peroxide residues may be found in the sterilization load. Overdose
Using the cerumenolytic hydrogen peroxide as an example, no adverse effects are expected with overdose of an otic administered preparation. It is also a disinfectant/cleaning agent that stabilizes hydrogen peroxide so that it can be used for extended periods of time. Properties
A 2% solution of accelerated hydrogen peroxide achieves a high level of disinfection in 5 minutes and is suitable for disinfecting hard plastic medical devices such as endoscopes. In addition to being an excellent fungicide, chemicals using accelerated hydrogen peroxide have been suggested by some papers to be safer for humans and more environmentally friendly.In research done in 2016, accelerated hydrogen peroxide demonstrated effectiveness against the foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), swine vesicular disease virus (SVDV), along with Senecavirus A.Effectiveness against ringworm and parvovirus has also been cited by veterinarians. Often called carbamide peroxide in the dental office, it is used as a source of hydrogen peroxide for bleaching, disinfection, and oxidation. Thus the compound is suitable as a safe substitute for the unstable aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide. 
Can vitamin C prevent infection with coronavirus or prevent deaths from covid-19? [SEP] Common cold
A frequently cited meta-analysis calculated that various doses of vitamin C (daily doses under 0.2 grams were excluded) do not prevent the common cold in the general community, although 0.25 to 1 g/day of vitamin C halved the incidence of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. As of 2014, at least 16 studies had found that vitamin C supplements did not prevent the common cold and had minimal effect at best in shortening cold lengths. Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. Research
According to the most recently published Cochrane review on vitamin C and the common cold, one gram per day or more of vitamin C does not influence common cold incidence in the general community, i.e., it does not prevent colds. The European Food Safety Authority found a cause and effect relationship exists between the dietary intake of vitamin C and functioning of a normal immune system in adults and in children under three years of age.Several studies found Vitamin C to have specific antiviral effects in which it inactivates the RNA or DNA of viruses or in the assembly of the virus. From the Conclusion: "The present meta-analysis showed that administration of vitamin C did not have any effect on major health outcomes in COVID infected patients, in comparison to either placebo/standard therapy. "During March through July 2020, vitamin C was the subject of more US FDA warning letters than any other ingredient for prevention and/or treatment of COVID-19.As of April 2021, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines stated that "there are insufficient data to recommend either for or against the use of vitamin C for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19." A 2015 meta-analysis showed no antitumor effect nor improvement in quality-of-life measures from high-dose vitamin C. This review included trials of oral and intravenous vitamin C.

Cardiovascular disease
In 2017, an independent study evaluating 15,445 participants found no evidence to show vitamin C decreases the risk cardiovascular disease. 
Does vitamin D prevent covid-19 disease? Does vitamin D mitigate the course of Covid 19 disease? [SEP] Respiratory infections and COVID-19:  Vitamin D deficiency may increase the risk of severe acute respiratory infections and COPD. Emerging studies have suggested a link between vitamin D deficiency and COVID-19 symptoms. A review has shown that vitamin D deficiency is not associated with a higher chance of having COVID-19 but is associated with a greater severity of the disease, including 80% increases in the rates of hospitalization and mortality. Getting enough vitamin D can help stave off "autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, many types of cancer, dementia, types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, and respiratory tract infections. COVID-19
As of April 2021 the US National Institutes of Health state there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against using vitamin D supplementation to prevent or treat COVID-19. The UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) does not recommend to offer a vitamin D supplement to people solely to prevent or treat COVID‑19. In the largest analysis, with data from 76 observational studies including almost two million adults, vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency significantly increased the susceptibility to becoming infected with COVID-19 and having severe COVID-19, with odds ratios of 1.5 and 1.9 respectively, but these findings had high risk of bias and heterogeneity. Another meta-analysis stated that the use of high doses of vitamin D in people with COVID-19 is not based on solid evidence although calcifediol supplementation may have a protective effect on ICU admissions. 
Is plasma therapy for covid-19 effective in preventing deaths? [SEP] A 2006 meta-analysis of eight studies from the Spanish influenza pandemic, including 1,703 patients, found that infected patients who received convalescent plasma had a 21% lower absolute mortality risk than patients not treated with convalescent plasma (16% vs. 37%). Convalescent plasma has been used during Argentine hemorrhagic fever epidemics; a double-blind, randomized clinical trial conducted from 1974 to 1978 demonstrated that patients treated with convalescent plasma within eight days of disease onset had a 15.4% lower absolute mortality rate than patients who received control plasma without neutralizing antibodies to Argentine hemorrhagic fever virus (1.1% vs. 16.5%). Convalescent plasma was used to treat SARS; in a retrospective analysis from Hong Kong that included 80 patients, early convalescent plasma treatment (14 days between the onset of symptoms and the transfusion date) was associated with an improved prognosis vs late transfusion (after 14 days since symptom onset) in terms of a higher hospital discharge rate by day 22 (58% vs 16%). Convalescent plasma treatment was used during the 2013–2016 Ebola outbreak; a small nonrandomized study in Sierra Leone revealed significantly longer survival for patients treated with convalescent whole blood compared to patients receiving standard treatment. Relatively early during the pandemic, several randomized controlled trials concluded that convalescent plasma therapy was not effective for COVID-19, but most of them focused on patients already seropositive or late in the disease course and/or used plasma units with insufficient antibody levels. From this data, it was estimated that the deployment of convalescent plasma had resulted in approximately 100,000 fewer deaths than had no plasma been used in the USA.In the post-vaccine COVID-19 pandemic, a resurgence in the usage of convalescent plasma occurred starting in the spring of 2022, when the SARS-CoV-2 variant Omicron sublineages proved non-responsive to all anti-spike monoclonal antibody treatments authorized, and concerns emerged about contraindications and chronic exposure to small-chemical antivirals which had never been studied in immunocompromised patients at that point. In the context of the wide deployment of COVID-19 vaccines, a unique product that can be collected from convalescent vaccinees, dubbed “hybrid plasma” or “Vax-plasma” has been of interest; such double status creates heterologous immunity able to cross-react against any SARS-CoV-2 variant so far.An online petition was launched on April 27, 2022, asking the World Health Organization to revise its guidelines issued in December 2021, which discouraged convalescent plasma usage based on the evidence available until July 2021.As of June 2022, research had found no good evidence that convalescent plasma was of benefit in treating COVID-19. For people with a blood clotting disorder and receive a planned invasive non-cardiac procedure it is not certain if prophylactic plasma transfusions improve all-cause mortality up to 30 days, major bleeding within 24 hours, number of transfusions per participants within one week, number of individuals requiring a transfusion within one week and serious adverse events measured by plasma-related complications within 24 hours. 
Does treatment with cortisone-like drugs such as dexamethasone ensure that more critically ill patients survive Covid 19 disease? [SEP] COVID-19
Dexamethasone is recommended by the National Health Service in the UK and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in the US for people with COVID-19 who need either mechanical ventilation or supplemental oxygen (without ventilation).The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guideline panel suggests the use of glucocorticoids for people with severe COVID-19, defined as people with SpO2 ≤94% on room air, and those who require supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). A meta-analysis of seven clinical trials of critically ill COVID-19 participants, each treated with one of three different corticosteroids found a statistically significant reduction in death. Although dexamethasone, and other glucocorticoids, reduce mortality in COVID-19 they have also been associated with an increased risk of secondary infections, secondary infections being a significant issue in critically ill COVID-19 patients.The mechanism of action of dexamethasone involves suppression of late-stage interferon type I programs in severe COVID-19 patients. It was introduced for medical use in 1958.On 16 June 2020, the RECOVERY Trial announced preliminary results stating that dexamethasone improves survival rates of hospitalized patients with COVID-19 receiving oxygen or on a ventilator. The final report was published in February 2021.The World Health Organization (WHO) states that dexamethasone should be reserved for seriously ill and critical patients receiving COVID-19 treatment in a hospital setting, and the WHO Director-General stated that "WHO emphasizes that dexamethasone should only be used for patients with severe or critical disease, under close clinical supervision. In September 2020, the WHO released updated guidance on using corticosteroids for COVID-19.In July 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) started reviewing results from the RECOVERY study arm that involved the use of dexamethasone in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 admitted to the hospital to provide an opinion on the results and in particular the potential use of dexamethasone for the treatment of adults with COVID-19. Despite being controversial at the beginning of the pandemic in 2020, corticosteroids like dexamethasone showed clinical benefit in treating COVID-19, once randomized controlled trials were performed in 2020. As of November 2022, there was moderate-certainty evidence suggesting that dexamethasone, and systemic corticosteroids in general, probably cause a slight reduction in all-cause mortality (up to 30 days) in hospitalized patients with COVID‐19, the evidence was very uncertain at 120 days.In March 2022, the BBC wrote, "There are now many drugs that target the virus or our body in different ways: anti-inflammatory drugs that stop our immune system overreacting with deadly consequences, anti-viral drugs that make it harder for the coronavirus to replicate inside the body and antibody therapies that mimic our own immune system to attack the virus"The WHO recommendations on which medications should or should not be used to treat Covid-19 are continuously updated. 
Can contact with holy water make you sick? [SEP] Holy water (Amharic: ፀበል) is deeply rooted tenet in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, believed to able cast demons and cure illed people effectively. Holy water is water that has been blessed by a member of the clergy or a religious figure, or derived from a well or spring considered holy. The use of holy water as a sacramental for protection against evil is common among Lutherans, Anglicans, Roman Catholics, and Eastern Christians. In Christianity
In Catholicism, Lutheranism, Anglicanism, Eastern Orthodoxy, Oriental Orthodoxy and some other churches, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, for the blessing of persons, places, and objects, or as a means of repelling evil. Hygiene
Holy water fonts have been identified as a potential source of bacterial and viral infection. In a study performed in 1995, 13 samples were taken when a burn patient acquired a bacterial infection after exposure to holy water. Holy water in Hinduism is thought to purify the soul and combat evil. Some Hindus use holy water to wash hands before ringing a bell. 
Can Echinacea protect against colds? [SEP] Although commonly sold as a dietary supplement, there is insufficient scientific evidence that Echinacea products are effective or safe for improving health or treating any disease. Some Plains tribes used Echinacea for cold symptoms. According to Wallace Sampson, its modern use for the common cold began when a Swiss herbal supplement maker was told that Echinacea was used for cold prevention by Native American tribes who lived in the area of South Dakota. Infectious diseases
Echinacea preparations have been advocated as antimicrobials and immunomodulators. Echinacea extracts inhibited growth of three species of trypanosomatids: Leishmania donovani, Leishmania major, and Trypanosoma brucei.While one 2014 systematic review found that Echinacea products are not effective to treat or prevent the common cold, a 2016 meta-analysis found tentative evidence that use of Echinacea extracts reduced the risk of repeated respiratory infections. A 2015 monograph by the European Medicines Agency stated that oral consumption of "expressed juice" or dried expressed juice of Echinacea could prevent or reduce symptoms of a common cold at its onset. Echinacea
A systematic review by the Cochrane Collaboration, last updated in 2014, examines twenty-four randomized controlled trials studying various echinacea preparations for prevention and treatment of the common cold. Reported side effects were rare.2007 meta-analyses conclude that there is some evidence that echinacea may reduce either the duration or severity of the common cold, but results are not consistent.Use of echinacea preparations is not currently recommended. 
Can echinacea relieve the discomfort of colds??? [SEP] A 2007 review states that, "alternative therapies (i.e., Echinacea, vitamin C, and zinc) are not recommended for treating common cold symptoms; however,...Vitamin C prophylaxis may modestly reduce the duration and severity of the common cold in the general population and may reduce the incidence of the illness in persons exposed to physical and environmental stresses." A 2014 review also found insufficient evidence for Echinacea, where no clinical relevance was proven to provide benefit for treating the common cold, despite a weak benefit for positive trends. Some Plains tribes used Echinacea for cold symptoms. According to Wallace Sampson, its modern use for the common cold began when a Swiss herbal supplement maker was told that Echinacea was used for cold prevention by Native American tribes who lived in the area of South Dakota. Echinacea extracts inhibited growth of three species of trypanosomatids: Leishmania donovani, Leishmania major, and Trypanosoma brucei.While one 2014 systematic review found that Echinacea products are not effective to treat or prevent the common cold, a 2016 meta-analysis found tentative evidence that use of Echinacea extracts reduced the risk of repeated respiratory infections. A 2015 monograph by the European Medicines Agency stated that oral consumption of "expressed juice" or dried expressed juice of Echinacea could prevent or reduce symptoms of a common cold at its onset. Echinacea
A systematic review by the Cochrane Collaboration, last updated in 2014, examines twenty-four randomized controlled trials studying various echinacea preparations for prevention and treatment of the common cold. Reported side effects were rare.2007 meta-analyses conclude that there is some evidence that echinacea may reduce either the duration or severity of the common cold, but results are not consistent.Use of echinacea preparations is not currently recommended. 
Does taking LaVita promote health or physical and mental performance? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] Lipovitan is marketed to alleviate physical and mental fatigue. The kids who participated in vigorous physical activity scored three points higher, on average, on their academic test, which consisted of math, science, English, and world studies.Animal studies have also shown that exercise can impact brain development early on in life. These benefits have also been noted in old age, with a review conducted in 2019 finding that exercise is an effective treatment for clinically diagnosed depression in older adults.A meta-analysis from July 2016 concluded that physical exercise improves overall quality of life in individuals with depression relative to controls. Salvia officinalis and lavandulaefolia (sage) –  Some research has suggested certain extracts of Salvia officinalis may have positive effects on human brain function, but due to significant methodological problems, no firm conclusions can be drawn. Folate –  no cognition-enhancing effects in middle-aged and older adults without folate deficiency. Vitamin B12 –  no cognition-enhancing effects in middle-aged and older adults without B12 deficiency. Vitamin E –  no cognition-enhancing effects in middle-aged and older adults without vitamin E deficiency. The Sponsor is Brigham and Women's Hospital with collaborators, National Cancer Institute, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Office of Dietary Supplements, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, Pharmavite LLC, Pronova BioPharma and BASF.It aims to enroll 20,000 participants (women 55 or over, men 50 or over) who will be randomized to one of four groups:
daily vitamin D (2000 IU) and fish oil (1 g);
daily vitamin D and fish-oil placebo;
daily vitamin-D placebo and fish oil;
daily vitamin-D placebo and fish-oil placebo.Participants will answer annual questionnaires to determine effects on risk of cancer, heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, diabetes, memory loss and depression. 
Do dental care products with nanoparticles of hydroxyapatite help pain-sensitive teeth? And can they prevent caries or repair already affected, decayed tooth enamel? [SEP] When enough acid is produced so that the pH goes below 5.5, the acid dissolves carbonated hydroxyapatite, the main component of tooth enamel. Once the plaque acid has been neutralized, the minerals can return from the plaque and saliva to the enamel surface. Natural tooth remineralization
Role of saliva
Remineralization occurs on a daily basis after attack by acids from food, through the presence of calcium, phosphate and fluoride found in saliva. When fluoride ions are present in plaque fluid along with dissolved hydroxyapatite, and the pH is higher than 4.5, a fluorapatite-like remineralised veneer is formed over the remaining surface of the enamel; this veneer is much more acid-resistant than the original hydroxyapatite, and is formed more quickly than ordinary remineralised enamel would be. These particles have a structure mimicking hydroxyapatite, providing new sites for mineralisation to occur. The high affinity to tooth mineral is based on matching distances of Ca-ion binding sites on P11-4 and Ca spacing in the crystal lattice of hydroxyapatite. "Diffusion of Ions Between Two Solutions Saturated With Respect to Hydroxyapatite: A Possible Mechanism for Subsurface Demineralization of Teeth" (PDF). Dentifrices, including toothpowder and toothpaste, are agents used along with a toothbrush to clean and polish natural teeth. 
Can light therapy with light lamps relieve the symptoms of autumn-winter depression? [SEP] Mood and sleep related
Seasonal affective disorder
The effectiveness of light therapy for treating seasonal affective disorder (SAD) may be linked to the fact that light therapy makes up for lost sunlight exposure and resets the body's internal clock. Studies show that light therapy helps reduce the debilitating and depressive behaviors of SAD, such as excessive sleepiness and fatigue, with results lasting for at least 1 month. Two methods of light therapy, bright light and dawn simulation, have similar success rates in the treatment of SAD.It is possible that response to light therapy for SAD could be season dependent. They usually have a change in appetite and experience trouble sleeping.A 2007 systematic review by the Swedish agency SBU found insufficient evidence that light therapy was able to alleviate symptoms of depression or seasonal affective disorder. This led to the closure of a number of clinics offering light therapy in Sweden.A Cochrane review conducted in 2019 states the evidence that light therapy's effectiveness as a treatment for the prevention of seasonal affective disorder is limited, although the risk of adverse effects are minimal. Non-seasonal depression
Light therapy has also been suggested in the treatment of non-seasonal depression and other psychiatric mood disturbances, including major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder and postpartum depression. A meta-analysis by the Cochrane Collaboration concluded that "for patients suffering from non-seasonal depression, light therapy offers modest though promising antidepressive efficacy." Seasonal Affective Disorders and Phototherapy. 
Does vitamin B3 protect against severe covid-19 events? [SEP] Though these vitamins share similar names (B1, B2, B3, etc. Individual B vitamin supplements are referred to by the specific number or name of each vitamin, such as B1 for thiamine, B2 for riboflavin, and B3 for niacin. Vitamin B13: orotic acid. Vitamin Bv: a type of B6 other than pyridoxine. People with the lowest blood vitamin D levels reported having significantly more recent colds or cases of the flu chronic respiratory disorders, especially those who had pre-existing respiratory ailments  Children who took vitamin D3 supplements daily in winter were 42% less likely to get infected with seasonal flu than those who were given a placebo. The presence of this compound can produce vitamin B6 deficiency, which suppresses the immune system. Co-treatment with vitamin B6 alleviates the numbness. Vitamin B2 was tentatively identified to be the factor necessary for preventing pellagra, but that was later confirmed to be due to niacin (vitamin B3) deficiency. 
Does taking coenzyme Q10 improve movement disorders in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] Research has shown that Coenzyme Q10 supplementation helps to counteract endothelial dysfunction and has anti-inflammatory effects. As such, Coenzyme Q10 supports good cardiovascular function. The articles show the importance of Coenzyme Q10 in the progression of aging and in aging-related diseases. The chapters in the book present current knowledge on the bio-synthesis of Coenzyme Q10, the nature of CoQ10 deficiency, and the results of clinical trials based on CoQ10 supplementation. The researchers attributed the positive effects of the supplementation to the reduction of oxidative stress, systemic inflammation, and fibrosis.Littarru was the lead author on a review of the effect of Coenzyme Q10 on endothelial dysfunction in ischemic heart disease. Coenzyme Q10 has low toxicity and does not induce serious adverse effects in humans. The data from preclinical and clinical studies indicate that Coenzyme Q10 is highly safe for use as a nutritional supplement. It has significantly improved bioavailability and improved mitochondrial penetration compared to coenzyme Q10, and has shown potential in a number of medical indications, being widely sold as a dietary supplement.A 2014 review found insufficient evidence for the use of mitoquinone mesylate in Parkinson's disease and other movement disorders. 
Does treatment with focused high-intensity ultrasound (HIFU) reduce abdominal girth? [SEP] High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a non-invasive therapeutic technique that uses non-ionizing ultrasonic waves to heat or ablate tissue. Given the prevalence and relatively low cost of ultrasound generation mechanisms, The premise of HIFU is that it is expect a non-invasive and low-cost therapy that can at minimum outperform of care. The implication of this is that if the target region is not visualized by ultrasound imaging before and during HIFU therapy, then it is unlikely that HIFU therapy will be effective in that specific region. References
External links
Therapeutic Ultrasound at Curlie
HIFU Treatment
Despite Doubts, Cancer Therapy Draws Patients from The New York Times on 18 High intensity focused ultrasound
High intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) was first used in the 1940s and 1950s in efforts to destroy tumors in the central nervous system. Since then, HIFU has been shown to be effective at destroying malignant tissue in the brain, prostate, spleen, liver, kidney, breast, and bone.HIFU for prostate cancer utilizes ultrasound to ablate/destroy the tissue of the prostate. This is accomplished using a technique known as High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU), also called focused ultrasound surgery (FUS surgery). Ultrasound-assisted lipectomy is Liposuction assisted by ultrasound. 
Does sugar substitution increase the risk of developing or dying from cancer? [SEP] Dietary factors are recognized as having a significant effect on the risk of cancers, with different dietary elements both increasing and reducing risk. Diet and obesity may be related to up to 30–35% of cancer deaths, while physical inactivity appears to be related to 7% risk of cancer occurrence.While many dietary recommendations have been proposed to reduce the risk of cancer, few have significant supporting scientific evidence. Obesity and drinking alcohol have been correlated with the incidence and progression of some cancers. Lowering the drinking of beverages sweetened with sugar is recommended as a measure to address obesity.Some specific foods are linked to specific cancers. Dietary components
Alcohol
Alcohol is associated with an increased risk of a number of cancers. See also
References
External links
"Diet, healthy eating and cancer". Put in his own words, "the prime cause of cancer is the replacement of the respiration of oxygen in normal body cells by a fermentation of sugar. Sugars have an overwhelming effect on gene expression. 
Does ozonated vegetable oil help against athlete's foot or nail fungus? [SEP] Athlete's foot, known medically as tinea pedis, is a common skin infection of the feet caused by a fungus. The same fungus may also affect the nails or the hands. It is a member of the group of diseases known as tinea.Athlete's foot is caused by a number of different fungi, including species of Trichophyton, Epidermophyton, and Microsporum. If allowed to grow for too long, athlete's foot fungus may spread to infect the toenails, feeding on the keratin in them, a condition called onychomycosis.Because athlete's foot may itch, it may also elicit the scratch reflex, causing the host to scratch the infected area before they realize it. Athlete's foot fungi and infested skin particles and flakes may spread to socks, shoes, clothes, to other people, pets (via petting), bed sheets, bathtubs, showers, sinks, counters, towels, rugs, floors, and carpets. See also
Toenail fungus, tinea unguium, an infection affecting the toenails
Trench foot, due to moisture and decay

References
External links
 Media related to Athlete's foot at Wikimedia Commons
"Athletes Foot". Oxiconazole (trade names Oxistat in the US, Oxizole in Canada) is an antifungal medication typically administered in a cream or lotion to treat skin infections, such as athlete's foot, jock itch and ringworm. As a 1% topical cream, It is indicated for the treatment of athlete's foot, jock itch, and ringworm caused by dermatophytes such as Trichophyton rubrum, Microsporum gypseum and Epidermophyton floccosum. 
Does ozonated vegetable oil help against vaginal fungus?? [SEP] Isoconazole is an azole antifungal drug and could inhibit gram positive bacteria. For foot and vaginal infections, isoconazole has a similar effectiveness to clotrimazole. It is a boric acid-based vaginal anti-infective enhanced with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) which was designed to have improved activity against vaginal bacterial and fungal biofilms while sparing protective lactobacilli. It was effective and safe in the study, though it was without indication of superiority over other antifungal medications for VVC. It can also be prescribed to treat the skin rash known as tinea versicolor, caused by systemic yeast overgrowth (Candida spp.). Internal application is used for oral or vaginal thrush (yeast infection). Carrier oil, also known as base oil or vegetable oil, is used to dilute essential oils and absolutes before they are applied to the skin in massage and aromatherapy. Calendula and carrot oils are produced in this way. 
Are health checks of symptom-free individuals (screening) effective in containing the pandemic? [SEP] Subtle but obvious errors were not CDC material such as "testing for Covid-19" (rather than for the virus that causes that illness).In August 2020, the CDC lowered its recommendation for who should be tested, saying that people who have been exposed to the virus but are not showing symptoms "do not necessarily need a test". Screening interventions are designed to identify conditions which could at some future point turn into disease, thus enabling earlier intervention and management in the hope to reduce mortality and suffering from a disease. There should be scientific evidence of screening programme effectiveness. The overall benefits of screening should outweigh the harm.In summation, "when it comes to the allocation of scarce resources, economic considerations must be considered alongside 'notions of justice, equity, personal freedom, political feasibility, and the constraints of current law'." Screening is believed to a valuable tool in identifying patients' basic needs in a social determinants of health framework so that they can be better served. The best studies for assessing whether a screening test will increase a population's health are rigorous randomized controlled trials. If a test is more available to young and healthy people (for instance if people have to travel a long distance to get checked) then fewer people in the screening population will have negative outcomes than for a random sample, and the test will seem to make a positive difference. Studies have shown that people who attend screening tend to be healthier than those who do not. 
Does melatonin help against jet lag? [SEP] Circadian rhythm sleep disorders
Melatonin may be useful in the treatment of delayed sleep phase syndrome.Melatonin is known to reduce jet lag, especially in eastward travel. References
External links
"Melatonin". It does not necessarily involve the shift in circadian rhythms that cause jet lag. Melatonin administration
In addition to timed light exposure, the right type and dose of melatonin, at the right time, can help the traveler shift faster and sleep better as they are transitioning between time zones  There remain issues regarding the appropriate timing of melatonin use in addition to the legality of the substance in certain countries. The results of a few field studies of melatonin administration, monitoring circadian phase, have provided evidence for a correlation between the reduction of jet lag symptoms and the accelerated realignment of the circadian clock. Pharmacotherapy
A short hypnotic medication has been effective to reduce insomnia related to jet lag. Eastman’s lab demonstrated how to start shifting circadian rhythms before flights (using bright light, sunglasses, sleep schedules and melatonin) to reduce or eliminate jet lag. References
External links

"Melatonin". 
Does sunscreen reduce the likelihood of skin cancer? [SEP] Sunscreen, also known as sunblock or sun cream, is a photoprotective topical product for the skin that helps protect against sunburn and most importantly prevent skin cancer. The routine use of sunscreens may also reduce the risk of melanoma. However, many sunscreens do not block ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation, yet protection from UVA is important for the prevention of skin cancer.To provide a better indication of their ability to protect against skin cancer and other diseases associated with UVA radiation (such as phytophotodermatitis), the use of broad-spectrum (UVA/UVB) sunscreens has been recommended. Health effects
Benefits
Sunscreen use can help prevent melanoma and squamous cell carcinoma, two types of skin cancer. There is little evidence that it is effective in preventing basal cell carcinoma.A 2013 study concluded that the diligent, everyday application of sunscreen could slow or temporarily prevent the development of wrinkles and sagging skin. Sunscreen is inherently anti-ageing as the sun is the number one cause of premature ageing, it therefore may slow or temporarily prevent the development of wrinkles, dark spots and sagging skin. With over 90% of melanomas derived through contact with the sun, skin cancer preventive initiatives in Australia strived to change this perception. Prevention
Awareness and early detection are the most efficient tools for avoiding skin cancer and are the basis of many effective prevention campaigns in Australia. 
Are international travel restrictions and border health checks effective in curbing the spread of covid-19? [SEP] During the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries and regions imposed quarantines, entry bans, or other travel restrictions for citizens of or recent travelers to the most affected areas. Some countries and regions imposed global restrictions that apply to all foreign countries and territories, or prevent their own citizens from travelling overseas.Travel restrictions reduced the spread of the virus, but because they were first implemented after community spread was established in multiple countries in different regions of the world, they produced only a modest reduction in the total number of people infected. Effectiveness
A study in Science found that travel restrictions could delay the initial arrival of COVID-19 in a country, but that they produced only modest overall effects unless combined with infection prevention and control measures to considerably reduce transmissions. Concerns have been raised over the effectiveness of travel restrictions to contain the spread of COVID-19. After some EU member states announced complete closure of their national borders to foreign nationals in March 2020, the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that "Certain controls may be justified, but general travel bans are not seen as being the most effective by the World Health Organization." Distinctive aspects of that response included early interventions to reduce reflected transmission from countries other than China during late January and February 2020; early recruitment of a large contact tracing workforce; comparatively high public trust in government responses to the pandemic, at least compared to the US; and later on, the use of short, intense lockdowns to facilitate exhaustive contact tracing of new outbreaks. Travel restrictions
As a result of the pandemic, many countries and regions have imposed quarantines, entry bans, or other restrictions for citizens of or recent travellers to the most affected areas. Concerns have been raised over the effectiveness of travel restrictions to contain the spread of COVID-19. 
Does hypnosis help with smoking cessation? [SEP] In 2019, a Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of benefit of hypnosis in smoking cessation, and suggested if there is, it is small at best. Clinical trials studying hypnosis and hypnotherapy as a method for smoking cessation have been inconclusive. : 100  A Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of benefit of hypnosis in smoking cessation, and suggested if there is a beneficial effect, it is small at best. However, a randomized trial published in 2008 found that hypnosis and nicotine patches "compares favorably" with standard behavioral counseling and nicotine patches in 12-month quit rates. Use of hypnosis for treatment of other problems has produced mixed results, such as with smoking cessation. Self-hypnosis is popularly used to quit smoking, alleviate stress and anxiety, promote weight loss, and induce sleep hypnosis. A meta-study researching hypnosis as a quit-smoking tool found it had a 20 to 30 percent success rate, while a 2007 study of patients hospitalised for cardiac and pulmonary ailments found that smokers who used hypnosis to quit smoking doubled their chances of success. In 2019, a Cochrane review was unable to find evidence of benefit of hypnosis in smoking cessation, and suggested if there is, it is small at best.Hypnosis may be useful as an adjunct therapy for weight loss. 
Does denosumab (Prolia) reduce the risk of vertebral fractures in osteoporosis? [SEP] Denosumab (trade names Prolia and Xgeva) is a human monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, metastases to bone, and giant cell tumor of bone.Denosumab is contraindicated in people with low blood calcium levels. Medical uses
Denosumab is used for those with osteoporosis at high risk for fractures, bone loss due to certain medications, and in those with bone metastases. Cancer
A 2012 meta-analysis found that denosumab was better than placebo, zoledronic acid and pamidronate, in reducing the risk of fractures in those with cancer. Osteoporosis
In those with postmenopausal osteoporosis denosumab decreases the risk of fractures but increases the risk of infection. Regulatory approval
United States
On 13 August 2009, a meeting was held between Amgen and the Advisory Committee for Reproductive Health Drugs (ACRHD) of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to review the potential uses of denosumab.In October 2009, the FDA delayed approval of denosumab, stating that they needed more information.On 2 June 2010, denosumab was approved by the FDA for use in postmenopausal women with risk of osteoporosis under the trade name Prolia, and in November 2010 as Xgeva for the prevention of skeleton-related events in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. In one, there was a 73% lower risk of vertebral fracture after one year, and the benefit was maintained after a second year of taking denosumab. Bisphosphonates are beneficial in reducing the risk of vertebral fractures. For premenopausal women and men <50 years  taking steroids for ≥3 months, osteoporosis therapy should be considered for those with a history of a fragility fracture. 
Does discontinuation of denosumab increase the risk of vertebral fractures??? [SEP] Denosumab (trade names Prolia and Xgeva) is a human monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, metastases to bone, and giant cell tumor of bone.Denosumab is contraindicated in people with low blood calcium levels. Cancer
A 2012 meta-analysis found that denosumab was better than placebo, zoledronic acid and pamidronate, in reducing the risk of fractures in those with cancer. Osteoporosis
In those with postmenopausal osteoporosis denosumab decreases the risk of fractures but increases the risk of infection. RANKL is expressed by T helper cells, and is thought to be involved in dendritic cell maturation.Discontinuation of denosumab is associated with a rebound increase in bone turnover. Vertebral compression fractures have also occurred in some people after discontinuing treatment. It is unlikely that denosumab exhibits any clinically relevant interactions.Denosumab works by lowering the hormonal message that leads to excessive osteoclast-driven bone removal and is active in the body for only six months. Similarly to bisphosphonates, denosumab appears to be implicated in increasing the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) following extraction of teeth or oral surgical procedures but, unlike bisphosphonate, the risk declines to zero approximately 6 months after injection. In one, there was a 73% lower risk of vertebral fracture after one year, and the benefit was maintained after a second year of taking denosumab. 
Does taking magnesium improve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] A meta analysis published in 2014 found the use of anti-inflammatory drugs such as NSAIDs and investigational cytokine inhibitors reduced depressive symptoms. Signs and symptoms
Deficiency of magnesium can cause tiredness, generalized weakness, muscle cramps, abnormal heart rhythms, increased irritability of the nervous system with tremors, paresthesias, palpitations, low potassium levels in the blood, hypoparathyroidism which might result in low calcium levels in the blood, chondrocalcinosis, spasticity and tetany, migraines, epileptic seizures, basal ganglia calcifications and in extreme and prolonged cases coma, intellectual disability or death. The vasodilatatory effect of magnesium seems to be the major mechanism. Oral magnesium supplements has been demonstrated to improve insulin sensitivity and lipid profile. A 2016 meta-analysis not restricted to diabetic subjects found that increasing dietary magnesium intake, while associated with a reduced risk of stroke, heart failure, diabetes, and all-cause mortality, was not clearly associated with lower risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) or total cardiovascular disease (CVD).A 2021 study on blood from 4,400 diabetic patients over 6 to 11 years reported that "People with higher levels of magnesium in the blood were found to have a significantly lower risk of cardiovascular disease", and also of diabetic foot and diabetic retinopathy. Magnesium salts are available as a medication in a number of formulations. Magnesium is important to health. In lower doses, they may be used as an oral magnesium source, however. 
Does focused ultrasound (HIFU) treatment reduce wrinkles and sagging of the skin? [SEP] High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a non-invasive therapeutic technique that uses non-ionizing ultrasonic waves to heat or ablate tissue. Given the prevalence and relatively low cost of ultrasound generation mechanisms, The premise of HIFU is that it is expect a non-invasive and low-cost therapy that can at minimum outperform of care. This is accomplished using a technique known as High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU), also called focused ultrasound surgery (FUS surgery). Ultrasound-assisted lipectomy is Liposuction assisted by ultrasound. However, therapeutic ultrasound is reported to have beneficial effects in sports injuries pain relief, edema control, and range of joint motion, possibly by increasing pain thresholds, collagen extensibility, reducing edema, and therefore inflammation, muscle spasms, and joint stiffness. A meta-analysis found that ultrasound therapy is effective in reducing pain, increasing ROM, and reducing WOMAC functional scores in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Knee Oseteoarthritis
According to recent research, therapeutic ultrasound has not shown any significant improvement for chronic low back pain, chronic neck pain, and hip pain in combination with other physiotherapeutic techniques. The evidence demonstrated that therapeutic ultrasound significantly relieved pain, increases range of motion, and reduced WOMAC functional scores in patients with knee osteoarthritis when compared to the placebo group. 
Does a ketogenic diet help against cancer? [SEP] The ketogenic diet is a high-fat, adequate-protein, low-carbohydrate dietary therapy that in conventional medicine is used mainly to treat hard-to-control (refractory) epilepsy in children. History
The ketogenic diet is a mainstream medical dietary therapy that was developed to reproduce the success and remove the limitations of the non-mainstream use of fasting to treat epilepsy. The ketogenic diet has been found to have antiepileptogenic properties in rats. As of 2022 there is no clinical evidence that a ketogenic diet is effective to treat cancer. The Ketogenic Diet: A Treatment for Children and Others with Epilepsy. The ketogenic diet is a very carefully controlled diet regimen that is high in fat and low in carbohydrates and has been shown to reduce epilepsy symptoms in children. There are some health benefits to ketone bodies and ketogenesis as well. It has been proposed that actively engaging in behaviors that promote ketogenesis could help manage the effects of some cancers. 
Do curd compresses have an analgesic effect (e.g. for muscle and joint pain)? Do they have an antipyretic effect? Do curd compresses help breastfeeding women with lactation congestion? [SEP] Curd is obtained by coagulating milk in a sequential process called curdling. The increased acidity causes the milk proteins (casein) to tangle into solid masses, or curds. Producing cheese curds is one of the first steps in cheesemaking; the curds are pressed and drained to varying amounts for different styles of cheese and different secondary agents (molds for blue cheeses, etc.) Curds can be used in baking or may be consumed as a snack. Uses
Curd products vary by region and include cottage cheese, curd cheese (both curdled by bacteria and sometimes also rennet), farmer cheese, pot cheese, queso blanco, and paneer. Curds are used to make pudding as well, with semolina, raisins, chopped nuts and other ingredients. This can be baked, or the curd pudding can be used to bake thin custard pancakes.Cheese curds, drained of the whey and served without further processing or aging, are popular in some French-speaking regions of Canada, such as Quebec, parts of Ontario, and Atlantic Canada. The curd produced after is used to make chhurpi and variations of it. 
Does deuterium-reduced water prevent cancer? [SEP] Deuterium-depleted water (DDW) is water which has a lower concentration of deuterium than occurs naturally at sea level on Earth. Chemistry
Deuterium-depleted water has a lower concentration of deuterium (2H) than occurs in nature at sea level. Biological properties of the deuterium content in water
Gilbert N. Lewis was the first to discover that heavy water inhibits (retards) seed growth (1933). The human body naturally contains deuterium equivalent to about five grams of heavy water, which is harmless. In 1972, it was demonstrated that an increase in the percentage content of deuterium in water reduces plant growth. This is a consequence of the ratio of nuclear masses between the isotopes of hydrogen, which is much greater than for any other element.Deuterium oxide is used to enhance boron neutron capture therapy, but this effect does not rely on the biological or chemical effects of deuterium, but instead on deuterium's ability to moderate (slow) neutrons without capturing them.Recent experimental evidence indicates that systemic administration of deuterium oxide (30% drinking water supplementation) suppresses tumor growth in a standard mouse model of human melanoma, an effect attributed to selective induction of cellular stress signaling and gene expression in tumor cells. Deuterium has a natural abundance in Earth's oceans of about one atom of deuterium among every 6,420 atoms of hydrogen (see heavy water). Similarly, natural water contains trace amounts of deuterated molecules, almost all as semiheavy water HDO with only one deuterium atom. 
Does deuterium-reduced water improve disease progression in cancer??? [SEP] Deuterium-depleted water (DDW) is water which has a lower concentration of deuterium than occurs naturally at sea level on Earth. Chemistry
Deuterium-depleted water has a lower concentration of deuterium (2H) than occurs in nature at sea level. Biological properties of the deuterium content in water
Gilbert N. Lewis was the first to discover that heavy water inhibits (retards) seed growth (1933). This can be slowed down by deuteration, hence improving pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. The human body naturally contains deuterium equivalent to about five grams of heavy water, which is harmless. As a hydrogen bond with deuterium is slightly stronger than one involving ordinary hydrogen, in a highly deuterated environment, some normal reactions in cells are disrupted. In 1972, it was demonstrated that an increase in the percentage content of deuterium in water reduces plant growth. This is a consequence of the ratio of nuclear masses between the isotopes of hydrogen, which is much greater than for any other element.Deuterium oxide is used to enhance boron neutron capture therapy, but this effect does not rely on the biological or chemical effects of deuterium, but instead on deuterium's ability to moderate (slow) neutrons without capturing them.Recent experimental evidence indicates that systemic administration of deuterium oxide (30% drinking water supplementation) suppresses tumor growth in a standard mouse model of human melanoma, an effect attributed to selective induction of cellular stress signaling and gene expression in tumor cells. 
Can a special mattress relieve nighttime rheumatism symptoms and thus improve sleep? [SEP] Orthopaedic mattresses have been created to combat the problems one might experience with a bad back or joints by providing a firm mattress which offers targeted, tailored support. "These symptoms of RLS can make sleeping difficult for many patients and a 2005 National Sleep Foundation poll shows the presence of significant daytime difficulties resulting from this condition. A vibratory counter-stimulation device has been found to help some people with primary RLS to improve their sleep. Iron
There is some evidence that intravenous iron supplementation moderately improves restlessness for people with RLS. Medications
For those whose RLS disrupts or prevents sleep or regular daily activities, medication may be useful. They reduce symptoms, improve sleep quality and quality of life. Sleeping on one's side rather than in a supine position or using positional pillows can provide relief, but these modifications may not be sufficient to treat more severe cases. Some of the conditions the sleep disorder specialist helps evaluate and treat are; insomnia, sleep apnea, restless legs syndrome, and narcolepsy. 
Do people with blood group AB have a higher risk of developing dementia? [SEP] Among older adults both an unfavorable lifestyle and high genetic risk are independently associated with higher dementia risk. Over 50% of LOAD patients have the 𝜀4 allele and that having even one copy of the 𝜀4 allele increases the risk of developing Alzheimer's by a factor of 4. The interaction of BIN1 and tau might also be important because elevated levels of BIN1 are associated with increased AD risk through tau load; this result is suggested because of studies of the functional rs59335482 variant. These metabolites have been suggested to be involved in AD pathology and cognitive decline, as they co-localize with the plaques and NFTs in patient brains.Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in the Hispanic/Latino population indicate that polymorphisms in the BIN1, ABAC7 and CD2AP genes are more significant in Caribbean Hispanics. The high prevalence of cardiovascular and metabolic conditions is thought to contribute to the higher risk of Alzheimer's Disease seen in Hispanics and Latinos. Although there are genetic risk factors for Alzheimer’s, these account for few cases in all racial groups. The risk of dementia (not limited to AD) among relatives of African Americans who have AD is 43.7%, suggesting a strong role of genetics in disease onset. Conversely, APOE ε4 carriers with a sedentary lifestyle show a greater amyloid beta deposition compared to non-carriers.Type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients have a higher risk of developing AD and Vascular dementia. 
Does therapeutic dancing help people with Parkinson's improve their movement problems? [SEP] "Dance movement therapy works to improve the social skills, as well as relational dynamics among the clients that choose to participate in it to better improve their quality of life. The findings of individual studies suggest that dance/movement therapy may have a beneficial effect on the quality of life, somatization (i.e. Theoretical Approaches in Dance Movement Therapy. Dance Movement Therapy: Theory, Research and Practice (2nd edn). An Introduction to Dance Movement Therapy in Psychiatry. Exercises such as cycling or walking have been shown to enhance gait, mobility and quality of life in patients with Parkinson’s Disease. Zeiger, P. "Why Yoga Can Be Helpful to Those Living with Parkinson's Disorder." Wellsphere: 2008 December 8: http://www.wellsphere.com/brain-health-article/why-yoga-can-be-helpful-to-those-living-with-parkinson-rsquo-s-disorder/526058

External links
Movement Disorders Society
Life with Dystonia: BEATDystonia
LIM Yoga: Yoga for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders
Lakshmi Voelker Chair Yoga 
Is it possible to reliably detect coronavirus infection based only on symptoms but without laboratory testing? [SEP] Further, whether mild or asymptomatic infections produce sufficient antibodies for a test to detect has not been established. Radiologic findings in COVID-19 lack specificity.Chest X-rays, computed tomography scans and ultrasounds are all ways the coronavirus disease can be detected. Computerized tomography has been a known routine scanning for pneumonia diagnosis, therefore can also be used to diagnose coronavirus disease. They emphasized how important chest computerized tomography scans are for determining how serious the coronavirus disease infection is.Ultrasound can be another tool to detect coronavirus disease. Although a computerized tomography scan is a strong tool in the diagnosis of COVID-19, it is insufficient to identify COVID-19 alone due to the poor specificity and the difficulties that radiologists may experience in distinguishing COVID-19 from other viral pneumonia on chest computerized tomography scans. Viral testing can identify if a person is currently infected with SARS-CoV-2. The testing system would be able to take certain compounds from an individual breath to detect coronavirus. Flow cytometry
While most flow cytometers do not have sufficient sensitivity, there are a few commercially available flow cytometers that can be used for virus quantification. 
Are home coronavirus self-tests as reliable as tests performed by trained healthcare professionals? [SEP] 2021
By January 2021, the Council of the European Union advocated greater use of rapid tests, noting that "should research prove that rapid antigen tests can be conducted by the testee themselves.... self-testing with or without professional guidance could also be considered." Rapid self-tests and point-of-care testing are also available and can offer a faster and less expensive method to test for the virus although with a lower accuracy. Some studies have  found that saliva yielded greater sensitivity and consistency when compared with swab samples.On 15 August 2020, the US FDA granted an emergency use authorization for a saliva test developed at Yale University that gives results in hours.On 4 January 2021, the US FDA issued an alert about the risk of false results, particularly false negative results, with the Curative SARS-Cov-2 Assay real-time RT-PCR test.Viral burden measured in upper respiratory specimens declines after symptom onset. Self-tests are rapid tests that can be taken at home or anywhere, are easy to use, and produce rapid results. Tests were most accurate (78%) when used in the first week after symptoms first developed, likely because people have the most virus in their system in the first days after they are infected. The computerized tomography scans findings were not the same as positive computerized tomography scans findings of coronavirus. A two-month study by the Necker-Cochin hospital Paris in conjunction with the French national veterinary school reported in May 2021 that dogs were more reliable than current lateral flow tests.Researchers in Paris in March 2022 reported in a preprint not yet peer-reviewed that trained dogs were very effective for rapidly detecting the presence of SARS-Cov2 in people, whether displaying symptoms or not. Test kits made by BGI, R-Biopharm AG, BGI, KH Medical and Seegene showed high sensitivity.High sensitivity kits are recommended to assess people without symptoms, while lower sensitivity tests are adequate when diagnosing symptomatic patients.The University of Oxford's Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine (CEBM) has pointed to mounting evidence that "a good proportion of 'new' mild cases and people re-testing positives via RT-PCR after quarantine or discharge from hospital are not infectious, but are simply clearing harmless virus particles which their immune system has efficiently dealt with", and have called for "an international effort to standardize and periodically calibrate testing". 
Does biotin help with hair loss? Does biotin make hair grow faster? [SEP] In the US, biotin as a non-prescription dietary supplement is sold in amounts of 1 to 10 mg per serving, with claims for supporting hair and nail health, and as 300 mg per day as a possibly effective treatment for multiple sclerosis (see § Research). The hypothesis is that biotin may promote remyelination of the myelin sheath of nerve cells, slowing or even reversing neurodegeneration. Hair, nails, skin
In the United States, biotin is promoted as a dietary supplement for strengthening hair and fingernails, though scientific data supporting these outcomes in humans are very weak. A review of biotin as treatment for hair loss identified case studies of infants and young children with genetic defect biotin deficiency having improved hair growth after supplementation, but went on to report that "there have been no randomized, controlled trials to prove efficacy of supplementation with biotin in normal, healthy individuals." For example: Biotin helps maintain healthy skin, hair and nails. Biotin is a popular nutritional supplement. Although hair follicles were previously thought to be permanently gone in areas of complete hair loss, they are more likely dormant, as recent studies have shown the scalp contains the stem cell progenitor cells from which the follicles arose.Transgenic studies have shown that growth and dormancy of hair follicles are related to the activity of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) at the dermal papillae, which is affected by DHT. Bicalutamide, an antiandrogen, is another option for the treatment of female pattern hair loss. 
Can induction of labor prevent infant deaths in pregnancies that go beyond the estimated due date? Does it reduce the number of neonatal intensive care unit stays? [SEP] Labor induction is the process or treatment that stimulates childbirth and delivery. One recent study indicates that labor induction at term (41 weeks) or post-term reduces the rate of caesarean section by 12%, and also reduces fetal death. There is insufficient evidence to determine if inducing a women's labor at home is a safe and effective approach for both the women and the baby.Studies have shown a slight increase in risk of infant mortality for births in the 41st and particularly 42nd week of gestation, as well as a higher risk of injury to the mother and child. Due to the increasing risks of advanced gestation, induction appears to reduce the risk for caesarean delivery after 41 weeks' gestation and possibly earlier. Inducing labour after 41 weeks of completed gestion is likely to reduce the risk of perinatal death and stillbirth compared with waiting for labour to start spontaneously.Inducing labor before 39 weeks in the absence of a medical indication (such as hypertension, IUGR, or pre-eclampsia) increases the risk of complications of prematurity including difficulties with respiration, infection, feeding, jaundice, neonatal intensive care unit admissions, and perinatal death.Inducing labour after 34 weeks and before 37 weeks in women with hypertensive disorders (pre-eclampsia, eclampsia, pregnancy-induced hypertension) may lead to better outcomes for the woman but does not improve or worsen outcomes for the baby. As preterm birth represents one of the leading causes of neonatal morbidity and mortality, the goal is to prevent neonatal morbidity and mortality through delaying delivery and increasing gestational age by gaining more time for other management strategies like corticosteroids therapy that may help with fetus lung maturity. However, postponing premature delivery by 48 hours appears sufficient to allow pregnant women to be transferred to a center specialized for management of preterm deliveries, and thus administer corticosteroids for the possibility to reduce neonatal organ immaturity.The efficacy of β-adrenergic agonists, atosiban, and indomethacin is a decreased odds ratio (OR) of delivery within 24 hours of 0.54 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.32-0.91) and 0.47 within 48 hours (OR 0.47, 95% CI: 0.30-0.75).Antibiotics were thought to delay delivery, but no studies have shown any evidence that using antibiotics during preterm labor effectively delays delivery or reduces neonatal morbidity. Prophylactic antibiotic administration has been shown to prolong pregnancy and reduced neonatal morbidity with rupture of membranes at less than 34 weeks. 
Does induction of labor make cesarean sections less necessary than observational waiting? [SEP] Labor induction is the process or treatment that stimulates childbirth and delivery. One recent study indicates that labor induction at term (41 weeks) or post-term reduces the rate of caesarean section by 12%, and also reduces fetal death. Some observational/retrospective studies have shown that non-indicated, elective inductions before the 41st week of gestation are associated with an increased risk of requiring a caesarean section. Due to the increasing risks of advanced gestation, induction appears to reduce the risk for caesarean delivery after 41 weeks' gestation and possibly earlier. Inducing labour after 41 weeks of completed gestion is likely to reduce the risk of perinatal death and stillbirth compared with waiting for labour to start spontaneously.Inducing labor before 39 weeks in the absence of a medical indication (such as hypertension, IUGR, or pre-eclampsia) increases the risk of complications of prematurity including difficulties with respiration, infection, feeding, jaundice, neonatal intensive care unit admissions, and perinatal death.Inducing labour after 34 weeks and before 37 weeks in women with hypertensive disorders (pre-eclampsia, eclampsia, pregnancy-induced hypertension) may lead to better outcomes for the woman but does not improve or worsen outcomes for the baby. These interventions may also lead to an increased likelihood of caesarean section delivery for the baby. Prevention
The prevalence of caesarean section is generally agreed to be higher than needed in many countries, and physicians are encouraged to actively lower the rate, as a caesarean rate higher than 10–15% is not associated with reductions in maternal or infant mortality rates, although some evidence support that a higher rate of 19% may result in better outcomes.Some of these efforts are: emphasizing a long latent phase of labor is not abnormal and not a justification for C-section; a new definition of the start of active labor from a cervical dilatation of 4 cm to a dilatation of 6 cm; and allowing women who have previously given birth to push for at least 2 hours, with 3 hours of pushing for women who have not previously given birth, before labor arrest is considered. C-sections are usually a necessary measure in prolonged labor to avoid serious birth complications. 
Does the number of deliveries with a vacuum cup and forceps remain similar with induction and observational waiting??? [SEP] In general, a forceps birth is likely to be safer for both the mother and baby than the alternatives – either a ventouse birth or a caesarean section – although caveats such as operator skill apply.Advantages of forceps use include avoidance of caesarean section (and the short and long-term complications that accompany this), reduction of delivery time, and general applicability with cephalic presentation (head presentation). Maternal factors for use of forceps:Maternal exhaustion. So, short forceps are preferred in the UK and USA. Forceps had a profound influence on obstetrics as it allowed for the speedy delivery of the baby in cases of difficult or obstructed labour. "In addition, women who had forceps deliveries had shorter after-childbirth complications than those who had caesarean sections performed." Forceps or vacuum assisted delivery
An assisted delivery is used in about 1 in 8 births, and may be needed if either mother or infant appears to be at risk during a vaginal delivery. Done properly, they are both safe with some preference for forceps rather than vacuum, and both are seen as preferable to an unexpected C-section. For women undergoing operative vaginal delivery with vacuum extraction or forceps, there is strong evidence that prophylactic antibiotics help to reduce the risk of infection. 
Does taking supplements with omega-3 fatty acids reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke or other sudden cardiovascular problems?  Does it lower the risk of dying prematurely? [SEP] The most promising evidence supports supplementation for prevention of cardiac death.Fish oil and omega-3 fatty acids have also been studied in a wide variety of other conditions such as clinical depression, anxiety, cancer, and macular degeneration, yet their benefit in these conditions has also not been verified.The fish used as sources do not actually produce omega-3 fatty acids. A 2012 meta-analysis published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, covering 20 studies and 68,680 patients, found that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation did not reduce the chance of death, cardiac death, heart attack, or stroke. Health effects of omega-3 supplementation
The association between supplementation and a lower risk of all-cause mortality is inconclusive. Cardiovascular disease
Moderate and high quality evidence from a 2020 review showed that EPA and DHA, such as that found in omega−3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplements, does not appear to improve mortality or cardiovascular health. However, omega−3 fatty acid supplementation greater than one gram daily for at least a year may be protective against cardiac death, sudden death, and myocardial infarction in people who have a history of cardiovascular disease. Omega−3 fatty acids can also reduce heart rate, an emerging risk factor. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. A 2021 review found that omega-3 supplementation did not affect cardiovascular disease outcomes. 
Can taking dietary supplements with omega-3 fatty acids prevent further heart attacks or strokes if one has already had a heart attack?  In this case, does it lower the risk of dying prematurely?? [SEP] The most promising evidence supports supplementation for prevention of cardiac death.Fish oil and omega-3 fatty acids have also been studied in a wide variety of other conditions such as clinical depression, anxiety, cancer, and macular degeneration, yet their benefit in these conditions has also not been verified.The fish used as sources do not actually produce omega-3 fatty acids. A 2012 meta-analysis published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, covering 20 studies and 68,680 patients, found that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation did not reduce the chance of death, cardiac death, heart attack, or stroke. Cardiovascular disease
Moderate and high quality evidence from a 2020 review showed that EPA and DHA, such as that found in omega−3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplements, does not appear to improve mortality or cardiovascular health. However, omega−3 fatty acid supplementation greater than one gram daily for at least a year may be protective against cardiac death, sudden death, and myocardial infarction in people who have a history of cardiovascular disease. In the EU, a review by the European Medicines Agency of omega−3 fatty acid medicines containing a combination of an ethyl ester of eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid at a dose of 1 g per day concluded that these medicines are not effective in secondary prevention of heart problems in patients who have had a myocardial infarction.Evidence suggests that omega−3 fatty acids modestly lower blood pressure (systolic and diastolic) in people with hypertension and in people with normal blood pressure. Omega−3 fatty acids can also reduce heart rate, an emerging risk factor. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. A 2021 review found that omega-3 supplementation did not affect cardiovascular disease outcomes. 
Can cosmetic products with caffeine for hair and scalp help against hereditary hair loss? [SEP] Its manufacturer has claimed that the caffeine present in the formulation can help to reduce hair loss.From March 2018, the company was no longer allowed to state in the UK that it "helps reduce hair loss" in their advertisements due to a decision made by the Advertising Standards Authority. "In 2019, the International Journal of Cosmetic Science released study that determined "caffeine is the most studied phytochemical for hair loss and the various caffeine studies reported offer reasonable evidence that, when dosed adequately, caffeine will become present in the HF at levels that support its biological activities and over a sufficient period of time, could result in ameliorated hair loss in some patients".The brand has sponsored a number of professional cycling teams. Hair multiplication or hair cloning is a proposed technique to counter hair loss. In alopecia, male and female-pattern baldness is an effect of androgenic receptor activation, so reducing levels of DHT also reduces hair loss. Interleukin 1 is suspected to be a cytokine mediator that promotes hair loss.The fact that hair loss is cumulative with age while androgen levels fall as well as the fact that finasteride does not reverse advanced stages of androgenetic alopecia remains a mystery, but possible explanations are higher conversion of testosterone to DHT locally with age as higher levels of 5-alpha reductase are noted in balding scalp, and higher levels of DNA damage in the dermal papilla as well as senescence of the dermal papilla due to androgen receptor activation and environmental stress. This is not intuitive, as testosterone and its peripheral metabolite, DHT, accelerate hair loss, and SHBG is thought to be protective. Bicalutamide, an antiandrogen, is another option for the treatment of female pattern hair loss. "Medical treatments for balding in men". 
Is music therapy with rhythmic training helpful for people with Parkinson's who have trouble walking? [SEP] In addition gait initiation has been shown to be significantly improved in PD patients compared with auditory cues. Deep brain stimulation
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the pedunculopontine nucleus, a part of the brainstem involved in motor planning, has been shown to improve gait function in patients with Parkinson's disease.DBS in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the globus pallidus have also been shown to have positive effects on gait abnormalities presented by Parkinson's Disease patients. Other treatments strategies
Attention strategies:
By consciously paying more attention to walking and rehearsing each step before actually making it, PD patients have shown to improve their gait. Avoidance of dual tasks that require motor attention or cognitive attention has also been shown to normalize gait in the PD patients.Exercise:
Physical therapy and exercise have been shown to have positive effects on gait parameters in PD patients.Physiotherapists may help improve gait by creating training programs to lengthen a patient's stride length, broaden the base of support, improve the heel-toe gait pattern, straighten out a patient's posture, and increase arm swing patterns.Research has shown gait training combining an overhead harness with walking on a treadmill has shown to improve both walking speed and stride length. Since Parkinson’s disease is a progressive disease, patient’s symptoms continue to worsen with time and they often develop visible differences in their walking that greatly affects their quality of life. Exercises such as cycling or walking have been shown to enhance gait, mobility and quality of life in patients with Parkinson’s Disease. Because of these aforementioned benefits, external pacing cues such as cycling or treadmill use could play an important role in the rehabilitation and exercise training of patients with Parkinson's disease who are grounded by freezing of gait. The findings of individual studies suggest that dance/movement therapy may have a beneficial effect on the quality of life, somatization (i.e. 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] Osteoarthritis is a common condition of cartilage failure that can lead to limited range of motion, bone damage and invariably, pain. Avocado oil is an edible oil extracted from the pulp of avocados, the fruit of Persea americana. Uses
Avocado oil functions well as a carrier oil for other flavors. Edible cold-pressed avocado oil is generally unrefined, like extra virgin olive oil, so it retains the flavor and color characteristics of the fruit flesh. In some cases, the researchers found that bottles labeled as “pure” or “extra virgin” avocado oil contained nearly 100% soybean oil. Both unrefined and refined avocado oil can safely be used for almost any high-heat cooking, including baking, stir-frying, deep-frying, searing, barbecuing, roasting, and sauteing. Therapeutic
Aspiration of synovial fluid in cases of joint effusion or hemarthrosis can help reduce pressure around the joints, thus providing pain relief. Flavocoxid is a medical food consisting of plant derived flavonoids which have anti-inflammatory activity and are used to provide nutritional support to people with chronic osteoarthritis.Flavocoxid has been approved for use as a medical food in the United States since 2004 and is available by prescription for use in chronic osteoarthritis in tablets of 500 mg under the commercial name Limbrel.Flavocoxid has been linked to occasional minor elevations in serum enzyme levels during therapy and to rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury. 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint? [SEP] Flavocoxid is a medical food consisting of plant derived flavonoids which have anti-inflammatory activity and are used to provide nutritional support to people with chronic osteoarthritis.Flavocoxid has been approved for use as a medical food in the United States since 2004 and is available by prescription for use in chronic osteoarthritis in tablets of 500 mg under the commercial name Limbrel.Flavocoxid has been linked to occasional minor elevations in serum enzyme levels during therapy and to rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury. Avocado oil is an edible oil extracted from the pulp of avocados, the fruit of Persea americana. Uses
Avocado oil functions well as a carrier oil for other flavors. In some cases, the researchers found that bottles labeled as “pure” or “extra virgin” avocado oil contained nearly 100% soybean oil. Unrefined avocado oil from the 'Hass' cultivar has a characteristic flavor, is high in monounsaturated fatty acids, and has a high smoke point (≥250 °C or 482 °F), making it a good oil for frying. Both unrefined and refined avocado oil can safely be used for almost any high-heat cooking, including baking, stir-frying, deep-frying, searing, barbecuing, roasting, and sauteing. The use of diacerein is to be limited to treating symptoms of osteoarthritis affecting the hip or knee. Therapeutic
Aspiration of synovial fluid in cases of joint effusion or hemarthrosis can help reduce pressure around the joints, thus providing pain relief. 
Is it safe to take preparations containing unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU)? [SEP] Edible cold-pressed avocado oil is generally unrefined, like extra virgin olive oil, so it retains the flavor and color characteristics of the fruit flesh. Quality
A study performed at the University of California, Davis in 2020 determined that a majority of the domestic and imported avocado oil sold in the US is rancid before its expiration date or is adulterated with other oils. In some cases, the researchers found that bottles labeled as “pure” or “extra virgin” avocado oil contained nearly 100% soybean oil. Both unrefined and refined avocado oil can safely be used for almost any high-heat cooking, including baking, stir-frying, deep-frying, searing, barbecuing, roasting, and sauteing. Safety
Avobenzone, a petroleum-based sunscreen active ingredient, is not generally recognised as safe and effective (GREASE) by the FDA for lack of sufficient data to support this claim. Such avocados contain at least 8% oil when mature. The Florida avocado growers, however, mostly cultivate West Indian, Guatemalan, and hybrid varieties, which may reach maturity and be acceptable and reach their prime for marketing prior to reaching an 8% oil content, or they may never reach that level of oil content. "Absent the 8 percent oil content requirement, Florida shippers of avocados would market substantial quantities of West Indian varieties of avocados in California," but even though they are in fact mature they will not pass the California 8 percent test. 
Can taking chondroitin relieve osteoarthritis pain or improve mobility in the long term? [SEP] Despite the difficulty in determining the efficacy of glucosamine, it remains a viable treatment option according to some experts.Chondroitin is not recommended as a treatment for osteoarthritis. These results indicate that glucosamine and chondroitin do not effectively relieve pain in the overall group of osteoarthritis patients, though it may be an effective treatment for those suffering from moderate-to-severe pain.In a follow-up study, 572 patients from the GAIT Trial continued the supplementation for two years. Its use as a therapy for osteoarthritis is usually safe.A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials of chondroitin found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. Along with glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate has become a widely used dietary supplement for treatment of osteoarthritis, although large clinical trials failed to demonstrate any symptomatic benefit of chondroitin. Medical use
Chondroitin is used in dietary supplements as an alternative medicine to treat osteoarthritis. A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints.Chondroitin, along with commonly used glucosamine, should not be used to treat people who have symptomatic osteoarthritis of the knee as evidence shows that these treatments fail to provide relief for that condition.Chondroitin has shown to be promising in the treatment of coronary artery disease. A recent review summarizes data from relevant reports describing the biochemical basis of the effect of chondroitin sulfate on osteoarthritis articular tissues. Clinical trials for osteoarthritis
In 2004, a petition was submitted to the FDA that a dietary supplement of chondroitin sulfate be labeled as reducing the risk of osteoarthritis, cartilage deterioration, and osteoarthritis-related joint pain, tenderness, and swelling. 
Does taking arginine benefit existing cardiovascular disease or does arginine prevent it from developing? [SEP] Physiologically, homoarginine increases nitric oxide (NO) supply and betters endothelial functions in the body, with a particular correlation and effect towards cardiovascular outcome and mortality. Uses
Homoarginine is used clinical studies, often with rats, to explore its effects on cardiovascular health by acting as an inhibitor for organ-specific reactions as well as a stimulator in some cases. Furthermore, this study presented evidence towards increased risk of stroke with low concentrations of homoarginine. "Amino Acids, Arginase and Nitric Oxide in Vascular Health". "Homoarginine, heart failure, and sudden cardiac death in haemodialysis patients". As such, it finds widespread use as a biochemical tool in the study of nitric oxide and its biological effects.Nitroarginine has been used in research studying coronary constriction, and it was found that, in the presence of midazolam vasodilatation was unaffected by nitroarginine. ADMA interferes with L-arginine in the production of nitric oxide (NO), a key chemical involved in normal endothelial function and, by extension, cardiovascular health. The inhibiting effect of N-methylarginine on vasodilation is lower in hypertensive patients than in normal subjects, indicating endothelial dysfunction. 
Does "Detoxic" work against tapeworms and other parasites? Does "Detoxic" help with health complaints? [SEP] Detoxification (often shortened to detox and sometimes called body cleansing) is a type of alternative-medicine treatment which aims to rid the body of unspecified "toxins" – substances that proponents claim accumulate in the body over time and have undesirable short-term or long-term effects on individual health. Proponents claim that this causes the body to burn accumulated stored fats, releasing fat-stored "toxins" into the blood, which can then be eliminated through the blood, skin, urine, feces and breath. Proponents claim that things such as an altered body-odor support the notion that detox diets have an effect. "Detoxification" devices
Certain devices are promoted to allegedly remove toxins from the body. Criticism
Unsound scientific basis
A 2015 review of clinical evidence about detox diets concluded: "At present, there is no compelling evidence to support the use of detox diets for weight management or toxin elimination. An anticestodal agent is a drug used in deworming to combat tapeworm infection. Detoxification or detoxication (detox for short) is the physiological or medicinal removal of toxic substances from a living organism, including the human body, which is mainly carried out by the liver. In medicine, detoxification can be achieved by decontamination of poison ingestion and the use of antidotes as well as techniques such as dialysis and (in a limited number of cases) chelation therapy.Many alternative medicine practitioners promote various types of detoxification such as detoxification diets. 
Is mannose as good as or better than antibiotics for preventing recurrent cystitis? [SEP] Mechanism of action
In interstitial cystitis, pentosan polysulfate is believed to work by providing a protective coating to the damaged bladder wall. Medical uses
Diseases
Bacterial meningitis; an aminoglycoside can be added to increase efficacy against gram-negative meningitis bacteria
Endocarditis by enterococcal strains (off-label use); often given with an aminoglycoside
Gastrointestinal infections caused by contaminated water or food (for example, by Salmonella)
Genito-urinary tract infections
Healthcare-associated infections that are related to infections from using urinary catheters and that are unresponsive to other medications
Otitis media (middle ear infection)
Prophylaxis (i.e. Respiratory infections, including bronchitis, pharyngitis
Sinusitis
Sepsis
Whooping cough, to prevent and treat secondary infectionsAmpicillin used to also be used to treat gonorrhea, but there are now too many strains resistant to penicillins. It is one of the few antibiotics that works against multidrug resistant Enterococcus faecalis and E. faecium. Ampicillin (originally branded as "Penbritin") also demonstrated activity against gram-negative organisms such as H. influenzae, coliforms, and Proteus spp. Cost
Ampicillin is relatively inexpensive. For foot and vaginal infections, isoconazole has a similar effectiveness to clotrimazole. Mannitol salt agar or MSA is a commonly used selective and differential growth medium in microbiology. 
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of spinal fractures in older women? [SEP] Research suggests that deficiency of vitamin K may also weaken bones, potentially contributing to osteoporosis, and may promote calcification of arteries and other soft tissues.Chemically, the vitamin K family comprises 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone (3-) derivatives. Vitamin K2 has been shown to lower this ratio and improve lumbar vertebrae bone mineral density. Research
Osteoporosis
Vitamin K is required for the gamma-carboxylation of osteocalcin in bone. The risk of osteoporosis, assessed via bone mineral density and fractures, was not affected for people on warfarin therapy – a vitamin K antagonist. Higher dietary intake of vitamin K1 may modestly decrease the risk of fractures. However, there is mixed evidence to support a claim that vitamin K supplementation reduces risk of bone fractures. For women who were post-menopausal and for all people diagnosed with osteoporosis, supplementation trials reported increases in bone mineral density, a reduction to the odds of any clinical fractures but no significant difference for vertebral fractures. There is a subset of literature on supplementation with vitamin K2 MK-4 and bone health. 
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of other bone fractures in older women? [SEP] Research suggests that deficiency of vitamin K may also weaken bones, potentially contributing to osteoporosis, and may promote calcification of arteries and other soft tissues.Chemically, the vitamin K family comprises 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone (3-) derivatives. Vitamin K2 has been shown to lower this ratio and improve lumbar vertebrae bone mineral density. Research
Osteoporosis
Vitamin K is required for the gamma-carboxylation of osteocalcin in bone. The risk of osteoporosis, assessed via bone mineral density and fractures, was not affected for people on warfarin therapy – a vitamin K antagonist. Higher dietary intake of vitamin K1 may modestly decrease the risk of fractures. However, there is mixed evidence to support a claim that vitamin K supplementation reduces risk of bone fractures. For women who were post-menopausal and for all people diagnosed with osteoporosis, supplementation trials reported increases in bone mineral density, a reduction to the odds of any clinical fractures but no significant difference for vertebral fractures. There is a subset of literature on supplementation with vitamin K2 MK-4 and bone health. 
Does Smartsleep provide better or more restful sleep? [SEP] It's a soft-robotic that enhances the quality of sleep and uses breathing regulation and audio to help fall asleep faster, get deeper sleep, and wake up at the optimal time through a smart alarm. A smart mattress is a mattress that has sensors to monitor sleep patterns. External links
Description of device Sleep feature (DevSleep) at smarthdd.com


== References == REM sleep and slow-wave sleep play different roles in memory consolidation. Current studies demonstrate that a healthy sleep produces a significant learning-dependent performance boost. The subjects who engaged in REM sleep performed significantly better, indicating that REM sleep facilitated the consolidation of nondeclarative memories. Products
Eight Sleep sells smart mattresses that allow users to track data regarding their sleep cycles, control the temperature of their beds, and set wake-up alarms that are integrated within the mattress. Studies that reject creative insomnia
In a series of three studies that analyzed the link between creativity, dreams, and sleep behaviors, researchers discovered that: (1) participants who were classified as "fast sleepers" (those who fell asleep quickly) were more likely to score highly on a creativity test, (2) participants who scored highly on a creativity test were more likely to solve their problems through dreams and to fall asleep quickly, and (3) adults in creative occupations have significantly more dream distortion, visual mentation, and regressive dream content. 
Can supplemental tryptophan, taken as a dietary supplement or with food, help with depression? [SEP] Depletion of tryptophan (the precursor of serotonin), tyrosine and phenylalanine (precursors to dopamine) does result in decreased mood in those with a predisposition to depression, but not in persons lacking the predisposition. Dietary sources
Tryptophan is present in most protein-based foods or dietary proteins. Medical use
Depression
Because tryptophan is converted into 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) which is then converted into the neurotransmitter serotonin, it has been proposed that consumption of tryptophan or 5-HTP may improve depression symptoms by increasing the level of serotonin in the brain. Tryptophan is sold over the counter in the United States (after being banned to varying extents between 1989 and 2005) and the United Kingdom as a dietary supplement for use as an antidepressant, anxiolytic, and sleep aid. There is evidence that blood tryptophan levels are unlikely to be altered by changing the diet, but consuming purified tryptophan increases the serotonin level in the brain, whereas eating foods containing tryptophan does not.In 2001 a Cochrane review of the effect of 5-HTP and tryptophan on depression was published. The use of tryptophan as an adjunctive therapy in addition to standard treatment for mood and anxiety disorders is not supported by the scientific evidence. Interactions
Tryptophan taken as a dietary supplement (such as in tablet form) has the potential to cause serotonin syndrome when combined with antidepressants of the MAOI or SSRI class or other strongly serotonergic drugs. Because tryptophan supplementation has not been thoroughly studied in a clinical setting, its interactions with other drugs are not well known. 
Can Neuro-Socks relieve pain or improve balance and stability? [SEP] Whereas previous research has attempted to graft nerve tissue to the optic tract and resulted in complications (leg disabilities in the case of sciatic nerve grafts, for instance), nano neuro knitting has been shown to promote the regeneration of these tissues without such drawbacks. People with diabetes have a greater chance of developing neuropathy, vascular disease, and infections, especially in the legs, so socks and footwear that reduce or eliminate pressures or hot spots is important. Extra wide socks are available for excessive edema. They demonstrated that electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves suppresses the perception of pain. Weiner showed that placing a PNS electrode close to a nerve is effective for pain relief and a technically simple procedure. This allows them to be worn with zori or geta sandals.Modern variants of toe socks are designed primarily for either comfort or athletics. In sports, athletic versions of toe socks may be useful to triathletes who suffer from frequent interdigital friction blisters. Neurometrix reference a small study, funded by the company, to claim efficacy in chronic pain; however, evidence is currently limited

References
External links
Company website 
Does taking blood pressure medication in the evening prevent more heart attacks, strokes, and other acute cardiovascular diseases? [SEP] Antihypertensive therapy seeks to prevent the complications of high blood pressure, such as stroke, heart failure, kidney failure and myocardial infarction. Furthermore, ACE inhibitors were less effective in reducing blood pressure and had a 51% higher risk of stroke in black hypertensives when used as initial therapy compared to a calcium channel blocker. Overnight reduction or surge in blood pressure
Optimal blood pressure fluctuates over a 24-hour sleep-wake cycle, with values rising in the daytime and falling after midnight. Additionally, ambulatory monitoring may reveal an excessive morning blood pressure surge; which is associated with increased risk of stroke in elderly people with high blood pressure.Classification of dipping in blood pressure is based on the American Heart Association's calculation, using systolic blood pressure (SBP) as follows:

  
    
      
        D
        i
        p
        =
        (
        1
        −
        
          
            
              S
              B
              
                P
                
                  S
                  l
                  e
                  e
                  p
                  i
                  n
                  g
                
              
            
            
              S
              B
              
                P
                
                  W
                  a
                  k
                  i
                  n
                  g
                
              
            
          
        
        )
        ×
        100
        %
      
    
    {\displaystyle Dip=(1-{\frac {SBP_{Sleeping}}{SBP_{Waking}}})\times 100\%}
  Dippers have significantly lower all-cause mortality than non-dippers or reverse dippers. As a result, "... ambulatory blood pressure predicts mortality significantly better than clinic blood pressure." A 2012 Cochrane review found that medications for mild hypertension did not reduce the risk of death, stroke, or cardiovascular disease, but did cause side effects in 1 of every 12 people. A second review that looked at higher-risk people (mostly diabetics whose blood pressure was difficult to control) found the medication prevented stroke for 1 in 223 and death for 1 in 110 who took it. Background
By the mid-1990s, there was increasing awareness of the relative reduction of risks for stroke and CHD with lowering blood pressure, and the main drugs in use were initially diuretics and beta-blockers. 
In Covid-19, do nicotine or smoking have a protective effect, i.e., do they prevent severe progression or death? [SEP] Tobacco smoking is widely acknowledged as a leading cause of illness and death, and reducing smoking is vital to public health.The consumption of tobacco products and its harmful effects affect both smokers and non-smokers, and is a major risk factor for six of the eight leading causes of deaths in the world, including respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases, cerebrovascular diseases, periodontal diseases, teeth decay and loss, over 20 different types or subtypes of cancers, strokes, several debilitating health conditions, and malignant diseases. It is, however, mostly current smokers who will face disease and death from smoking.Nicotine itself, however, is addictive but not otherwise very harmful, as shown by the long history of people safely using nicotine replacement therapy products (e.g., nicotine gum, nicotine patch). Nicotine increases heart rate and blood pressure and has a range of local irritant effects but does not cause cancer. None of the three main causes of death from smoking—lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (including emphysema and chronic bronchitis), and cardiovascular diseases—is caused primarily by nicotine; the main reason smoking is deadly is the toxic mix of chemicals in smoke from combustion (burning) of tobacco. "Tobacco Harm Reduction and Nicotine Containing Products: Research Priorities and Policy Directions". It is believed that smoking increases the risk of these and other pulmonary and respiratory tract infections both through structural damage and through effects on the immune system. Claimed benefits
Against the background of the overwhelmingly negative effects of smoking on health, some observational studies have suggested that smoking might have specific beneficial effects, including in the field of cardiovascular disease. Systematic review of reports that suggested smokers respond better to treatment for ischemic stroke provided no support for such claims.Claims of surprising benefits of smoking, based on observational data, have also been made for Parkinson's disease, as well as a variety of other conditions, including basal-cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma, acute mountain sickness, pemphigus, celiac disease, and ulcerative colitis, among others.Tobacco smoke has many bioactive substances, including nicotine, that are capable of exerting a variety of systemic effects. 
Can red mold rice products lower blood cholesterol levels? [SEP] Some red rice has a low glycemic index. Red rice contains high antioxidant levels that reduce free radicals in the organism. The structure of pigments depends on type of substrate and other specific factors during culture, such as pH, temperature, and moisture content.However, discoveries of cholesterol-lowering statins produced by the mold has prompted research into its possible medical uses. Monacolin J is a statin made by red yeast rice. Production
Red yeast rice is produced by cultivating the mold species Monascus purpureus on rice for 3–6 days at room temperature. Medicinal use of red yeast rice is described in the Chinese pharmacopoeia Ben Cao Gang Mu compiled by Li Shizhen ca. In a press release the FDA "...is warning consumers to not buy or eat red yeast rice products... may contain an unauthorized drug that could be harmful to health." Clinical evidence
The amount typically used in clinical trials is 1200–2400 mg/day of red yeast rice containing approximately 10 mg total monacolins, of which half are monacolin K. A meta-analysis reported LDL-cholesterol lowered by 1.02 mmol/L (39.4 mg/dL) compared to placebo. 
Do products made from red mold rice have fewer side effects than cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins??? [SEP] Monacolin J is a statin made by red yeast rice. Statins are the most common cholesterol-lowering drugs. Comparative effectiveness
While no direct comparison exists, all statins appear effective regardless of potency or degree of cholesterol reduction. Simvastatin and pravastatin appear to have a reduced incidence of side-effects.A comparison of simvastatin, pravastatin, and atorvastatin, based on their effectiveness against placebos, found no differences in reduction of cardiovascular disease or lipid levels in the blood. Some types of statins are naturally occurring, and can be found in such foods as oyster mushrooms and red yeast rice. "Weighing the Pros and Cons of Statins". Some red rice has a low glycemic index. Unlike statins, triparanol does not inhibit HMG-CoA reductase, the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, and in contrast to triparanol, statins can lower cholesterol levels without resulting in accumulation of intermediates like desmosterol.Estrogen is known to lower cholesterol levels, but produces side effects like gynecomastia and decreased libido in men. 
Can disinfectants containing highly diluted sodium hypochlorite (below 0.1%) render corona and other viruses harmless and thus protect against infection? [SEP] The use of sodium hypochlorite in the form of a bleach bath, has been reported to improve atopic dermatitis severity in children with moderate-to-severe dermatitis or eczema.Solutions of 0.05–0.06% NaOCl are considered safe and still maintain bactericidal activity against Staphylococcus aureus. Findings suggest that sodium hypochlorite baths may have a direct suppressive effect on the inflammation. In one study, bactericidal effects of sodium hypochlorite solution were observed at concentrations as low as 0.025%, without any tissue toxicity in vivo or in vitro. A 10–25% solution of sodium hypochlorite is, according to Univar's safety sheet, supplied with synonyms or trade names bleach, Hypo, Everchlor, Chloros, Hispec, Bridos, Bleacol, or Vo-redox 9110.A 12% solution is widely used in waterworks for the chlorination of water, and a 15% solution is more commonly used for disinfection of waste water in treatment plants. Sodium hypochlorite can also be used for point-of-use disinfection of drinking water, taking 0.2-2 mg of sodium hypochlorite per liter of water.Dilute solutions (50 ppm to 1.5%) are found in disinfecting sprays and wipes used on hard surfaces. Cleaning
Sodium hypochlorite has destaining properties. It is also used in sodium hypochlorite washes. Disinfection
Sodium hypochlorite in solution exhibits broad spectrum anti-microbial activity and is widely used in healthcare facilities in a variety of settings. 
Does cat's claw improve joint disease symptoms? [SEP] A  cat's paw or cat's claw is a metal hand tool used for extracting nails, typically from wood, using leverage. Cat's claw is being studied for a number of other possible uses, including HIV, Crohn disease, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or lupus), endometriosis, kidney problems, bladder cancer, and Alzheimer disease. Traditional medicine
Cat's claw bark has been used as a traditional medicine in South American countries over centuries for its supposed health benefits, and is a common herbal supplement. Interactions
Cat's claw has extensive interactions with numerous prescription drugs. Adverse effects
Individuals allergic to plants in the family Rubiaceae and different species of Uncaria may be more likely to have adverse reactions to cat's claw. Gastrointestinal discomfort, nausea, headache, impaired kidney and hormonal effects, and neuropathy are other possible effects.People requiring anticoagulation, blood pressure, or immune therapy should not use cat's claw. Medical uses
Frunevetmab is indicated for the alleviation of pain associated with osteoarthritis in cats. "Efficacy and Safety of an Anti-nerve Growth Factor Antibody (Frunevetmab) for the Treatment of Degenerative Joint Disease-Associated Chronic Pain in Cats: A Multisite Pilot Field Study". 
Do essential oils protect against corona infections and other viral infections like colds or flu? [SEP] Essential oils are often used for aromatherapy, a form of alternative medicine in which healing effects are ascribed to aromatic compounds. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Aromatherapy may be useful to induce relaxation, but there is not sufficient evidence that essential oils can effectively treat any condition. Scientific research indicates that essential oils cannot treat or cure any chronic disease or other illnesses. Essential oils that have been investigated include rose, lemon grass, lavender, thyme, peppermint, basil, and eucalyptus.Although they may not be the perfect replacement for all synthetic pesticides, essential oils have prospects for crop or indoor plant protection, urban pest control, and marketed insect repellents, such as bug spray. Some plants, like the bitter orange, are sources of several types of essential oil. Essential Oil Safety: A Guide for Health Care Professionals. Coronaviruses can cause colds with major symptoms, such as fever, and a sore throat from swollen adenoids. 
Do air purifiers help relieve symptoms of allergic asthma? [SEP] An air purifier or air cleaner is a device which removes contaminants from the air in a room to improve indoor air quality. Air purifiers may also be used in industry to remove impurities from air before processing. Weak evidence suggests that efforts to decrease mold by repairing buildings may help improve asthma symptoms in adults. Cognitive behavioral therapy may improve quality of life, asthma control, and anxiety levels in people with asthma.Improving people's knowledge about asthma and using a written action plan has been identified as an important component of managing asthma. These interventions may also reduce the number of days children experience asthma symptoms and may lead to small improvements in asthma-related quality of life. There is insufficient evidence to suggest that dehumidifiers are helpful for controlling asthma.Overall, exercise is beneficial in people with stable asthma. Dry air encourages asthma attacks so keep a good humidifier going, especially during winter months. This causes them to relax and prevent the onset and worsening of symptoms of asthma. 
Is special baby water better for infants than tap water? [SEP] No evidence supports the efficacy of gripe water and one limited study in India questions whether the consumption of gripe water is related to vomiting in babies that already showed signs of colic. A 2000 review in the Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine found that most of the ingredients in Woodward's gripe water are of little value in relieving infantile discomfort and that any benefit may be no more complicated than the baby receiving some sweet-tasting liquid. However, infant colic, vomiting and constipation were significantly more common in gripe water administered infants compared to those who were exclusively breast fed. Proponents believe childbirth in water results in a more relaxed, less painful experience that promotes a midwife-led model of care. In many countries, tap water usually has the quality of drinking water. Household water purification methods such as water filters, boiling, or distillation can be used to treat tap water's microbial contamination to improve its potability. In the case of biological contamination, residents are usually advised to boil their water before consumption or to use bottled water as an alternative. At least one sample exceeded state guidelines for contamination levels in bottled water.In the United States, some municipalities make an effort to use tap water over bottled water on governmental properties and events. 
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] Though promoted to treat an array of medical problems, evidence for benefit is mixed as of 2020, with some evidence for use in certain conditions and against use in other conditions.As a concentrated source of blood plasma and autologous conditioned plasma, PRP contains several different growth factors and other cytokines that can stimulate healing of soft tissue and joints. It has been investigated for chronic tendinitis, osteoarthritis, in oral surgery, and in plastic surgery.Elbow Tendinitis:
A 2022 study from the Journal of Clinical Medicine compared PRP injections to physical therapy. They found that PRP was effective and that the concentration of the platelets and healing factors such as epidermal growth factor (EGF) were correlated with success of treatment.A 2022 meta-analysis examined 26 studies on PRP for elbow tendinopathy. A 2021 systematic review by the Cochrane Library examined PRP and autologous whole blood injections and concluded that it was "uncertain" if PRP or autologous whole blood injections improved elbow tendon healing.A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis of high quality studies found that PRP was beneficial for treatment of lateral epicondylitis.Numerous systematic reviews and meta-analyses have found that for elbow tendinopathy, PRP is superior to cortisone injections. A 2009 review found few randomized controlled trials that adequately evaluated the safety and efficacy of PRP treatments and concluded that PRP was "a promising, but not proven, treatment option for joint, tendon, ligament, and muscle injuries".Osteoarthritis:
Tentative evidence supports its use in osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. There is tentative evidence in osteoarthritis. Gene therapy is being studied as a treatment for osteoarthritis (OA). The growing number of the people suffering from osteoarthritis and the effectiveness of the current treatments attract a great deal of attention to genetic-based therapeutic methods to treat the progression of this chronic disease. 
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint??? [SEP] Though promoted to treat an array of medical problems, evidence for benefit is mixed as of 2020, with some evidence for use in certain conditions and against use in other conditions.As a concentrated source of blood plasma and autologous conditioned plasma, PRP contains several different growth factors and other cytokines that can stimulate healing of soft tissue and joints. It has been investigated for chronic tendinitis, osteoarthritis, in oral surgery, and in plastic surgery.Elbow Tendinitis:
A 2022 study from the Journal of Clinical Medicine compared PRP injections to physical therapy. They found that PRP lowered pain scores and increased elbow function significantly. A 2021 systematic review by the Cochrane Library examined PRP and autologous whole blood injections and concluded that it was "uncertain" if PRP or autologous whole blood injections improved elbow tendon healing.A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis of high quality studies found that PRP was beneficial for treatment of lateral epicondylitis.Numerous systematic reviews and meta-analyses have found that for elbow tendinopathy, PRP is superior to cortisone injections. A 2009 review found few randomized controlled trials that adequately evaluated the safety and efficacy of PRP treatments and concluded that PRP was "a promising, but not proven, treatment option for joint, tendon, ligament, and muscle injuries".Osteoarthritis:
Tentative evidence supports its use in osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. It is a type of autologous blood therapy. Gene therapy is being studied as a treatment for osteoarthritis (OA). Proponents claim that autologous platelet-rich plasma delivered subcutaneously to the skin of the face can improve its health by stimulating skin cell growth and collagen though the treatment is considered to lie outside of mainstream medicine because claimed benefits are unsupported by scientific evidence from clinical studies. 
Can vitamin D supplements prevent colds, flu, colds, and other viral respiratory illnesses when there is no or only a mild deficiency of vitamin D? [SEP] Associations have been shown between vitamin D levels and several respiratory tract infections suggesting that vitamin D deficiency may predispose to infection. Other studies suggest that vitamin D supplementation can provide a protective role in reducing the incidence or severity of respiratory infections.Vitamin D deficiency has long been associated with tuberculosis. People with the lowest blood vitamin D levels reported having significantly more recent colds or cases of the flu chronic respiratory disorders, especially those who had pre-existing respiratory ailments  Children who took vitamin D3 supplements daily in winter were 42% less likely to get infected with seasonal flu than those who were given a placebo. Mongolian schoolchildren who drank vitamin D fortified milk during winter reported having fewer colds than those who received non-fortified milk. Another study found no effect of vitamin D supplementation on the incidence or severity of upper respiratory tract infections. The authors stated that data from randomised controlled trials would be needed, showing a dose response to vitamin D supplementation, before recommendations could be considered.A 2017 individual-participant meta-analysis of 25 randomized controlled trials (11,321 total participants) concluded "Vitamin D supplementation was safe and it protected against acute respiratory tract infection overall. Respiratory infections and COVID-19:  Vitamin D deficiency may increase the risk of severe acute respiratory infections and COPD. Getting enough vitamin D can help stave off "autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, many types of cancer, dementia, types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, and respiratory tract infections. 
Does ACE inhibitors like ramipril increase the risk of lung cancer? [SEP] Ramipril, sold under the brand name Altace among others, is an ACE inhibitor type medication used to treat high blood pressure, heart failure, and diabetic kidney disease. It is an ACE inhibitor and works by decreasing renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system activity.Ramipril was patented in 1981 and approved for medical use in 1989. Structure and Activity Relationship
Ramipril is a pro-drug. Ramipril is similar in structure to the Trandolapril ACE Inhibitor but it has a cyclopentane instead of cyclohexane. Contraindications
Contraindications to its use include volume-depleted patients, a history of angioedema while on an ACE inhibitor, pregnancy and hypotension.People should not take ramipril (or any ACE inhibitors) if they have hyperkalemia. It is also recommended to avoid using salt-substitutes as this can further increase potassium levels in the blood.Ramipril can be considered in patients with bilateral or unilateral significant artery stenosis (RAS). However, the trial and the interpretation of its results have been criticised.The Acute Infarction Ramipril Efficacy (AIRE) trial showed a 27% reduction in mortality for patients receiving ramipril for chronic heart failure following a myocardial infarction. It is similar in structure to another ACE Inhibitor, Ramipril but has a cyclohexane group. 
Does propolis have a preventive or soothing effect against infection with coronavirus, colds or flu? [SEP] Vitamin C does not decrease the frequency of colds in the general population, but it has halved the frequency of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. Propolis or bee glue is a resinous mixture that honey bees produce by mixing saliva and beeswax with exudate gathered from tree buds, sap flows, or other botanical sources. Propolis functions may include:
Reinforcing the structural stability and reduce vibration
Providing improved thermal insulation to the hive and reduce water loss
Providing protection from pathogens, via antifungal and antibacterial properties
Make the hive more defensible against parasites and predators by narrowing the existing entrance (in wild colonies) to a single "choke point"
Mitigate putrefaction within the hive - bees usually carry waste out of and away from the hive, but if a small lizard or mouse, for example, finds its way into the hive and dies there, bees may be unable to carry it out through the hive entrance. "Typical" northern temperate propolis has roughly 50 constituents, primarily resins and vegetable balsams (50%), waxes (30%), essential oils (10%), and pollen (5%). Uses
Traditional medicine
Propolis has been used in traditional medicine, with insufficient evidence to rate its effectiveness in the treatment of any illnesses. Musical instruments
Propolis is used by some string-instrument makers (violin, viola, cello, and bass) as a varnish ingredient. A tincture of propolis may be used to seal the surface of newly made violin family bridges, and may be used in the maintenance of the bores of pan flute tubes. References
External links

"Propolis" . 
Does DAILY administration of HIGH-dose atropine (0.5 - 1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] Medical uses
Eyes
Topical atropine is used as a cycloplegic, to temporarily paralyze the accommodation reflex, and as a mydriatic, to dilate the pupils. Atropine degrades slowly, typically wearing off in 7 to 14 days, so it is generally used as a therapeutic mydriatic, whereas tropicamide (a shorter-acting cholinergic antagonist) or phenylephrine (an α-adrenergic agonist) is preferred as an aid to ophthalmic examination.In refractive and accommodative amblyopia, when occlusion is not appropriate sometimes atropine is given to induce blur in the good eye. Evidence suggests that atropine penalization is just as effective as occlusion in improving visual acuity.Antimuscarinic topical medication is effective in slowing myopia progression in children; accommodation difficulties and papillae and follicles are possible side-effects. In the eye, atropine induces mydriasis by blocking contraction of the circular pupillary sphincter muscle, which is normally stimulated by acetylcholine release, thereby allowing the radial iris dilator muscle to contract and dilate the pupil. Atropine induces cycloplegia by paralyzing the ciliary muscles, whose action inhibits accommodation to allow accurate refraction in children, helps to relieve pain associated with iridocyclitis, and treats ciliary block (malignant) glaucoma. Correction of latent hyperopia in children can often prevent, or sometimes correct, unwanted eye turns (strabismus), some forms of refractive amblyopia, and may alleviate eye strain or frontal headaches caused by prolonged near-work. The compound may slow the progression of myopia (nearsightedness). It is under investigation for this purpose in children with myopia. 
Does MONTHLY administered HIGH-dose atropine (1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] Correction of latent hyperopia in children can often prevent, or sometimes correct, unwanted eye turns (strabismus), some forms of refractive amblyopia, and may alleviate eye strain or frontal headaches caused by prolonged near-work. Atropine is a tropane alkaloid and anticholinergic medication used to treat certain types of nerve agent and pesticide poisonings as well as some types of slow heart rate, and to decrease saliva production during surgery. Medical uses
Eyes
Topical atropine is used as a cycloplegic, to temporarily paralyze the accommodation reflex, and as a mydriatic, to dilate the pupils. Atropine degrades slowly, typically wearing off in 7 to 14 days, so it is generally used as a therapeutic mydriatic, whereas tropicamide (a shorter-acting cholinergic antagonist) or phenylephrine (an α-adrenergic agonist) is preferred as an aid to ophthalmic examination.In refractive and accommodative amblyopia, when occlusion is not appropriate sometimes atropine is given to induce blur in the good eye. Evidence suggests that atropine penalization is just as effective as occlusion in improving visual acuity.Antimuscarinic topical medication is effective in slowing myopia progression in children; accommodation difficulties and papillae and follicles are possible side-effects. In the eye, atropine induces mydriasis by blocking contraction of the circular pupillary sphincter muscle, which is normally stimulated by acetylcholine release, thereby allowing the radial iris dilator muscle to contract and dilate the pupil. Atropine induces cycloplegia by paralyzing the ciliary muscles, whose action inhibits accommodation to allow accurate refraction in children, helps to relieve pain associated with iridocyclitis, and treats ciliary block (malignant) glaucoma. Eye drops at 0.5% concentration for slowing the progression of myopia is also available in China.Anisodamine is a naturally occurring tropane alkaloid found in some plants of the family Solanaceae including Datura. 
Does LOW dose atropine (0.05% or less) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children??? [SEP] Medical uses
Eyes
Topical atropine is used as a cycloplegic, to temporarily paralyze the accommodation reflex, and as a mydriatic, to dilate the pupils. Atropine degrades slowly, typically wearing off in 7 to 14 days, so it is generally used as a therapeutic mydriatic, whereas tropicamide (a shorter-acting cholinergic antagonist) or phenylephrine (an α-adrenergic agonist) is preferred as an aid to ophthalmic examination.In refractive and accommodative amblyopia, when occlusion is not appropriate sometimes atropine is given to induce blur in the good eye. Evidence suggests that atropine penalization is just as effective as occlusion in improving visual acuity.Antimuscarinic topical medication is effective in slowing myopia progression in children; accommodation difficulties and papillae and follicles are possible side-effects. In the eye, atropine induces mydriasis by blocking contraction of the circular pupillary sphincter muscle, which is normally stimulated by acetylcholine release, thereby allowing the radial iris dilator muscle to contract and dilate the pupil. Atropine induces cycloplegia by paralyzing the ciliary muscles, whose action inhibits accommodation to allow accurate refraction in children, helps to relieve pain associated with iridocyclitis, and treats ciliary block (malignant) glaucoma. Correction of latent hyperopia in children can often prevent, or sometimes correct, unwanted eye turns (strabismus), some forms of refractive amblyopia, and may alleviate eye strain or frontal headaches caused by prolonged near-work. The compound may slow the progression of myopia (nearsightedness). It is under investigation for this purpose in children with myopia. 
Is quarantining persons who have had contact with infected persons or who enter from high-risk areas an effective measure to reduce the number of COVID-19 infections and deaths? [SEP] During the COVID-19 pandemic, social distancing measures were implemented nearly worldwide in order to slow the spread of the disease. To slow down the spread of infectious diseases and avoid overburdening healthcare systems, particularly during a pandemic, several social-distancing measures are used, including the closing of schools and workplaces, isolation, quarantine, restricting the movement of people and the cancellation of mass gatherings. COVID-19 pandemic
During the COVID-19 pandemic, social distancing and related measures are emphasized by several governments as alternatives to an enforced quarantine of heavily affected areas. In a basic model of social distancing, where a proportion 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
   of the population engages in social distancing to decrease their interpersonal contacts to a fraction 
  
    
      
        a
      
    
    {\displaystyle a}
   of their normal contacts, the new effective reproduction number 
  
    
      
        R
      
    
    {\displaystyle R}
   is given by:
Where the value of 
  
    
      
        R
      
    
    {\displaystyle R}
   can be brought below 1 for sufficiently long, containment is achieved, and the number infected should decrease.For any given period of time, the growth in the number of infections can be modeled as:
where:

  
    
      
        
          y
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle y_{n}}
   is the number of infected individuals after 
  
    
      
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle n}
   incubation periods (5 days, in the case of COVID-19)Using COVID-19 as an example, the following table shows the infection spread given:

A: No social distance mitigation
B: 50% reduction in social interaction
C: 75% reduction in social interaction

Effectiveness
An empirical study published in July 2020 in The BMJ (British Medical Journal) analyzed data from 149 countries, and reported an average of 13% reduction in COVID-19 incidence after the implementation of social distancing policies. It involves using public health measures such as contact tracing, mass testing, border quarantine, lockdowns, and mitigation software in order to stop community transmission of COVID-19 as soon as it is detected. Advocates of zero-COVID argue that the costs of these measures are lower than the economic and social costs of long-term social distancing measures and increased mortality incurred by mitigation strategies.The long-term "exit path" for both elimination and mitigation strategies depends on the development of effective vaccines and treatments for COVID-19. This will result in a situation that is less costly to society, that it reduces dependence on pharmaceutical interventions such as vaccines, and that it increases quality of life and life expectancy due to fewer citizens contracting COVID-19. Containment may be undertaken in the early stages of the outbreak, including contact tracing and isolating infected individuals to stop the disease from being spread to the rest of the population, other public health interventions on infection control, and therapeutic countermeasures such as vaccinations which may be effective if available. 
Can homeopathic globules protect against infection with the novel coronavirus? [SEP] Homeoprophylaxis, or homeopathic prophylaxis, is the use of homeopathy as a preventive medicine or immunisation against serious infectious diseases. The Society's position statement "does not endorse the use of homeopathic medicines as an alternative to vaccination for the prevention of serious infectious diseases" though, somewhat conflictingly, also suggests that "homeoprophylaxis may be effective in certain circumstances". Practitioners claim that such preparations, upon oral intake, can treat or cure disease.All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology contradicts homeopathy. One reason for the growing popularity of homeopathy was its apparent success in treating people suffering from infectious disease epidemics. In 2015 the Federal Court of Australia imposed penalties on a homeopathic company for making false or misleading statements about the efficacy of the whooping cough vaccine and recommending homeopathic remedies as an alternative.A 2000 review by homeopaths reported that homeopathic preparations are "unlikely to provoke severe adverse reactions". The Russian Commission on Pseudoscience has said homeopathy is not safe because "patients spend significant amounts of money, buying medicines that do not work and disregard already known effective treatment." A related report concluded that claims of homeopathy effectiveness "are not accepted by most modern medical experts and do not constitute competent and reliable scientific evidence that these products have the claimed treatment effects." In 2015, the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia concluded that there is "no reliable evidence that homeopathy is effective and should not be used to treat health conditions that are chronic, serious, or could become serious". 
Does the osteoporosis drug teriparatide increase the risk of bone cancer as a side effect? [SEP] Medical uses
Teriparatide is indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis; for the increase of bone mass in men with primary or hypogonadal osteoporosis; and treatment of men and women with osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy.It is effective in growing bone (e.g., 8% increase in bone density in the spine after one year) and reducing the risk of fragility fractures.Teriparatide cuts the risk of hip fracture by more than half but does not reduce the risk of arm or wrist fracture. Contraindications
Teriparatide is contraindicated for those with open epiphyses, metabolic bone diseases, Paget's Disease of bone, bone metastases, history of skeletal malignancies, or prior external beam or implant radiation therapy involving the skeleton. Adverse effects
Adverse effects of teriparatide include headache, nausea, dizziness, and limb pain. Teriparatide has a theoretical risk of osteosarcoma, which was found in rat studies but not confirmed in humans. Thus, once-daily injections of teriparatide have a net effect of stimulating new bone formation leading to increased bone mineral density. Teriparatide (Forteo) was approved by the FDA in November 2002, for the treatment of osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women who are at high risk for having a fracture. Research
Teriparatide is undergoing a clinical trial with zoledronic acid as a treatment for osteogenesis imperfecta to reduce the risk of broken bones. However, there is no evidence of fracture rate reduction in patients taking a teriparatide and denosumab combination. 
Can therapy with EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) alleviate the symptoms of people with post-traumatic stress disorder? [SEP] Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) is a form of psychotherapy devised by Francine Shapiro in the 1980s that was originally designed to alleviate the distress associated with traumatic memories such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). only as effective as its underlying therapeutic methods without any contribution from its distinctive add-ons).EMDR is recommended for the treatment of PTSD by various government and medical bodies citing varying levels of evidence, including the World Health Organization, the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, and the US Departments of Veteran Affairs and Defense. The 2018 International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies practice guidelines "strongly recommend" EMDR as an effective treatment for post-traumatic stress symptoms. Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing
In the late 1980s Shapiro invented and developed eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR), a form of exposure therapy to which various other activities (for example eye movement) are required from the person being treated. EMDR: The Breakthrough Therapy for Overcoming Anxiety, Stress and Trauma. Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) psychotherapy with children who have experienced sexual abuse and trauma. Shapiro, F. (2017) Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy, Third Edition: Basic Principles, Protocols, and Procedures. A similar therapy is Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR). 
Does EMDR work similarly to exposure therapy, another well-studied form of psychotherapy for the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder??? [SEP] only as effective as its underlying therapeutic methods without any contribution from its distinctive add-ons).EMDR is recommended for the treatment of PTSD by various government and medical bodies citing varying levels of evidence, including the World Health Organization, the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, and the US Departments of Veteran Affairs and Defense. Treatment guidelines note EMDR effectiveness is statistically the same as trauma-focused behavioral therapy, and the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council notes that this may be due to including most of the core elements of CBT. The 2013 World Health Organization practice guideline says that "Like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) with a trauma focus, EMDR aims to reduce subjective distress and strengthen adaptive beliefs related to the traumatic event. Post-traumatic stress disorder
Effectiveness
A Cochrane systematic review comparing EMDR with other psychotherapies in the treatment of Chronic PTSD found EMDR to be just as effective as TF-CBT and more effective than the other non-TF-CBT psychotherapies. It has been called a purple hat therapy because any effectiveness is provided by the underlying therapy (or the standard treatment), not from EMDR's distinctive features.There is some evidence that EMDR can be as effective as trauma focused cognitive behavioral therapy (TF-CBT) for treating PTSD, though concerns have been raised about the poor quality of the underlying studies. The 2018 International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies practice guidelines "strongly recommend" EMDR as an effective treatment for post-traumatic stress symptoms. The Australian National Health and Medical Research Council recommends EMDR for the treatment of PTSD in adults with its highest grade of evidence, noting that "EMDR now includes most of the core elements of standard trauma-focussed CBT (TF-CBT)" and "the two variants of trauma-focussed therapy are not statistically different." EMDR
Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) includes an element of exposure therapy (desensitization), though whether this is an effective method or not, is controversial. 
Does filling with hydrogel help with chronic back pain caused by a worn disc? [SEP] By adapting the hydrogel to closely resemble brain tissue and injecting it into the injured areas of the brain, the researchers’ studies have shown improved mobility and cognition after only a week of treatment. This hydrogel also has the potential to be adapted to other forms of tissue in the human body, and promote regeneration and recovery from other injuries. The procedure is designed to reduce chronic back pain caused by the intervertebral discs. Hydrogels have been shown to accelerate healing in partial and full thickness burn wounds of varying size. Surgery may be beneficial for those with disc-related chronic pain and disability or spinal stenosis. Aquatic therapy is recommended for chronic and subacute low back pain in those with a preexisting condition. It may also be useful in those with spinal stenosis. Capsicum, in the form of either a gel or a plaster cast, has been found to reduce pain and increase function.Behavioral therapy may be useful for chronic pain. 
Does taking hyaluronic acid in capsule form improve the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis? [SEP] Efficacy in osteoarthritis
In osteoarthritis, joint injection of glucocorticoids (such as hydrocortisone) leads to short term pain relief that may last between a few weeks and a few months. Injections of hyaluronic acid have not produced improvement compared to placebo for knee arthritis, but did increase risk of further pain. History
Spherox has been shown to improve symptoms and knee function in two studies in adults between 18 and 50 years of age. Hyaluronic acid is also a component of the group A streptococcal extracellular capsule, and is believed to play a role in virulence. For example, hyaluronic acid is a major component of the synovial fluid and was found to increase the viscosity of the fluid. Hyaluronic acid is an important component of articular cartilage, where it is present as a coat around each cell (chondrocyte). Medical uses
Hyaluronic acid has been FDA-approved to treat osteoarthritis of the knee via intra-articular injection. A 2020 meta-analysis found that intra-articular injection of high molecular weight HA improved both pain and function in people with knee osteoarthritis.Hyaluronic acid has been used in various formulations to create artificial tears to treat dry eye.Hyaluronic acid is a common ingredient in skin care products. 
Does taking chlorella provide better performance, more resilience and does it promote health? [SEP] Chlorella vulgaris is a species of green microalga in the division Chlorophyta. Japan is currently the largest consumer of Chlorella, both for nutritional and therapeutic purposes. Different modes of growth (autotrophic, heterotrophic, and mixotrophic) has been investigated for Chlorella vulgaris; autotrophic growth is favoured as it does not require provision of costly organic carbon and relies on inorganic carbon sources (CO2, carbonates) and light for photosynthesis.Chlorella sp. Uses
Bioremediation
Chlorella vulgaris has been the microalgae of choice for several bioremediation processes. Owing to its ability to remove a variety of pollutants such as inorganic nutrients (nitrate, nitrite, phosphate and ammonium), fertilizers, detergents, heavy metals, pesticides, pharmaceuticals and other emerging pollutants from wastewater and effluents, carbon dioxide and other gaseous pollutants from flue gases, besides having high growth rates and simple cultivation requirements, Chlorella vulgaris has emerged as a potential microorganism in bioremediation studies for mitigation of environmental pollution. Vitamin B12, specifically in the form of methylcobalamin, has been identified in Chlorella vulgaris. Chlorellosis is a disease caused by the infection of Chlorella, a type of microalgae containing large amount of chloroplasts. This microalga has also been used extensively as a model system to study enzymes involved in higher plant metabolism.Also, Chlorella sorokiniana is used to research ways to improve biofuel efficiency.Chlorella sorokiniana is often used as a food supplement or to treat waste water. 
Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong men's lives? [SEP] Sauna bathing leads to mild heat stress, which activates heat shock proteins responsible for repairing misfolded proteins, promoting longevity as well as protection against muscle atrophy and chronic illness.There is significant evidence that lifelong exposure to sauna (once a week or more) reduces the risk of sudden cardiac death; and that risk reduction is correlated with duration and frequency of use; this reduction is more pronounced when sauna bathing is combined with exercise, compared with either of these practices alone. Tentative evidence supports that the heat stress from saunas can reduce blood pressure and arterial stiffness, and therefore also decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease. Evidence exists for the benefit of sauna on people with heart failure. Frequent sauna usage (4-7 times per week) is associated with a decreased risk of neurovascular diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and stroke. Genital heat stress from frequent sauna sessions could cause male infertility. Using a sauna does correlate with reduced blood pressure (in some, BP may also increase), increased heart rate, increased dermal perfusion with a reduction in organ perfusion, and increased left ventricular function and arterial flexibility. A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis of nine clinical trials found that five weekly conventional sauna sessions for 2 to 4 weeks was associated with a significant reduction in brain natriuretic peptide (BNP; a marker of heart failure progression) and cardiothoracic ratio (an indicator of heart enlargement), and improved left-ventricular ejection fraction, but no significant effect on left-ventricular end-diastolic diameter, left atrial diameter, systolic blood pressure, or diastolic blood pressure. The evidence presented by the review supported a therapeutic effect of sauna bathing for heart failure patients but recommended that further studies were needed to be able to draw definitive conclusions.A 2019 scientific survey found that most people use both infrared and traditional saunas for relaxation and that its use, 5 to 15 times per month, was associated with higher mental well-being. 
Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong women's lives??? [SEP] Sauna bathing leads to mild heat stress, which activates heat shock proteins responsible for repairing misfolded proteins, promoting longevity as well as protection against muscle atrophy and chronic illness.There is significant evidence that lifelong exposure to sauna (once a week or more) reduces the risk of sudden cardiac death; and that risk reduction is correlated with duration and frequency of use; this reduction is more pronounced when sauna bathing is combined with exercise, compared with either of these practices alone. Tentative evidence supports that the heat stress from saunas can reduce blood pressure and arterial stiffness, and therefore also decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease. Evidence exists for the benefit of sauna on people with heart failure. Frequent sauna usage (4-7 times per week) is associated with a decreased risk of neurovascular diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and stroke. This results in a lower ambient air temperature allowing for longer sustained stays in the sauna. Using a sauna does correlate with reduced blood pressure (in some, BP may also increase), increased heart rate, increased dermal perfusion with a reduction in organ perfusion, and increased left ventricular function and arterial flexibility. A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis of nine clinical trials found that five weekly conventional sauna sessions for 2 to 4 weeks was associated with a significant reduction in brain natriuretic peptide (BNP; a marker of heart failure progression) and cardiothoracic ratio (an indicator of heart enlargement), and improved left-ventricular ejection fraction, but no significant effect on left-ventricular end-diastolic diameter, left atrial diameter, systolic blood pressure, or diastolic blood pressure. The evidence presented by the review supported a therapeutic effect of sauna bathing for heart failure patients but recommended that further studies were needed to be able to draw definitive conclusions.A 2019 scientific survey found that most people use both infrared and traditional saunas for relaxation and that its use, 5 to 15 times per month, was associated with higher mental well-being. 
Does the additional offer of HIV self-testing cause more people to take an HIV test? [SEP] VCT has become popular in many parts of Africa as a way for a person to learn their HIV status. VCT centers and counselors often use rapid HIV tests that require a drop of blood or some cells from the inside of one's cheek; the tests are cheap, require minimal training, and provide accurate results in about 15 minutes. HIV screening in the United States is the use of tests to determine HIV status of individuals, as a part of general public health strategies to reduce the rate of transmission of HIV/AIDS in the United States and to lead to treatment of HIV positive individuals. National HIV Testing Day
The National HIV Testing Day on June 27 is organized annually by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service's AIDS.GOV program and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention  Walgreens is one corporate sponsor, and offers free HIV testing on that day at a number of its drugstore locations (140 cities in 2014).The day has been an event since 1995, when it was organized by the National Association of People with AIDS (NAPWA). The World Health Organization estimated that, as of 2000, inadequate blood screening had resulted in 1 million new HIV infections worldwide.In the US, the Food and Drug Administration requires that all donated blood be screened for several infectious diseases, including HIV-1 and HIV-2, using a combination of antibody testing (EIA) and more expeditious nucleic acid testing (NAT). The chance that a positive test accurately indicates an HIV infection increases as the prevalence or rate of HIV infection increases in the population. Thus a positive test in a high-risk population, such as people who frequently engage in unprotected anal intercourse with unknown partners, is more likely to correctly represent HIV infection than a positive test in a very low-risk population, such as unpaid blood donors. Criticisms
Oral tests
As a result of an increase in false positive rates with rapid oral HIV testing in 2005, New York City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene added the option of testing finger-stick whole blood after any reactive result, before using a western blot test to confirm the positive result. 
Can the combination of propolis, xyloglucan, gelatin and hibiscus (product "Utipro Plus") relieve the symptoms of cystitis or prevent cystitis? [SEP] Urinary tract infections - pyelonephritis, cystitis caused by Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella and Staphylococcus aureus. Infections of the gastrointestinal tract - Bacterial esophagitis, treatment of H. pylori infections as a part of MDT in ulcer management. Another source names recurring urinary retention, recurring urinary infections, uncontrolled macrohematuria, bladder stones, hydronephrosis, combination with other α1-antagonists or dopamine agonists, and severe renal or hepatic impairment as contraindications. By blocking these receptors, silodosin allows these muscles to relax, making it easier to pass urine and relieving the symptoms of BPH.Silodosin has high affinity for the α1A adrenergic receptor in the prostate, the bladder, and the prostatic urethra. By this mechanism it relaxes the smooth muscle in these organs, easing urinary flow and other symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia. See also
Estradiol dipropionate/hydroxyprogesterone caproate
Estradiol valerate/hydroxyprogesterone caproate
Estradiol benzoate/progesterone
List of combined sex-hormonal preparations


== References == It is also used to prevent urinary tract infections prior to surgery. See also
Estradiol benzoate butyrate/dihydroxyprogesterone acetophenide


== References == 
Does PEMF noticeably improve pain in osteoarthritis? Does the method improve mobility and quality of life in sufferers? [SEP] Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMFT, or PEMF therapy), also known as low field magnetic stimulation (LFMS) is the use of electromagnetic fields in an attempt to heal non-union fractures and depression. Use
Delayed- and non-union fractures
While PEMF therapy is claimed to offer some benefits in the treatment of fractures, the evidence is inconclusive and is insufficient to inform current clinical practice. A reduction in time to union and an increase in the percentage of fracture healing in PEMF-stimulated patients compared with controls was reported in fresh tibial fractures, and in femoral neck fractures. PEMF devices that have been FDA cleared are able to make health claims that require a doctor's prescription for use.Although claims that electricity might aid bone healing were reported as early as 1841, it was not until the mid-1950s that scientists seriously studied the subject. Research
Knee osteoarthritis
A 2013 review found that evidence was of very low quality, there might be a benefit for improved function, and there was no evidence for benefit for pain.In 2017 the wearable ActiPatch PEMF Device was FDA 510k Cleared, Application #K152432, for "Adjunctive treatment of musculoskeletal pain related to: (1) plantar fasciitis of the heel; and (2) osteoarthritis of the knee". Postoperative pain
In 2019 a wearable RecoveryRx PEMF Device was FDA Cleared, Application K190251, for "Adjunctive treatment of postoperative pain". A successful DMOAD would be expected to show an improvement in patient pain and function with an improvement of the health of the joint tissues. Effectiveness
The American Cancer Society states that "There is little scientific evidence available to support proponents' claims that myofascial release relieves pain or restores flexibility" and cautions against using it as a substitute for conventional cancer treatment. 
Does oil pulling promote dental health? [SEP] Oil pulling is an alternative medical practice in which an edible oil is swished around the mouth for a period of time and then spat out, similar to mouthwash. Practitioners of oil pulling claim it is capable of improving oral and whole-body health. History
Oil pulling stems from traditional Ayurvedic medicine, whose practitioners may use sunflower oil, olive oil, or other herbal oils instead of coconut oil. The American Dental Association agrees that there are no reliable scientific studies supporting the practice of oil pulling for any benefit to oral hygiene or overall wellbeing.The Canadian Dental Association assessed the practice of oil pulling in 2014 stating: "We sense oil pulling won't do any harm, we're not convinced there are any particular benefits to it." A dental extraction (also referred to as tooth extraction, exodontia, exodontics, or informally, tooth pulling) is the removal of teeth from the dental alveolus (socket) in the alveolar bone. History
Historically, dental extractions have been used to treat a variety of illnesses. External links
When do you need tooth extraction? 80% of cavities occur in the grooves, or pits and fissures, of the chewing surfaces of the teeth, however, there is no evidence currently showing that normal at-home flossing reduces the risk of cavities in these areas.Special appliances or tools may be used to supplement toothbrushing and interdental cleaning. 
Can injecting stem cells into the knee joint relieve pain and limitations associated with osteoarthritis? [SEP] Gene therapy is being studied as a treatment for osteoarthritis (OA). In Osteoarthritis gene therapy, ex vivo method makes it possible to transfect not only the cells of the synovial lining of joints but also articular chondrocytes and chondroprogenitor cells in cartilage. The cells grow in self-organized spheroid matrices which are implanted via injected fluid or inserted tissue matrix.Techniques such as the EELS-TALC  to enhance ACI and MACI with enabling chondrocytes to be tissue engineered with long term native knee cartilage phenotype maintenance in vitro and in vivo, with the engineered tissue construct containing stem cell progenitors along with those expressing pluripotency markers and with added advantage of enriched hyaluronic acid (HA) expression by the cells have been reported which will contribute to improvised regenerative therapies for cartilage damage. Autologous mesenchymal stem cell transplantation
Because mesenchymal stem cells may regenerate cartilage, cartilage growth in human knees using autologous cultured mesenchymal stem cells is under research and preliminary clinical use, and appears to be safe as of 2016. Microdrilling augmented with peripheral blood stem cells
A 2011 study reported histologically confirmed hyaline cartilage regrowth in the knee. Improvement of ACI
Techniques such as the EELS-TALC to enhance ACI and its next generation advancement called Matrix Assisted Chondrocyte Implantation (MACI) with enabling chondrocytes to be tissue engineered with long term native knee cartilage phenotype maintenance in vitro and in vivo, with the engineered tissue construct containing stem cell progenitors along with those expressing pluripotency markers and with added advantage of enriched hyaluronic acid (HA) expression by the cells have been reported which will contribute to improved regenerative therapies for cartilage damage. Efficacy in osteoarthritis
In osteoarthritis, joint injection of glucocorticoids (such as hydrocortisone) leads to short term pain relief that may last between a few weeks and a few months. The effectiveness of injections of platelet-rich plasma is unclear; there are suggestions that such injections improve function but not pain, and are associated with increased risk.A 2015 Cochrane review found that intra-articular corticosteroid injections of the knee did not benefit quality of life and had no effect on knee joint space; clinical effects one to six weeks after injection could not be determined clearly due to poor study quality. 
Can an extract of Desmodium promote liver health or relieve other ailments? [SEP] Desmodium uncinatum, the silverleaf desmodium, is a species of flowering plant in the family Fabaceae, native to Latin America, and introduced as a fodder to various locales in Africa, India, New Guinea, Australia and Hawaii. Desmodium acanthocladum F.Muell. Desmodium canadense (L.) DC. Desmodium heterocarpon (Michx.) Desmodium paniculatum (L.) DC. Desmodium rotundifolium DC. References
International Legume Database & Information Service (ILDIS) (2005): Genus Desmodium. Trout’s Notes on the Genus Desmodium. 
Does the balsam apple help against infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)? [SEP] It does not cure HIV/AIDS or hepatitis B. It is not known whether treating other sexually transmitted infections is effective in preventing HIV. Influenza vaccination and pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine are often recommended in people with HIV/AIDS with some evidence of benefit. Dietary intake of micronutrients at RDA levels by HIV-infected adults is recommended by the WHO; higher intake of vitamin A, zinc, and iron can produce adverse effects in HIV-positive adults, and is not recommended unless there is documented deficiency. Dietary supplementation for people who are infected with HIV and who have inadequate nutrition or dietary deficiencies may strengthen their immune systems or help them recover from infections; however, evidence indicating an overall benefit in morbidity or reduction in mortality is not consistent.People with HIV/AIDS are up to four times more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than those who are not tested positive with the virus.Evidence for supplementation with selenium is mixed with some tentative evidence of benefit. For pregnant and lactating women with HIV, multivitamin supplement improves outcomes for both mothers and children. There is some evidence that vitamin A supplementation in children with an HIV infection reduces mortality and improves growth. Employment increases self-esteem, sense of dignity, confidence, and quality of life for people with HIV/AIDS. 
Does healing clay with the clay mineral smectite help when children have diarrhea? [SEP] Diosmectite (brand names Smecta, Smecdral) is a natural silicate of aluminium and magnesium used as an intestinal adsorbent in the treatment of several gastrointestinal diseases, including infectious and non-infectious acute and chronic diarrhoea, including irritable bowel syndrome diarrhea subtype. Mechanism of action
Its effectiveness in improving stool consistency is the result of its alleged ability to absorb bacteria, viruses and toxins as well as strengthening the intestinal mucus barrier to reduce luminal antigens passing through the mucus barrier which in turn helps to reduce inflammation.Diosmectite may be a useful additive in the treatment of acute childhood diarrhoea. See also
Geophagy
Medicinal clay

References


== Further reading == A smectite (from ancient Greek σμηκτός smektos 'lubricated'; σμηκτρίς smektris 'walker's earth', 'fuller's earth'; rubbing earth; earth that has the property of cleaning) is a mineral mixtures of various swelling sheet silicates (phyllosilicates), which have a three-layer 2:1 (TOT) structure and belong to the clay minerals. Smectites mainly consist of montmorillonite, but can often contain secondary minerals such as quartz and calcite. Terminology
In clay mineralogy, smectite is synonym of montmorillonite (also the name of a pure clay mineral phase) to indicate a class of swelling clays. Clay mineralogy. The amount of certain clay minerals that are present, such as montmorillonite and smectite, directly affects the shrink-swell capacity of soil. 
Does a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage, and centaury effectively relieve symptoms of uncomplicated cystitis? [SEP] Vaginal steaming, sometimes shortened to V-steaming, and also known as wormwood steaming is an alternative health treatment whereby a woman squats or sits over steaming water containing herbs such as mugwort, rosemary, wormwood, and basil. Vaginal steaming is described in spas as an ancient Chinese treatment for reproductive organ ailments and is claimed to have other benefits. Therapeutic cystocentesis may be employed to relieve pressure buildup due to urethral obstruction. Not all herbal tonics include all four of these components. Ancient Circum-Mediterranean
One herbal tonic which dates back to ancient times is Lucerne. It was one of three plants involved in clinical pharmacological trials, and had statistically significant results in having stimulating and restoring effects. As a result of this, Siberian ginseng was used in both capsule and extract form. Additionally, herbal tonics can be used for physiological relief – to aid muscle pain, soothe tension headaches and alleviate unsettled stomachs, to name a few.One example of an herbal tonic is raspberry leaf (Rubus idaeus) used by pregnant women. 
Can a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage and centaury prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] Vaginal steaming, sometimes shortened to V-steaming, and also known as wormwood steaming is an alternative health treatment whereby a woman squats or sits over steaming water containing herbs such as mugwort, rosemary, wormwood, and basil. Other conditions which can produce similar symptoms include overactive bladder, urinary tract infection (UTI), sexually transmitted infections, prostatitis, endometriosis in females, and bladder cancer.There is no cure for interstitial cystitis and management of this condition can be challenging. Pelvic floor exercises and long term antibiotics are not recommended.In the United States and Europe, it is estimated that around 0.5% of people are affected. Bladder instillations
Bladder instillation of medication is one of the main forms of treatment of interstitial cystitis, but evidence for its effectiveness is currently limited. Preliminary evidence suggests these agents are efficacious in reducing symptoms of interstitial cystitis, but further study with larger, randomized, controlled clinical trials is needed. References
External links

Interstitial cystitis at Curlie
Parsons, J. Kellogg; Parsons, C. Lowell (2004). "The Historical Origins of Interstitial Cystitis". "Clinical guidelines for interstitial cystitis and hypersensitive bladder syndrome". 
Can healing clay help with gastritis? [SEP] Uses
Skin conditions
Many types of skin conditions have been treated by the application of medicinal clay. Clay is used in many dermatological over-the-counter remedies, such as in acne treatments (this information may not be mentioned on the label specifically). Internal use
There are many over the counter remedies for internal use that contained clay before discontinuation. Common medicinal clays
Bentonite-type clay has been used to treat infections, indigestion, and other medical problems by both applying wet clay topically to the skin as a poultice, and by ingesting it. The Healing Clay: The Centuries-old Health & Beauty Elixir Rediscovered. "Medicinal clay and spiritual healing". The Clay Cure – Natural Healing From the Earth. See also
Geophagy
Medicinal clay

References


== Further reading == 
Does the Indian spice paste Chyawanprash have a positive effect on adult health? [SEP] Chyavanprash (Sanskrit: च्यवनप्राश, romanized: Cyavanaprāśa), originally Chayavanaprasham, is a cooked mixture of sugar, honey, ghee, Indian gooseberry (amla) jam, sesame oil, berries and various herbs and spices. Chyavanprash is widely sold and consumed in India as a dietary supplement. Origin
Chyavanprash is an ancient formulation and product. Taste and appearance
Chyavanaprash tastes sweet and sour at the same time. Consumption
Chyavanaprash is usually consumed directly. Composition
The recipe of chyavanprash is mentioned in manuscripts written for ayurvedic method of treatment viz. It's also included in Indian Ayurveda. A special herbal paste, chyavanaprasham, was prepared for the rishi to take as a medicine. 
Does ginger work against breast cancer? [SEP] Ginger has a role in traditional Ayurvedic medicine. Many studies have been around the effects of gingerols on a wide range of cancers including leukemia, prostate, breast, skin, ovarian, lung, pancreatic and colorectal. In a meta analysis looking at many different phytochemical effects on prostate cancer, two specific studies using mice observed [6]-gingerol compounds induced apoptosis in cancer cells by interfering with the mitochondrial membrane. The main mechanism by which gingerol phytochemicals act on cancer cells seems to be protein disruption. Gingerol compounds inhibited the transformation of normal cells into cancer cells by blocking AP-1 proteins and when cancer did develop paradol encouraged apoptosis due to its cytotoxic activity. [6]-Gingerol exhibits cell cycle arrest capabilities, apoptotic action and enzyme-coupled cell signaling receptor degradation in cancer cells. Cultured human breast cancer cells were subjected to various concentrations of [6]-gingerol to determine the impacts on live cells. [6]-gingerol targeted three specific proteins in breast cancer cells that promote metastasis and while adhesion remained relatively unchanged, [6]-gingerol inhibited the cancer cells from invading and increasing in size. 
Can Theta Healing help with physical ailments and mental problems? [SEP] ThetaHealing (also Theta Healing) is the registered trademark for a method of meditation created by Vianna Stibal in 1995. ThetaHealing claims to change a practitioner's brain wave pattern to the theta pattern, allowing them to explore how "emotional energy" affects their health, and develop "natural intuition".ThetaHealing is a pseudoscientific practice. The ThetaHealing technique is based on the idea that the beliefs in a person's conscious and unconscious mind directly impact their emotional well-being, which may impact their physical health. Theta activity overall went down".ThetaHealing often employs the method of applied kinesiology, after putting patients into a deep meditation. See also
List of esoteric healing articles

References
External links
Official website Traditional and Modern Health Practitioners Together against AIDS (THETA) is a non-government organization in Uganda that promotes collaboration between traditional healers and biomedical practitioners to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS and provide care for HIV-positive patients. Traditional and Modern Health Practitioners Together Against AIDS (THETA) is a non-government organization in Uganda that promotes collaboration between traditional healers and biomedical practitioners to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS and provide care for HIV-positive patients. Its proponents say that it can heal a variety of mental and physical ailments through specialized "tapping" with the fingers at meridian points on the upper body and hands. 
Does taking Bacopa extract improve memory performance? [SEP] Description
Bacopa crenata is a non-aromatic herb, growing up to 40 cm (16 in) in height. Uses
The leaves of Bacopa crenata are used in Africa to treat conjunctivitus and headaches, and to heal wounds. Bacopa monnieri is a perennial, creeping herb native to the wetlands of southern and Eastern India, Australia, Europe, Africa, Asia, and North and South America. Bacopa monnieri is used in Ayurveda. Description
Bacopa monnieri is a non-aromatic herb. Research and regulation
Bacopa monnieri is used in Ayurvedic traditional medicine to improve memory and to treat various ailments. Systematic reviews of preliminary research found that Bacopa monnieri may improve cognition, specifically memory and learning, although the effect was measurable only after several weeks of use.In 2019, the FDA issued warning letters to manufacturers of dietary supplements containing Bacopa monnieri that advertised health claims for treating or preventing stomach disease, Alzheimer's disease, hypoglycemia, blood pressure, and anxiety were unproven and illegal. A BACE inhibitor in theory would prevent the buildup of beta-amyloid and may help slow or stop the progression of Alzheimer's disease. 
Do remedies containing the trifoliate fruit alleviate the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism")? [SEP] Psoriatic arthritis
In psoriatic arthritis (PsA), inhibitors of TNF, such as infliximab, improve the signs and symptoms. Only its use in rheumatoid arthritis requires the concomitant use of methotrexate by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) product labeling; however, the concomitant use of methotrexate in other disease states may help to reduce the body's immune response to the infliximab and increase its duration of efficacy. Medical uses
It is used as a second line treatment to manage symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis after treatment with a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) has failed. In November 2019, researchers at the University of Manchester reported that Anakinra might have a use in preventing breast cancer from spreading to the bones.In 2021, it was reported that Anakinra appeared to reduce the neuropathic pain experienced by patients undergoing chemotherapy with vincristine, saying that "repurposing anakinra may be an effective co-treatment strategy to prevent vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy".A review published in 2022 found that "Anakinra appears to show efficacy for numerous dermatologic conditions, with the strongest evidence for hidradenitis suppurativa, Behçet's disease, Muckle–Wells syndrome, and SAPHO syndrome." Medical uses
Rheumatoid arthritis
Tofacitinib citrate is approved for medical use in the United States with an indication "to treat adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, methotrexate. "In the European Union, in combination with methotrexate, tofacitinib citrate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. In November 2012, the FDA approved tofacitinib for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Research
It has demonstrated effectiveness in the treatment of  psoriasis in phase III studies. 
Does thyme strengthen memory or prevent mental decline? [SEP] The MIND diet also includes recommendations for specific foods, like leafy greens and berries, that have been scientifically shown to slow cognitive decline. Recent research has shown that the MIND diet may be more effective at reducing cognitive decline than either the Mediterranean or DASH diets alone, though a cause and effect relationship has yet to be determined. Recently, lifestyle medicine has been investigated as a potential means of reducing cognitive decline and other chronic diseases. Specifically, the inclusion of leafy greens and berries have been shown in separate human and rodent studies to protect against cognitive decline. The inclusion of higher numbers of MIND diet recommended foods in one’s daily diet was associated with less cognitive decline than when these foods were not included or were included in lesser quantities. MIND diet is associated with better cognitive functioning independently of common brain pathology, suggesting that the MIND diet may contribute to cognitive resilience in the elderly. Association of the MIND diet with cognition and risk of Alzheimer's disease. As of 2017, the product had failed to show a significant effect in decreasing the rate of cognitive decline or delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease, but appeared to cause minor improvement in verbal memory in some people in the very early stages of the disease. 
Does regular consumption of chia seeds reduce body weight, blood sugar levels or cholesterol? [SEP] Chia seeds are the edible seeds of Salvia hispanica, a flowering plant in the mint family (Lamiaceae) native to central and southern Mexico, or of the related Salvia columbariae of the southwestern United States and Mexico. Nutrition
Dried chia seeds contain 6% water, 42% carbohydrates (including a high content of dietary fiber), 16% protein, and 31% fat (table). In a 100-gram (3.5 oz) reference amount, chia seeds are a rich source (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) of the B vitamins thiamin and niacin (54% and 59% DV, respectively) and a moderate source of riboflavin (14% DV) and folate (12% DV). As food
Chia seeds may be added to other foods as a topping or put into smoothies, breakfast cereals, energy bars, granola bars, yogurt, tortillas, and bread. In a 2015 systematic review, most of the studies did not show an effect of chia seed consumption on cardiovascular risk factors in humans. Drug interactions
No evidence to date indicates consuming chia seeds has adverse effects on, or interacts with, prescription drugs. Seeds
Chia is grown commercially for its seed, a food rich in omega-3 fatty acids since the seeds yield 25–30% extractable oil, including α-linolenic acid. Essential oils in chia leaves have repellent properties against insects, making it suitable for organic cultivation. 
Do heat patches that heat themselves or heat pads help with pain in the neck? [SEP] A heating pad is a pad used for warming of parts of the body in order to manage pain. stimulating sensation in the skin and therefore decreasing the pain signals being transmitted to the brain
increasing the flexibility (and decreasing painful stiffness) of soft tissues surrounding the injured area, including muscles and connective tissue.As many heating pads are portable, heat may be applied as needed at home, at work, or while travelling. Some physicians recommend alternating heat and ice for pain relief. Prolonged heat therapy can help promote tissue healing, which can be especially beneficial for chronic conditions including fibromyalgia and low back pain.The use of Heat therapy for deep-seated tissue can be treated with shortwave, microwave, and ultrasonic waves. The application of constant heat to the back/upper back area can help to release the tension associated with headache pain. Some new products use heated water, running through pads, to maintain a constant temperature, allowing people with headaches to use hands-free heat therapy in the treatment of their headache pain. Using heat, it can relieve the stiffness in joints in different cases. Heat therapy can help calm these painful contractions while improving circulation which blocks pain signals to the brain. 
Do heat patches containing capsaicin help with neck pain??? [SEP] For headaches
Heat therapy can be used for the treatment of headaches and migraines. The application of constant heat to the back/upper back area can help to release the tension associated with headache pain. Using heat, it can relieve the stiffness in joints in different cases. Heat therapy is shown to assist women with pain and reduce the duration of the first stage of labor. Heat therapy can help calm these painful contractions while improving circulation which blocks pain signals to the brain. Folklore among self-described "chiliheads" attribute this to pain-stimulated release of endorphins, a different mechanism from the local receptor overload that makes capsaicin effective as a topical analgesic. Research and pharmaceutical use
Capsaicin is used as an analgesic in topical ointments and dermal patches to relieve pain, typically in concentrations between 0.025% and 0.1%. One 2017 review of clinical studies having limited quality found that high-dose topical capsaicin (8%) compared with control (0.4% capsaicin) provided moderate to substantial pain relief from post-herpetic neuralgia, HIV-neuropathy, and diabetic neuropathy.Although capsaicin creams have been used to treat psoriasis for reduction of itching, a review of six clinical trials involving topical capsaicin for treatment of pruritus concluded there was insufficient evidence of effect. 
Do heat patches help with lower back pain? [SEP] There is tentative evidence to support the use of heat therapy for acute and sub-chronic low back pain but little evidence for the use of either heat or cold therapy in chronic pain. Muscle relaxants may be beneficial.Systemic corticosteriods are sometimes suggested for low back pain and may have a small benefit in the short-term for radicular low back pain, however, the benefit for non-radicular back pain and the optimal dose and length of treatment is unclear.Specialist groups advise against general long-term use of opioids for chronic low back pain. Massage therapy has been found to be more effective for acute low back pain than no treatment; the benefits were found to be limited to the short term and there was no effect for improving function. According to a recent article published in the Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in 2021, heat therapy, particularly local heat application (LHA), can provide pain relief, reduce muscle stiffness (increasing muscle available range of motion), and improve blood flow through vasodilation to the affected area, thereby promoting healing for chronic musculoskeletal injuriesHeat therapy is contraindicated in case of acute injury and bleeding disorders (because of vasodilation), tissues with a severe lack of sensitivity, scars and in tissues with inadequate vascular supply (because of increased metabolic rate and demand which a tissue with poor blood supply may fail to meet resulting in ischemia).In the case of chronic musculoskeletal pain, heat therapy can be used to help reduce pain, increase range of motion, and improve flexibility. Prolonged heat therapy can help promote tissue healing, which can be especially beneficial for chronic conditions including fibromyalgia and low back pain.The use of Heat therapy for deep-seated tissue can be treated with shortwave, microwave, and ultrasonic waves. The application of constant heat to the back/upper back area can help to release the tension associated with headache pain. Using heat, it can relieve the stiffness in joints in different cases. Heat therapy is shown to assist women with pain and reduce the duration of the first stage of labor. 
Does ginger help with period pain? [SEP] Dysmenorrhea, also known as period pain, painful periods or menstrual cramps, is pain during menstruation. Thus resulting in shorter, less painful menstruation. NSAIDs
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen and naproxen are effective in relieving the pain of primary dysmenorrhea. Heat is effective compared to NSAIDs and is a preferred option by many patients, as it is easy to access and has no known side effects.Tamoxifen has been used effectively to reduce uterine contractility and pain in dysmenorrhea patients.There is some evidence that exercises performed 3 times a week for about 45 to 60 minutes, without particular intensity, reduces menstrual pain. Reviews found tentative evidence that ginger powder may be effective for primary dysmenorrhea. 6-Gingerol  is the major gingerol in ginger rhizomes and it possesses some interesting pharmacological activities like analgesic effect. Research
Evidence that ginger helps alleviate nausea and vomiting resulting from chemotherapy or pregnancy is inconsistent.There is no clear evidence that taking ginger to treat nausea during pregnancy is safe. Ginger is not effective for treating dysmenorrhea. 
Can the state of health be assessed as reliably with a "cell check" analysis as with other diagnostic tests (for example, blood or urine analyses)? [SEP] Blood tests
Blood tests are also used to assess kidney function. Cell counting is any of various methods for the counting or similar quantification of cells in the life sciences, including medical diagnosis and treatment. It may be used to screen for diseases as part of a medical assessment. Blood tests are often used in health care to determine physiological and biochemical states, such as disease, mineral content, pharmaceutical drug effectiveness, and organ function. Cytometry is used to characterize and count blood cells in common blood tests such as the complete blood count. In a similar fashion, cytometry is also used in cell biology research and in medical diagnostics to characterize cells in a wide range of applications associated with diseases such as cancer and AIDS. These devices were able to count cells, like the earlier Coulter counter. But more importantly, they were also capable of measuring cellular characteristics. 
Can pain from osteoarthritis (joint wear) be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] In contrast to rheumatoid arthritis, in osteoarthritis the joints do not become hot or red.Treatment includes exercise, decreasing joint stress such as by rest or use of a cane, support groups, and pain medications. As an adjunct to these lifestyle changes, use of analgesia, intra-articular cortisone injection and consideration of hyaluronic acids and platelet-rich plasma are recommended for pain relief in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. There is no evidence for the use of colchicine for treating the pain of hand or knee arthritis.There is limited evidence to support the use of hyaluronan, methylsulfonylmethane, rose hip, capsaicin, or vitamin D.

Acupuncture and other interventions
While acupuncture leads to improvements in pain relief, this improvement is small and may be of questionable importance. A Cochrane review of low-level laser therapy found unclear evidence of benefit, whereas another review found short-term pain relief for osteoarthritic knees.Further research is needed to determine if balnotherapy for osteoarthritis (mineral baths or spa treatments) improves a person's quality of life or ability to function. There is no evidence of benefit from placing hot packs on joints.There is low quality evidence that therapeutic ultrasound may be beneficial for people with osteoarthritis of the knee; however, further research is needed to confirm and determine the degree and significance of this potential benefit.Therapeutic ultrasound may relieve pain compared to conventional non-drug ultrasound however phonopheresis does not produce additional benefits to functional improvement. It is safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis.Continuous and pulsed ultrasound modes (especially 1 MHz, 2.5 W/cm2, 15min/ session, 3 session/ week, during 8 weeks protocol) can be effective in improving patients physical function and pain.There is weak evidence suggesting that electromagnetic field treatment may result in moderate pain relief; however, further research is necessary and it is not known if electromagnetic field treatment can improve quality of life or function.Viscosupplementation for osteoarthritis of the knee may have positive effects on pain and function at 5 to 13 weeks post-injection. 
Can pain from a sprained ankle be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] Ice, compression, and elevation may have roles in decreasing swelling and pain, but have not shown to help with healing an injury.There are different variations of the protocol, which may emphasize additional protective actions. By reducing the entry of these cells and signals to the injury, healing can be delayed, or possibly inhibited.The current research supports the role of ice in temporary pain relief, but there is little evidence supporting the use of ice to aid in healing, or even swelling reduction. This treatment suggests increasing healthy blood flow to the ankle, including immune cells required for healing. The treatment also suggests improving healthy range of motion, stability and strength in the ankle to aid in a full recovery. See also
Sprained ankle


== References == The therapy is especially useful for sprains, strains, pulled muscles and pulled ligaments. It is well documented that metabolic rate decreases by application of cryotherapy.A study done found that current literature on the use of cryotherapy on acute ankle sprains has insufficient evidence for the efficacy.Static compression is often used in conjunction with cryotherapy for the care of acute injuries. Literature suggests that compression therapy use for perioperative ankle fractures will be beneficial for edema reduction and therefore, will probably be beneficial for pain and ankle joint mobility as well. 
Can sore muscles be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] With delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) caused by eccentric exercise (muscle lengthening), it was observed that light concentric exercise (muscle shortening) during DOMS can cause initially more pain but was followed by a temporary alleviation of soreness with no adverse effects on muscle function or recovery being observed. Static stretching or warming up the muscles before or after exercise does not prevent soreness, although there is evidence that whole body vibration therapy performed before exercise may lessen both the soreness and reduced range of motion caused by delayed onset muscle soreness.Other preventative measures with evidence of efficacy based on randomized controlled trials include the consumption of saffron. There are claims in the literature that exercising sore muscles appears to be the best way to reduce or eliminate the soreness, but this has not yet been systematically investigated. : 62–63 Ibuprofen is not an appropriate treatment for delayed onset muscle soreness and damage. It decreases soreness, but does not counteract the reduction in muscular performance caused by delayed onset muscle soreness. Acute muscle soreness (AMS) is the pain felt in muscles during and immediately, up to 24 hours, after strenuous physical exercise. The following causes have been proposed for acute muscle soreness:

Accumulation of chemical end products of exercise in muscle cells such as lactic acid and H+
Muscle fatigue (the muscle tires and cannot contract any more)There are no modern effective treatments for AMS. It can also be administered for acute pain in general and for tension headache (muscle contraction headache). 
Can carbon dioxide in mineral water and other sparkling drinks damage teeth or cause tooth decay? [SEP] Carbonated water (also known as soda water, sparkling water, fizzy water, club soda, water with gas, in many places as mineral water, or especially in the United States as seltzer or seltzer water) is water containing dissolved carbon dioxide gas, either artificially injected under pressure or occurring due to natural geological processes. Club soda and sparkling mineral water and some other sparkling waters contain added or dissolved minerals such as potassium bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium citrate, or potassium sulfate. Health effects
By itself, carbonated water appears to have little impact on health.Carbonated water such as club soda or sparkling water is defined in US law as a food of minimal nutritional value, even if minerals, vitamins, or artificial sweeteners have been added to it.Carbonated water does not appear to have an effect on gastroesophageal reflux disease. Acid erosion
While carbonated water is somewhat acidic, this acidity can be partially neutralized by saliva. A study found that sparkling mineral water is slightly more erosive to teeth than non-carbonated water but is about 1% as corrosive as soft drinks are. A 2017 study by the American Dental Association showed that it would take over 100 years of daily sparkling water consumption to cause damage to human teeth - a claim that could not apply if there is added sugar or artificial flavorings, which often include citric acid and other fruit acids, predicted to have an impact on human teeth. Bottled water typically has unknown fluoride levels.Tooth decay remains a major public health concern in most industrialized countries, affecting 60–90% of schoolchildren and the vast majority of adults. Bottled water typically has unknown fluoride levels.Dental cavities remains a major public health concern in most industrialized countries, affecting 60–90% of schoolchildren and the vast majority of adults. 
Does bark extract from maritime pine (also: "pine bark extract") improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] This is one of the joints where most humans develop osteoarthritis with age. The pure coniferous resin from Norway spruce is antimicrobial against a wide range of bacteria and fungi and positively associates with progressive healing of the wound. The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) is a widely used, proprietary set of standardized questionnaires used by health professionals to evaluate the condition of patients with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip, including pain, stiffness, and physical functioning of the joints. It can be self-administered and was developed at Western Ontario and McMaster Universities in 1982.Higher scores indicate worse pain, stiffness, and functional limitations. A disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) is a disease-modifying drug that would inhibit or even reverse the progression of osteoarthritis. Since the main hallmark of osteoarthritis is cartilage loss, a typical DMOAD would prevent the loss of cartilage and potentially regenerate it. Several approved drugs are being investigated as repurposed agents in the treatment of osteoarhritis such as liraglutide (anti-diabetic and anti-obesity drug: NCT02905864), Metformin (anti-diabetic drug: NCT04767841, NCT05034029), Zoledronic acid (anti-osteoporotic drug: NCT04303026), etc.Paroxetine has been deemed to have dmoad activity. The pharmacology of bark isolates is an ongoing topic of medical research. 
Is brown millet effective in favorably influencing the course of the disease in rheumatism ("rheumatoid arthritis")? [SEP] Thomas McPherson Brown (1906–1989) was a rheumatologist who held unorthodox views about the basis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and believed it could be cured with antibiotics.Brown graduated from Swarthmore College then attended Johns Hopkins Medical School. Treatments containing gold traces were also used to treat cases of rheumatoid arthritis – but because the dose used for tuberculosis was higher than for arthritis, it has not afflicted many subscribing to such treatments. Clinical trials
Rheumatoid arthritis
It has started clinical trials. Diseases and pests
Finger millet is generally seen as not very prone to diseases and pests. Finger millet has a good malting activity. In southern India, on pediatrician's recommendation, finger millet is used in preparing baby food, because of millet's high nutritional content, especially iron and calcium. In northwest Vietnam, finger millet is used as a medicine for women at childbirth. There is a history of clinical research done on glycosaminoglycans, especially glucosamine and chondroitin, for the treatment of arthritis. 
Are cannabis or substances derived from cannabis effective and safe anti-cancer agents? [SEP] (Cannabis is listed as a controlled substance.) Cannabis, also known as marijuana among other names, is a psychoactive drug from the cannabis plant. There is limited evidence suggesting cannabis can be used to reduce nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy, to improve appetite in people with HIV/AIDS, or to treat chronic pain and muscle spasms. There is evidence supporting the use of cannabis or its derivatives in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, neuropathic pain, and multiple sclerosis. Recreational
According to DEA Chief Administrative Law Judge, Francis Young, "cannabis is one of the safest therapeutically active substances known to man." Cannabis consumption has both psychoactive and physiological effects. As of 2015, there is no consensus regarding whether cannabis smoking is associated with an increased risk of cancer. Light and moderate use of cannabis is not believed to increase risk of lung or upper airway cancer. 
It is not always possible to reduce elevated cholesterol levels to a healthy level with tablets and thus minimize the risk of heart attack or stroke. Does this succeed through additional injections with PCSK9 antibodies? [SEP] PCSK9 binds to the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) (which takes cholesterol out of circulation), and that binding leads to the receptor being degraded, and less LDL cholesterol being removed from circulation. Inhibiting PCSK9 prevents the receptor from being degraded, and promotes removal of LDL cholesterol from circulation.After subcutaneous administration of alirocumab, maximal suppression of free PCSK9 occurs within 4 to 8 hours and has an apparent half-life of 17 to 20 days. Inhibition of this process results in higher HDL cholesterol levels and reduces LDL cholesterol levels. Drugs that interfere with the action of these peptides would aid in lowering cholesterol levels by complementing the action of the statins that inhibit the endogenous production of cholesterol. The CETP inhibitor torcetrapib (8) proved very effective in lowering cholesterol levels in humans; the drug not only lowered low-density lipoproteins (LDL and VLDL) but also raised levels of high density lipoproteins (HDL). The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. Its goal is to reduce increased cardiovascular disease rates due to hypercholesterolemia (elevated cholesterol levels) in the United States of America. They are intended to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis (a cardiovascular disease) by improving blood lipid levels. 
Do vaginal suppositories containing the active ingredient imiquimod cause precancerous stages of cervical cancer to recede or disappear? [SEP] Imiquimod, sold under the brand name Aldara among others, is a medication that acts as an immune response modifier that is used to treat genital warts, superficial basal cell carcinoma, and actinic keratosis. Medical uses
Imiquimod is a patient-applied cream prescribed to treat genital warts, Bowens disease (squamous cell carcinoma in situ), and, secondary to surgery, for basal cell carcinoma, as well as actinic keratosis.Imiquimod 5% cream is indicated for the topical treatment of:

external genital and perianal warts (condylomata acuminata) in adults;
small superficial basal-cell carcinomas (sBCCs) in adults;
clinically typical, non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic actinic keratoses (AKs) on the face or scalp in immunocompetent adults when size or number of lesions limit the efficacy and / or acceptability of cryotherapy and other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less appropriate.Imiquimod 3.75% cream is indicated for the topical treatment of clinically typical, non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic, visible or palpable actinic keratosis of the full face or balding scalp in immunocompetent adults when other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less appropriate. Mechanism of action
Imiquimod yields profound antitumoral activity by acting on several immunological levels synergistically. Research
One randomized double-blind Phase III clinical study found clearance of genital warts (an FDA-approved indication) improved from 9% with placebo to 24.9% with 3.75% imiquimod cream applied for up to eight weeks.Imiquimod has been tested for treatment of molluscum contagiosum. These disprove earlier anecdotal claims and smaller, less reliable studies.Imiquimod has also been tested for treatment of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia, vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia, common warts (a 2012 Cochrane review found no randomized controlled trials), plantar warts, warts in people with suppressed immune systems, flat warts on face and neck, and warts under and around fingernails and toenails. It was specifically being investigated to treat high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) associated with human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and invasive carcinomas of the anogenital area such as cervical, vaginal, and anal cancers. The human papilloma virus (HPV) is strongly associated with vaginal cancer. In early stages of vaginal cancer, surgery also has some benefit. 
Is blue light treatment as effective as UV light or other established therapies for psoriasis? [SEP] Ultraviolet light therapy or ultraviolet phototherapy is a treatment for psoriasis, atopic skin disorder, vitiligo and other skin diseases. Treating skin conditions such as neurodermatitis, psoriasis, acne vulgaris, and eczema with ultraviolet light is called ultraviolet light therapy. There is moderate evidence for the efficacy of blue and blue-red light therapies in treating mild acne, but most studies are of low quality. Atopic dermatitis
Light therapy is considered one of the best monotherapy treatments for atopic dermatitis (AD) when applied to patients who have not responded to traditional topical treatments. Psoriasis
For psoriasis, UVB phototherapy has been shown to be effective. Light therapy for skin conditions like psoriasis usually use 313 nanometer  UVB though it may use UVA (315–400 nm wavelength) or a broader spectrum UVB (280–315 nm wavelength). Phototherapy is an effective treatment because it forces skin cells to manufacture melanin to protect the body from UV damage. When combined with exposure to the UVA in PUVA, psoralens are highly effective at clearing psoriasis and vitiligo. 
Does frequent consumption of potatoes increase the risk of dying from cancer? [SEP] Dietary factors are recognized as having a significant effect on the risk of cancers, with different dietary elements both increasing and reducing risk. Diet and obesity may be related to up to 30–35% of cancer deaths, while physical inactivity appears to be related to 7% risk of cancer occurrence.While many dietary recommendations have been proposed to reduce the risk of cancer, few have significant supporting scientific evidence. Dietary components
Alcohol
Alcohol is associated with an increased risk of a number of cancers. Eggs
Processed and red meat
There is strong evidence that processed meat and red meat intake increases risk of colorectal cancer. See also
References
External links
"Diet, healthy eating and cancer". However, even light and moderate alcohol consumption increase the risk for developing certain types of cancer. Consumption of alcohol in any quantity can cause cancer. Other mechanisms
Additional mechanisms contribute to cancer risk with alcohol consumption. 
Can cancer be detected by dark field analysis (dark field microscopy) of the blood? [SEP] Dark-field microscopy (also called dark-ground microscopy) describes microscopy methods, in both light and electron microscopy, which exclude the unscattered beam from the image. Light microscopy applications
In optical microscopy, dark-field describes an illumination technique used to enhance the contrast in unstained samples. Advantages and disadvantages
Dark-field microscopy is a very simple yet effective technique and well suited for uses involving live and unstained biological samples, such as a smear from a tissue culture or individual, water-borne, single-celled organisms. Dark-field microscopy combined with hyperspectral imaging
When coupled to hyperspectral imaging, dark-field microscopy becomes a powerful tool for the characterization of nanomaterials embedded in cells. Modern dark-field microscopy and the history of its development. Dark field and phase contrast microscopes (Université Paris Sud) Practitioners include alternative medicine providers such as nutritionists, herbologists, naturopaths, and chiropractors.Dark field microscopy is useful to enhance contrast in unstained samples, but live blood analysis is not proven to be useful for any of its claimed indications. Two journal articles published in the alternative medical literature found that darkfield microscopy seemed unable to detect cancer, and that live blood analysis lacked reliability, reproducibility, and sensitivity and specificity. 
Can dark field analysis indicate other health problems? [SEP] Light microscopy applications
In optical microscopy, dark-field describes an illumination technique used to enhance the contrast in unstained samples. Advantages and disadvantages
Dark-field microscopy is a very simple yet effective technique and well suited for uses involving live and unstained biological samples, such as a smear from a tissue culture or individual, water-borne, single-celled organisms. The interpretation of dark-field images must be done with great care, as common dark features of bright-field microscopy images may be invisible, and vice versa. While the dark-field image may first appear to be a negative of the bright-field image, different effects are visible in each. Dark-field microscopy combined with hyperspectral imaging
When coupled to hyperspectral imaging, dark-field microscopy becomes a powerful tool for the characterization of nanomaterials embedded in cells. Transmission electron microscope applications
Dark-field studies in transmission electron microscopy play a powerful role in the study of crystals and crystal defects, as well as in the imaging of individual atoms. Digital dark-field analysis
This a mathematical technique intermediate between direct and reciprocal (Fourier-transform) space for exploring images with well-defined periodicities, like electron microscope lattice-fringe images. Modern dark-field microscopy and the history of its development. 
Does kombucha have a positive effect on health? [SEP] Kombucha (also tea mushroom, tea fungus, or Manchurian mushroom when referring to the culture; Latin name Medusomyces gisevii) is a fermented, lightly effervescent, sweetened black tea drink commonly consumed for its purported health benefits. The living bacteria are said to be probiotic, one of the reasons for the popularity of the drink.Numerous health benefits have been claimed to correlate with drinking kombucha; there is little evidence to support any of these claims. Health claims
Many people drink kombucha tea for its purported health benefits. It concluded that the proposed, unsubstantiated therapeutic claims did not outweigh known risks, and that kombucha should not be recommended for therapeutic use, being in a class of "remedies that only seem to benefit those who sell them". The American Cancer Society says that "Serious side effects and occasional deaths have been associated with drinking Kombucha tea". Because kombucha is a commonly homemade fermentation, caution should be taken because pathogenic microorganisms can contaminate the tea during preparation.Adverse effects associated with kombucha consumption include severe hepatic (liver) and renal (kidney) toxicity as well as metabolic acidosis. Some studies have found the hepatotoxin usnic acid in kombucha, although it is not known whether the cases of liver damage are due to usnic acid or to some other toxin.Drinking kombucha can be harmful for people with preexisting ailments. See also
Kombucha


== References == 
Is graviola an effective and safe treatment for cancer? [SEP] Reviews by major medical bodies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the National Cancer Institute, the American Cancer Society, M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, have found no evidence that Hoxsey Therapy is an effective treatment for cancer. Reviews by the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and M. D. Anderson Cancer Center found no evidence that Hoxsey Therapy is effective as a treatment for cancer. Gemcitabine, with brand names including Gemzar, is a chemotherapy medication. Medical uses
Gemcitabine treats various carcinomas. It was intended as an antiviral drug, but preclinical testing showed that it killed leukemia cells in vitro.During the early 1990s gemcitabine was studied in clinical trials. Escharotics, such as black salves, are currently advertised by some alternative medicine marketers as treatments for skin cancer, often with unsubstantiated testimonials and unsupported claims of effectiveness.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has listed Cansema as a "fake cancer cure" and warns consumers to avoid it. Tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil, sold under the brand name Teysuno among others is a  fixed-dose combination medication used for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer when used in combination with cisplatin, and also for the treatment of head and neck cancer, colorectal cancer, non–small-cell lung, breast, pancreatic, and biliary tract cancers. Medical uses
In the European Union, tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil is indicated for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer when given in combination with cisplatin. 
Does taking preparations with fenugreek extract improve sex life or satisfaction with it? [SEP] Research into whether fenugreek reduces biomarkers in people with diabetes and with pre-diabetic conditions is of limited quality.As of 2020, there was no high-quality evidence for whether fenugreek is safe and effective to relieve dysmenorrhea or improve lactation during breastfeeding. Studies of fenugreek are characterized as having variable, poor experimental design and quality, including small numbers of subjects, failure to describe methods, inconsistency and duration of dosing, and non-recording of adverse effects.Because research on potential biological effects of consuming fenugreek has provided no high-quality evidence for health or anti-disease effect, fenugreek is not approved or recommended for clinical use by the United States Food and Drug Administration. Various health benefits are claimed for fenugreek. The medication improves sexual desire, increases the number of satisfying sexual events, and decreases the distress associated with low sexual desire. Just over half of male consumers and a lower percentage of female consumers reported that it enhanced their orgasms. A number of more recent studies do suggest orgasms are improved with marijuana use, however.Studies on marijuana consumption’s effects on sex have shown little other significant physical improvements. The results of the study show women who used cannabis prior to having sex had higher odds of satisfactory orgasms and an increase in sex drive. Such results show, that cannabis shares a relationship to increased sexual satisfaction positively, and such results can be considered to further research to develop treatment for female sexual dysfunction. 
Does disulfiram improve the effectiveness of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] Disulfiram is a medication used to support the treatment of chronic alcoholism by producing an acute sensitivity to ethanol (drinking alcohol). Disulfiram should be used in conjunction with counseling and support. Medical uses
Disulfiram is used as a second-line treatment, behind acamprosate and naltrexone, for alcohol dependence.Under normal metabolism, alcohol is broken down in the liver by the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase to acetaldehyde, which is then converted by the enzyme acetaldehyde dehydrogenase to a harmless acetic acid derivative (acetyl coenzyme A). Slow improvement may occur when the drug's use is stopped; often there is complete recovery eventually.Disulfiram disrupts metabolism of several other compounds, including paracetamol (acetaminophen), theophylline and caffeine. Research
Disulfiram has been studied as a possible treatment for cancer, parasitic infections, anxiety disorder, and latent HIV infection.Disulfiram has shown reversing of retinitis pigmentosa in rats. Cancer
When disulfiram creates complexes with metals (dithiocarbamate complexes), it is a proteasome inhibitor and as of 2016 it had been studied in in vitro experiments, model animals, and small clinical  trials as a possible treatment for liver metastasis, metastatic melanoma, glioblastoma, non-small cell lung cancer, and prostate cancer. The zinc diethyldithiocarbamate (zinc-ditiocarb) metabolite of disulfiram is extremely potent against the diarrhea and liver abscess-causing parasite Entamoeba histolytica and might be active against other deadly parasites. References
External links
"Disulfiram". 
Can binaural beats relieve stress or anxiety before surgery and medical treatments? [SEP] Vestibular rehabilitation therapy can be used in conjunction with cognitive behavioral therapy in order to reduce anxiety and depression resulting from an individual's change in lifestyle. A major aspect that can impede progress during vestibular therapy is an altered mental status, this can include depression, anxiety or even fear. See also
Physical therapy
Vestibular system


== References == Preoperational anxiety, or preoperative anxiety, is a common reaction experienced by patients who are admitted to a hospital for surgery. Effects of preoperative anxiety
Physiological effects
Anxiety can cause physiological responses such as tachycardia, hypertension, elevated temperature, sweating, nausea, and a heightened sense of touch, smell, or hearing.A patient may also experience peripheral vasoconstriction, which makes it difficult for the hospital staff to obtain blood. Effects
Preparation for surgery
On the positive side, if a patient experiences moderate amounts of anxiety, the anxiety can aid in the preparation for surgery. Treatment
Treatment of preoperative anxiety may include:

Preoperative patient teaching or tours
Accurate and thorough information about the operation
Relaxation therapy
Cognitive behavioural therapy
Permitting family members to be present before the operation
Anti-anxiety medication such as benzodiazepines or melatonin. References
Bilateral Sound in EMDR, Visualization and Success
Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing for posttraumatic stress disorder: a pilot blinded, randomized study of stimulation type. 
Is a vegan diet healthier than a vegetarian diet? [SEP] Vegan diets tend to be higher in dietary fiber, magnesium, folic acid, vitamin C, vitamin E, iron, and phytochemicals; and lower in calories, saturated fat, cholesterol, long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, vitamin D, calcium, zinc, and vitamin B12.Researchers agree that those on a vegan diet should take a vitamin B12 dietary supplement. High quality vegan or vegetarian diets may therefore afford the same bone health as that of omnivores. Rather, plant-based diets including whole grains as the main form of carbohydrate, unsaturated fats as the main form of dietary fat, an abundance of fruit and vegetables, and adequate n-3 fatty acids can be considered healthy.With processed plant-based foods, such as vegan burger patties or chicken nuggets, becoming more available, there is also concern that plant-based diets incorporating these foods may become less healthy.In practice lacto-ovo vegetarians or vegans seem to have a higher overall diet quality compared with nonvegetarians. The higher diet quality in vegetarians and vegans may explain some of the positive health outcomes compared with nonvegetarians. However, in practice, compared to non-vegetarians, vegetarians on average have an increased consumption of:

Fruits
Vegetables
Avocados
Non-fried potatoes
Whole grains
Legumes
Soy foods
Nuts
SeedsIn comparison to non-vegetarians, practising vegetarians on average have a decreased consumption of:

Dairy products
Eggs
Refined grains
Added fats
Sweets
Snacks
Non-water (often sweetened) beveragesThis difference is observed, but is not required to be vegetarian. Vegan diets tend to be higher in dietary fiber, magnesium, folic acid, vitamin C, vitamin E, iron, and phytochemicals, and lower in dietary energy, saturated fat, cholesterol, omega-3 fatty acid, vitamin D, calcium, zinc, and vitamin B12. The main difference between a vegan and vegetarian diet is that vegans exclude dairy products and eggs. A 2018 meta-analysis of observational studies concluded that "In most countries, a vegan diet is associated with a more favourable cardio-metabolic profile compared to an omnivorous diet". 
Can taking chlorophyll change mouth or body odor? [SEP] Smell as evidence of disease has been long used, dating back to Hippocrates around 400 years BCE. It is still employed with a focus on volatile organic compounds (VOCs) found in body odor. History
Physicians historically used odors as a diagnostic indicator to judge a patient's health. It is one of the chemical compounds responsible for bad breath and the smell of flatus. The production of methanethiol in urine after eating asparagus was once thought to be a genetic trait. More recent research suggests that the peculiar odor is in fact produced by all humans after consuming asparagus, while the ability to detect it (methanethiol being one of many components in "asparagus pee") is in fact the genetic trait. The chemical components responsible for the change in the odor of urine show as soon as 15 minutes after eating asparagus. Toxicity
Chlorobutanol is toxic to the liver, a skin irritant and a severe eye irritant. 
Can taking chlorophyll affect the odor of urine in catheter wearers or stool in people with an artificial bowel outlet? [SEP] Pyridium turns urine orange in the kidneys, and methylene blue (or indigo carmine) turns urine blue in the bladder.A tampon is placed into the vagina. If the tampon turns orange, ureterovaginal fistula is suspected. Like most organochlorine compounds, chloroethanol releases hydrochloric acid and phosgene when burned. Urobilin or urochrome is the chemical primarily responsible for the yellow color of urine. Uses
Alternative medicine
Chlorophyllin is the active ingredient in a number of internally taken preparations intended to reduce odors associated with incontinence, colostomies, and similar procedures, as well as body odor in general. "Chlorophyllin Uses, Side Effects & Warnings". Chlorophyllin has been used in alternative medicine as an aid to reduce the odor of urine or feces (bowel movements). Chlorophyllin also binds to acridine orange. 
Is the risk of bacterial or fungal infection comparable when using menstrual cups or pads? [SEP] Menstrual cups are a safe alternative to other menstrual products; risk of toxic shock syndrome infection is similar or less with menstrual cups compared to pads or tampons. Girls provided with menstrual cups had a lower prevalence of sexually transmitted infections than control groups. Also, the prevalence of bacterial vaginosis was lower among cup users compared with menstrual pad users or those continuing other usual practice. However, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration declined to remove menstrual cups from the market, saying that there was insufficient evidence of risk.No differences in the growth of Staphylococcus aureus or health harms were identified among school girls provided with menstrual cups compared to those using menstrual pads, or continuing their usual practice in rural western Kenya.Menstrual cups can be used with an IUD; however, there is an unclear association with respect to IUD expulsion. The probable reason for this is that menstrual cups are not absorbent, do not irritate the vaginal mucosal tissue, and so do not change the vaginal flora in any measurable amount.Research has shown that the cup has no impact on the vaginal flora, which means there is no effect on the presence of S. aureus, the bacterium that can cause TSS. Infection risk is similar or less with menstrual cups compared to pads or tampons. Buying pads or using rags monthly may seem more affordable than purchasing a menstrual cup, though the lifetime cost is higher. Here, menstrual cups have an advantage over disposable pads or tampons as they do not contribute to the solid waste issues in the communities or generate embarrassing refuse that others may see. 
Laboratory experiments indicate that leoligin and other substances from edelweiss have a medicinal effect. However, this has not been researched in humans. [SEP] An experimental drug is a medicinal product (a drug or vaccine) that has not yet received approval from governmental regulatory authorities for routine use in human or veterinary medicine. A medicinal product may be approved for use in one disease or condition but still be considered experimental for other diseases or conditions. In 2018 federal "Right to Try" laws were enacted in the United States, which allows individuals who fit into the criteria to try experimental drugs that are not yet deemed safe. Eplivanserin (SR-46,349; planned trade name Ciltyri) was an experimental drug for the treatment of insomnia which was being developed by Sanofi Aventis.Sanofi Aventis announced in December 2009 that it was withdrawing its application for approval of eplivanserin from both the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency. Study results
In a placebo controlled Phase II clinical trial with 351 subjects, eplivanserin reduced the sleep latency by 39 minutes (versus 26 minutes under placebo). Afterwards, these compounds are tested in animals to see if they have the desired effect. ORG-47241 is a progestin which was under development by Organon for the treatment of "female genital diseases" and as a hormonal contraceptive for the prevention of pregnancy but was never marketed. Clinical studies
In phase ΙΙ clinical studies to investigate safety, tolerability of gavestinel, no findings showed that it had significant side effects. 
Can a straight bar improve harmless tension and pain in the neck and back? [SEP] This gentle and painless technique is a very effective treatment for a wide variety of orthopedic conditions such as headaches, fibromyalgia, sciatica, tendinitis, chronic neck pain, and post-surgical conditions. It is primarily used by straight chiropractors. Effectiveness
Neuromusculoskeletal disorders
Treatment is usually for neck or low back pain and related disorders.For acute low back pain, low quality evidence has suggested no difference between real and sham spine manipulation, and moderate quality evidence has suggested no difference between spine manipulation and other commonly used treatments, such as medication and physical therapy.National guidelines vary; some recommend the therapy for those who do not improve with other treatment. It may be effective for lumbar disc herniation with radiculopathy, as effective as mobilization for neck pain, some forms of headache, and some extremity joint conditions. showed manipulation of the thoracic spine reduced neck pain immediately. Prevention
Exercise appears to be useful for preventing low back pain. Massage therapy has been found to be more effective for acute low back pain than no treatment; the benefits were found to be limited to the short term and there was no effect for improving function. The evidence is inconclusive as to whether mindfulness-based stress reduction reduces chronic back pain intensity or associated disability, although it suggests that it may be useful in improving the acceptance of existing pain.Tentative evidence supports neuroreflexotherapy (NRT), in which small pieces of metal are placed just under the skin of the ear and back, for non-specific low back pain. 
Are ultrasound examinations during pregnancy safe for the health of the child? [SEP] The International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology (ISUOG) recommends that pregnant women have routine obstetric ultrasounds between 18 weeks' and 22 weeks' gestational age (the anatomy scan) in order to confirm pregnancy dating, to measure the fetus so that growth abnormalities can be recognized quickly later in pregnancy, and to assess for congenital malformations and multiple pregnancies (twins, etc). Performing an ultrasound at this early stage of pregnancy can more accurately confirm the timing of the pregnancy, and can also assess for multiple fetuses and major congenital abnormalities at an earlier stage. Ultrasound may also detect fetal organ anomaly. Some resources indicate that there are clear reasons for this and that such scans are also clearly beneficial because ultrasound enables clear clinical advantages for assessing the developing fetus in terms of morphology, bone shape, skeletal features, fetal heart function, volume evaluation, fetal lung maturity, and general fetus well being.Second-trimester ultrasound screening for aneuploidies is based on looking for soft markers and some predefined structural abnormalities. Safety issues
Current evidence indicates that diagnostic ultrasound is safe for the unborn child, unlike radiographs, which employ ionizing radiation. It can be used to identify many conditions that could be potentially harmful to the mother and/or baby possibly remaining undiagnosed or with delayed diagnosis in the absence of sonography. However, its use for non-medical purposes such as fetal "keepsake" videos and photos is discouraged.Obstetric ultrasound is primarily used to:

Date the pregnancy (gestational age)
Confirm fetal viability
Determine location of fetus, intrauterine vs ectopic
Check the location of the placenta in relation to the cervix
Check for the number of fetuses (multiple pregnancy)
Check for major physical abnormalities. Risks and side-effects
Ultrasonography is generally considered safe imaging, with the World Health Organizations stating:
"Diagnostic ultrasound is recognized as a safe, effective, and highly flexible imaging modality capable of providing clinically relevant information about most parts of the body in a rapid and cost-effective fashion".Diagnostic ultrasound studies of the fetus are generally considered to be safe during pregnancy. 
Can oregano oil relieve discomfort or disease? [SEP] Oregano (US: , UK: ; Origanum vulgare) is a species of flowering plant in the mint family Lamiaceae. Uses
Culinary
Oregano is a culinary herb, used for the flavour of its leaves, which can be more intense when dried than fresh. Good-quality oregano may be strong enough to almost numb the tongue, but cultivars adapted to colder climates may have a lesser flavour. Oregano oil
Oregano oil has been used in folk medicine over centuries. Oregano essential oil is extracted from the leaves of the oregano plant. Although oregano or its oil may be used as a dietary supplement, there is no clinical evidence to indicate that either has any effect on human health.In 2014, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned a Utah company, Young Living, that its herbal products, including oregano essential oil, were being promoted to have numerous unproven anti-disease effects, and so were being sold as unauthorized misbranded drugs subject to seizure and federal penalties. See also
Thymus vulgaris, thyme

References
"Oregano Essential Oil Uses for Skin, Hair, and Aromatherapy". It has similar flavors as oregano. 
Are Bach flower remedies effective in helping with test anxiety? [SEP] Bach flower remedies (BFRs) are solutions of brandy and water—the water containing extreme dilutions of flower material developed by Edward Bach, an English homeopath, in the 1930s. Systematic reviews of clinical trials of Bach flower solutions have found no efficacy beyond that of a placebo. Effectiveness
In a 2002 database review of randomized trials Edzard Ernst concluded:
The hypothesis that flower remedies are associated with effects beyond a placebo response is not supported by data from rigorous clinical trials. The most likely means of action for flower remedies is as placebos, enhanced by introspection on the patient's emotional state, or simply being listened to by the practitioner. Rather than being based on medical research, using the scientific method, Bach's flower remedies were intuitively derived and based on his perceived psychic connections to the plants. Test anxiety is prevalent amongst the student populations of the world. Test anxiety can also lead to panic attacks, in which the student may have a sudden intense fear, difficulty breathing, and extreme discomfort. Treatment
Medication is not recommended to treat test anxiety; instead, standard suggestions include sleep, proper nutrition, exercise, meditation, studying without stress, and enacting habits to reduce stress during the test. 
Can capsules with diamine oxidase alleviate or prevent symptoms of histamine intolerance? [SEP] Diamine oxidase (DAO), also known "amine oxidase, copper-containing, 1" (AOC1), formerly called histaminase, is an enzyme (EC 1.4.3.22) involved in the metabolism, oxidation, and inactivation of histamine and other polyamines such as putrescine or spermidine in animals. In case of a shortage of diamine oxidase in the human body, it may appear as an allergy or histamine intolerance. It is one of two enzymes involved in the metabolism of histamine in mammals, the other being diamine oxidase (DAO). Histamine degradation is crucial to the prevention of allergic reactions to otherwise harmless substances. General
The imbalance in histamine intolerance is between the synthesis and selective release of histamine from certain granulocytes (i.e., mast cells and basophils), versus the breakdown of histamine by the enzymes which metabolize it, such as diamine oxidase (DAO) and histamine N-methyltransferase (HNMT).In contrast, allergic reactions involving an immediate allergic response to an allergen are caused by anaphylactic degranulation, which is the abrupt and explosive release of "pre-formed mediators", including histamine, from mast cells and basophils throughout the body. Symptoms
Possible symptoms after ingestion of histamine-rich food include:
Skin rash, hives, eczema, itching
Headache, flushing, migraine, dizziness
Narrowed or runny nose, difficulty breathing, bronchial asthma, sore throat
Bloating, diarrhea, constipation, nausea / vomiting, abdominal pain, stomach sticking, heartburn
High blood pressure (hypertension), tachycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, low blood pressure (hypotension)
Menstrual disorders (dysmenorrhea), cystitis, urethritis and mucosal irritation of female genitalia
Water retention (edema), bone marrow edema (BME), joint pain
Fatigue, seasickness, tiredness, sleep disorders
Confusion, nervousness, depressive moods

Metabolism
In the human body, histamine is metabolized extracellularly by the enzyme diamine oxidase (DAO), and intracellularly by histamine N-methyltransferase (HNMT) and aldehyde oxidases (AOX1). Quite the contrary: in the presence of histamine intolerance, the symptoms have improved or disappeared completely. The intake of diaminoxidase (DAO) in capsule form with meals may reduce the symptoms of histamine intolerance.In cases of high blood glutamate, such as can occur in some cases of eczema and histamine intolerance, Reinhart Jarisch recommends vitamin B6 treatment. 
Does magnesium help with period pain? [SEP] Magnesium salts are available as a medication in a number of formulations. Magnesium is important to health. Dysmenorrhea, also known as period pain, painful periods or menstrual cramps, is pain during menstruation. Reviews indicated magnesium supplementation seemed to be effective. Magnesium salicylate is a common analgesic and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat mild to moderate musculoskeletal pain such as in tendons and muscles. Magnesium salicylate can be an effective OTC alternative to prescription NSAIDs, with both anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving effects. Magnesium delivered through the skin aids as a muscle relaxant and skin rejuvenation. Transdermal Magnesium Therapy: A New Modality for the Maintenance of Health. 
Does cannabis improve symptoms of Parkinson's disease, for example movement disorders? [SEP] In a study of 147 patients with CBD, it was found that all of them had at least one Parkinsonian sign, 95% having two and 93% had some higher order dysfunction (cognitive impairments like acalculia, sensory loss, dementia, neglect, etc.). Predominant movement disorders and cortical dysfunctions associated with CBD include:
Parkinsonism
Alien hand syndrome
Apraxia (ideomotor apraxia and limb-kinetic apraxia)
Aphasia

Parkinsonism
The presence of parkinsonism as a clinical symptom of CBD is largely responsible for complications in developing unique diagnostic criteria for the disease. Common associated movement dysfunctions that comprise parkinsonism are rigidity, bradykinesia, and gait disorder, with limb rigidity forming the most typical manifestation of parkinsonism in CBD. However, it has been noted that tauopathy in PSP results in tuft-shaped astrocytes in contrast with the ring-shaped astrocytic plaques found as a result of CBD.Individuals diagnosed with PD often exhibit similar movement dysfunction as those diagnosed with CBD, which adds complexity to its diagnosis. The most easily treatable symptom of CBD is parkinsonism, and the most common form of treatment for this symptom is the application of dopaminergic drugs. CBD represents roughly 4–6% of patients with Parkinsonism. Current medications that work to alleviate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease can also be made more effective through changes in diet. Parkinson's disease affects movement, producing motor symptoms. 
Is the dietary supplement nattokinase effective and safe as a blood thinner? [SEP] Nattokinase (pronounced nuh-TOH-kin-ayss) is an enzyme extracted and purified from a Japanese food called nattō. In spite of its name, nattokinase is not a kinase enzyme (and should not be pronounced as such), but a serine protease of the subtilisin family (99.5% identical with aprE). Rather, it is named for the fact that it is an enzyme produced by nattōkin (納豆菌), the Japanese name for Bacillus subtilis  var natto. Although it should be expected to be digested and inactivated in the human gut like other proteins, a few researchers report that nattokinase is active when taken orally.Nattokinase is sold as a dietary supplement. Medical uses
Natpara is indicated as an adjunct to calcium and vitamin D to control hypocalcemia in people with hypoparathyroidism.Preotact was approved by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk of fractures, but the marketing authorisation has been withdrawn at the manufacturer's request. The National Blood Clot Alliance or NBCA for short, formerly known as the National Alliance for Thrombosis and Thrombophilia (NATT), is a United States nationwide not-for-profit alliance of patients and medical professionals committed to raising awareness about thrombosis and thrombophilia and is dedicated to preventing and treating health problems caused by blood clots and blood clotting disorders. The medication is given once a month by injection into muscle.EV/NETE is approved for use in at least 36 countries, and is the most widely used combined injectable contraceptive. It is not safe or effective for any medical purpose. 
Is the Feldenkrais Method effective against pain and tension in the neck, shoulders and back? [SEP] The Feldenkrais Method is a type of exercise therapy devised by Israeli Moshé Feldenkrais (1904–1984) during the mid-20th century. The method is claimed to reorganize connections between the brain and body and so improve body movement and psychological state.There is no good medical evidence that the Feldenkrais method improves health outcomes. Description
The Feldenkrais Method is a type of alternative exercise therapy that proponents claim can repair impaired connections between the motor cortex and the body, so benefiting the quality of body movement and improving wellbeing. According to David Gorski, the Feldenkrais Guild of North America claims that the Feldenkrais method allows people to "rediscover [their] innate capacity for graceful, efficient movement" and that "These improvements will often generalize to enhance functioning in other aspects of [their] life". Accordingly in 2017 the Australian government identified the Feldenkrais Method as a practice that would not qualify for insurance subsidy, saying this step would "ensure taxpayer funds are expended appropriately and not directed to therapies lacking evidence".The Feldenkrais Method is promoted with anecdotal claims it can help children with autism and other developmental disorders, but such claims are not backed by reputable supporting evidence.There is limited evidence that workplace-based use of the Feldenkrais Method may help aid rehabilitation of people with upper limb complaints.David Gorski has written that the Method bears similarities to faith healing, is like "glorified yoga", and that it "borders on quackery". This gentle and painless technique is a very effective treatment for a wide variety of orthopedic conditions such as headaches, fibromyalgia, sciatica, tendinitis, chronic neck pain, and post-surgical conditions. Feldenkrais Method
The Feldenkrais Method is intended to teach better posture and improve quality of life, by means of instruction and gentle manipulation of the body.In 2015, the Australian Government's Department of Health published the results of a review of alternative therapies that sought to determine if any were suitable for being covered by health insurance; the Feldenkrais Method was one of 17 therapies evaluated for which no clear evidence of effectiveness was found. It is a development of the Alexander Technique, the Feldenkrais Method, and health-oriented work on musculoskeletal problems and stress diseases. 
Does an alkaline bath help with neurodermatitis? [SEP] Bath treatments are easy to carry out disease treatments that originated since the earliest days of goldfish culture. Balneotherapy (Latin: balneum "bath") is a method of treating diseases by bathing, a traditional medicine technique usually practiced at spas. ISBN 90-04-15681-X
Carola Koenig, Specialized Hydro-, Balneo-and Medicinal Bath Therapy. Sodium hypochlorite bath
Sodium hypochlorite baths became an acceptable treatment of atopic dermatitis due to a 2009 landmark study by JT Huan. The use of sodium hypochlorite in the form of a bleach bath, has been reported to improve atopic dermatitis severity in children with moderate-to-severe dermatitis or eczema.Solutions of 0.05–0.06% NaOCl are considered safe and still maintain bactericidal activity against Staphylococcus aureus. Significant reduction in eczema severity was demonstrated in 31 Staphylococcus aureus infected atopic dermatitis patients after 3 months of using dilute bleach baths twice a week, in a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled trial. In another clinical trial, Wong evaluated 36 moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis patients with clinical skin infection and reported improved disease severity with the use of twice-weekly dilute bleach baths.In addition to having bactericidal activity, sodium hypochlorite baths have been shown to have a direct effect on suppressing NF-κB signaling in the outermost layer of skin in mice, and reduced dermatitis severity in a mouse model of radiation dermatitis. Findings suggest that sodium hypochlorite baths may have a direct suppressive effect on the inflammation. 
Does birch water, also called birch sap, help with health problems? [SEP] Birch sap, birch water or birch juice is the sap directly tapped from birch trees, Betula pubescens (white birch), Betula pendula (silver birch), Betula lenta, Betula papyrifera, and  Betula fontinalis. Birch sap may be consumed both fresh and  naturally fermented. Birch sap is a traditional beverage in boreal and hemiboreal regions of the Northern Hemisphere  as well as parts of northern China. Commercial birch sap and derivative products
Birch sap may be consumed both fresh and naturally fermented. References
External links

How to tap birch sap - Health benefits & a taste of spring on YouTube Birch beer is a beverage, commonly found as a carbonated soft drink made from herbal extracts and birch bark. Birch syrup is a savory, mineral-tasting syrup made from birch sap, and produced in much the same way as maple syrup. Some Plateau Indian tribes used water birch to treat pimples and sores. 
Is oolong tea an effective way to lose weight? [SEP] Oolong (UK: , US: ; simplified Chinese: 乌龙茶; traditional Chinese: 烏龍茶 (wūlóngchácode: zho promoted to code: zh , "dark dragon" tea) is a traditional semi-oxidized Chinese tea (Camellia sinensis) produced through a process including withering the plant under strong sun and oxidation before curling and twisting. In Chinese, oolong teas are also known as qingcha (Chinese: 青茶; pinyin: qīngchá) or "dark green teas". According to the "tribute tea" theory, oolong tea came directly from Dragon-Phoenix Tea Cake tribute tea. This tea is also one of the two oolong varieties classed as a famous Chinese tea. Ruan zhi: a light variety of oolong tea. The tea is also known as "Milk Oolong" (Nai Xiang) because of its creamy, smooth, and easy taste. History and names
This variety of tea originated in the late 19th century, when Taiwan first exported oolong tea. Health benefits
Together with green tea, oolong tea, and black tea, baozhong tea has been shown to have antioxidant activity and antimutagenic properties. 
Do Waveex and similar products reduce exposure to electromagnetic fields, for example when using a cell phone or smartphone? [SEP] In 2005, Professor Lawrie Challis and others said clipping a ferrite bead onto hands-free kits stops the radio waves travelling up the wire and into the head.Several nations have advised moderate use of mobile phones for children. Bogus products
Products have been advertised that claim to shield people from EM radiation from mobile phones; in the US the Federal Trade Commission published a warning that "Scam artists follow the headlines to promote products that play off the news – and prey on concerned people. Products that block only the earpiece – or another small portion of the phone – are totally ineffective because the entire phone emits electromagnetic waves." Such shields "may interfere with the phone's signal, cause it to draw even more power to communicate with the base station, and possibly emit more radiation." According to IARC (International Agency for Research on Cancer) and WHO (World Health Organization), the electromagnetic fields generated by mobile phones may be carcinogenic to humans. EMF shielding serves to minimize electromagnetic interference. The shielding can reduce the coupling of radio waves, electromagnetic fields, and electrostatic fields. Microwave News reports on the health and environmental impacts of electromagnetic fields (EMFs) and other types of non-ionizing radiation, with special emphasis on cell phones and power lines. 
Can ingredients in deodorants like aluminum salts cause breast cancer? [SEP] This formulation was first found in "Stopette" deodorant spray, which Time magazine called "the best-selling deodorant of the early 1950s".Use of deodorant with aluminium compounds has been suspected of being linked to breast cancer, but research has not proven any such link. In the past, deodorants included chemicals such as zinc oxide, acids, ammonium chloride, sodium bicarbonate, and formaldehyde, but some of these ingredients were messy, irritating to the skin, or even carcinogenic.Over-the-counter products, often labeled as "natural deodorant crystal", contain the chemical rock crystals potassium alum or ammonium alum, which prevents bacterial action on sweat. Aluminum
Many deodorants and antiperspirants contain aluminium in the form of aluminium salts such as aluminium chlorohydrate.The US Food and Drug Administration, in a 2003 paper discussing deodorant safety, concluded that "despite many investigators looking at this issue, the agency does not find data from topical and inhalation chronic exposure animal and human studies submitted to date sufficient to change the monograph status of aluminum containing antiperspirants", therefore allowing their use and stating they will keep monitoring the scientific literature. Myths and claims related to aluminium compounds in deodorants
Common myths and marketing claims for aluminium in deodorants (including aluminum in alum products) include claims:

That aluminium in deodorants applied to the skin is a risk factor for some cancers (notably breast cancer) and some forms of dementia
That aluminium in antiperspirants can enter the body (possibly through shaving cuts)
That aluminium in alum "natural deodorant" products is "safer" because it is "too large" to enter the bodyOf note, the parts of the body which are commonly shaved and also commonly treated with deodorants, such as the armpits, contain substantial deposits of subcutaneous fat. Breast cancer
The claim that breast cancer is believed to be linked with deodorant use has been widely circulated and appears to originate from a spam email sent in 1999; however, there is no evidence to support the existence of such a link. Aluminum in antiperspirants can enter the body (possibly through cuts) and cause breast cancer: There is no current evidence to support this claim, nor any convincing evidence that it is true. See above for current scientific knowledge regarding aluminum in deodorants.The National Cancer Institute states that "no scientific evidence links the use of these products to the development of breast cancer" and that "no clear evidence show[s] that the use of aluminum-containing underarm antiperspirants or cosmetics increases the risk of breast cancer", but also concludes that "[b]ecause studies of antiperspirants and deodorants and breast cancer have provided conflicting results, additional research would be needed to determine whether a relationship exists".Another constituent of deodorant products that has given cause for concern are parabens, a chemical additive. See also
Air freshener
Aluminum chlorohydrate
Perfume

References
External links

Antiperspirants/Deodorants and breast cancer 
Does the intake of black cumin improve the symptoms of asthma, e.g. shortness of breath? [SEP] Weak evidence suggests that efforts to decrease mold by repairing buildings may help improve asthma symptoms in adults. Other studies have found improvement in asthmatic symptoms from alcohol. These interventions may also reduce the number of days children experience asthma symptoms and may lead to small improvements in asthma-related quality of life. Yoga could provide small improvements in quality of life and symptoms in people with asthma. Magnesium sulfate intravenous treatment increases bronchodilation when used in addition to other treatment in moderate severe acute asthma attacks. Low levels of evidence suggest that inhaled (nebulised) magnesium sulfate may have a small benefit for treating acute asthma in adults. Overall, high quality evidence do not indicate a large benefit for combining magnesium sulfate with standard inhaled treatments for adults with asthma. Medical research
One meta-analysis of clinical trials found weak evidence that N. sativa has a short-term benefit on lowering systolic and diastolic blood pressure, with limited evidence that black seed oil or powder can reduce triglycerides and LDL and total cholesterol, while raising HDL cholesterol. 
Do specially trained dogs reliably warn of dangerous hypoglycemia? [SEP] A diabetic alert dog is an assistance dog trained to detect high (hyperglycemia) or low (hypoglycemia) levels of blood sugar in humans with diabetes and alert their owners to dangerous changes in blood glucose levels. The dog can prompt a human to take insulin.When owners with diabetes begin to experience hypoglycemia, the detection dogs perform a predetermined task (e.g. Dogs may be directly smelling something related to the abnormal glucose concentration or may be reacting to the owner's symptoms which are caused by hypoglycemia, such as sweating or shaking. History
The first dog trained to detect hypoglycemia was a Californian dog called Armstrong in 2003. Training
Diabetic alert dogs are trained to detect blood glucose changes using the saliva of diabetic patients. The reliability of the dogs ability to detect glycemic levels varies based on the training of the dog along with the breed of the dog for the conditions in which it will be working in. Treatment
After hypoglycemia in a person is identified, rapid treatment is necessary and can be life-saving. The common usage of the term "hypoglycemia" was noted and countered by doctors writing in the Journal of the American Medical Association in the 1970s:

The "syndrome of hypoglycemia" has become popular among patients and physicians alike, primarily because it seems to provide an explanation (?) 
Does taking proton pump inhibitors (PPI) increase the risk of bone fractures? [SEP] Adverse effects
In general, proton pump inhibitors are well tolerated, and the incidence of short-term adverse effects is relatively low. Bone fractures
High dose or long-term use of PPIs carries an increased risk of bone fractures which was not found with short-term, low dose use; the FDA included a warning regarding this on PPI drug labels in 2010.In infants, acid suppression therapy is frequently prescribed to treat symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux in otherwise healthy infants (that is: without gastroesophageal reflux disease). A study from 2019 showed that  PPI use alone and together with histamine H2-receptor antagonists was associated with an increased bone fracture hazard, which was amplified by days of use and earlier initiation of therapy. Cancer
A 2022 umbrella review and meta-analysis of observational studies show that proton-pump inhibitor significantly increases the risk of four cancers. Research
COVID-19
According to one study proton-pump inhibitors may increase the severity of symptoms of COVID-19. Long-term use
Osteoporosis and bone fracture have been observed in people on high-dose and/or long-term (over one year) prescription proton pump inhibitors. Adverse effects
Adverse effects occurring in at least 1% of people include:
Central nervous system: headache (7%), dizziness (2%)
Respiratory: upper respiratory tract infection (2%), cough (1%)
Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain (5%), diarrhea (4%), nausea (4%), vomiting (3%), flatulence (3%), acid regurgitation (2%), constipation (2%)
Neuromuscular and skeletal: back pain (1%), weakness (1%)
Dermatologic: rash (2%)Other concerns related to adverse effects are:

Recurrence of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea
Osteoporosis-related fractures
HypomagnesemiaConcern has been expressed regarding vitamin B12 and iron malabsorption, but effects seem to be insignificant, especially when supplement therapy is provided.Since their introduction, proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs, especially omeprazole) have also been associated with several cases of acute interstitial nephritis, an inflammation of the kidneys that often occurs as an adverse drug reaction. No association is seen between PPI use and cancer, but use of PPIs may mask gastric cancers or other serious gastric problems and physicians should be aware of this effect.There is a possible association between long term use and dementia which requires further study to confirm.A review article in U.S. Pharmacist in 2013 states that long-term use of PPIs is associated with decreased calcium absorption (causing increased risk of osteoporosis and fractures), decreased magnesium absorption (causing electrolyte disturbances), and increased risk of certain infections such as C. difficile and community-acquired pneumonia. 
Can matrix therapy (also: matrix rhythm therapy) alleviate complaints of muscles and joints? [SEP] Muscle Energy Techniques (METs) describes a broad class of manual therapy techniques directed at improving musculoskeletal function or joint function, and improving pain. Muscle energy techniques are used to treat somatic dysfunction, especially decreased range of motion, muscular hypertonicity, and pain. As the patient performs an isometric contraction, the following physiologic changes occur: 

Golgi tendon organ activation results in direct inhibition of agonist muscles
A reflexive reciprocal inhibition occurs at the antagonistic muscles
As the patient relaxes, agonist and antagonist muscles remain inhibited allowing the joint to be moved further into the restricted range of motion.Despite the many claims made regarding the efficacy of these techniques, there are only two peer-reviewed studies that have shown that muscle energy techniques can significantly decrease disability and improve functionality in patients with disorders such as low back pain. Indications and contraindications
Muscle energy techniques can be employed to reposition a dysfunctional joint and treat the affected musculature. Effectiveness
A 2015 Cochrane review concluded that Muscle Energy Technique is not effective for patients with low back pain, and that the quality of the research testing the effectiveness of MET is poor. It may be used together with rest, physical therapy, and pain medication. However, there is limited and inconsistent published research on the medication's efficacy and safety in treating musculoskeletal conditions, primarily neck and back pain.Methocarbamol injection may have a beneficial effect in the control of the neuromuscular spasms of tetanus. It does not, however, replace the current treatment regimen.It is not useful in chronic neurological disorders, such as cerebral palsy or other dyskinesias.Currently, there is some suggestion that muscle relaxants may improve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis; however, there is insufficient data to prove its effectiveness as well as answer concerns regarding optimal dosing, choice of muscle relaxant, adverse effects, and functional status. 
Can hyposensitization by injections with allergy-causing pollen components help with hay fever? [SEP] Immunotherapy involves exposing people to larger and larger amounts of allergens in an attempt to change the immune system's response.Meta-analyses have found that injections of allergens under the skin are effective in the treatment in allergic rhinitis in children and in asthma. He hypothesized that by injecting people with hay fever with small amounts of a pollen "toxin", a state of immunity could be achieved.Allergen immunotherapy was part of mainstream medical practice for hay fever treatment in the 1930s. In 2014, the FDA approved a once-daily sublingual tablet containing allergen extracts for the treatment of "hay fever" (allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis). Hay fever is treated with two shots of EPD outside the pollen season. A working party of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology reviewed the role of conventional high dose specific allergen immunotherapy (not EPD) in the treatment of allergic disease and recommends high dose specific allergen immunotherapy for treating summer hay fever uncontrolled by conventional medication and for wasp and bee venom hypersensitivity. Cause
Pollen is often considered as a cause of allergic rhinitis, hence called hay fever (See sub-section below). Pollen-related causes
Allergic rhinitis triggered by the pollens of specific seasonal plants is commonly known as "hay fever", because it is most prevalent during haying season. Allergen immunotherapy, which gradually exposes people to larger and larger amounts of allergen, is useful for some types of allergies such as hay fever and reactions to insect bites. 
Can hyposensitization by means of drops or tablets administered under the tongue help with hay fever? [SEP] In this form the allergen is given under the tongue and people often prefer it to injections. Sublingual
Sublingual immunotherapy involves putting drops or a tablet of allergen extracts under the tongue, which are then absorbed through the lining of the mouth. He hypothesized that by injecting people with hay fever with small amounts of a pollen "toxin", a state of immunity could be achieved.Allergen immunotherapy was part of mainstream medical practice for hay fever treatment in the 1930s. In 2014, the FDA approved a once-daily sublingual tablet containing allergen extracts for the treatment of "hay fever" (allergic rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis). Hay fever is treated with two shots of EPD outside the pollen season. A vaccine injection, oral drops or nasal spray is mostly water. Medical uses
Allergies
Cetirizine's primary indication is for hay fever and other allergies. The drug can be in the form of tablets, capsules or a syrup. 
Do Blushwood berries help against skin cancer? [SEP] Skin cancers are cancers that arise from the skin. Basal-cell and squamous-cell skin cancers rarely result in death. Squamous-cell is the second most common skin cancer. It is believed that tanning beds are the cause of hundreds of thousands of basal and squamous-cell skin cancer. Other advice to reduce rates of skin cancer includes avoiding sunburn, wearing protective clothing, sunglasses and hats, and attempting to avoid sun exposure or periods of peak exposure. Evidence for reducing melanoma risk from dietary measures is tentative, with some supportive epidemiological evidence, but no clinical trials.Zinc oxide and titanium oxide are often used in sunscreen to provide broad protection from UVA and UVB ranges.Eating certain foods may decrease the risk of sunburns but this is much less than the protection provided by sunscreen.A meta-analysis of skin cancer prevention in high risk individuals found evidence that topical application of T4N5 liposome lotion reduced the rate of appearance of basal cell carcinomas in people with xeroderma pigmentosum, and that acitretin taken by mouth may have a skin protective benefit in people following kidney transplant.A research published in January 2022 by the Oregon State University College of Pharmacy showed that a vaccine that stimulates the production of a protein critical to the skin's antioxidant network could reinforce people's defenses against skin cancer. The incidence of skin cancer has been increasing. One in five Americans will develop skin cancer at some point of their lives. 
Can relaxation exercises and a reduction in stress slow the progression of glaucoma? [SEP] See also
Minimally invasive glaucoma surgery


== References == Not all people with primary open-angle glaucoma have eye pressure that is elevated beyond normal, but decreasing the eye pressure further has been shown to stop progression even in these cases. Although intraocular pressure (IOP) is only one of the major risk factors for glaucoma, lowering it via various pharmaceuticals and/or surgical techniques is currently the mainstay of glaucoma treatment. In some cases of intermittent or short-term angle closure, this may lower the eye pressure. However, current scientific evidence only supports the reactivation of herpes simplex keratitis among the other side effects.In uveitic and inflammatory glaucoma, reduction in inflammation is a critical step during the treatment and management process. Relaxation techniques are often employed as one element of a wider stress management program and can decrease muscle tension, lower blood pressure, and slow heart and breath rates, among other health benefits.Relaxation therapy, the application of relaxation techniques, can be applied in various settings to complement treatment for stress, anxiety, depression, and pain. The connection between psychosocial stressors and chronic illness is intricate and influenced by various factors, such as the type, quantity, and duration of stressors, along with an individual's biological susceptibility (like genetics and inherent characteristics) and their learned ways of coping.Previous studies have indicated that relaxation techniques, including but not limited to deep breathing, guided imagery, meditation, and progressive muscle relaxation, are effective ways to reduce stress, indicating that relaxation techniques are effective in promoting relaxation both physically and psychologically.Research released in the 1980s indicated stronger ties between stress and health and showed benefits from a wider range of relaxation techniques than had been previously known. The medicines induced ensure the management of glaucoma and reduce inflammation. 
Can dementia be prevented by years of orange juice consumption? [SEP] Although there is no cure for dementia, it is well established that modifiable risk factors influence both the likelihood of developing dementia and the age at which it is developed. Dementia can be prevented by reducing the risk factors for vascular disease such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking, physical inactivity and depression. Thus, physical exercise, having good blood cholesterol, healthy body weight and blood pressure lowers the risk of developing dementia. The effect of alcohol on the risk of dementia is a J curve: high alcohol consumption increases the risk of dementia while low alcohol consumption may be protective. Moderate alcohol consumption can possibly reduce the risk of vascular disease and dementia because it can increase blood levels of HDL cholesterol and weakens blood-clotting agents such as fibrinogen, which offers some protection against heart attacks and small subclinical strokes that together can ultimately damage the brain.The effects of omega-3 fatty acid in the prevention of dementia is uncertain. Specifically, the inclusion of leafy greens and berries have been shown in separate human and rodent studies to protect against cognitive decline. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. Pathophysiology
Epidemiological studies show an association between long-term alcohol intoxication and dementia. 
Can remedies from papaya improve digestion or relieve gastrointestinal discomfort? [SEP] It also increases colonic secretions, but not to the point of inducing diarrhea. These properties indicate that it could be a useful treatment for constipation. They are used to treat certain gastrointestinal symptoms, including  abdominal discomfort, bloating, constipation, heart burn, nausea, and vomiting; and certain gastrointestinal disorders, including irritable bowel syndrome, gastritis, gastroparesis, and functional dyspepsia. It is also sometimes used to treat indigestion, nausea, and stomach ulcers. In traditional Chinese medicine the plant is believed to help the digestive system, and it is also used for other health problems including colds, hepatitis, diarrhea, heat stroke, and dyspepsia. Meat tenderisers in powder form with papain as an active component are widely sold and the culinary use of papaya peel has featured in research papers.Papain can be used to dissociate cells in the first step of cell culture preparations. Papain is added to some toothpastes and mint sweets as a tooth whitener. It is used as a remedy for the relief of indigestion, heartburn, vomiting, diarrhea, and bloating. 
Are kinesiotapes effective for chronic non-specific lower back pain ("low back pain")? [SEP] In individuals with chronic musculoskeletal pain, research suggests that elastic taping may help relieve pain, but not more than other treatment approaches, and no evidence indicates that it can reduce disability in chronic pain cases.No convincing scientific evidence indicates that such products provide any demonstrable benefit in excess of a placebo, with some declaring it a pseudoscientific treatment. Pain reduction and injury prevention are also frequently-cited benefits that similarly lack evidence, at least none showing an effect specific to kinesio tape... Effectiveness
Neuromusculoskeletal disorders
Treatment is usually for neck or low back pain and related disorders.For acute low back pain, low quality evidence has suggested no difference between real and sham spine manipulation, and moderate quality evidence has suggested no difference between spine manipulation and other commonly used treatments, such as medication and physical therapy.National guidelines vary; some recommend the therapy for those who do not improve with other treatment. Acetaminophen and systemic steroids are not recommended as both medications are not effective at improving pain outcomes in acute or subacute low back pain.Physical therapy stabilization exercises for lumbar spine and manual therapy have shown decrease in pain symptoms in patients. These exercises only work if they are limiting low back pain. Muscle relaxants may be beneficial.Systemic corticosteriods are sometimes suggested for low back pain and may have a small benefit in the short-term for radicular low back pain, however, the benefit for non-radicular back pain and the optimal dose and length of treatment is unclear.Specialist groups advise against general long-term use of opioids for chronic low back pain. Massage therapy has been found to be more effective for acute low back pain than no treatment; the benefits were found to be limited to the short term and there was no effect for improving function. There is a lack of good quality evidence to support the use of radiofrequency denervation for pain relief.KT Tape has been found to be no different for management of chronic non-specific low back pain than other established pain management strategies. 
Does early detection of lung cancer by trained sniffer dogs provide significant benefits to those affected? [SEP] Canine cancer detection is an approach to cancer screening that relies upon the claimed olfactory ability of dogs to detect, in urine or in breath, very low concentrations of the alkanes and aromatic compounds generated by malignant tumors. In 2015 the Huffington Post reported that studies have suggested that dogs may be able to detect lung cancer, melanoma,  breast cancer and bladder cancer, and that dogs can be trained to detect cancer in 93% of cases. Another trial reported in Nature World News found disappointing results, but nevertheless "the researchers... believe that one day, dogs can still detect lung cancer. "NBC reported that Britain's National Health Service is behind the first clinical trial to test the ability of canines to  detect cancer. The idea behind cancer dogs is that there may be volatile compounds produced in cancer patients that dogs can detect by scent. In the other study (I found very few) dogs were “trained” to detect lung and breast cancers in humans. Sniffer dogs can be trained to detect crop pests and diseases. Lung cancer screening refers to cancer screening strategies used to identify early lung cancers before they cause symptoms, at a point where they are more likely to be curable. 
Do snoring sprays or gargle solutions help against snoring? [SEP] Almost all treatments for snoring revolve around lessening the breathing discomfort by clearing the blockage in the air passage. Medications are usually not helpful in treating snoring symptoms, though they can help control some of the underlying causes such as nasal congestion and allergic reactions. A number of other treatment options are also used to stop snoring. Tongue exercises
Myofunctional therapy, which incorporates oropharyngeal and tongue exercises, reduces snoring in adults based on both subjective questionnaires and objective sleep studies. This helps keep the airways unrestricted as possible and in turn leads to a small reduction in snoring. Dental appliances
Specially made dental appliances called mandibular advancement splints, which advance the lower jaw slightly and thereby pull the tongue forward, are a common mode of treatment for snoring. Such appliances have been proven to be effective in reducing snoring and sleep apnea in cases where the apnea is mild to moderate. It has shown evidence of reducing snoring as well.EPAP is unlikely to be effective in people with significant nasal obstruction. 
Does Maca help with sexual problems such as erectile dysfunction or sexual aversion in men and women? [SEP] High-dosage CMA is associated with sexual dysfunction (e.g., reduced libido, erectile dysfunction), reduced body hair, adrenal insufficiency, and alterations in carbohydrate metabolism. Taking testosterone may help maintain an erection. It is unclear if it is effective for treating sexual dysfunction in women. Its use is now one of the standard treatments for erectile dysfunction, including for men with diabetes mellitus. Antidepressant-associated sexual dysfunction
Tentative evidence suggests that sildenafil may help men who experience antidepressant-induced erectile dysfunction. In one study, a 25 mg dose was shown to cause no significant change in erectile quality, but did reduce the postejaculatory refractory time. Practice
Modern sex therapy often integrates psychotherapeutic techniques and medical ones, such as Viagra (sildenafil) and Cialis (tadalafil) to increase erectile response and Paxil (paroxetine) to treat premature ejaculation. The sexual dysfunctions which may be addressed by sex therapy include non-consummation, premature ejaculation, erectile dysfunction, low libido, unwanted sexual fetishes, sexual addiction, painful sex, or a lack of sexual confidence, assisting people who are recovering from sexual assault, problems commonly caused by stress, tiredness, and other environmental and relationship factors. 
Can glacier milk powder prevent hangover or relieve hangover symptoms? [SEP] It is typically considered a "hair of the dog" hangover remedy (an alcoholic drink consumed for the purpose of relieving a hangover), though there is no scientific evidence showing that drinking alcohol is effective as a treatment for a hangover. Folk cures
The following foods and dishes have been described as having a theoretical potential for easing or alleviating symptoms associated with the hangover. Corpse Reviver
Fernet – an alcoholic beverage consumed as a drink choice to avoid the hangover
Jägerbomb
Underberg – a digestif bitter
VodkaWater rich foods:
Fruits
Banana
Kiwifruit
Prickly pear fruit
Drinks
Caffeinated drinks: No significant correlation between caffeine use and hangover severity has been found.Coffee
Espresso
Electrolyte replacement drinks
Pedialyte
Sports drinks
Juices
Fruit juice
Pickle juice
Tomato juice
Teas
Ginger tea
Green tea
Peppermint tea
Coconut water
Hangover drinks in South Korea – Mass-produced hangover drinks based on Traditional Korean medicine. By 1938, the Ritz-Carlton Hotel provided a hangover remedy in the form of a mixture of Coca-Cola and milk (Coca-Cola itself having been invented, by some accounts, as a hangover remedy). These studies suggest that the presence and severity of hangover symptoms can probably be reduced by administration of a cyclooxygenase inhibitor such as aspirin or ibuprofen. Some compounds reduce specific symptoms such as vomiting and headache, but are not effective in reducing other common hangover symptoms such as drowsiness and fatigue. By 1938, the Ritz-Carlton Hotel provided a hangover remedy in the form of a mixture of Coca-Cola and milk (Coca-Cola itself having been invented, by some accounts, as a hangover remedy). After multiple experiments, Burke found a treatment, a saline mixture containing vitamins, antioxidants, and medications, that proved effective in relieving hangover symptoms in less than an hour. 
Can ingredients from pomegranate lower elevated blood pressure or reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] "The DASH and DASH-sodium trials demonstrated that a carbohydrate-rich diet that emphasizes fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products and that is reduced in saturated fat, total fat, and cholesterol substantially lowered blood pressure and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. OmniHeart demonstrated that partial replacement of carbohydrate with either protein (about half from plant sources) or with unsaturated fat (mostly monounsaturated fat) can further reduce blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and coronary heart disease risk. This may also be alleviated by substituting high-protein sources of fiber, like beans, with high-carbohydrate sources of fiber, like whole grains.DASH in addition with a reduction of sodium intake is associated with a reduction of blood pressure, in both individuals with and without hypertension. Contemporary epidemiological research had concluded that dietary patterns with high intakes of certain minerals and fiber were associated with low blood pressures. In the subjects with and without hypertension, the combination diet effectively reduced blood pressure more than the fruits-and-vegetables diet or the control diet did. The DASH-sodium results indicate that low sodium levels correlated with the largest reductions in blood pressure for participants at both pre-hypertensive and hypertensive levels, with the hypertensive participants showing the greatest reductions in blood pressure overall. Delicious DASH Flavours: The proven, drug-free, doctor-recommended approach to reducing high blood pressure. Extracts of pomegranate are also 'Generally Recognized As Safe' (GRAS) by the United States. 
Does regular consumption of red meat or processed meat products increase the risk of colorectal cancer? [SEP] The risk of colon cancer can be reduced by maintaining a normal body weight through a combination of sufficient exercise and eating a healthy diet.Current research consistently links eating more red meat and processed meat to a higher risk of the disease. "According to the World Cancer Research Fund, consuming alcohol drinks and consuming processed meat both increase the risk of colorectal cancer.The 2014 World Health Organization cancer report noted that it has been hypothesized that dietary fiber might help prevent colorectal cancer, but most studies have not borne this out, and status of the science remained unclear as of 2014. There is strong evidence that processed meat and red meat intake increases risk of colorectal cancer. Eggs
Processed and red meat
There is strong evidence that processed meat and red meat intake increases risk of colorectal cancer. The American Cancer Society in their "Diet and Physical Activity Guideline", stated "evidence that red and processed meats increase cancer risk has existed for decades, and many health organizations recommend limiting or avoiding these foods. Health effects
Overall, diets high in red and processed meats are associated with an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer (particularly colorectal cancer), and all-cause mortality. Positive associations have also been observed between red meat consumption and increased risks of pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer but the link is not as clear.The American Institute for Cancer Research, Cancer Research UK and World Cancer Research Fund International have stated there is strong evidence that consumption of processed red meat is a cause of colorectal cancer and there is probable evidence that unprocessed red meat is a cause of cancer. Put in perspective, in the UK, 56 out of 1000 people who eat the lowest amount of processed meat will develop colorectal cancer (5.6%) while 66 out of 1000 high processed meat eaters will develop colorectal cancer (6.6%). 
Does stool transplantation help with ulcerative colitis? [SEP] Stool transplants are considered about 90 percent effective in those with severe cases of C. difficile colonization, in whom antibiotics have not worked.The first randomized controlled trial in C. difficile infection was published in January 2013. Transplant outcomes and impact
Intestinal transplant outcomes have improved significantly in recent years. It is very useful for inducing and maintaining a remission of ulcerative colitis. Surgery
Unlike Crohn's disease, which cannot be cured/eliminated by surgically removing the diseased portions of the intestine and reconnecting the healthy ends, ulcerative colitis can generally be cured by surgical removal of the large intestine. Surgery
Unlike in Crohn's disease, the gastrointestinal aspects of ulcerative colitis can generally be cured by surgical removal of the large intestine, though extraintestinal symptoms may persist. Bacterial recolonization
In a number of randomized clinical trials, probiotics have demonstrated the potential to be helpful in the treatment of ulcerative colitis. A probiotic named after its gastroenterologist medical doctor inventor, the De Simone Formulation, may be effective in inducing remission in active ulcerative colitis, and may be as effective as 5-ASAs in preventing relapse of quiescent UC. Both helminthic therapy and fecal microbiota transplant induce a characteristic Th2 white cell response in the diseased areas, which was unexpected given that ulcerative colitis was thought to involve Th2 overproduction.Alicaforsen is a first generation antisense oligodeoxynucleotide designed to bind specifically to the human ICAM-1 messenger RNA through Watson-Crick base pair interactions in order to subdue expression of ICAM-1. 
Does stool transplantation help in Crohn's disease??? [SEP] Stool transplants are considered about 90 percent effective in those with severe cases of C. difficile colonization, in whom antibiotics have not worked.The first randomized controlled trial in C. difficile infection was published in January 2013. Intestine transplantation (intestinal transplantation, or small bowel transplantation) is the surgical replacement of the small intestine for chronic and acute cases of intestinal failure. Transplant outcomes and impact
Intestinal transplant outcomes have improved significantly in recent years. References
External links
Transplant Living
Partnering With Your Transplant Team by UNOS
Intestinal Transplantation at eMedicine
Intestinal Transplant for Crohn's Disease, WebMD It has been shown to be useful in the treatment of mild to moderate Crohn's disease, and in maintaining remission. None of these surgeries cure or eliminate Crohn's disease, as the disease eventually comes back in healthy segments of the intestine, although when Crohn's disease recurs after surgery, it usually comes back at the site of the surgery.Small intestine transplants are becoming less experimental, but are still mainly performed in response to short bowel syndrome due to a high rate of transplant rejection. In some cases of SBS, intestinal transplant surgery may be considered; though the number of transplant centres offering this procedure is quite small and it comes with a high risk due to the chance of infection and rejection of the transplanted intestine.Bile acid diarrhea is another complication following surgery for Crohn's disease in which the terminal ileum has been removed. External links
"Crohn's disease". 
Can remedies from the iambul tree improve blood glucose control in diabetes or precursors of diabetes ("pre-diabetes")? [SEP] Acarbose (INN) is an anti-diabetic drug used to treat diabetes mellitus type 2 and, in some countries, prediabetes. Efficacy
A Cochrane systematic review assessed the effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors in people with impaired glucose tolerance, impaired fasting blood glucose, elevated glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). It was found that acarbose reduced the incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2 when compared to placebo, however there was no conclusive evidence that acarbose, when compared to diet and exercise, metformin, placebo, or no intervention, improved all-cause mortality, reduced or increased risk of cardiovascular mortality, serious or non-serious adverse events, non-fatal stroke, congestive heart failure, or non-fatal myocardial infarction. Combination therapy
The combination of acarbose with metformin results in greater reductions of HbA1c, fasting blood glucose and post-prandial glucose than either agent alone. Because acarbose blocks the breakdown of table sugar and other complex sugars, fruit juice or starchy foods will not effectively reverse a hypoglycemic episode in a patient taking acarbose.Hepatitis has been reported with acarbose use. Efficacy
A Cochrane systematic review assessed the effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors in people with impaired glucose tolerance, impaired fasting blood glucose, elevated glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c). A 2009 study revealed that Cinchonian-Ib derived from boiled Eriobotrya japonica leaves has a glucose-lowering effect in rats, and could possibly be used to manage diabetes mellitus in humans. This prevents hyperglycemia for which it is prescribed. 
Does HPV vaccination reduce the risk of cervical cancer in girls? [SEP] It is estimated that HPV vaccines may prevent 70% of cervical cancer, 80% of anal cancer, 60% of vaginal cancer, 40% of vulvar cancer, and show more than 90% efficacy in preventing HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancers. Evidence suggests that HPV vaccines are effective in preventing cervical cancer for women up to 45 years of age. Public health
The National Cancer Institute states "Widespread vaccination has the potential to reduce cervical cancer deaths around the world by as much as two-thirds if all women were to take the vaccine and if protection turns out to be long-term. Contraindications
While the use of HPV vaccines can help reduce cervical cancer deaths by two-thirds around the world, not everyone is eligible for vaccination. In principle, HPV vaccines may help reduce incidence of such cancers caused by HPV, but this has not been demonstrated. Efficacy
A 2020 longitudinal study tracking over 1.6 million Swedish girls and women over an eleven-year period found half as many cervical cancer cases in all women who had been vaccinated, and amongst women who had been vaccinated before the age of 17 a 78% reduction in cervical cancer, "a substantially reduced risk of invasive cervical cancer at the population level. Public health
The National Cancer Institute writes:

Widespread HPV vaccination has the potential to reduce cervical cancer incidence around the world by as much as 90%. Background
Knowing that human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the main cause of cervical cancer, the second most common cancer in women living in low-resource settings, has led to the development of vaccines that protect people from HPV associated diseases, and HPV tests that detect presence of the virus. 
Is stool transplantation effective against recurrent Clostridium difficile infections ? [SEP] Medical uses
Clostridioides difficile infection
Fecal microbiota transplant is approximately 85–90% effective in people with CDI for whom antibiotics have not worked or in whom the disease recurs following antibiotics. Most people with CDI recover with one FMT treatment.A 2009 study found that fecal microbiota transplant was an effective and simple procedure that was more cost-effective than continued antibiotic administration and reduced the incidence of antibiotic resistance.Once considered to be a "last resort therapy" by some medical professionals, due to its unusual nature and invasiveness compared with antibiotics, perceived potential risk of infection transmission, and lack of Medicare coverage for donor stool, position statements by specialists in infectious diseases and other societies have been moving toward acceptance of FMT as a standard therapy for relapsing CDI and also Medicare coverage in the United States.It has been recommended that endoscopic FMT be elevated to first-line treatment for people with deterioration and severe relapsing C. difficile infection.Fecal microbiota, live (Rebyota) was approved for medical use in the United States in November 2022.Fecal microbiota spores, live (Vowst) was approved for medical use in the United States in April 2023. Stool transplants are considered about 90 percent effective in those with severe cases of C. difficile colonization, in whom antibiotics have not worked.The first randomized controlled trial in C. difficile infection was published in January 2013. "Fecal microbiota transplantation: past, present and future perspectives". Some tentative evidence indicates fecal microbiota transplantation and probiotics may decrease the risk of recurrence.C. Fecal microbiota transplantation
Fecal microbiota transplant, also known as a stool transplant, is roughly 85% to 90% effective in those for whom antibiotics have not worked. The procedure replenishes the normal colonic microbiota that had been wiped out by antibiotics, and re-establishes resistance to colonization by Clostridioides difficile. Medical uses
Fecal microbiota is approved for the prevention of recurrence of Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI) in people 18 years of age and older. 
Does the juice of the aronia berry help against cystitis? [SEP] In Poland, aronia berries are added to jams and juices or dried to make an herbal tea sometimes blended with other ingredients, such as blackcurrant. Aronia is also used as a flavoring or colorant for beverages or yogurts. Juice from the ripe berries is astringent, semi-sweet (moderate sugar content), sour (low pH), and contains a low level of vitamin C. The berries have a tart flavor and, in addition to juice, can be baked into breads. In the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, aronia juice concentrate is used in manufactured juice blends. Turmeric juice is claimed to have health benefits that include easing an upset stomach and reducing arthritis pain. The juice, composed of water, salt, and fermented cabbage or kale, is falsely claimed to expunge Candida (a yeast) and parasitic worms. Epperly recommends a restricted diet supplemented by consuming large quantities of Jilly Juice, which supposedly removes Candida and parasites from one's body by inducing diarrhea (these bouts of diarrhea have been referred to by Jilly Juice advocates as "waterfalls").Along with supposedly expunging Candida and parasites from one's body, Jilly Juice has been claimed to be able to "cure" autism, cancer, and psoriasis, as well as regenerate missing limbs, impede or reverse the effects of aging, and "cure" homosexuality. The result, a room temperature brew of water, salt, and fermented cabbage or kale which Epperly claims can treat a number of illnesses and conditions, was marketed as "Jilly Juice". 
Is Intermittent Fasting suitable for reducing excess weight as well as a conventional low calorie diet? [SEP] Intermittent fasting is any of various meal timing schedules that cycle between voluntary fasting (or reduced calorie intake) and non-fasting over a given period. Methods of intermittent fasting include alternate-day fasting, periodic fasting, and daily time-restricted feeding.Intermittent fasting has been studied to find whether it can reduce the risk of diet-related diseases, such as metabolic syndrome. A 2019 review concluded that intermittent fasting may help with obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and inflammation. Preliminary evidence indicates that intermittent fasting may be effective for weight loss, may decrease insulin resistance and fasting insulin, and may improve cardiovascular and metabolic health, although the long term sustainability of these effects has not been studied. Research
Body weight and metabolic disease risk
There is limited evidence that intermittent fasting produces weight loss comparable to a calorie restricted diet. Most studies on intermittent fasting in humans have observed weight loss, ranging from 2.5% to 9.9%.The reductions in body weight can be attributed to the loss of fat mass and some lean mass. Intermittent fasting is not recommended for people who are not overweight, and the long-term sustainability of intermittent fasting is unknown as of 2018.A 2021 review found that moderate alternate-day fasting for two to six months was associated with reductions of body weight, body mass index, and cardiometabolic risk factors in overweight or obese adults. Recent evidence suggest that new scheduling strategies, such as intermittent fasting or skipping meals, and strategically placed snacks before meals, may be recommendable to reduce cardiovascular risks as part of a broader lifestyle and dietary change. 
Is the risk for the brain inflammation SSPE as a consequence of measles disease greater than long assumed? That is, out of every 100,000 people infected with measles, does more than one person develop SSPE (subacute sclerosing panencephalitis) later in life? [SEP] Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), also known as Dawson disease, is a rare form of progressive brain inflammation caused by a persistent infection with the measles virus. It has been estimated that about 2 in 10,000 people who get measles will eventually develop SSPE. SSPE should not be confused with acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, which can also be caused by the measles virus, but has a very different timing and course.SSPE is caused by the wild-type virus, not by vaccine strains. However, the number of reported cases is declining since the introduction of the measles vaccine—eradication of the measles virus prevents the SSPE mutation and therefore the progression of the disease or even the initial infection itself. Complications
Complications of measles are relatively common, ranging from mild ones such as diarrhea to serious ones such as pneumonia (either direct viral pneumonia or secondary bacterial pneumonia), laryngotracheobronchitis (croup) (either direct viral laryngotracheobronchitis or secondary bacterial bronchitis), otitis media, acute brain inflammation,  corneal ulceration (leading to corneal scarring), and in about 1 in 600 unvaccinated infants under 15 months while more rarely in older children and adults, subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, which is progressive and eventually lethal.In addition, measles can suppress the immune system for weeks to months, and this can contribute to bacterial superinfections such as otitis media and bacterial pneumonia. One out of every 1,000 measles cases progresses to acute encephalitis, which often results in permanent brain damage. Acute measles encephalitis is another serious risk of measles virus infection. Research
In May 2015, the journal Science published a report in which researchers found that the measles infection can leave a population at increased risk for mortality from other diseases for two to three years. 
Can acupuncture for labor induction trigger the onset of labor? [SEP] Labor induction is the process or treatment that stimulates childbirth and delivery. Methods of induction
Methods of inducing labor include both pharmacological medication and mechanical or physical approaches.Mechanical and physical approaches can include artificial rupture of membranes or membrane sweeping. One recent study indicates that labor induction at term (41 weeks) or post-term reduces the rate of caesarean section by 12%, and also reduces fetal death. Inducing Labor – WebMD.com
Induction of labour. Antenatal perineal massage reduced the second stage of labor duration (p = 0.005) and anal incontinence (p = 0.003) with significant improvement in baby's Apgar scores at 1 and 5 minutes (p = 0.01 and p = 0.02).Finger tip 'Antenatal Perineal Massage' or 'Birth Canal Widening' to 10 cm diameter, affords mothers worldwide, irrespective of income, the opportunity to shorten the critical last 30 minutes of labour and improve APGAR score of baby at birth. Induction of Labour. 8, Complications of induction of labour. “Mechanical Methods for Induction of Labor.” US National Public Library, 18 Oct. 2019. 
Can switching to a higher fiber diet prevent colorectal cancer? [SEP] Starting in the 1970s, dietary recommendations to prevent colorectal cancer often included increasing the consumption of whole grains, fruits and vegetables, and reducing the intake of red meat and processed meats. "According to the World Cancer Research Fund, consuming alcohol drinks and consuming processed meat both increase the risk of colorectal cancer.The 2014 World Health Organization cancer report noted that it has been hypothesized that dietary fiber might help prevent colorectal cancer, but most studies have not borne this out, and status of the science remained unclear as of 2014. The World Cancer Research Fund listed the benefit of fiber for prevention of colorectal cancer as "probable" as of 2017. A diet rich in dietary fiber and whole grains may lower rates of coronary heart disease, colon cancer, and type 2 diabetes.Definition of dietary fiber varies among institutions:

Dietary fiber can act by changing the nature of the contents of the gastrointestinal tract and by changing how other nutrients and chemicals are absorbed. In addition to lower risk of death from heart disease, adequate consumption of fiber-containing foods, especially grains, was also correlated with reduced incidence of infectious and respiratory illnesses, and, particularly among males, reduced risk of cancer-related death.A study of over 88,000 women did not show a statistically significant relationship between higher fiber consumption and lower rates of colorectal cancer or adenomas. A 2010 study of 58,279 men found no relationship between dietary fiber and colorectal cancer.An extensive article exploring the link between dietary fiber and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) described that dietary fiber has significant health benefits for IBD patients 117
A 2022 study over 20 years of Japanese adults aged 40–64 years showed a possible inverse relationship between the intake of soluble fiber and the risk of developing dementia during aging. Salted fish
Fiber, fruits and vegetables
There is strong evidence that consumption of dietary fiber reduces risk of colorectal cancer. Dairy products
Whole grains
There is strong evidence that consumption of whole grains decreases risk of colorectal cancer. 
Can perineal massage during pregnancy help prevent birth injury in first-time mothers? [SEP] Antenatal (before birth from 'Anteroir'- meaning before and 'Natal' Latin derived from Nativity meaning birth) perineal massage does not damage the pelvic floor, and so protects against a prolapse of the urinary bladder, through the front wall of the vagina, and the rectum, through the back wall of the vagina, and the uterus through the upper part of the vagina. Effectiveness
A recent meta-analysis involving 11 randomized clinical trials and more than 3,000 patients in total clearly demonstrated that antenatal perineal massage is associated with a lower risk of severe perineal trauma and postpartum complications. Women who received antenatal perineal massage had significantly lower incidence of episiotomies (RR = 0.79, 95% CI [0.72, 0.87], p < 0.001) and perineal tears (RR = 0.79, 95% CI [0.67, 0.94], p = 0.007), particularly the risk of third- and fourth-degree perineal tears (p = 0.03). Better wound healing and less perineal pain were evident in the antenatal perineal massage group. Antenatal perineal massage reduced the second stage of labor duration (p = 0.005) and anal incontinence (p = 0.003) with significant improvement in baby's Apgar scores at 1 and 5 minutes (p = 0.01 and p = 0.02).Finger tip 'Antenatal Perineal Massage' or 'Birth Canal Widening' to 10 cm diameter, affords mothers worldwide, irrespective of income, the opportunity to shorten the critical last 30 minutes of labour and improve APGAR score of baby at birth. Its routine use is no longer recommended, as perineal massage, a form of the plastic surgeon's principle of 'skin tissue expansion' applied to the opening of the vagina, is an alternative painless method of enlarging the opening for the baby. Studies in 2010 based on interviews with postpartum women have concluded that limiting perineal trauma during birth is conducive to continued sexual function after birth. Antenatal digital perineal massage is often advocated, and may reduce the risk of trauma only in nulliparous women. 
Can cancer be effectively treated with vitamin C infusions? [SEP] According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), high-dose vitamin C (such as intravenous ascorbic acid therapy) has not been approved as a treatment for cancer or any other medical condition.There many been multiple studies devoted to investigating the medicinal properties of ascorbic acid. Finally, we don't know what the recommended dose of Vitamin C is, if there is indeed such a dose, that can produce an anti-tumor response". Research
Cancer
The use of vitamin C in high doses as a treatment for cancer was promoted by Linus Pauling, based on a 1976 study published with Ewan Cameron which reported intravenous vitamin C significantly increased lifespans of patients with advanced cancer. A 2010 review of 33 years of research on vitamin C to treat cancer stated "we have to conclude that we still do not know whether Vitamin C has any clinically significant antitumor activity. Finally, we don't know what the recommended dose of Vitamin C is, if there is indeed such a dose, that can produce an anti-tumor response. "The American Cancer Society has stated, "Although high doses of vitamin C have been suggested as a cancer treatment, the available evidence from clinical trials has not shown any benefit." A few years later he proposed that vitamin C would prevent cardiovascular disease, and that 10 grams/day, initially (10 days) administered intravenously and thereafter orally, would cure late-stage cancer. There is no scientific evidence that vitamin C megadosage helps to cure or prevent cancer, the common cold, or some other medical conditions. 
Are detox cures good for health? [SEP] Detoxification (often shortened to detox and sometimes called body cleansing) is a type of alternative-medicine treatment which aims to rid the body of unspecified "toxins" – substances that proponents claim accumulate in the body over time and have undesirable short-term or long-term effects on individual health. "Detoxification" devices
Certain devices are promoted to allegedly remove toxins from the body. Criticism
Unsound scientific basis
A 2015 review of clinical evidence about detox diets concluded: "At present, there is no compelling evidence to support the use of detox diets for weight management or toxin elimination. "Despite unsound scientific basis, detoxification is popular, and detoxification products and regimes have become a profitable health trend. Detoxification or detoxication (detox for short) is the physiological or medicinal removal of toxic substances from a living organism, including the human body, which is mainly carried out by the liver. Many alternative medicine practitioners promote various other types of detoxification such as "diet detoxification". The detox is performed to rid the body of toxic metals. Claims
Proponents of detoxification foot baths claim they are capable of helping the human body in numerous ways. 
Do sweeteners increase the risk of type 2 diabetes or sugar metabolism disorders? [SEP] Sugar sweetened drinks appear to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes both through their role in obesity and potentially through a direct effect. A higher proportion of ultra-processed food in the diet was associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes in a large ten year study published in 2019. Other
Environmental toxins may contribute to recent increases in the rate of type 2 diabetes. Smoking appears to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks in excess is associated with an increased risk. There is an association between higher intake of sugar-sweetened fruit juice and diabetes, but no evidence of an association with 100% fruit juice. There is not enough evidence to determine if lifestyle interventions affect mortality in those who already have type 2 diabetes.As of 2015, there is insufficient data to recommend nonnutritive sweeteners, which may help reduce caloric intake.An elevated intake of microbiota-accessible carbohydrates can help reducing the effects of T2D.A 2022 umbrella review concluded that, red and white meat consumption is associated with an increased risk contrary to dairy products which have a diminished risk. A study in the Journal of Periodontology found that poorly controlled type 2 diabetic patients are more likely to develop periodontal disease than well-controlled diabetics are. 
Does flu vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting the flu (influenza)? [SEP] The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that vaccination against influenza reduces sickness, medical visits, hospitalizations, and deaths. The flu vaccine can also reduce the severity of the flu if a person contracts a strain that the vaccine did not contain. The effectiveness of flu vaccines is considered to be suboptimal, particularly among the elderly, but vaccination is still beneficial in reducing the mortality rate and hospitalization rate due to influenza as well as duration of hospitalization. Vaccination decreased confirmed cases of influenza from about 2.4% to 1.1%. No effect on hospitalization was found.In working adults, a review by the Cochrane Collaboration found that vaccination resulted in a modest decrease in both influenza symptoms and working days lost, without affecting transmission or influenza-related complications. Preliminary research indicates that influenza vaccination does not prevent COVID-19, but may reduce the incidence and severity of COVID-19 infection. Some studies have indicated that influenza-like illness is itself associated with an increased risk of GBS, suggesting that vaccination might indirectly protect against the disorder by protecting against flu. Annual vaccination can help to provide protection against influenza. 
Can therapy with the radioactive gas radon noticeably alleviate pain in rheumatism-related joint inflammation (rheumatoid arthritis)? [SEP] Radium baths became used experimentally to treat arthritis, gout, and neuralgias. Radon is a significant contributor to environmental radioactivity and can cause serious health problems such as lung cancer.Mitigation of radon in the air by active soil depressurization is most effective. Progress has been made regarding radon in the home. The concentration in the air at the (unventilated) Gastein Healing Gallery averages 43 kBq/m3 (about 1.2 nCi/L) with maximal value of 160 kBq/m3 (about 4.3 nCi/L).Radon emanates naturally from the ground and from some building materials all over the world, wherever there are traces of uranium or thorium, and particularly in regions with soils containing granite or shale, which have a higher concentration of uranium. Although radon may present significant risks, thousands of persons annually go to radon-contaminated mines for deliberate exposure to help with the symptoms of arthritis without any serious health effects.Radon as a terrestrial source of background radiation is of particular concern because, although overall very rare, where it does occur it often does so in high concentrations. The results of a methodical ten-year-long, case-controlled study of residential radon exposure in Worcester County, Massachusetts, found an apparent 60% reduction in lung cancer risk amongst people exposed to low levels (0–150 Bq/m3) of radon gas; levels typically encountered in 90% of American homes—an apparent support for the idea of radiation hormesis. Intentional exposure
"Radon therapy" is an intentional exposure to radon via inhalation or ingestion. Radon has been alleged to induce beneficial long-term effects, although proper clinical trials have not been performed. 
Does frankincense help with painful joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] Frankincense (also known as olibanum) is an aromatic resin used in incense and perfumes, obtained from trees of the genus Boswellia in the family Burseraceae. Production
Thousands of tons of frankincense are traded every year to be used in religious ceremonies as incense in thuribles and by makers of perfumes, natural medicines, and essential oils. Some clinical studies have weakly demonstrated the effectiveness of frankincense resin in some disease conditions like asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases, osteoarthritis and relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, however more studies are necessary. A 2022 study stated that "frankincense oil has a weak inhibitory effect against MRSA and MDR-P. aeruginosa"; and in vivo studies on animals revealed that frankincense oleogum resin exhibits neuroprotective activity. In traditional Chinese medicine, frankincense (Chinese: 乳香 rǔ xiāng) along with myrrh (沒藥 mò yào) are considered to have anti-bacterial properties and blood-moving uses. See also
Trade
Land of Frankincense (Frankincense Trail), site in Oman
Incense trade route, a large network around the Mediterranean and beyond
Nabataeans, a trader tribe
Literature
Desi Sangye Gyatso, author of a Tibetan herbal
Historia Plantarum (Theophrastus book)
Similar plants and products
Elemi, resin or tree
Myrrh, resin
Palo santo (Bursera graveolens), tree
Agarwood
Benzoin (resin)
Copal

References
Further reading
External links
 Media related to Frankincense at Wikimedia Commons

 Quotations related to Frankincense at Wikiquote
"Frankincense" . It is used primarily to reduce hormones that cause pain, swelling, tenderness, and stiffness in conditions such as osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. When tested in rats, tolmetin prevented experimentally stimulated polyarthritis and reduced inflammation. 
Does the extract of the plant Salacia reticulata in combination with vitamin D ("Exadipin") help to lose weight? [SEP] Dexatrim claims it "gives you the power to lose weight, curb binges, and keep you in control of your diet." Green tea extract
Green tea extract is currently used for a variety of conditions including improving mental alertness and aiding in weight loss. There is currently insufficient data to determine the efficacy of green tea extract in aiding weight loss. There is insufficient data to support DHEA’s efficacy for weight loss. Dexatrim claims to provide a powerful benefit for weight loss despite the lack of scientific data to support their claims. Leptiplex purportedly "helps to naturally control appetite, increase energy levels, and stimulate metabolism" and consists of green tea leaf extract (Camellia sinenisis; 50% epigallocatechin gallate [EGCG]) and bitter orange peel extract (Citrus aurantium; 5% synephrine). The Sponsor is Brigham and Women's Hospital with collaborators, National Cancer Institute, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Office of Dietary Supplements, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, Pharmavite LLC, Pronova BioPharma and BASF.It aims to enroll 20,000 participants (women 55 or over, men 50 or over) who will be randomized to one of four groups:
daily vitamin D (2000 IU) and fish oil (1 g);
daily vitamin D and fish-oil placebo;
daily vitamin-D placebo and fish oil;
daily vitamin-D placebo and fish-oil placebo.Participants will answer annual questionnaires to determine effects on risk of cancer, heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, diabetes, memory loss and depression. As a supplement it is used to prevent and treat vitamin D deficiency. 
Does yoga reduce the impairment in everyday life caused by persistent (chronic) back pain? [SEP] Systematic reviews have found beneficial effects of yoga on low back pain and depression, but despite much investigation little or no evidence for benefit for specific medical conditions. Low back pain
Back pain is one reason people take up yoga, and since at least the 1960s some practitioners have claimed that it relieved their symptoms.A 2013 systematic review on the use of yoga for low back pain found strong evidence for short- and long-term effects on pain, and moderate evidence for long-term benefit in back-specific disability, with no serious adverse events. The review stated that yoga can be recommended as an additional therapy to chronic low back pain patients. A 2022 Cochrane systematic review of yoga for chronic non-specific low back pain included 21 randomised controlled trials and found that yoga produced clinically unimportant improvements in pain and back-specific function; improvements in back-specific function were similar to those obtained from other forms of therapeutic exercise, such as physical therapy. As therapy
There is strong scientific evidence that yoga is a safe and effective additional therapy for people with low back pain. On its own, yoga is about as effective as other active treatments for back pain, and more effective at reducing pain and improving function than non-exercise treatments.Yoga is useful to some extent for psychological conditions such as stress and depression, but despite repeated attempts, little or no evidence for benefit for other specific medical conditions. The Alexander technique appears useful for chronic back pain, and there is some evidence to support small benefits from the use of yoga. If a person with chronic low back pain is motivated, it is recommended to use yoga and tai chi as a form of treatment, but this is not recommended to treat acute or subacute low back pain. 
Does yoga alleviate the severity of persistent back pain??? [SEP] Systematic reviews have found beneficial effects of yoga on low back pain and depression, but despite much investigation little or no evidence for benefit for specific medical conditions. Low back pain
Back pain is one reason people take up yoga, and since at least the 1960s some practitioners have claimed that it relieved their symptoms.A 2013 systematic review on the use of yoga for low back pain found strong evidence for short- and long-term effects on pain, and moderate evidence for long-term benefit in back-specific disability, with no serious adverse events. The review stated that yoga can be recommended as an additional therapy to chronic low back pain patients. A 2022 Cochrane systematic review of yoga for chronic non-specific low back pain included 21 randomised controlled trials and found that yoga produced clinically unimportant improvements in pain and back-specific function; improvements in back-specific function were similar to those obtained from other forms of therapeutic exercise, such as physical therapy. Yoga and Tai chi are not recommended in case of acute or subacute low back pain, but are recommended in case of chronic back pain. The Alexander technique appears useful for chronic back pain, and there is some evidence to support small benefits from the use of yoga. As therapy
There is strong scientific evidence that yoga is a safe and effective additional therapy for people with low back pain. On its own, yoga is about as effective as other active treatments for back pain, and more effective at reducing pain and improving function than non-exercise treatments.Yoga is useful to some extent for psychological conditions such as stress and depression, but despite repeated attempts, little or no evidence for benefit for other specific medical conditions. 
Do laughter yoga or laughter therapy have positive health effects? [SEP] Benefits
A 2018 review concludes that group interventions based on laughter Yoga  improved depressive symptoms over the short term, but there is no good quality evidence to assess that laughter yoga is more effective than other group-based intervention.A 2019 review and meta-analysis in the field of laughter-inducing therapies suggests that they are more effective than humorous laughter and can improve depression. However, the quality of the evidence was low.A meta-analysis published in 2020 concludes that laughter yoga has no adverse effect and could have benefit for older adults in terms of physical function (blood pressure, cortisol level, sleep quality) and psychosocial health (life satisfaction, quality of life, loneliness, death anxiety, depression, mood, happiness). Therapy
Laughter has been used as a therapeutic tool for many years because it is a natural form of medicine. Some of the benefits of using laughter therapy are that it can relieve stress and relax the whole body. Laughter is also known to reduce allergic reactions in a preliminary study related to dust mite allergy sufferers.Laughter therapy also has some social benefits, such as strengthening relationships, improving teamwork and reducing conflicts, and making oneself more attractive to others. Therefore, whether a person is trying to cope with a terminal illness or just trying to manage their stress or anxiety levels, laughter therapy can be a significant enhancement to their life.Ramon Mora-Ripoll in his study on The Therapeutic Value Of Laughter In Medicine, stated that laughter therapy is an inexpensive and simple tool that can be used in patient care. The result showed that laughter therapy was helpful in improving quality of life and cancer symptoms in some areas for cancer survivors. Laughter Yoga is somewhat similar to traditional yoga, it is an exercise which incorporates breathing, yoga, and stretching techniques, along with laughter. 
Can a height-adjustable desk reduce sitting time in the office? [SEP] Some ergonomic desks have a sufficiently large desktop height adjustment to create either a common "sit-down" desk or a less common standing desk, which allows the user to work while standing. Today, office chairs often have adjustable seats, armrests, backs, back supports, and heights to prevent repetitive stress injury and back pain associated with sitting for long periods. With seated desks, adjusting the height relative to the user can be accomplished by adjusting the height of the user's chair. To solve this issue, a standing desk may either be custom-made, to suit the height of the user, or made with adjustable parts. A height-adjustable desk or sit-stand desk can be adjusted to both sitting and standing positions; this is purported to be healthier than the sit-only desk. Sit-stand desks may be effective at reducing sitting time during the work day between 30 minutes and two hours per working day but the evidence is low quality.Some antique standing desks have an open frame with drawers, and a foot rail (similar to those seen at a bar) to reduce back pain. Effect on health
There is a significantly higher mortality rate among people who regularly sit for prolonged periods, and the risk is not negated by regular exercise, though it is lowered.Low-quality evidence indicates that providing employees with a standing desk option may reduce the length of time some people sit in the first year. It is not clear how standing desks compare to other work-place interventions to reduce the length of time employees are sitting during the work day.Sit-stand workstations may reduce low back pain among people in the workplace. 
Does a diet that includes as many organic foods as possible lower the risk of cancer? [SEP] Dietary factors are recognized as having a significant effect on the risk of cancers, with different dietary elements both increasing and reducing risk. Immigrant communities tend to develop the risk of their new country, often within one generation, suggesting a substantial link between diet and cancer.Dietary recommendations for cancer prevention typically include weight management and eating a healthy diet, consisting mainly of "vegetables, fruit, whole grains and fish, and a reduced intake of red meat, animal fat, and refined sugar." A healthy dietary pattern may lower cancer risk by 10-20%. See also
References
External links
"Diet, healthy eating and cancer". Likewise, the American Cancer Society (ACS) has stated their official position that "whether organic foods carry a lower risk of cancer because they are less likely to be contaminated by compounds that might cause cancer is largely unknown." Organic food may also be more appealing to people who follow other restricted diets. They have also stated that there is no research to show that organic food reduces cancer risk compared to foods grown with conventional farming methods.The Environmental Protection Agency maintains strict guidelines on the regulation of pesticides by setting a tolerance on the amount of pesticide residue allowed to be in or on any particular food. Health Benefits of Organic Food: Effects of the Environment. 
Does cinnamon lower blood sugar levels in diabetes? [SEP] See also
Anti-diabetic medication


== References == Cinnamon sugar is a mixture of ground cinnamon and granulated sugar used as a spice to flavor foods such as Belgian waffles, Snickerdoodle cookies, tortillas, coffee cake, French toast, and churros. Fantus writes about "red cinnamon sugar" as one of the products created for medical purposes. The bark is also used as a cinnamon bark. Melbourne, Australia, 2 au 6 décembre 2013
Symposium international de Libreville sur le diabète (2013). The goal is a slow decline in blood sugar levels. Another method used to lower excessively high insulin levels is cinnamon, specifically Ceylon cinnamon, as was demonstrated when supplemented in clinical human trials.A healthy diet that is low in simple sugars and processed carbohydrates, and high in fiber, and vegetable protein is often recommended. This includes replacing white bread with whole-grain bread, reducing intake of foods composed primarily of starch such as potatoes, and increasing intake of legumes and green vegetables, particularly soy.Regular monitoring of weight, blood sugar, and insulin are advised, as hyperinsulinemia may develop into diabetes mellitus type 2.It has been shown in many studies that physical exercise improves insulin sensitivity. 
Does sitting for long periods shorten the lifespan? [SEP] Life extension is the concept of extending the human lifespan, either modestly through improvements in medicine or dramatically by increasing the maximum lifespan beyond its generally-settled limit of 125 years. Oxidation damage to cellular contents caused by free radicals is believed to contribute to aging as well.The longest documented human lifespan is 122 years 164 days, the case of Jeanne Calment who according to records was born in 1875 and died in 1997, whereas the maximum lifespan of a wildtype mouse, commonly used as a model in research on aging, is about three years. Lifestyle factors
Loneliness/isolation, social life and support, exercise/physical activity (partly via neurobiological effects and increased NAD+ levels), psychological characteristics/personality (possibly highly indirectly), sleep duration, circadian rhythms (patterns of sleep, drug-administration and feeding), type of leisure activities, not smoking, altruistic emotions and behaviors, subjective well-being, mood and stress (including via heat shock protein) are investigated as potential (modulatable) factors of life extension. In Lifespan, the authors examine how technology, diet, exercise and lifestyle changes including intermittent fasting and cold exposure have the potential to enhance human longevity. Longevity studies may involve putative methods to extend life. A 2012 study found that even modest amounts of leisure time physical exercise can extend life expectancy by as much as 4.5 years. On Length and Shortness of Life (or On Longevity and Shortness of Life; Greek: Περὶ μακροβιότητος καὶ βραχυβιότητος; Latin: De longitudine et brevitate vitae) is a text by the Ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle and one of the Parva Naturalia. External links
 Works related to On Longevity and Shortness of Life at Wikisource
On longevity and shortness of life, translated by G. R. T. Ross
 Parva Naturalia public domain audiobook at LibriVox
Original Greek text:
 Greek Wikisource has original text related to this article: Περὶ μακροβιότητος καὶ βραχυβιότητος
Greco interattivo
Mikros Apoplous (with Modern Greek translation and notes) 
Does mammography screening reduce the risk of dying from breast cancer in certain age groups? [SEP] A 2013 Cochrane review estimated that mammography in women between 50 and 75 years old results in a relative decreased risk of death from breast cancer of 15% and an absolute risk reduction of 0.05%. Screening mammography shows greatest benefit—a 39.6 percent mortality reduction—from annual screening of women 40–84 years old. The largest (Hellquist et al) and longest running (Tabar et al) breast cancer screening studies in history, re-confirmed that regular mammography screening cut breast cancer deaths by roughly a third in all women ages 40 and over (including women ages 40–49). Mortality
The Cochrane Collaboration states that the best quality evidence does not demonstrate a reduction in mortality or a reduction in mortality from all types of cancer from screening mammography.The Canadian Task Force found that for women ages 50 to 69, screening 720 women once every 2 to 3 years for 11 years would prevent one death from breast cancer. For women ages 40 to 49, 2,100 women would need to be screened at the same frequency and period to prevent a single death from breast cancer.Women whose breast cancer was detected by screening mammography before the appearance of a lump or other symptoms commonly assume that the mammogram "saved their lives". The probability of a woman falling into any of the above four categories varies with age.A 2016 review for the United States Preventive Services Task Force found that mammography was associated with an 8%-33% decrease in breast cancer mortality in different age groups, but that this decrease was not statistically significant at the age groups of 39–49 and 70–74. The same review found that mammography significantly decreased the risk of advanced cancer among women aged 50 and older by 38%, but among those aged 39 to 49 the risk reduction was a non-significant 2%. A study of radiation risk from mammography concluded that for women 40 years of age and older, the risk of radiation-induced breast cancer was minuscule, particularly compared with the potential benefit of mammographic screening, with a benefit-to-risk ratio of 48.5 lives saved for each life lost due to radiation exposure. 
Should wisdom teeth that have not or not completely grown out of the jaw and gums be removed as a precaution? Even if the "impacted" teeth are not causing any symptoms at the moment and no pathological changes are to be expected immediately? [SEP] Removal of impacted wisdom teeth is advised in the case of certain pathologies, such as nonrestorable caries or cysts.Impacted wisdom teeth are classified by their direction of impaction, their depth compared to the biting surface of adjacent teeth and the amount of the tooth's crown that extends through gum tissue or bone. : 141 

For partially impacted teeth in those over 20 year of age, the most common pathology seen, and the most common reason for wisdom teeth removal, is pericoronitis or infection of the gum tissue over the impacted tooth. Treatment
Wisdom teeth that are fully erupted and in normal function need no special attention and should be treated just like any other tooth. The Cochrane review of surgical removal versus retention of asymptomatic disease-free impacted wisdom teeth suggests that the presence of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth may be associated with increased risk of periodontal disease affecting adjacent 2nd molar (measured by distal probing depth > 4 mm on that tooth) in the long term. Further, several studies have found that between 30% – 60% of people with previously asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth will have them extracted due to symptoms or disease, 4–12 years after initial examination.Extraction of the wisdom teeth removes the disease on the wisdom tooth itself and also appears to improve the periodontal status of the second molar, although this benefit diminishes beyond the age of 25. Impacted wisdom teeth are still sometimes removed for orthodontic treatment, believing that they move the other teeth and cause crowding, though this is not held anymore as true.Impacted wisdom teeth may suffer from tooth decay if oral hygiene becomes more difficult. Removal of impacted wisdom teeth
Removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth with the absence of disease and no evidence of local infection as a prophylactic method has been disputed within the dental community for a long time. Prophylactic removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth. 
Do turmeric preparations alleviate the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis ("joint wear") better than a placebo? [SEP] Turmeric juice is claimed to have health benefits that include easing an upset stomach and reducing arthritis pain. Medical research has been carried out on purported health-giving properties of the main ingredient in turmeric juice, curcumin, though studies have not determined a precise dose, safety, or mechanism of action to require rational use of it in treatment of human diseases. Indian traditional medicine, called Siddha, has recommended turmeric for medicine. Turmeric juice
Drinkable turmeric can be traced back to India where it has been used as a folk remedy for cough, congestion, and colds. Turmeric juice drops have been used in attempts to treat eye diseases that include pink eye, glaucoma, corneal ulcers and conjunctivitis. Turmeric tea has been traced back to the Japanese island of Okinawa, where its residents believe it helps with longevity. While all 20 NSAIDs were found to reduce more pain than the placebo, 15 were found to be significantly better. When tested in rats, tolmetin prevented experimentally stimulated polyarthritis and reduced inflammation. 
Do turmeric preparations relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism") better than a placebo or painkiller??? [SEP] Turmeric juice is claimed to have health benefits that include easing an upset stomach and reducing arthritis pain. Medical research has been carried out on purported health-giving properties of the main ingredient in turmeric juice, curcumin, though studies have not determined a precise dose, safety, or mechanism of action to require rational use of it in treatment of human diseases. Indian traditional medicine, called Siddha, has recommended turmeric for medicine. Turmeric juice
Drinkable turmeric can be traced back to India where it has been used as a folk remedy for cough, congestion, and colds. Turmeric juice drops have been used in attempts to treat eye diseases that include pink eye, glaucoma, corneal ulcers and conjunctivitis. In 2015, U.S. News & World Report published a report on the turmeric trend and its use in food and for purported health purposes. While all 20 NSAIDs were found to reduce more pain than the placebo, 15 were found to be significantly better. One published in 2010 in the British Medical Journal arrived at the following conclusions:Compared with placebo, glucosamine, chondroitin, and their combination do not reduce joint pain or affect the narrowing of joint space. 
Does the intake of omega-3 fatty acids improve the clinical picture in multiple sclerosis (MS) or does this inhibit progression of the disease? [SEP] Omega−3 fatty acids reduce blood triglyceride levels, but do not significantly change the level of LDL cholesterol or HDL cholesterol. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. Consumption of omega−3 fatty acids from marine sources lowers blood markers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, and TNF alpha.For rheumatoid arthritis, one systematic review found consistent but modest evidence for the effect of marine n−3 PUFAs on symptoms such as "joint swelling and pain, duration of morning stiffness, global assessments of pain and disease activity" as well as the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health has concluded that "supplements containing omega−3 fatty acids ... may help relieve rheumatoid arthritis symptoms" but warns that such supplements "may interact with drugs that affect blood clotting". Mental health
Omega-3 supplementation has not been shown to significantly affect symptoms of anxiety, major depressive disorder or schizophrenia. A 2020 review suggested that omega 3 supplementation has no effect on global cognitive function but has a mild benefit in improving memory in non-demented adults.A 2022 review found promising evidence for prevention of cognitive decline in people who regularly eat long-chain omega 3 rich foods. A 2012 meta-analysis published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, covering 20 studies and 68,680 patients, found that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation did not reduce the chance of death, cardiac death, heart attack, or stroke. A co-author of the study said to Time, "Our analysis suggests that there is currently no evidence that omega-3 fatty acid supplements provide a benefit for memory or concentration in later life". 
Does taking vitamin A or following certain diets improve or halt the progression of multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] Research in multiple sclerosis may find new pathways to interact with the disease, improve function, curtail attacks, or limit the progression of the underlying disease. Early treatment can reduce the hazard of conversion to from a first attack to clinically definite multiple sclerosis. Studies on the use of Interferon-beta-1b in secondary progressive and progressive relapsing MS do not support that it slows progression of the disease, although it is effective in reducing the number of relapses. With the completion of a robust two-year study, it is shown that the PEGylated interferon beta-1a has greater efficacy in decreasing relapse rate and disability progression compared to placebo for MS patients.Preliminary data have suggested that mycophenolate mofetil, an anti-rejection immunosuppressant medication, might have benefits in people with multiple sclerosis. The rationale behind the use of Vitamin D supplementation is that studies show an association between vitamin D deficiency and increasing progression of MS, as well as the anti-inflammatory effects of vitamin D. However available evidence suggests vitamin D supplementation, irrespective of the form and dose used, provides no apparent benefit for people with MS for measures such as relapse recurrence of, disability worsening and MRI lesions while effects on health‐related quality of life and fatigue are unclear.For antioxidant therapy, studies have shown that reactive oxidative species lead to the formation of multiple sclerosis lesions in which antioxidants can help induce neuroprotective and immunomodulatory effects. "Multiple sclerosis in adults: management - Guidance". A Cochrane review reported that vitamin A supplementation is associated with a clinically meaningful reduction in morbidity and mortality in children ages six month to five years of age. Vitamin A supplementation to children in regions where vitamin A deficiency is common has repeatedly been shown to reduce overall mortality rates, especially from measles and diarrhea. 
Can Botox injections prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] Botulinum toxin injection
Botulinum neurotoxin (Botox) injections have been approved in the US and UK for prevention of chronic migraine, but do not appear to work for episodic migraine. Botulinum Toxin (Botox)
OnabotulinumtoxinA (trade name Botox) received FDA approval for treatment of chronic migraines (occurring more than 15 days per month) in 2010. Approval followed evidence presented to the agency from two studies funded by Allergan, Inc. showing an improvement in incidence of chronic migraines for migraine sufferers undergoing the Botox treatment. Since then, several randomized control trials have shown Botulinum Toxin Type A to improve headache symptoms and quality of life when used prophylactically for patients with chronic migraine

Medication
Preventive drugs are used to reduce the frequency, duration, and severity of migraine attacks. He reported that patients who had cosmetic injections around the face reported relief from chronic headache. In 2010, the FDA approved intramuscular botulinum toxin injections for prophylactic treatment of chronic migraine headache. "Botulinum toxin type A (BOTOX) for treatment of migraine". Patients who respond to nerve blocks often see an immediate though temporary reduction in their pain by "shutting off" the nerve that is triggering the migraine, while pain relief following Botox injections is provided by relaxation of nearby muscle tissue that may be compressing the nerve. 
Does taking probiotics facilitate weight loss to any significant degree? [SEP] Although numerous claimed benefits are marketed towards using consumer probiotic products, such as reducing gastrointestinal discomfort, improving immune health, relieving constipation, or avoiding the common cold, such claims are not supported by scientific evidence, and are prohibited as deceptive advertising in the United States by the Federal Trade Commission. Glycemic control
According to an umbrella review of meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials, probiotics supplementation reduces glucose homeostasis. People receiving probiotics were 73% more likely to experience disease remission and over 2x as likely to report improvement in symptoms compared to those receiving a placebo, with no clear difference in minor or serious adverse effects. Pregnancy
A Cochrane systematic review found no good evidence that probiotics were of benefit in reducing the risk of gestational diabetes, but good evidence that they increased the risk of pre-eclampsia. There is little evidence that probiotics bring the health benefits claimed for them. In a review that covered 34 masked, randomized, placebo-controlled trials related to diarrhea and probiotics, it was concluded that there was an overall reduction of 52% in antibiotic associated diarrhea, an 8% reduction in traveller’s diarrhea, and a 34% reduction in other types of acute diarrhea. Probiotics for Kids: How are they useful? Probiotics are health promoting bacteria which, when consumed in adequate amounts, confer a benefit on the host, normally associated with positive effects on the digestive and immune systems, and are usually prescribed during or after antibiotic treatment to alleviate the symptoms of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. 
Does the full moon have a negative effect on sleep duration? [SEP] The lunar effect is a purported correlation between specific stages of the roughly 29.5-day lunar cycle and behavior and physiological changes in living beings on Earth, including humans. Human behavior
Epilepsy
A study into epilepsy found a significant negative correlation between the mean number of epileptic seizures per day and the fraction of the Moon that is illuminated, but the effect resulted from the overall brightness of the night, rather than from the moon phase per se. Sleep quality
A 2013 study by Christian Cajochen and collaborators at the University of Basel suggested a correlation between the full Moon and human sleep quality. A 2015 study of 795 children found a three-minute increase in sleep duration near the full moon, but a 2016 study of 5,812 children found a five-minute decrease in sleep duration near the full moon. A study published in 2021 by researchers from the University of Washington, Yale University, and the National University of Quilmes showed a correlation between lunar cycles and sleep cycles. During the days preceding a full moon, people went to bed later and slept for shorter periods (in some cases with differences of up to 90 minutes), even in locations with full access to electric light. Finally, a Swedish study including one-night at-home sleep recordings from 492 women and 360 men found that men whose sleep was recorded during nights in the waxing period of the lunar cycle exhibited lower sleep efficiency and increased time awake after sleep onset compared to men whose sleep was measured during nights in the waning period. This sleep phase advancement can interfere with daily social and work schedules, and results in shortened sleep duration and excessive daytime sleepiness. 
Can lemon juice prevent or effectively treat gastrointestinal illness caused by norovirus? [SEP] Alcohol-based hand sanitizers are not effective against the norovirus, according to the NHS information page on the subject; this is due to norovirus being a non-enveloped virus. Signs and symptoms
Norovirus infection is characterized by nausea, vomiting, watery diarrhea, abdominal pain, and in some cases, loss of taste. A person usually develops symptoms of gastroenteritis 12 to 48 hours after being exposed to norovirus. Although having norovirus can be unpleasant, it is not usually dangerous, and most who contract it make a full recovery within two to three days.Norovirus can establish a long term infection in people who are immunocompromised, such as those with common variable immunodeficiency or with a suppressed immune system after organ transplantation. Alcohol rubs (≥62% isopropyl alcohol) may be used as an adjunct, but are less effective than hand-washing, as norovirus lacks a lipid viral envelope. Norovirus infection cannot be treated with antibiotics because it is a virus. Epidemiology
Norovirus causes about 18% of all cases of acute gastroenteritis worldwide. Noroviruses, along with sapoviruses, are the most common cause of gastroenteritis and therefore show the same symptoms as each other.Astrovirus, like sapovirus, causes gastroenteritis in children and the elderly, especially those who are immunocompromised. 
For knee osteoarthritis, does rubbing DMSO into the knee bring less pain and more mobility than rubbing a placebo? [SEP] A disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) is a disease-modifying drug that would inhibit or even reverse the progression of osteoarthritis. Since the main hallmark of osteoarthritis is cartilage loss, a typical DMOAD would prevent the loss of cartilage and potentially regenerate it. Other DMOADs may attempt to help repair adjacent tissues by reducing inflammation. A successful DMOAD would be expected to show an improvement in patient pain and function with an improvement of the health of the joint tissues. Several approved drugs are being investigated as repurposed agents in the treatment of osteoarhritis such as liraglutide (anti-diabetic and anti-obesity drug: NCT02905864), Metformin (anti-diabetic drug: NCT04767841, NCT05034029), Zoledronic acid (anti-osteoporotic drug: NCT04303026), etc.Paroxetine has been deemed to have dmoad activity. There is no strong evidence that this approach improves knee function, mortality, adverse events, or amount of pain, compared with a fixed bearing approach for total knee replacement. There is no evidence that CPM therapy leads to a clinically significant improvement in range of motion, pain, knee function, or quality of life. UKA surgery may reduce post-operative pain and have a shorter recovery period than a total knee replacement procedure, particularly in people over 75 years of age. 
In case of osteoarthritis of the knee, does rubbing DMSO bring less pain and more mobility than the recognized painkiller diclofenac??? [SEP] A disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) is a disease-modifying drug that would inhibit or even reverse the progression of osteoarthritis. Since the main hallmark of osteoarthritis is cartilage loss, a typical DMOAD would prevent the loss of cartilage and potentially regenerate it. Other DMOADs may attempt to help repair adjacent tissues by reducing inflammation. A successful DMOAD would be expected to show an improvement in patient pain and function with an improvement of the health of the joint tissues. Diclofenac is also available in topical forms and has been found to be useful for osteoarthritis but not other types of long-term musculoskeletal pain.It may also help with actinic keratosis, and acute pain caused by minor strains, sprains, and contusions (bruises).In many countries, eye drops are sold to treat acute and chronic nonbacterial inflammation of the anterior part of the eyes (such  as postoperative states). If used for the short-term treatment of pain or fever, diclofenac has not been found more hepatotoxic than other NSAIDs. Meloxicam is a safer alternative to replace use of diclofenac. Diclofenac/misoprostol, sold under the brand name Arthrotec, is a fixed-dose combination medication that contains:

Diclofenac sodium: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with analgesic properties
Misoprostol: Gastrointestinal (GI) mucosal protective prostaglandin E1 analog.In the United Kingdom it is marketed by Pharmacia and it is indicated for prophylaxis against NSAID-induced gastroduodenal ulceration in people requiring diclofenac for rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis.The American College of Rheumatology and a Canadian consensus report both recommend GI-protective agents such as misoprostol be combined with long term NSAID therapy and a review concluded that diclofenac/misoprostol is a cost effective treatment in patients requiring long term NSAID therapy who are at increased risk of developing gastropathy. 
Does taking vitamin D improve symptoms in the most common form of psoriasis? [SEP] Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
The efficacy of calcipotriol in the treatment of psoriasis was first noticed by the observation of patients receiving various forms of vitamin D in an osteoporosis study. A review by authors from the University of Maryland School of Pharmacy suggested that while low-dose vitamin D supplementation was unlikely to be harmful, "sensible sun exposure" was "an inexpensive and enjoyable way" to ensure healthy levels of vitamin D.

Evidence
Evidence both for and against an association of vitamin D and respiratory infections has been reported. People with the lowest blood vitamin D levels reported having significantly more recent colds or cases of the flu chronic respiratory disorders, especially those who had pre-existing respiratory ailments  Children who took vitamin D3 supplements daily in winter were 42% less likely to get infected with seasonal flu than those who were given a placebo. Sunscreen can also reduce vitamin D production. It has been suggested by some researchers, for example, that adequate amounts of vitamin D can be produced with moderate sun exposure to the face, arms and legs, averaging 5–30 minutes twice per week without sunscreen. Individuals whose metabolism makes taking oral vitamin D ineffective are able, through exposure to an ultraviolet lamp that emits UV-B radiation, to achieve a 25 (OH) D blood level.Three benefits of UV exposure are production of vitamin D, improvement in mood, and increased energy.UVB induces production of vitamin D in the skin at rates of up to 1,000 IUs per minute. People who get more sun are generally healthier, and also have higher vitamin D levels. Getting enough vitamin D can help stave off "autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, many types of cancer, dementia, types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, and respiratory tract infections. 
Does taking fish oil with omega-3 fatty acids improve the symptoms of various forms of psoriasis more than a placebo??? [SEP] Fish oils contain the omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), precursors of certain eicosanoids that are known to reduce inflammation in the body and improve hypertriglyceridemia. Psoriasis
Diets supplemented with cod liver oil have shown beneficial
effects on psoriasis. This suggests that docosahexaenoic acid intake during early infancy confers long-term benefits on specific aspects of neurodevelopment.In addition, provision of fish oil during pregnancy may reduce an infant's sensitization to common food allergens and reduce the prevalence and severity of certain skin diseases in the first year of life. Prescription fish oil pills, capsules and tablets have more omega-3 fatty acids than those which are non-prescription. Consumption of omega−3 fatty acids from marine sources lowers blood markers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, and TNF alpha.For rheumatoid arthritis, one systematic review found consistent but modest evidence for the effect of marine n−3 PUFAs on symptoms such as "joint swelling and pain, duration of morning stiffness, global assessments of pain and disease activity" as well as the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. In European studies, fish oil triglycerides have been associated with a reduction in psoriasis, when contrasted to administration of omega-6 fatty acid Lipoven. One human study reported no increase in urine or plasma resolvin content after consumption of fish oil compared to a non-omega-3 oil, either before or after challenge with bacterial lipopolysaccharide known to induce an inflammatory reaction. Some suffering from psoriasis and dermatitis have benefited from the treatment, which involves lying in the ponds and letting the fish eat the scales and loose skin on the affected areas. 
Does following a Mediterranean diet decrease the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in people at high risk? [SEP] In 2017, the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition published evidence that the Mediterranean diet lowers the risk of heart disease and early death. A 2019 Cochrane review found that there is still uncertainty regarding the effects of Mediterranean‐style diet advice on cardiovascular disease occurrence and risk factors in people both with and without cardiovascular disease already.The US 2015–2020 national guidelines devised a "Healthy Mediterranean-Style Eating Pattern", assessed against and mirroring the Mediterranean diet patterns and its positive health outcomes. Cardiovascular disease
The Mediterranean diet is included among dietary patterns that may reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Reviews in 2016-17 reached similar conclusions about the ability of a Mediterranean diet to improve cardiovascular risk factors, such as lowering the risk for hypertension and other cardiovascular diseases.The Mediterranean diet is low in saturated fat with high amounts of monounsaturated fat and dietary fiber. The American Heart Association discussed the Mediterranean diet as a healthy dietary pattern that may reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Diabetes
In 2014, two meta-analyses found that the Mediterranean diet was associated with a decreased risk of type 2 diabetes, findings similar to those of a 2017 review. An updated review in 2021 found that the Mediterranean diet is associated with a 13% lower risk of cancer mortality in the general population. The Mediterranean diet is based on a paradox: although the people living in Mediterranean countries tend to consume relatively high amounts of fat, they have far lower rates of cardiovascular disease than in countries like the United States where similar levels of fat consumption are found. 
Does the probability of dying from cardiovascular disease decrease in people who have already had a heart attack? [SEP] It is also often referred as Cardiac disease and Coronary heart disease. One in five Australians with high blood pressure has heart disease (Nichols, 2014). Risk factors
Coronary artery disease is characterized by heart problems that result from atherosclerosis. The resultant reduction in the heart's blood supply due to atherosclerosis in coronary arteries "causes shortness of breath, angina pectoris (chest pains that are usually relieved by rest), and potentially fatal heart attacks (myocardial infarctions)". The American Heart Association, based on a non-systematic review, recommends that doctors counsel patients on exercise.Psychological symptoms are common in people with CHD, and while many psychological treatments may be offered following cardiac events, there is no evidence that they change mortality, the risk of revascularization procedures, or the rate of non-fatal myocardial infarction.Antibiotics for secondary prevention of coronary heart disease
Antibiotics may help patients with coronary disease to reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes. References
External links
Risk Assessment of having a heart attack or dying of coronary artery disease, from the American Heart Association. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in the United States and worldwide. Cardiovascular disease death rates are increasing in older (45–64 years) working-age people. 
Does Grander water have health benefits compared to untreated drinking water? [SEP] According to Grander, this improves the water structure and produces a healthy environment for useful microorganisms. Some companies using Grander water insist that the Grander revitalization process works and saves them money. Many companies produce enhanced water in the United States. Water quality
According to the World Health Organization's 2017 report, safe drinking-water is water that "does not represent any significant risk to health over a lifetime of consumption, including different sensitivities that may occur between life stages". As of 2017, 90% of people having access to water from a source that is suitable for drinking – called improved water source – and 71% of the world could access safely managed drinking water that is clean and available on-demand. Safe drinking water is an environmental health concern. : 3  While improved water sources such as protected piped water are more likely to provide safe and adequate water as they may prevent contact with human excreta, for example, this is not always the case. Improved water supply reduces diarrhea morbidity by 25% and improvements in drinking water through proper storage in the home and chlorination reduces diarrhea episodes by 39%. 
Does astaxanthin protect against cardiovascular disease, cancer or prolong life? [SEP] Astaxanthin  is a keto-carotenoid within a group of chemical compounds known as terpenes. Astaxanthin is a metabolite of zeaxanthin and canthaxanthin, containing both hydroxyl and ketone functional groups. Astaxanthin is used as a dietary supplement for human, animal, and aquaculture consumption. The US Food and Drug Administration has approved astaxanthin as a food coloring (or color additive) for specific uses in animal and fish foods. Natural sources
Astaxanthin is present in most red-coloured aquatic organisms. Uses
Astaxanthin is used as a dietary supplement and feed supplement as food colorant for salmon, crabs, shrimp, chickens and egg production. This species is well known for its high content of the strong antioxidant astaxanthin, which is important in aquaculture, and cosmetics. It is a powerful antioxidant. 
Do products from the noni fruit promote health? [SEP] Noni juice is derived from the fruit of the Morinda citrifolia tree indigenous to Southeast Asia and Australasia. Under the Act, this necessitates all safety and clinical trial evidence for the juice providing such effects in humans.The FDA letter also cited 1) absent scientific evidence for health benefits of the noni phytochemicals scopoletin and damnacanthal, neither of which has been confirmed with biological activity in humans, and 2) lack of scientific foundation for health claims made by two proponents of noni juice, Dr. Isabella Abbot and Dr. Ralph Heinicke. American Cancer Society opinion
Although noni plants and juices have been promoted by practitioners of alternative medicine as a cure for a number of human maladies including  HIV, heart disease and cancer, the American Cancer Society concluded that "there is no reliable clinical evidence that noni juice is effective in preventing or treating cancer or any other disease in humans". Several websites and blogs claimed there are many health benefits of noni juices. However, according to the European Commission's Scientific Committee on Food, the nutritional content (i.e., macronutrients, vitamins, and minerals) of Tahitian Noni juice is comparable to the ranges known for typical fruit juices, and the agency concluded that there was no evidence that the juice had any special health benefits beyond those of other fruit juices. The nutritional content of noni juice is roughly comparable to that of apple juice. See also
Noni juice


== References == Culinary
Noni is sometimes called a "starvation fruit", implying that it was used by indigenous peoples as emergency food during times of famine. 
Can spending time at waterfalls on a regular basis provide lasting improvement in asthma symptoms? [SEP] Asthma camps aim to provide a positive experience for children with asthma through activities like hiking, swimming, canoeing, rope games, arts and crafts, campfires and more all with special considerations and attention to asthma. Children that attend asthma camps tend to have improved asthma self-management skills and an increase in overall quality of life. Over half of cases in children in the United States occur in areas with air quality below EPA standards, therefore the best locations for these camps are in the top cities for raising a child with asthma.A 2017 systematic meta-review has revealed that supported self-management can reduce hospitalisations, accident and emergency attendances and unscheduled consultations, and improve markers of control and quality of life for people with asthma across a range of cultural, demographic and healthcare settings. Cognitive behavioral therapy may improve quality of life, asthma control, and anxiety levels in people with asthma.Improving people's knowledge about asthma and using a written action plan has been identified as an important component of managing asthma. These interventions may also reduce the number of days children experience asthma symptoms and may lead to small improvements in asthma-related quality of life. There is insufficient evidence to suggest that dehumidifiers are helpful for controlling asthma.Overall, exercise is beneficial in people with stable asthma. Yoga could provide small improvements in quality of life and symptoms in people with asthma. Epidemiological studies
In a study of 341 schoolchildren, Bernard and his colleagues found that long-term attendance at indoor chlorinated swimming pools by the children up to the age of about 6–7 years was a strong predictor of airway inflammation (measured by exhaled nitric oxide) independently of other factors, while for those children susceptible to allergic problems, as defined by having a blood serum level of immunoglobulin E greater than 100 kIU/L, their total time spent at indoor chlorinated swimming pools was a strong predictor of the probability that they would have asthma. 
Does goji help with serious diseases like cancer or prevent heart attacks? [SEP] Gugi-cha (구기차; 枸杞茶) or goji tea is a traditional Chinese/Korean tea made from dried goji berries or leaves. Traditionally, the tea was made with young goji leaves. The tea made with berries may be called gugija-cha (구기자차; 枸杞子茶) or goji berry tea, while the tea made with leaves is referred to as gugiyeop-cha (구기엽차; 枸杞葉茶) or goji leaf tea. Golibaje (in Tulu) or Mangalore bajji (in Kannada) is an Indian fried food made from various flours and curd. In Tulu Nadu region, it is known as golibaje. Goji was a location-based virtual keyboard, created for iOS 8 by The Last Guide Company. The keyboard was released in October 2014 and removed from the iOS App Store when the company was closed in August 2015.Goji would display a dynamic gradient background based on the current time of day and emoji icons related to the mobile device's current location and city. One theory for instance claims that Gozu Tennō was originally a minor Buddhist deity regarded as the protector of the monastery (vihara) of Jetavana, with his Sanskrit name being reconstructed either as 'Gavagrīva' ("Ox-Necked") or 'Gośirsa Devarāja' ("Ox-Headed Divine King", a calque of 'Gozu Tennō'). 
Are amla supplements effective and safe in lowering high cholesterol? [SEP] The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. The end result is  lower LDL (Low Density Lipoprotein), TG (Triglycerides) and total cholesterol levels as well as increased HDL (High Density Lipoprotein) levels in serum. Medical uses
Alirocumab is used as a second-line treatment to lower LDL cholesterol for adults who have a severe form of hereditary high cholesterol and people with atherosclerosis who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol when diet and statin treatment have not worked. A 78-week study of alirocumab in 2341 people taking statins who were at high risk for cardiovascular events and had high LDL cholesterol levels was published in April 2015. This study showed a significant reduction of LDL cholesterol levels in patients taking both Alirocumab and oral statins compared to placebo patients solely taking oral statins. Pharmacy benefit managers continued expressing their concerns, as did insurance companies and some doctors, who were especially concerned over the price, in light of the fact that the FDA approval was based on lowering cholesterol alone, and not on better health outcomes, such as fewer heart attacks or longer life.The treatment for people with very high cholesterol that cannot be controlled with diet or statins is apheresis, which is similar to dialysis in that a person visits a clinic each month and his or her blood is mechanically filtered, in this case to remove LDL cholesterol. Clinical trials have shown it to be more effective than amlodipine on its own, with a high dosing regime (aliskiren 300 mg/amlodipine 10 mg) being more effective than olmesartan/amlodipine with comparable tolerability. Initial results were published in 2002, which indicated that vitamins made little difference in modifying cardiovascular risk, but that simvastatin could significantly reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. 
Does inhaling hive air have health benefits for asthma, allergies or other conditions? [SEP] This causes them to relax and prevent the onset and worsening of symptoms of asthma. Weak evidence suggests that efforts to decrease mold by repairing buildings may help improve asthma symptoms in adults. Evidence supporting the hygiene hypothesis includes lower rates of asthma on farms and in households with pets.Use of antibiotics in early life has been linked to the development of asthma. It is the single best test for asthma. Other studies have found improvement in asthmatic symptoms from alcohol. These interventions may also reduce the number of days children experience asthma symptoms and may lead to small improvements in asthma-related quality of life. There is insufficient evidence to suggest that dehumidifiers are helpful for controlling asthma.Overall, exercise is beneficial in people with stable asthma. Yoga could provide small improvements in quality of life and symptoms in people with asthma. 
Can chlorinated water from baby swimming cause asthma or allergies later in childhood? [SEP] The pool chlorine hypothesis is the hypothesis that long-term attendance at indoor chlorinated swimming pools by children up to the age of about 6–7 years is a major factor in the rise of asthma in rich countries since the late twentieth century. that asthma may be induced by chlorine related compounds from swimming pools, has been stated based on a small numbers of cases at least as early as 1995. In the epidemiological studies, the association between chlorinated swimming pools and asthma was found to be more significant than factors such as age, sex, ethnic origin, socioeconomic status, exposure to domestic animals and passive smoking (in a study in Brussels), and independent of altitude, climate, and GDP per capita (in a Europe-wide study of 21 countries). Epidemiological studies
In a study of 341 schoolchildren, Bernard and his colleagues found that long-term attendance at indoor chlorinated swimming pools by the children up to the age of about 6–7 years was a strong predictor of airway inflammation (measured by exhaled nitric oxide) independently of other factors, while for those children susceptible to allergic problems, as defined by having a blood serum level of immunoglobulin E greater than 100 kIU/L, their total time spent at indoor chlorinated swimming pools was a strong predictor of the probability that they would have asthma. However, when the time spent at chlorinated swimming pools (modified for pool height as a statistical way to indicate likely concentrations of chlorine related gases) was adjusted for exposure to pets and passive smoking, the significance of the correlations with asthma increased further. In a later study by the Bernard group of 190,000 children in 21 countries in Europe, it was found that 13- to 14-year-old children were 2% to 3.5% more likely to have or have had asthma for every additional indoor chlorinated pool per 100,000 inhabitants in their place of residence. Hypothesised mechanistic explanation
Alfred Bernard and colleagues argue that what is common to the pool chlorine hypothesis and epidemiological studies associating chlorine based irritants to atopy could be that frequent, long-term disruption of the epithelium of the lung, which normally provides a protective barrier against various pathogens, could allow allergens to cross this barrier. Another study showed that infant swimming lessons may improve motor skills, but the number of study subjects was too low to be conclusive.There may be a link between infant swimming and rhinovirus-induced wheezing illnesses.Others have indicated concerns that the lessons might be traumatic, that the parents will have a false sense of security and not supervise young children adequately around pools, or that the infant could experience hypothermia, suffer from water intoxication after swallowing water, or develop gastrointestinal or skin infections. 
Is a lot of sunlight in childhood and adolescence a cause of age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] Pathophysiology
Although it is frequently claimed that the retina is burned by looking at the Sun, retinal damage appears to occur primarily due to photochemical injury rather than thermal injury. "Solar retinopathy in a hospital-based primary care clinic." As suggested by the Figure and information in this section, reduced L-DOPA, resulting in white skin, appears to be associated with an increased risk of macular degeneration for white individuals over the age of 80. Exposure to UV light from sunlight is maybe associated with an increased risk of developing AMD, although evidence is weaker than other causes. Pathophysiology
The pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration is not well known, although some theories have been put forward, including oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and inflammatory processes. The incidence of age-related macular degeneration and its associated features increases with age and is low in people <55 years of age. In the UK, age-related macular degeneration is the cause of blindness in almost 42% of those who go blind aged 65–74 years, almost two-thirds of those aged 75–84 years, and almost three-quarters of those aged 85 years or older. The human eye is very sensitive, and exposure to direct sunlight can lead to solar retinopathy, pterygium, cataracts, and often blindness. 
Does wearing sunglasses in childhood and adolescence protect against macular degeneration in old age??? [SEP] Sunglasses or sun glasses (informally called shades or sunnies; more names below) are a form of protective eyewear designed primarily to prevent bright sunlight and high-energy visible light from damaging or discomforting the eyes. The American Optometric Association recommends wearing sunglasses that block ultraviolet radiation (UV) whenever a person is in the sunlight to protect the eyes from UV and blue light, which can cause several serious eye problems. Medical experts advise the public on the importance of wearing sunglasses to protect the eyes from UV; for adequate protection, experts recommend sunglasses that reflect or filter out 99% or more of UVA and UVB light, with wavelengths up to 400 nm. Sunglasses are especially important for children, as their ocular lenses are thought to transmit far more HEV light than adults (lenses "yellow" with age). There has been some speculation that sunglasses actually promote skin cancer. Sunglasses can be worn to hide one's eyes. Sunglasses can protect against glare when driving. This would keep away the suns rays from the sunglasses and the wearers eyes. 
Does water from jugs with semi-precious stones have a positive health effect? [SEP] It helps with constipation problems, heartburn and magnesium deficiency problems. For safety and effectiveness assessment of Donat Mg natural mineral water with regard to bowel function was conducted a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial. No evidence supports the efficacy of gripe water and one limited study in India questions whether the consumption of gripe water is related to vomiting in babies that already showed signs of colic. A 2000 review in the Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine found that most of the ingredients in Woodward's gripe water are of little value in relieving infantile discomfort and that any benefit may be no more complicated than the baby receiving some sweet-tasting liquid. Verna Natural Mineral Water is a brand of bottled water from the Twellium Industrial Company, produced and marketed primarily in Ghana, and considered by reviewers to be among the top selling bottled water brands in Ghana. Production and distribution
Verna Natural Mineral Water is produced from protected underground water and bottled by the Twellium Industrial Company headquartered in Medie Kotoku in the Eastern Region of Ghana. Changing lives
Verna Natural Mineral Water offers a poverty intervention program dubbed Changing Lives, as part of its corporate social responsibility to support the underprivileged and vulnerable members of society. This form of water distribution provides vital access to water in communities that otherwise wouldn't have it. 
Is calcium from Japanese coral safe and effective in preventing disease? [SEP] Coral calcium is a salt of calcium derived from fossilized coral reefs (primarily from limestone and coastal deposits). Health claims
Coral calcium has been promoted as an alternative treatment or cure for a number of health conditions, often as part of an alkaline diet, by Robert Barefoot and others; Barefoot coauthored a book called The Calcium Factor, and marketed coral calcium supplements with infomercials. The Federal Trade Commission prosecuted several individuals, including Barefoot, for making unsupported health claims about coral calcium, and the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine has issued a consumer advisory regarding false and misleading marketing claims associated with coral calcium supplements. Health and environmental concerns
Living coral reefs are endangered and cannot be harvested without significant damage to the ecosystem, and because of this, coral calcium is harvested by grinding up above-ground limestone deposits that were once part of a coral reef. Calcium from coral sources needs to be refined to remove pollutants of the source environment. Additionally, coral near Okinawa has absorbed relatively high amounts of lead and mercury, leading to concern that these unregulated supplements may be contaminated. Coral Club is an international company that distributes dietary supplements and health products. Like other species of coral, red tree coral is made of a soluble form of calcium carbonate, which forms the reef structure, as well as provides food, shelter, and nutrients for surrounding organisms. 
Does the observance of feng shui design rules help against bad sleep? [SEP] In particular, they use feng shui in the bedroom, where a number of techniques involving colors and arrangement are thought to promote comfort and peaceful sleep. An Introduction to Feng Shui. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Feng Shui. Feng Shui for the Curious and Serious. "Feng Shui". Feng Shui Facts and Myths. "Feng Shui: New Dimensions in Design". "Feng Shui". 
Does taking vitamin C prevent motion sickness? [SEP] The book promoted the idea that taking large amounts of vitamin C could reduce the duration and severity of the common cold. Research
According to the most recently published Cochrane review on vitamin C and the common cold, one gram per day or more of vitamin C does not influence common cold incidence in the general community, i.e., it does not prevent colds. The same review reported that for people who took vitamin C on a regular basis, the vitamin shortened the duration of colds in adults by 8% and in children by 14%. Common cold
A frequently cited meta-analysis calculated that various doses of vitamin C (daily doses under 0.2 grams were excluded) do not prevent the common cold in the general community, although 0.25 to 1 g/day of vitamin C halved the incidence of colds in people under heavy short-term physical stress. As of 2014, at least 16 studies had found that vitamin C supplements did not prevent the common cold and had minimal effect at best in shortening cold lengths. However, taking vitamin C on a regular basis did reduce the average duration by 8% in adults and 14% in children, and also reduced severity of colds. The European Food Safety Authority found a cause and effect relationship exists between the dietary intake of vitamin C and functioning of a normal immune system in adults and in children under three years of age.Several studies found Vitamin C to have specific antiviral effects in which it inactivates the RNA or DNA of viruses or in the assembly of the virus. However, taking vitamin C in the form of sodium ascorbate and calcium ascorbate may minimize this effect. 
Do Lifewave patches improve health or athletic and mental performance? [SEP] Parent-teacher ratings of behavioral and socio-emotional outcomes in response to regular aerobic exercise include: better overall function, reduced ADHD symptoms, better self-esteem, reduced levels of anxiety and depression, fewer somatic complaints, better academic and classroom behavior, and improved social behavior. Manufacturers have said that the holograms supposedly "optimise the natural flow of energy around the body," and, "improve an athlete's strength, balance and flexibility". Until 2010, Power Balance said that their bracelets helped improve an athlete's strength, balance and flexibility because the holograms are embedded with an "electrical frequency" that restores the body's "electrical balance" on contact with its natural energy field. LifeBEAM, founded in 2011, is an artificial-intelligence wearables technology company. LifeBEAM's algorithms are used in Simband sensors, measuring heart rate, calories and steps. Sports cap
The company offers a sports cap, the LifeBEAM Hat, released in November 2014, that provides biorhythm collection for runners by measuring heart rate, cadence and calories burned.The LifeBEAM Hat has been reviewed in publications such as CNET, Time Magazine and Tom's Guide. A study on 60- to 85-year-olds showed that the multitasking nature of the game caused improvements in tasks outside of the game involving working memory and sustained attention.A 2013 review concluded that there is no good medical evidence to support claims that memory training helps people improve cognitive functioning. Life Paint is the trade name of a highly-reflective spray paint developed by Volvo to increase the visibility of cyclists during trips after dark. 
Are there differences in hair removal effectiveness between IPL and diode laser? [SEP] IPL should not be confused with laser hair removal, a different procedure using coherent, monochromatic laser light. IPL has been found to be much less effective than laser hair removal; however, many patients experience satisfaction with significant hair reduction.A 2006 article in the journal Lasers in Medical Science compared IPL and both alexandrite and diode lasers. The review found no statistical difference in effectiveness, but a higher incidence of side effects with diode laser treatment. Hair reduction after six months was reported as 68.75% for alexandrite lasers, 71.71% for diode lasers, and 66.96% for IPL. Comparisons with other removal techniques
Intense pulsed light
A 2006 review article in the journal Lasers in Medical Science compared intense pulsed light (IPL), epilators and both alexandrite and diode lasers. The review found no statistical difference in short-term effectiveness, but a higher incidence of side effects with diode laser-based treatment. Hair reduction after six months was reported as 68.75% for alexandrite lasers, 71.71% for diode lasers, and 66.96% for IPL. Some current IPL systems have proven to be more successful in the removal of hair and blood vessels than many lasers. 
Does carbonic acid cause cancer? [SEP] Consumption of alcohol in any quantity can cause cancer. 740,000 cases of cancer in 2020 or 4.1% of new cancer cases were attributed to alcohol.Alcohol is thought to cause cancer through three main mechanisms:

DNA methylation
Oxidative stress
Hormonal alterationas well as secondary mechanisms of liver cirrhosis, microbiome dysbiosis, reduced immune system function, retinoid metabolism, increased levels of inflammation, 1-Carbon metabolism and disruption of folate absorption.Heavy drinking consisting of 15 or more drinks per week for men or 8 or more drinks per week for women beverages/week contributed the most to cancer incidence compared with moderate drinking. Other mechanisms
Additional mechanisms contribute to cancer risk with alcohol consumption. Genetic variation and cancer risk
Since acetaldehyde produced from the metabolism of alcohol plays a role in the carcinogenicity induced by alcohol consumption, mutations in the enzymes involved in the production of acetaldehyde can lead to increased cancer risk. Liver cancer
Alcohol is a risk factor for liver cancer, through cirrhosis. Salivary gland cancer (SGC)
Alcohol use is associated with an increased risk of salivary gland cancer. CA IX is overexpressed in many types of cancer including clear cell renal cell carcinoma (RCC) as well as carcinomas of the cervix, breast and lung where it promotes tumor growth by enhancing tumor acidosis. The enzyme converts carbon dioxide outside of the tumor into bicarbonate and protons, contributing to extracellular acidosis and promoting tumor growth by regulating the pH of the cytosol. 
Does carbonic acid have any health effects on the digestive tract??? [SEP] Neutralization
In the duodenum, gastric acid is neutralized by bicarbonate. The neutralization is described by the equation:

HCl + NaHCO3 → NaCl + H2CO3The carbonic acid rapidly equilibrates with carbon dioxide and water through catalysis by carbonic anhydrase enzymes bound to the gut epithelial lining, leading to a net release of carbon dioxide gas within the lumen associated with neutralisation. In the absorptive upper intestine, such as the duodenum, both the dissolved carbon dioxide and carbonic acid will tend to equilibrate with the blood, leading to most of the gas produced on neutralisation being exhaled through the lungs. In such conditions, there is greater risk of infections of the digestive tract (such as infection with Vibrio or Helicobacter bacteria). History
The role of gastric acid in digestion was established in the 1820s and 1830s by William Beaumont on Alexis St. Martin, who, as a result of an accident, had a fistula (hole) in his stomach, which allowed Beaumont to observe the process of digestion and to extract gastric acid, verifying that acid played a crucial role in digestion. Disruptions to healthy digestion
Many events can disrupt digestion. References
See also
Digestion They can also affect appetite and cardiometabolic health. 
Does wearing compression stockings on a long-haul flight prevent thrombosis (blood clots) and the associated symptoms? [SEP] Compression stockings (Flight Socks, Support Bandage) are a specialized hosiery designed to help prevent the occurrence of, and guard against further progression of, venous disorders such as edema, phlebitis and thrombosis. Knee-high compression stockings are used not only to help increase circulation, but also to help prevent the formation of blood clots in the lower legs. Compression stockings are beneficial in reducing symptomless deep vein thrombosis among airline passengers flying for 7 hours or more.Pharmacological (warfarin, unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin) and mechanical measures (graded compression stockings, intermittent pneumatic compression devices, and venous foot pumps) are used to prevent venous thromboembolism (VTE) in clinical practice. The meta-analysis of general surgical patients revealed that graduated compression stockings decreased their risk of developing VTE by 68% compared to placebo.Twenty randomized controlled trials analyzed the effectiveness of graduated compression stockings alone or with other additional prophylaxis in prevention of deep vein thrombosis. They concluded that graduated compression stockings are effective in deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis in patients who have undergone general and orthopedic surgery.Combining graduated compression stockings with other mechanical and pharmacological measures can increase the effectiveness of VTE prophylaxis by 60%. was done to compare knee-high and thigh-high graded compression stockings in regards of deep vein thrombosis prevention in medical and surgical patients. Compression garments worn on the legs can help prevent deep vein thrombosis and reduce swelling, especially while traveling. Thrombosis prevention is also recommended during air travel. 
Can extracorporeal shock wave therapy relieve heel pain if the cause is tendonitis or a heel spur? [SEP] According to the lawsuit, the manufacturer failed to disclose to investors that some of its own tests failed to support its statements that the OssaTron was more effective, safer and less costly than alternative, nonsurgical treatments for heel pain and that serious questions existed among the medical community concerning the effectiveness of extracorporeal shock wave treatment (ESWT) for heel pain. Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT)  is a non-invasive, out-patient alternative to surgery for those with many joint and tendon disorders. Medical uses
The most common use of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is for lithotripsy to treat kidney stones (urinary calculosis) and biliary calculi (stones in the gallbladder or in the liver) using an acoustic pulse. Two 2017 reviews had similar findings, with moderate level evidence at best.Extracorporeal shockwave therapy is used as a second line measure to treat tennis elbow,   shoulder rotator cuff pain, achilles tendinitis, plantar fasciitis, and greater trochanteric pain syndrome.ESWT is also used to promote bone healing and treat bone necrosis. The use of ESWT was demonstrated in patients with frozen shoulders compared to therapeutic ultrasound with exercises.Research suggests that ESWT can accelerate the blood flow, facilitating the healing of the inflamed Achilles tendon. Laser therapy, dry needling, and calcaneal taping are also utilized in treating plantar heel pain, however, there is not high quality evidence supporting the clinical usage of such modalities in reduction of pain. Treatment includes rest, pain medication, and heel cups. Manual therapy and exercise are preferably focused at stretching the plantar fascia.Foot orthoses however do not appear to help with heel pain. 
Does an extract from the African black bean (active ingredient 5-hydroxytryptophan) help against lovesickness? [SEP] It has nootropic and antidepressant effects in both animal and human studies and has progressed to Phase II trials as an adjunctive treatment for improving cognition and mood in stable bipolar disorder; it has been found to reduce REM sleep (the lightest stage of sleep, elevated in depression) in humans and block circadian rhythm phase-shift advances in mice.It binds to the 5-HT6 serotonin receptor with 10x less affinity. In addition to this, in 2016, AA-5-HT was also found to affect the signaling mechanisms responsible for anxiety, by inhibiting dopamine release from the Basolateral amygdala following fear behavior. In 2017, AA-5-HT was tested in its effects on the sleep wake cycle, where it was found to affect the sleep homeostasis when used in conjunction with molecules and chemicals that affect wake-related neurotransmitters. Animal studies have shown that WAY-208466 produces antidepressant and anxiolytic effects in rodents and it may also be useful in the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder. It occurs naturally in the Calabar bean and the fruit of the Manchineel tree. Physostigmine may counteract GHB by producing a nonspecific state of arousal. The bean was studied throughout the 1860s by a few different Edinburgh scientists, including Douglas Argyll Robertson who wrote a paper on the use of Calabar bean extract on the eye and was the first to use it medicinally, and Thomas Richard Fraser, who researched how to best extract the active principle, which was later determined to be physostigmine. This is thought to result in reduced negative feedback on the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and increased gonadotropin secretion, which in turn improves fertility and fecundity. 
Does a mixture of hops and other natural remedies help with sleep problems? [SEP] Alcohol consumption and sleep improvements
Low doses of alcohol (one 360.0 ml (13 imp fl oz; 12 US fl oz) beer) are sleep-promoting by increasing total sleep time and reducing awakenings during the night. In insomniacs, moderate doses of alcohol improve sleep maintenance. Medications that might improve ability to breathe while sleeping may also impair sleep in other ways, so there must be careful management of decongestants, asthma controllers, and antihistamines. Major empirical findings
Research indicates that music may improve subjective sleep quality in adults with sleep problems. Music improved sleep quality with increased exposure regardless of differences in the demographic, music genre, duration of treatment, and exposure frequency. Although researchers have recognised a wide diversity of music genres aiding sleep. Notes
See also
Humulus § Hops chemistry and pharmacology

References
Sources
Small, Ernest (November 2016). "Hops – Botany". 
Do hops as a single active ingredient help with sleep problems??? [SEP] Hops are also used for various purposes in other beverages and herbal medicine. Hops can be eaten; the young shoots of the bine are edible and can be cooked like asparagus.Hops may be used in herbal medicine in a way similar to valerian, as a treatment for anxiety, restlessness, and insomnia. A pillow filled with hops is a popular folk remedy for sleeplessness, and animal research has shown a sedative effect. Hops tend to be unstable when exposed to light or air and lose their potency after a few months' storage.Hops are of interest for hormone replacement therapy and are under basic research for potential relief of menstruation-related problems. Hops are toxic to dogs. Tentative evidence suggests that it increases the length of time people are able to sleep. Extracts of  the bitter alpha-acids present in H. lupulus have been shown to decrease nocturnal activity, acting as a sleep aide, in certain concentrations.Because of the growing understanding regarding the hop's overlap in gene structures with cannabidiolic acid synthase, the precursor structure to cannabidiol, there is a gap in general understanding about potential unknown compounds and benefits in hops. "Hops and health". 
Does taking a mushroom called reishi benefit cancer? [SEP] There is insufficient evidence to indicate that consuming lingzhi mushrooms or their extracts has any effect on human health or diseases.In nature, it grows at the base and stumps of deciduous trees, especially that of the maple. Taxonomy and ecology
Lingzhi, also known as reishi from its Japanese pronunciation, is the ancient "mushroom of immortality", revered for over 2,000 years (with some evidence suggesting use in Neolithic China 6,800 years ago). Other Japanese terms for reishi include kadodetake (門出茸; "departure mushroom"), hijiridake (聖茸; "sage mushroom"), and magoshakushi (孫杓子; "grandchild ladle"). Sterols isolated from the mushroom include ganoderol, ganoderenic acid, ganoderiol, ganodermanontriol, lucidadiol, and ganodermadiol.A 2015 Cochrane database review found insufficient evidence to justify the use of G. lucidum as a first-line cancer treatment. The product is a subject of research as a potential anti-cancer agent. See also
Alternative cancer treatments
Agaricus blazei mushroom
Medicinal mushrooms
Shiitake


== References == Uses and safety concerns
Used in traditional and alternative medicine for its supposed anti-cancer effects, Agaricus mushrooms have not been assessed by sufficient high-quality clinical research to define safety and biological properties upon consumption as a food, dietary supplement, or drug. It has been used as a medicinal mushroom for over 2000 years. 
Can labor pain during childbirth be relieved by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] A number of systematic reviews have studied the clinical effectiveness of aromatherapy in respect to pain management in labor, the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting, managing challenging behaviors in people suffering from dementia and symptom relief in cancer. Tension increases pain during labor. Warm showers or baths
MassageMany types of massage can be used during various stages of labor. Various types of massage may also help soothe and distract from the pain of labor. Other methods include hypnosis, biofeedback, sterile water injection, aromatherapy, and TENS, however there are limited studies that demonstrate the effectiveness of  in reducing pain during labor and delivery by using these methods. Water and childbirth
According to the American Office of Women's Health, laboring in a tub of warm water, also called hydrotherapy, helps women feel physically supported, and keeps them warm and relaxed. Lavender oil is used in massage therapy as a way of inducing relaxation through direct skin contact, although allergic reactions may occur. Better wound healing and less perineal pain were evident in the antenatal perineal massage group. 
Can the duration of childbirth be reduced by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] Lavender oil is an essential oil obtained by distillation from the flower spikes of certain species of lavender. Lavender oil is used in massage therapy as a way of inducing relaxation through direct skin contact, although allergic reactions may occur. In this analysis, an oral 80 mg dose of lavender oil per day was associated with reduced anxiety scores on the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale. Aromatherapy is based on the usage of aromatic materials including essential oils and other aroma compounds, with claims for improving psychological and physical well-being. In 1910, Gattefossé burned a hand very badly and later claimed he treated it effectively with lavender oil.A French surgeon, Jean Valnet, pioneered the medicinal uses of essential oils, which he used as antiseptics in the treatment of wounded soldiers during World War II. A number of systematic reviews have studied the clinical effectiveness of aromatherapy in respect to pain management in labor, the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting, managing challenging behaviors in people suffering from dementia and symptom relief in cancer. A recent research, made by NIEHS scientists and published on Endocrine Society's Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, concluded that persistent exposure to lavender products is associated with premature breast development in girls and "that chemicals in lavender oil and tea tree oil are potential endocrine disruptors with varying effects on receptors for two hormones — estrogen and androgen".Essential oils can be extremely toxic when ingested or absorbed internally. These techniques include hydrotherapy, massage, relaxation therapy, hypnosis, breathing exercises, acupressure for labor, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), vocalization, visualization, mindfulness and water birth. 
Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain after shingles? [SEP] Medications applied to the skin such as capsaicin or topical anesthetics (e.g., lidocaine) are used for mild pain and can be used in combination with oral medications for moderate to severe pain. A meta-analysis of multiple small placebo-controlled randomized controlled trials found that for every two people treated with topical lidocaine, one person experienced at least a 50% reduction in their PHN-associated pain (number needed to treat (NNT)=2).Low-dose capsaicin may be useful for reducing PHN-associated pain but is limited by side effects (redness and a burning or stinging sensation with application) and the need to apply it four times daily. Approximately three people must be treated with low-dose capsaicin cream for one person to experience significant pain relief (number needed to treat =3.3). A single topical application of a high-dose capsaicin patch over the affected area after numbing the area with a topical anesthetic has also been found to relieve PHN-associated pain. For every eleven people treated with a high-dose capsaicin patch for up to 12 weeks, one person experienced a significant improvement in their pain. Paracetamol, NSAIDs, or opioids may be used to help with acute pain.It is estimated that about a third of people develop shingles at some point in their lives. Antivirals
Antiviral drugs may reduce the severity and duration of shingles; however, they do not prevent postherpetic neuralgia. "Shingles and interventional pain treatment". 
Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain in diabetes mellitus or infection with HIV? [SEP] A transdermal analgesic or pain relief patch is a medicated adhesive patch used to relieve minor to severe pain. Counterirritant patches
Counterirritant patches contain ingredients such as capsaicin, methyl salicylate, camphor, or menthol, which are thought to mask pain signals by causing other sensations (itching, warmth, or cooling) in the areas they are applied to. The lidocaine patch is proven to reduce acute or short-term pain after surgeries or procedures at rest. Capsaicin is able to excite and desensitize C-fibers. As such, it is not only able to cause pain, but also exhibit analgesic properties. It was shown that desensitization and tachyphylaxis of TRPV1 channels contribute to capsaicin-induced pain relief. A combination of gabapentin with an opioid or nortriptyline may work better than either drug alone.Gabapentin shows substantial benefit (at least 50% pain relief or a patient global impression of change (PGIC) "very much improved") for neuropathic pain (postherpetic neuralgia or peripheral diabetic neuropathy) in 30–40% of subjects treated as compared to those treated with placebo.Evidence finds little or no benefit and significant risk in those with chronic low back pain or sciatica. Gabapentin is not effective in HIV-associated sensory neuropathy and neuropathic pain due to cancer. 
Does industrially highly processed food increase the risk of cancer? [SEP] Dietary factors are recognized as having a significant effect on the risk of cancers, with different dietary elements both increasing and reducing risk. There is strong evidence that processed meat and red meat intake increases risk of colorectal cancer. Dietary components
Alcohol
Alcohol is associated with an increased risk of a number of cancers. Eggs
Processed and red meat
There is strong evidence that processed meat and red meat intake increases risk of colorectal cancer. The American Cancer Society in their "Diet and Physical Activity Guideline", stated "evidence that red and processed meats increase cancer risk has existed for decades, and many health organizations recommend limiting or avoiding these foods. "On October 26, 2015, the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization reported that eating processed meat (e.g., bacon, ham, hot dogs, sausages) or red meat was linked to some cancers and classed them as Group 1 (carcinogenic to humans) and Group 2a (probably carcinogenic to humans) carcinogens respectively. See also
References
External links
"Diet, healthy eating and cancer". Meat
High total processed meat and red meat consumption are associated with increased breast cancer risk. 
Does propolis have a healing or soothing effect on inflammation in the mouth (in otherwise healthy people)? [SEP] Propolis or bee glue is a resinous mixture that honey bees produce by mixing saliva and beeswax with exudate gathered from tree buds, sap flows, or other botanical sources. Propolis functions may include:
Reinforcing the structural stability and reduce vibration
Providing improved thermal insulation to the hive and reduce water loss
Providing protection from pathogens, via antifungal and antibacterial properties
Make the hive more defensible against parasites and predators by narrowing the existing entrance (in wild colonies) to a single "choke point"
Mitigate putrefaction within the hive - bees usually carry waste out of and away from the hive, but if a small lizard or mouse, for example, finds its way into the hive and dies there, bees may be unable to carry it out through the hive entrance. Uses
Traditional medicine
Propolis has been used in traditional medicine, with insufficient evidence to rate its effectiveness in the treatment of any illnesses. Musical instruments
Propolis is used by some string-instrument makers (violin, viola, cello, and bass) as a varnish ingredient. A tincture of propolis may be used to seal the surface of newly made violin family bridges, and may be used in the maintenance of the bores of pan flute tubes. References
External links

"Propolis" . Caphosol (EUSA Pharma) is a mouth rinse designed to moisten, lubricate and clean the oral cavity including the mucosa of the mouth, tongue and oropharynx which has been shown to prevent and treat oral mucositis in patients receiving radiation therapy or chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer. This  trial demonstrated that Caphosol, used in conjunction with fluoride treatments, offers significant benefits over standard care, and is a significant adjunct in the management of oral mucositis associated with high-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy. 
Do amalgam fillings affect the mental development of school children compared to plastic dental fillings? [SEP] Supporters claim that it is safe, effective and long-lasting, while critics argue that amalgam is unsafe because it may cause mercury poisoning and other toxicity.Supporters of amalgam fillings point out that it is safe, durable, relatively inexpensive, and easy to use. (Amalgam fillings were often called "plastic fillings" at the time.) In response to some people wanting their existing amalgam removed for fear of mercury poisoning, these societies advise that the removal of fillings is likely to cause a greater exposure to mercury than leaving the fillings in place. Prenatal
There is little evidence to suggest that amalgam fillings have any negative direct effects on pregnancy outcomes or on an infant post-pregnancy. Two recent randomized clinical trials in children discovered no statistically significant differences in adverse neuropsychological or renal effects observed over a five-year period in children whose caries were restored using dental amalgam or composite materials. In contrast, one study showed a trend of higher dental treatment need later in children with composite dental fillings, and thus claimed that amalgam fillings are more durable. However, the other study (published in JAMA) cites increased mercury blood levels in children with amalgam fillings. References
External links

Position Paper on Amalgam Fillings, National Council Against Health Fraud
Composite Fillings - Tooth-Colored Fillings, American Dental Association
Amalgam Archives at Listserv.dfn.de (Forum) 
Does curcumin protect healthy people from mental impairment or even from developing dementia? [SEP] See also
Curcumin
Desmethoxycurcumin

References
External links
"TY000079". Curcumin has antioxidant, antibiotic, anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties in vitro but has low potency and very poor bioavailability when taken orally, resulting in limited efficacy. Specifically, the inclusion of leafy greens and berries have been shown in separate human and rodent studies to protect against cognitive decline. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. MIND diet is associated with better cognitive functioning independently of common brain pathology, suggesting that the MIND diet may contribute to cognitive resilience in the elderly. Association of the MIND diet with cognition and risk of Alzheimer's disease. Research
Laboratory and clinical studies have not confirmed any medical use for curcumin, which is difficult to study because it is both unstable and poorly bioavailable, and is unlikely to produce useful lead compounds for drug development. As of 2017, the product had failed to show a significant effect in decreasing the rate of cognitive decline or delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease, but appeared to cause minor improvement in verbal memory in some people in the very early stages of the disease. 
Does curcumin protect people with already diagnosed dementia from further decline in mental abilities??? [SEP] Steroid hormones
Estrogen may also help in the prevention of dementia but cannot help when dementia is already present and when cognitive function is already impaired. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. There is no known cure for dementia. If and when they do, the diagnosis becomes dementia. Some evidence suggests that education and support for the person with dementia, as well as caregivers and family members, improves outcomes. Medications
No medications have been shown to prevent or cure dementia. Many studies of its use in mild to moderate dementia have shown it to significantly improve cognitive function, activities of daily living, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and quality of life. However, its use has not been shown to prevent the progression of dementia.While depression is frequently associated with dementia, the use of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) do not appear to affect outcomes. 
Do preparations with humic acids help with diseases or complaints of the stomach and intestines? [SEP] "Humic substances" is an umbrella term covering humic acid, fulvic acid, humin and hymatomelanic acid which differ in solubility. In practice, this means some sources may apply a traditional acid-base analysis to compost, then state the results in term of "humic substances". The humic and fulvic acids are extracted as a colloidal sol from soil and other solid phase sources into a strongly basic aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide.Humic acids are precipitated from this solution by adjusting the pH to 1 with hydrochloric acid. Humic acids can form complexes with ions that are commonly found in the environment creating humic colloids.As a nutrition supplement, fulvic acid can be found in a liquid form as a component of mineral colloids. The formation of (chelate) complexes is an important aspect of the biological role of humic acids in regulating bioavailability of metal ions. Determination of humic acids in water samples
The presence of humic acid in water intended for potable or industrial use can have a significant impact on the treatability of that water and the success of chemical disinfection processes. They are used in the treatment of chronic diarrhea due to bile acid malabsorption. It may help symptoms of cramping and abdominal/stomach pain by decreasing stomach acid, and slowing the intestines. 
Does an extract from grapefruit seeds work against fungal diseases such as athlete's foot or nail fungus? [SEP] Grapefruit seed extract (GSE), also known as citrus seed extract, is a liquid extract derived from the seeds, pulp, and white membranes of grapefruit. Although citrus seed extract is sold in health food markets, there is no good evidence for any antimicrobial activity. Phytochemicals in grapefruit seeds, particularly furanocoumarins and flavonoids, may cause adverse effects on health resulting from grapefruit–drug interactions that influence the intended therapeutic effects of some 85 prescription drugs. Candida glabrata)As a cream or powder, it is used topically for superficial skin infections such as jock itch (tinea cruris), athlete's foot (tinea pedis), and other types of ringworm (tinea corporis).Tablets by mouth are often prescribed for the treatment of onychomycosis, a fungal nail infection, typically by a dermatophyte or Candida species. For foot and vaginal infections, isoconazole has a similar effectiveness to clotrimazole. Grape seed extract is an industrial derivative of whole grape seeds. Grape seed extract is sold as a dietary supplement, but there is insufficient medical evidence it provides any effect on human health. In Japan, it is approved for the treatment of onychomycosis, a fungal infection of the nail. 
Does taking rosehip powder for rheumatoid arthritis improve symptoms? [SEP] The fruits of the rosehip have been used in folk medicine for a long time. Rosehips have prophylactic and therapeutic actions against the common cold, infectious diseases, gastrointestinal disorders, urinary tract diseases, and inflammatory diseases. This chapter mainly focuses on the traditional pharmaceutical and food science applications of rose hips and the essential
oil of a widely distributed species of rose hips, R. canina L 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/283507224_Rose_Hip_Rosa_canina_L_oils/link/5a6dfc610f7e9bd4ca6d46bd/download

Uses
Researchers have tested the efficacy of topical rose hip seed oil together with an oral fat-soluble vitamins on different inflammatory dermatitis such as eczema, neurodermatitis, and cheilitis, with promising findings of the topical use of rose hip seed oil on these inflammatory dermatose. Due its high composition of UFAs and antioxidants, rose hip oil has relatively high protection against inflammation and oxidative stress.Research on rose hip oil has shown that it reduces skin pigmentation, reduces discolouration, acne lesions, scars and stretch marks, as well as retaining the moisture of the skin and delaying the appearance of wrinkles. The rose hip seed and seed oil proved to have antioxidant activity. Clinical trials
Rheumatoid arthritis
It has started clinical trials. It is used primarily to reduce hormones that cause pain, swelling, tenderness, and stiffness in conditions such as osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. When tested in rats, tolmetin prevented experimentally stimulated polyarthritis and reduced inflammation. 
Does taking rosehip powder for osteoarthritis alleviate the symptoms??? [SEP] The fruits of the rosehip have been used in folk medicine for a long time. Rosehips have prophylactic and therapeutic actions against the common cold, infectious diseases, gastrointestinal disorders, urinary tract diseases, and inflammatory diseases. This chapter mainly focuses on the traditional pharmaceutical and food science applications of rose hips and the essential
oil of a widely distributed species of rose hips, R. canina L 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/283507224_Rose_Hip_Rosa_canina_L_oils/link/5a6dfc610f7e9bd4ca6d46bd/download

Uses
Researchers have tested the efficacy of topical rose hip seed oil together with an oral fat-soluble vitamins on different inflammatory dermatitis such as eczema, neurodermatitis, and cheilitis, with promising findings of the topical use of rose hip seed oil on these inflammatory dermatose. Due its high composition of UFAs and antioxidants, rose hip oil has relatively high protection against inflammation and oxidative stress.Research on rose hip oil has shown that it reduces skin pigmentation, reduces discolouration, acne lesions, scars and stretch marks, as well as retaining the moisture of the skin and delaying the appearance of wrinkles. The rose hip seed and seed oil proved to have antioxidant activity. It is used primarily to reduce hormones that cause pain, swelling, tenderness, and stiffness in conditions such as osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. When tested in rats, tolmetin prevented experimentally stimulated polyarthritis and reduced inflammation. History
Spherox has been shown to improve symptoms and knee function in two studies in adults between 18 and 50 years of age. 
Can the genetic blood test for Down syndrome (trisomy 21) predict whether the unborn child is affected - in pregnant women at increased risk? [SEP] Trisomy 21 is the cause of approximately 95% of observed Down syndrome, with 88% coming from nondisjunction in the maternal gamete and 8% coming from nondisjunction in the paternal gamete. Some cases have been reported of people with Down syndrome having children with trisomy 21. Down syndrome or Down's syndrome, also known as trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21. Blood tests
Several blood markers can be measured to predict the chances of Down syndrome during the first or second trimester. The International Society for Prenatal Diagnosis considers it a reasonable screening option for those women whose pregnancies are at a high likelihood of trisomy 21. Research of Down syndrome-related genes is based on studying the genes located on chromosome 21. Genetic testing
Screening for Down syndrome is offered as a routine part of prenatal care in some countries. Testing for Down Syndrome can be conducted at different times of the pregnancy. 
Do preparations with rose root have an effect against stress and its consequences, e.g. exhaustion? [SEP] The ROSE element is an RNA thermometer that negatively regulates heat shock gene expression. Stimuli, like stress, improved memory when it was related to learning the subject. Cortisol is a known biomarker for stress. One view is that acute stress can impair memory, while others believe that acute stress can actually enhance memory. Stress can also enhance the neural state of memory formation. Stress, which is often perceived as only having negative effects, can aid in memory formation. One example is how stress can benefit memory during encoding. The resistivity of solvent extract (ROSE) test is a test for the presence and average concentration of soluble ionic contaminants, for example on a printed circuit board (PCB). 
Is microwave therapy effective and safe for long-term reduction of excessive sweating (primary hyperhidrosis) in adults? [SEP] Hyperhidrosis is a condition characterized by abnormally increased sweating, in excess of that required for regulation of body temperature. Excessive sweating involving the whole body is termed generalized hyperhidrosis or secondary hyperhidrosis. Both the International Hyperhidrosis Society and the Canadian Hyperhidrosis Advisory Committee have published treatment guidelines for focal hyperhidrosis that are said to be evidence-based. BTX-A has since been approved for the treatment of severe primary axillary hyperhidrosis (excessive underarm sweating of unknown cause), which cannot be managed by topical agents.A microwave-based device has been tried for excessive underarm perspiration and appears to show promise.Tap water iontophoresis as a treatment for palmoplantar hyperhidrosis was originally described in the 1950s. Surgery
Sweat gland removal or destruction is one surgical option available for axillary hyperhidrosis (excessive underarm perspiration). Focal hyperhidrosis, also known as primary hyperhidrosis, is a disease characterized by an excessive sweating localized in certain body regions (particularly palms, feet and underarms). Microwave thermotherapy is a type of treatment in which body tissue is heated by microwave irradiation to damage and kill cancer cells or to make cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of radiation and certain anticancer drugs. Transurethral microwave thermotherapy (TUMT) is one of a number of effective and safe procedures used in the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms caused by benign prostatic hyperplasia. 
Does ointment with comfrey help against back pain and knee pain better than a placebo? [SEP] It was sold for relief of pain caused by various ailments, including lumbago (lower back pain), sciatica, neuralgia, rheumatism, and stiffness after exercise. It is a cream that is used for muscle and joint pains including osteoarthritis, strains, bruises, and sprains. Research
A before/after human study with no placebo control showed that one week of treatment with Celadrin was effective at reducing pain and improving functional performance in individuals with arthritis of the knee, elbow, and wrist. Medical uses
Carisoprodol is meant to be used along with rest, physical therapy and other measures to relax muscles after strains, sprains and muscle injuries. It was intended for the temporary relief of joint pain due to the most common type of arthritis, osteoarthritis. Traditional medicine
In folklore, Symphytum officinale roots were used in traditional medicine internally (as an herbal tea or tincture) or externally (as ointment, compresses, or alcoholic digestion) for treatment of various disorders, including commonly as a treatment for reducing the pain of osteoarthritis. The leaves were also thought to be edible as a vegetable, similar to spinach.A 2013 review of clinical studies assessing the possible effect of comfrey on osteoarthritis found the research quality was too low to allow conclusions about its efficacy and safety. In 2001, the US Food and Drug Administration and Federal Trade Commission banned the sale of comfrey products for internal use and use on open wounds due to its potential toxicities. 
Does ointment with comfrey help with ankle sprains and sore muscles??? [SEP] Compeed (contraction of "Competition" and "Seed") is a brand of hydrocolloid gel plasters for treating blisters, corns, cracked heels and cold sores. Ice, compression, and elevation may have roles in decreasing swelling and pain, but have not shown to help with healing an injury.There are different variations of the protocol, which may emphasize additional protective actions. It was intended to reduce inflammation and to prevent further injury. By reducing the entry of these cells and signals to the injury, healing can be delayed, or possibly inhibited.The current research supports the role of ice in temporary pain relief, but there is little evidence supporting the use of ice to aid in healing, or even swelling reduction. The reduction in swelling could improve pain by relieving pressure from the area. It guides the treatment of acute soft tissue injuries. It is a cream that is used for muscle and joint pains including osteoarthritis, strains, bruises, and sprains. Research
A before/after human study with no placebo control showed that one week of treatment with Celadrin was effective at reducing pain and improving functional performance in individuals with arthritis of the knee, elbow, and wrist. 
Can chlorhexidine in the form of dental varnish prevent the formation of caries in adults? [SEP] The panel recommends the use of 2.26 percent fluoride varnish for people at risk of developing dental caries. Effectiveness
There is some evidence that fluoride varnish treatment has a better outcome at preventing cavities at a lower cost compared to other fluoride treatments such as the fluoride mouth rinsing. There is low quality evidence suggesting that when tooth surfaces were sealed and varnished with fluoride, as opposed to when varnished only with fluoride varnish, there may be an advantage. Fluoride varnish treatments are shown to reduce the number of the cariogenic bacteria S. Mutans by over ten-fold. Indications and contraindications
Indications for use
Use as a topical fluoride agent on moderate and high-risk patients, especially children aged 5 and younger
Desensitizing agent for exposed root surfaces
Fluoridated cavity varnish
When a higher concentration of fluoride is needed for high caries risk patients
In the elderly to prevent increasingly prevalent root dentin lesions, which may require higher concentration of fluoride
On advanced enamel carious lesions, which may also require higher fluoride concentration for remineralization 
Fluoride treatment for institutionalized patients or in other situations where setting, equipment and patient management might preclude the use of other fluoride delivery methods
Caries prevention on exposed root surfaces
Remineralization of lesions in root dentin
Fluoride application around orthodontic bands and brackets (See image to right)
Fluoride treatment on patients when there is a concern that a fluoride rinse, gel or foam might be swallowed

Contraindications for use
Areas with open cavities
Patients that are at low-risk or are decay-free and live in an area where the water is fluoridated
Treatment of areas where discoloration after treatment may be an aesthetic concern 
Fluoride varnish application is contraindicated in patient with ulcerative gingivitis and stomatitis. Extrinsic tooth staining occurs when chlorhexidine rinse has been used for 4 weeks or longer.Mouthwashes containing chlorhexidine which stain teeth less than the classic solution have been developed, many of which contain chelated zinc.Chlorhexidine is a cation which interacts with anionic components of toothpaste, such as sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium monofluorophosphate, and forms salts of low solubility and reduced antibacterial activity. While topical fluoride is effective in preventing dental caries, it should be used with caution in specific situations to avoid undesired side effects. These products are used as a preprocedural rinse to reduce bacterial counts prior to routine dental treatments and injections.A common antiseptic rinsing agent used in the dental office is a 0.2% chlorhexidine product which provides a lowered bacterial count for more than 60 minutes. 
Can chlorhexidine in the form of mouth rinses and gels for home use in children and adults, and as a dental varnish in children, prevent the formation of caries? [SEP] Extrinsic tooth staining occurs when chlorhexidine rinse has been used for 4 weeks or longer.Mouthwashes containing chlorhexidine which stain teeth less than the classic solution have been developed, many of which contain chelated zinc.Chlorhexidine is a cation which interacts with anionic components of toothpaste, such as sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium monofluorophosphate, and forms salts of low solubility and reduced antibacterial activity. For this reason, chlorhexidine mouth rinses should be used at least 30 minutes after other dental products. Medical uses
Dental caries
Fluoride therapy has been proven to have a beneficial effect on the prevention of dental caries. Robust evidence supports the use of fluoride toothpaste (with concentrations of 1000 ppm and above) to reduce the risk of dental caries in school-aged children and adolescents. These products are used as a preprocedural rinse to reduce bacterial counts prior to routine dental treatments and injections.A common antiseptic rinsing agent used in the dental office is a 0.2% chlorhexidine product which provides a lowered bacterial count for more than 60 minutes. While topical fluoride is effective in preventing dental caries, it should be used with caution in specific situations to avoid undesired side effects. Chlorhexidine is another antimicrobial agent used in toothpastes; however, it is more commonly added in mouthwash products. Another randomized clinical trial found superior effects when both formulas were combined.Sodium polyphosphate is added to minimize the formation of tartar.Chlorohexidine mouthwash has been popular for its positive effect on controlling plaque and gingivitis, however, a systemic review studied the effects of chlorohexidine toothpastes and found insufficient evidence to support its use, tooth surface discoloration was observed as a side effect upon using it, which is considered a negative side effect that can affect patients' compliance.Sodium hydroxide, also known as lye or caustic soda, is listed as an inactive ingredient in some toothpaste, for example Colgate Total. 
Does a legal smoking ban reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in nonsmokers? [SEP] A 2009 report by the Institute of Medicine concluded that smoking bans reduced the risk of coronary heart disease and heart attacks, but the report's authors were unable to identify the magnitude of this reduction. Also in 2009, a systematic review and meta-analysis found that bans on smoking in public places were associated with a significant reduction of incidence of heart attacks. The lead author of this meta-analysis, David Meyers, said that this review suggested that a nationwide ban on smoking in public places could prevent between 100,000 and 225,000 heart attacks in the United States each year.A 2012 meta-analysis found that smoke-free legislation was associated with a lower rate of hospitalizations for cardiac, cerebrovascular, and respiratory diseases, and that "More comprehensive laws were associated with larger changes in risk." A 2013 review found that smoking bans were associated with "significant reduction in acute MI [myocardial infarction] risk", but noted that "studies with smaller population in the United States usually reported larger reductions, while larger studies reported relatively modest reductions".A 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis found that smoke-free legislation was associated with approximately 10% reductions in preterm births and hospital attendance for asthma, but not with a decrease in low birth weight. A 2016 Cochrane review found that since the previous version of that review was published in 2010, the evidence that smoking bans improved health outcomes had become more robust, especially with respect to acute coronary syndrome admissions.However, other studies came to the conclusion that smoking bans have little or no short-term effect on myocardial infarction rates and other diseases. Effects upon tobacco consumption
Smoking bans are generally acknowledged to reduce rates of smoking; smoke-free workplaces reduce smoking rates among workers, and restrictions upon smoking in public places reduce general smoking rates through a combination of stigmatisation and reduction in the social cues for smoking. Along with tax measures, cessation measures, and education, smoking bans are viewed by public health experts as an important element in reducing smoking rates and promoting positive health outcomes. In addition, such laws may reduce health care costs, improve work productivity, and lower the overall cost of labour in the community thus protected, making that workforce more attractive for employers.Studies funded by the bar and restaurant associations have sometimes claimed that smoking bans have a negative effect on restaurant and bar profits. 
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] Pregnancy
Low levels of vitamin D in pregnancy are associated with gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, and small (for gestational age) infants. Although taking vitamin D supplements during pregnancy raises blood levels of vitamin D in the mother at term, the full extent of benefits for the mother or baby is unclear. Pregnant women who take an adequate amount of vitamin D during gestation may experience a lower risk of pre-eclampsia and positive immune effects. Vitamin D supplementation is also likely to reduce the risk of gestational diabetes, undersized babies and of their poor rate of growth. In this disorder, vitamin D is believed to be involved in the development of the brain during the gestational period. Pre-eclampsia:  There has been an association of vitamin D deficiency and women who develop pre-eclampsia in pregnancy. Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. It has also been thought to correlate with cardiovascular disease, type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, and some cancers.Review studies have also seen associations between vitamin D deficiency and pre-eclampsia. 
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D in combination with calcium have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] Vitamin D supplements do not alter the outcomes for myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebrovascular disease, cancer, bone fractures or knee osteoarthritis.A US Institute of Medicine (IOM) report states: "Outcomes related to cancer, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and diabetes and metabolic syndrome, falls and physical performance, immune functioning and autoimmune disorders, infections, neuropsychological functioning, and preeclampsia could not be linked reliably with calcium or vitamin D intake and were often conflicting. Pregnancy
Low levels of vitamin D in pregnancy are associated with gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, and small (for gestational age) infants. Although taking vitamin D supplements during pregnancy raises blood levels of vitamin D in the mother at term, the full extent of benefits for the mother or baby is unclear. Pregnant women who take an adequate amount of vitamin D during gestation may experience a lower risk of pre-eclampsia and positive immune effects. Vitamin D supplementation is also likely to reduce the risk of gestational diabetes, undersized babies and of their poor rate of growth. Pregnant women often do not take the recommended amount of vitamin D.

Weight loss
Though hypothesized that vitamin D supplementation may be an effective treatment for obesity apart from calorie restriction, one systematic review found no association of supplementation with body weight or fat mass. These findings suggest that vitamin D potentially affects the development of neurons as well as their maintenance and survival. In this disorder, vitamin D is believed to be involved in the development of the brain during the gestational period. 
Does aromatherapy have a calming effect on agitation and aggression typical of dementia? [SEP] Agitation is often part of dementia and often precedes the diagnosis of common age-related disorders of cognition such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Agitation in dementia overlaps with psychomotor agitation but is not always equal to it, depending on whose definition is used. Psychological approaches to neuropsychiatric symptoms
Out of a number of psychological therapies examined, only behavior management therapy has demonstrated effectiveness in treating dementia-associated neuropsychiatric symptoms. Consumers use aromachology to alleviate time pressures, for relaxation or stimulation and as a component of other activities that generate a feeling of well-being.Although certain plants are known through studies in aromatherapy to have stimulating or relaxing effects, research on wider scopes of application for therapeutic purposes are still at an early stage. Aromatherapy requires the incorporation of essential oils and plant-based essentials for therapeutic and holistic process assuring the well-being of the mind and body.On the other hand, Aromachology is the term The Fragrance Foundation and the Sense of Smell Institute, both based in New York, assigned in 1989 to the concern about the scents and the psyche behavior because of odors. Aromatherapy is based on the usage of aromatic materials including essential oils and other aroma compounds, with claims for improving psychological and physical well-being. However, for cancer patients, aromatherapy tests showed mixed results in lowering anxiety and depression symptoms. A number of systematic reviews have studied the clinical effectiveness of aromatherapy in respect to pain management in labor, the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting, managing challenging behaviors in people suffering from dementia and symptom relief in cancer. 
Does aromatherapy have other positive effects for dementia patients??? [SEP] Aromatherapy is based on the usage of aromatic materials including essential oils and other aroma compounds, with claims for improving psychological and physical well-being. Effectiveness
There is no good medical evidence that aromatherapy can prevent or cure any disease. A number of systematic reviews have studied the clinical effectiveness of aromatherapy in respect to pain management in labor, the treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting, managing challenging behaviors in people suffering from dementia and symptom relief in cancer. However, some studies have come to the conclusion that while it does improve the patient's mood, there is no conclusive evidence on how it works with pain management.According to the National Cancer Institute, no studies of aromatherapy in cancer treatment have been published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal as of August 2022. For patients with Alzheimer's disease, music therapy provides a beneficial interaction between a patient and an individualized musical regimen and has been shown to increase cognition and slow the deterioration of memory loss. However, there is some evidence that RT can improve quality of life, cognition, communication and possibly mood in people with dementia in some circumstances, although all the benefits were small. Across studies, reminiscence therapy positively influenced patients with dementia evaluated using various measures Specifically in vascular dementia, cortical glucose metabolism increase in areas important for social interaction and remote memories. As of 2017, the product had failed to show a significant effect in decreasing the rate of cognitive decline or delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease, but appeared to cause minor improvement in verbal memory in some people in the very early stages of the disease. 
Does tomato extract reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] See also
Heart Protection Study
Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study


== References == It studied the use of the cholesterol lowering drug, simvastatin 40 mg and vitamin supplementation (vitamin E, vitamin C and beta carotene) in people who were at risk of cardiovascular disease. Initial results were published in 2002, which indicated that vitamins made little difference in modifying cardiovascular risk, but that simvastatin could significantly reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. See also
Heart Protection Study (HPS)
Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S)
West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS)


== References == "The DASH and DASH-sodium trials demonstrated that a carbohydrate-rich diet that emphasizes fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products and that is reduced in saturated fat, total fat, and cholesterol substantially lowered blood pressure and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. OmniHeart demonstrated that partial replacement of carbohydrate with either protein (about half from plant sources) or with unsaturated fat (mostly monounsaturated fat) can further reduce blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and coronary heart disease risk. The DASH diet along with similar diets like the Mediterranean diet that are rich in vegetables and fruit and low in saturated fats and trans fats are encouraged by multiple cardiovascular guidelines including the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology, Canadian Cardiovascular Society, and 2016 European Guidelines.Hypertension is a cardiovascular disease risk factor and blood pressure has been used as a surrogate marker for cardiovascular disease benefits. Using the average values for reductions in cholesterol levels and BP, the review concluded that the DASH diet was found to reduce the 10-year Framingham risk score for cardiovascular disease by about 13%. 
Does quitting smoking prolong life? [SEP] Smoking cessation significantly reduces the risk of dying from smoking-related diseases.From 2001 to 2010, about 70% of smokers in the United States expressed a desire to quit smoking, and 50% reported having attempted to do so in the past year. The health benefits over time of stopping smoking include:
Within 20 minutes after quitting, blood pressure and heart rate decrease
Within a few days, carbon monoxide levels in the blood decrease to normal
Within 48 hours, nerve endings and sense of smell and taste both start recovering
Within 3 months, circulation and lung function improve
Within 1 year, there are decreases in cough and shortness of breath
Within 1–2 years, the risk of coronary heart disease is cut in half
Within 5–10 years, the risk of stroke falls to the same as a non-smoker, and the risks of many cancers (mouth, throat, esophagus, bladder, cervix) decrease significantly
Within 10 years, the risk of dying from lung cancer is cut in half, and the risks of larynx and pancreas cancers decrease
Within 15 years, the risk of coronary heart disease drops to the level of a non-smoker; lowered risk for developing COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)The British Doctors Study showed that those who stopped smoking before they reached 30 years old lived almost as long as those who never smoked. Randomized U.S. and Canadian trials showed that a ten-week smoking cessation program decreased mortality from all causes over 14 years later. A recent article on mortality in a cohort of 8,645 smokers who were followed up after 43 years determined that "current smoking and lifetime persistent smoking were associated with an increased risk of all-cause, CVD [cardiovascular disease], COPD [chronic obstructive pulmonary disease], and any cancer, and lung cancer mortality. "The significant increase in the risk of all-cause mortality that is present in people who smoke is decreased with long-term smoking cessation. Smoking cessation can improve health status and quality of life at any age. Cost-effectiveness
Cost-effectiveness analyses of smoking cessation activities have shown that they increase quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at costs comparable with other types of interventions to treat and prevent disease. A major conclusion of the study is, for example, that smoking decreases life span up to 10 years, and that more than 50% of all smokers die of a disease known to be smoking-related, although the excess mortality depends on amount of smoking, specifically, on average, those who smoke until age 30 have no excess mortality, those who smoke until age 40 lose 1 year, those who smoke until 50 lose 4 years, and those who smoke until age 60 lose 7 years. 
Does eating eggs increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Some research suggests dietary cholesterol increases the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol and, therefore, adversely affects the body's cholesterol profile; whereas other studies show that moderate consumption of eggs, up to one a day, does not appear to increase heart disease risk in healthy individuals. Cardiovascular health
One systematic review and meta-analysis of egg consumption found that higher consumption of eggs (more than 1 egg/day) was associated with a significant reduction in risk of coronary artery disease. Another systematic review and meta-analysis of Dietary Cholesterol and Egg Consumption found that egg consumption was associated with an increased all-cause mortality and CVD mortality. In 2020, two meta-analyses found that moderate egg consumption (up to one egg a day) is not associated with an increased cardiovascular disease risk. A 2020 umbrella review concluded that increased egg consumption is not associated with cardiovascular disease risk in the general population. Another umbrella review found no association between egg consumption and cardiovascular disorders.A 2013 meta-analysis found no association between egg consumption and heart disease or stroke. A 2013 systematic review and meta-analysis found no association between egg consumption and cardiovascular disease or cardiovascular disease mortality, but did find egg consumption of more than once daily increased cardiovascular disease risk 1.69-fold in those with type 2 diabetes mellitus when compared to type 2 diabetics who ate less than one egg per week. Another 2013 meta-analysis found that eating four eggs per week increased the risk of cardiovascular disease by six percent.Eggs are one of the largest sources of phosphatidylcholine (lecithin) in the human diet. 
Does oseltamivir (brand name "Tamiflu") reduce the severity and duration of influenza in otherwise healthy adults? [SEP] Oseltamivir, sold under the brand name Tamiflu, is an antiviral medication used to treat and prevent influenza A and influenza B, viruses that cause the flu. A 2014 Cochrane Review concluded that oseltamivir does not reduce hospitalizations, and that there is no evidence of reduction in complications of influenza. However, another meta-analysis found that oseltamivir was effective for prevention of influenza at the individual and household levels.Common side effects include vomiting, diarrhea, headache, and trouble sleeping. A 2016 systematic review found that oseltamivir slightly reduced the time it takes for the symptoms of influenza to be alleviated, and that it also increased the risk of "nausea, vomiting, [and] psychiatric events in adults and vomiting in children." Any benefit of treatment must be balanced against side effects, which include psychiatric symptoms and increased rates of vomiting.The 2014 Cochrane Collaboration review concluded that oseltamivir did not affect the need for hospitalizations, and that there is no proof of reduction of complications of influenza (such as pneumonia) because of a lack of diagnostic definitions, or reduction of the spread of the virus. In 2003, a pooled analysis of ten randomised clinical trials concluded that oseltamivir reduced the risk of lower respiratory tract infections resulting in antibiotic use and hospital admissions in adults.Oseltamivir (as Tamiflu) was widely used during the H5N1 avian influenza epidemic in Southeast Asia in 2005. "FDA Drug Safety Communication: Important safety changes to the influenza drug Tamiflu (oseltamivir phosphate) for oral suspension". Prophylaxis trials showed that zanamivir reduced the risk of symptomatic influenza in individuals and households, but there was no evidence of an effect on asymptomatic influenza or on other, influenza-like illnesses. 
Is active surveillance ("active surveillance") of patients with low-risk prostate cancer associated with increased prostate cancer mortality risk in the long term? [SEP] Active surveillance is a management option for localized prostate cancer that can be offered to appropriate patients who would also be candidates for aggressive local therapies (surgery and radiotherapy), with the intent to intervene if the disease progresses. Active surveillance offers men with a prostate cancer that is thought to have a low risk of causing harm in the absence of treatment, a chance to delay or avoid aggressive treatment and its associated side effects.While prostate cancer is the most common non cutaneous cancer and second leading cause of cancer-related death in American men, it is conservatively estimated that approximately 100,000 men per year in the United States who would be eligible for conservative treatment through active surveillance, undergo unnecessary treatments. In the meantime, active surveillance for the treatment of low risk prostate cancer is now being offered to more and more patients where it is generally considered that prostate cancer will not cause the man harm during his lifetime if treatment is delayed or avoided. However, active surveillance should be considered for those with very low, low, and intermediate risk prostate cancer (see table above) depending on overall health state and life expectancy, as well as personal preferences. Active surveillance is often used when an early stage, slow-growing prostate cancer is suspected. The risk of disease progression and metastasis (spread of the cancer) may be increased, but this increase risk appears to be small if the program of surveillance is followed closely, generally including serial PSA assessments and repeat prostate biopsies every 1–2 years depending on the PSA trends.Study results in 2011 suggest active surveillance is the best choice for older 'low-risk' patients. The evidence surrounding prostate cancer screening indicates that it may cause little to no difference in mortality.On the other hand, up to 25% of men diagnosed in their 70s or even 80s die of prostate cancer, if they have high-grade (i.e., aggressive) prostate cancer. Low-risk prostate cancer does not always require immediate treatment, but may be amenable to active surveillance. 
Does Active Surveillance reduce the likelihood of becoming impotent or incontinence, i.e. unintentional urine leakage ?? [SEP] Research projects that assess the efficacy of anti-incontinence therapies often quantify the extent of urinary incontinence. As of 2018, studies have not shown a change in outcomes with urinary incontinence screenings in women. Behavioral therapies, including bladder training, biofeedback, and pelvic floor muscle training, are most effective for improving urinary incontinence in women, with a low risk of adverse events. Stopping smoking is also recommended as it is associated with improvements in urinary incontinence in men and women. Physical therapy and exercise
Physical therapy can be effective for women in reducing urinary incontinence.Pelvic floor physical therapists work with patients to identify and treat underlying pelvic muscle dysfunction that can cease urinary incontinence. By using electronic devices or diaries to track when the bladder and urethral muscles contract, the patient can gain control over these muscles. Some individuals experience complete control of incontinence, and others report little or no benefit. This kind of exercise is more commonly used to treat urinary incontinence, for which there is a sound evidence base for effectiveness. 
Do extracts of prickly pear (Opuntia ficus-indica) help with hangover symptoms after alcohol consumption? [SEP] Asian pear juice is an effective hangover deterrent; other research suggests red ginseng and lemon-lime soda can help metabolize alcohol more quickly. The evidence suggests that several products are capable of significantly improving some, but not all, of the symptoms related to alcohol hangover. Torta ahogada

Criticism
While recommendations and folk cures for foods and drinks to relieve hangover symptoms abound, hangover foods have not been scientifically proven to function as a remedy or cure for the hangover.In a review assessing eight randomised controlled trials of propranolol, tropisetron, tolfenamic acid, fructose/glucose, a yeast preparation and supplements containing Borago officinalis, Cynara scolymus and Opuntia ficus-indica, researchers concluded that "no compelling evidence exists to suggest that any conventional or complementary intervention is effective for preventing or treating alcohol hangover." Mexicans may use Opuntia fruit to make an alcoholic drink called colonche.In Sicily, a prickly pear-flavored liqueur called ficodi is produced, flavored somewhat like a medicinal aperitif. One study in mice indicates that fusel oil may have a mitigating effect on hangover symptoms, while some whiskey congeners such as butanol protect the stomach against gastric mucosal damage in the rat. Some compounds reduce specific symptoms such as vomiting and headache, but are not effective in reducing other common hangover symptoms such as drowsiness and fatigue. A 1957 survey by an American folklorist found widespread belief in the efficacy of heavy fried foods, tomato juice and sexual activity.Other untested or discredited treatments include:

Hair of the dog: The belief is that consumption of further alcohol after the onset of a hangover will relieve symptoms, based upon the theory that the hangover represents a form of alcohol withdrawal and that by satiating the body's need for alcohol the symptoms will be relieved. Artichoke: Research shows that artichoke extract does not prevent the signs and symptoms of alcohol-induced hangover. 
Do statins help older people suffering from cardiovascular disease to live longer? Do they reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke? [SEP] The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. Guidelines by the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association recommend statin treatment for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults with LDL cholesterol ≥ 190 mg/dL or those with diabetes, age 40–75 with LDL-C 70–190 mg/dl; or in those with a 10-year risk of developing heart attack or stroke of 7.5% or more. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups.Older adults who receive statin therapy at time of discharge from the hospital after an inpatient stay have been studied. Statins have been shown to decrease the risk of dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and improve cognitive impairment in some cases in 2010. Researchers hypothesize that statins prevent cardiovascular disease via four proposed mechanisms (all subjects of a large body of biomedical research):
Improve endothelial function
Modulate inflammatory responses
Maintain plaque stability
Prevent blood clot formationIn 2008, the JUPITER trial showed statins provided benefit in those who had no history of high cholesterol or heart disease, but only in those with elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels, an indicator for inflammation. However, the benefits of statin therapy in preventing fatal and non-fatal stroke, fatal coronary heart disease, and non-fatal myocardial infarction are significant. 
Are statins useful in preventing cardiovascular disease in people 75 years and older??? [SEP] The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. Primary prevention
For the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) 2016 guidelines recommend statins for those who have at least one risk factor for coronary heart disease, are between 40 and 75 years old, and have at least a 10% 10-year risk of heart disease, as calculated by the 2013 ACC/AHA Pooled Cohort algorithm. In people over the age of 70, statins decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease but only in those with a history of heavy cholesterol blockage in their arteries.Most evidence suggests that statins are also effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol but no history of heart disease. Guidelines by the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association recommend statin treatment for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults with LDL cholesterol ≥ 190 mg/dL or those with diabetes, age 40–75 with LDL-C 70–190 mg/dl; or in those with a 10-year risk of developing heart attack or stroke of 7.5% or more. Secondary prevention
Statins are effective in decreasing mortality in people with pre-existing cardiovascular disease. On average, statins can lower LDL cholesterol by 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dL), which translates into an estimated 60% decrease in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups.Older adults who receive statin therapy at time of discharge from the hospital after an inpatient stay have been studied. Statins have been shown to decrease the risk of dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and improve cognitive impairment in some cases in 2010. 
Is Traumeel gel or ointment effective for sports injuries such as sprains, bruises and strains? [SEP] The therapy is especially useful for sprains, strains, pulled muscles and pulled ligaments. There is also Ralgex cream available which is used for the same purpose. Ice, compression, and elevation may have roles in decreasing swelling and pain, but have not shown to help with healing an injury.There are different variations of the protocol, which may emphasize additional protective actions. It was intended to reduce inflammation and to prevent further injury. By reducing the entry of these cells and signals to the injury, healing can be delayed, or possibly inhibited.The current research supports the role of ice in temporary pain relief, but there is little evidence supporting the use of ice to aid in healing, or even swelling reduction. It guides the treatment of acute soft tissue injuries. It guides the treatment for the sub-chronic and chronic management of soft tissue injuries. It is a cream that is used for muscle and joint pains including osteoarthritis, strains, bruises, and sprains. 
Are weather phenomena and weather changes triggers of migraine attacks? [SEP] Weather pains, weather-related pain, or meteoropathy is a phenomenon that occurs when people with conditions such as arthritis or limb injuries claim to feel pain, particularly with changes in barometric pressure, humidity or other weather phenomena. Respondents and users of the MeteoAgent app note that during sharp changes in weather and other factors, their bodies experience varying degrees of the following negative sensations: 
№1 – Headaches. Most people with migraines report experiencing triggers. Migraine episodes are more likely to occur around menstruation. Environmental aspects
A 2009 review on potential triggers in the indoor and outdoor environment concluded that while there were insufficient studies to confirm environmental factors as causing migraine, "migraineurs worldwide consistently report similar environmental triggers". "Migraine". "Migraine and Epilepsy: Epidemiologic connections" - Epilepsy.com
Barre, M; Hamelin, S; Minotti, L; Kahane, P; Vercueil, L (2008). The increasing prevalence of migraine is easily a result of increased known triggers, such as bright light, loud noise, altered sleep/wake patterns, and emotional stress. 
Does artichoke preparation help with gastrointestinal problems? [SEP] It is one of the compounds that gives the artichoke its characteristic bitterness. It was also claimed, in this period, that artichokes had aphrodisiac properties. In a 100 gram reference serving, cooked artichoke supplies 74 calories, is a rich source (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) of folate, and is a moderate source (10-19% DV) of vitamin K (16% DV), magnesium, sodium, and phosphorus (10-12% DV). A cooked, unseasoned artichoke has a delicate flavor. Salt may be added to the water if boiling artichokes. There are many stuffed artichoke recipes. As a beverage
Herbal tea
Artichokes can also be made into a herbal tea. It is also sometimes used to treat indigestion, nausea, and stomach ulcers. 
Does prickly pear help with long-term weight loss? [SEP] Opuntia ficus-indica (known as the prickly pear) is a plant that has been part of the landscape of South Africa for over 250 years. Uses
Part of what facilitated the spread of the prickly pear was its utility. In addition, prickly pear can be useful fodder, particularly during drought, when few other plants survive. Many of both black and white inhabitants of the areas in which the prickly pear was prominent came to rely on the plant as a useful asset to be eaten, prepared, sold or used as fodder and, consequently, there were groups of people who had a very positive attitude towards the plant, with one farmer of the time going so far as to say that “there is nothing better in this country”. Opinions on the prickly pear today
H.G. Prickly pears are a prime source of food for the common giant tortoises in the Galápagos Islands, so they are important in the food web. The seeds can be used for flour.In Mexico, prickly pears are often used to make appetizers, soups, salads, entrees, vegetable dishes, breads, desserts, beverages, candy, jelly, and drinks. Culture
The prickly pear cactus has been used for centuries both as a food source and a natural fence that keeps in livestock and marks the boundaries of family lands. 
Can turmeric relieve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] Turmeric juice is claimed to have health benefits that include easing an upset stomach and reducing arthritis pain. Medical research has been carried out on purported health-giving properties of the main ingredient in turmeric juice, curcumin, though studies have not determined a precise dose, safety, or mechanism of action to require rational use of it in treatment of human diseases. Indian traditional medicine, called Siddha, has recommended turmeric for medicine. Turmeric is mostly used in savory dishes, but is used in some sweet dishes, such as the cake sfouf. Turmeric juice
Drinkable turmeric can be traced back to India where it has been used as a folk remedy for cough, congestion, and colds. Turmeric juice drops have been used in attempts to treat eye diseases that include pink eye, glaucoma, corneal ulcers and conjunctivitis. In 2015, U.S. News & World Report published a report on the turmeric trend and its use in food and for purported health purposes. Tulrampator itself has been found in animals to enhance cognition and memory, to produce antidepressant-, antianhedonic-, and anxiolytic-like effects, and to have neurotrophic and neuroplasticity-promoting activities. 
Do phthalates affect semen quality in men? [SEP] Endocrine disruption
Phthalates enter the bloodstream and disrupt sex hormone production, interfering with sexual development in infants and sexual behaviour in adults. Levels of phthalates have been dose-dependently linked to reduced anogenital distance decreased sexual desire and satisfaction in women, and malformed genital development in rats. Evaluating the actual effects of a specific compound such as a particular phthalate requires examining cumulative exposure across multiple compounds, rather than evaluating one compound in isolation.A widespread concern about phthalate exposure is the possibility (though not conclusive) that it is the cause of a worldwide drop in male fertility. Numerous studies on adult male humans show the similar result that phthalate exposure correlates with worsening metrics of male fertility, such as semen quality, the quantity of damaged DNA in sperm, decreased sperm motility, decreased semen volume, and other metrics. Phthalates causing harm to the male reproductive system is plausible, and continues to be researched. Current studies indicate phthalates have negative effects on folliculogenesis and steroidogenesis.Early research also shows phthalate exposure may be associated with diabetes and insulin resistance, breast cancer, obesity, metabolic disorders, and immune function.There are possible (though not conclusive) associations between phthalate exposure and adverse child neurodevelopment, including the development of ADHD and autistic behaviors and lower cognitive and motor development. Soldiers that were exposed to dioxins and dioxin-like compounds during the Vietnam war have given rise to children with an increased rate of birth defects.Phthalates, a ubiquitous pollutant, may cause decreased sperm production when having been exposed to it during prenatal development.Other potential xenoestrogens that have been associated with decreased sperm quality in some studies are bisphenol A, nonylphenol and octylphenol. Ethylene oxide, a chemical sterilizer, is associated with decreased semen quality.Other environmental agents associated with decreased semen quality include:

Cadmium, causing damage to Sertoli cells, thereby impeding spermatogenesis. 
Do phthalates reduce the likelihood of pregnancy in women? [SEP] Fetuses that are exposed to a mixture of phthalates in utero may show signs of disrupted reproductive development. In studies of rodents exposed to certain phthalates, high doses have been shown to change hormone levels and cause birth defects.Disparities among Minority Populations
The question of how these plastics are affecting the population has arisen as plasticizer use in everyday items has increased. Levels of phthalates have been dose-dependently linked to reduced anogenital distance decreased sexual desire and satisfaction in women, and malformed genital development in rats. Evaluating the actual effects of a specific compound such as a particular phthalate requires examining cumulative exposure across multiple compounds, rather than evaluating one compound in isolation.A widespread concern about phthalate exposure is the possibility (though not conclusive) that it is the cause of a worldwide drop in male fertility. Studies have shown that phthalates cause abnormalities in the reproductive systems of animals, with the greatest effects when the animal is exposed during gestation and immediately thereafter. Numerous studies on adult male humans show the similar result that phthalate exposure correlates with worsening metrics of male fertility, such as semen quality, the quantity of damaged DNA in sperm, decreased sperm motility, decreased semen volume, and other metrics. Phthalates causing harm to the male reproductive system is plausible, and continues to be researched. Current studies indicate phthalates have negative effects on folliculogenesis and steroidogenesis.Early research also shows phthalate exposure may be associated with diabetes and insulin resistance, breast cancer, obesity, metabolic disorders, and immune function.There are possible (though not conclusive) associations between phthalate exposure and adverse child neurodevelopment, including the development of ADHD and autistic behaviors and lower cognitive and motor development. 
Does ginseng improve mental performance in healthy individuals and patients with Alzheimer's dementia? [SEP] Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. ‘MIND Diet, Common Brain Pathologies, and Cognition in Community-Dwelling Older Adults’. MIND diet is associated with better cognitive functioning independently of common brain pathology, suggesting that the MIND diet may contribute to cognitive resilience in the elderly. Association of the MIND diet with cognition and risk of Alzheimer's disease. 'west ocean ginseng'). The word “ginseng” is said to mean “the wonder of the world”. Ginsenosides have been observed to increase internal antioxidant enzymes and act as a free-radical scavenger. Ginsenosides Rg3 and Rh2 have been observed in cell models as having an inhibitory effect on the cell growth of various cancer cells while studies in animal models have suggested that ginsenosides have neuroprotective properties and could be useful in treating neurodegenerative disease such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.Two broad mechanisms of action have been suggested for ginsenoside activity, based on their similarity to steroid hormones. 
Does leaky gut syndrome cause health complaints or diseases? [SEP] The primary symptom is diarrhea, which can result in dehydration, malnutrition, and weight loss. IBS can negatively affect quality of life and may result in missed school or work or reduced productivity at work. Nevertheless, they may worsen IBS symptoms and quality of life. Research has found that genetic defects in innate immunity and epithelial homeostasis increase the risk of developing both post-infectious as well as other forms of IBS. Evidence has demonstrated that the release of high levels of proinflammatory cytokines during acute enteric infection causes increased gut permeability leading to translocation of the commensal bacteria across the epithelial barrier; this in turn can result in significant damage to local tissues, which can develop into chronic gut abnormalities in sensitive individuals. Another common condition is gastric ulceration, peptic ulcers. Inflammation of the intestines is called enterocolitis, which may lead to diarrhea. Acute conditions affecting the bowels include infectious diarrhea and mesenteric ischaemia. 
Does the Alexander Technique help with back pain and neck pain? [SEP] The Alexander Technique, named after its developer Frederick Matthias Alexander (1869–1955), is a type of  alternative therapy based on the idea that poor posture gives rise to a range of health problems. As of 2021, the UK National Health Service cites evidence which suggests that the Alexander Technique may be helpful for long-term back pain and for long-term neck pain, and that it could help people cope with Parkinson's disease. Influence
The American philosopher and educator John Dewey became impressed with the Alexander Technique after his headaches, neck pains, blurred vision, and stress symptoms largely improved during the time he used Alexander's advice to change his posture. Uses
The Alexander Technique is used as a therapy for stress-related chronic conditions. Health effects
The UK National Health Service says that advocates of the Alexander Technique made claims for it that were not supported by evidence, but that there was evidence suggesting that it might help with chronic back or neck pain, and Parkinson disease. It concluded that "the Alexander Technique may improve short-term pain and disability in people with low back pain, but the longer-term effects remain uncertain. See also
Nikolai Bernstein
George E. Coghill
Motor skill consolidation
Neutral spine
Psychomotor learning

References
External links
 Media related to Alexander Technique at Wikimedia Commons Effectiveness
Neuromusculoskeletal disorders
Treatment is usually for neck or low back pain and related disorders.For acute low back pain, low quality evidence has suggested no difference between real and sham spine manipulation, and moderate quality evidence has suggested no difference between spine manipulation and other commonly used treatments, such as medication and physical therapy.National guidelines vary; some recommend the therapy for those who do not improve with other treatment. 
Do the components of the Moringa oleifera tree have a positive effect on health? [SEP] Moringa oleifera is a fast-growing, drought-resistant tree of the family Moringaceae, native to the Indian subcontinent. Nutrition
Various parts of moringa are edible:
Immature seed pods, called "drumsticks"
Leaves
Mature seeds
Oil pressed from seeds
Flowers
Roots
Nutritional content of 100 g of fresh M. oleifera leaves (about 5 cups)  is shown in the table (USDA data). Despite considerable preliminary research to determine if moringa components have bioactive properties, no high-quality evidence has been found to indicate that it has any effect on health or diseases. Other uses
In developing countries, moringa has the potential to improve nutrition, boost food security, foster rural development, and support sustainable landcare. "Moringa oleifera". Like its widely cultivated relative M. oleifera, Moringa stenopetala is a multipurpose tree: the leaves, pods, and flowers are edible and nutritious; the seeds contain an aromatic oil with culinary and cosmetic applications; and the seed press cake or powdered bark can be used for water purification. The most widely cultivated species is Moringa oleifera, native to the foothill of the Himalayas in northwestern India, a multipurpose tree cultivated throughout the tropics and marketed as a dietary supplement, health food or source for herbalism practices. (indigenous to Ethiopia and Somalia)
Moringa oleifera Lam. 
Does an extract from the root of the Cape geranium (Pelargonium sidoides, Umckaloabo) work against bronchitis? [SEP] Pelargonium sidoides is a plant native to South Africa. A 2013 Cochrane review found limited to no evidence of benefit with Pelargonium sidoides root extract for the symptoms of acute bronchitis, the common cold and acute rhinosinusitis. "Root extract of Pelargonium sidoides may be sold as a dietary supplement or traditional medicine under various brand names, including Umckaloabo and Zucol, but there is limited high-quality clinical evidence it provides any benefit. Germacrone is a sesquiterpene which has been isolated from Geranium macrorrhizum. Flowers, leaves, and roots of this plant are usually macerated and used to treat asthma, bronchitis, fever, flu, and uteral inflammation. Pelargonium vitifolium is a species of geranium known by the common name grapeleaf geranium. Pelargonium tomentosum, the peppermint-scented geranium, is a pelargonium species native to South Africa. Pelargonium inquinans, the scarlet geranium, is a species of plant in the genus Pelargonium (family Geraniaceae), that is indigenous to the south-western Cape of South Africa. 
Does geranium extract help against colds and sinusitis??? [SEP] Germacrone is a sesquiterpene which has been isolated from Geranium macrorrhizum. It was used to treat symptoms associated with allergies and colds such as itchy and watery eyes, runny nose, nasal and sinus congestion, and sneezing. Geraniin is a dehydroellagitannin found in geraniums. It is found for instance in Geranium thunbergii, which is one of the most popular folk medicines and also an official antidiarrheic drug in Japan. There is tentative evidence for nasal irrigation in acute sinusitis, for example during upper respiratory infections. There is no clear evidence that plant extracts such as Cyclamen europaeum are effective as an intranasal wash to treat acute sinusitis. Corticosteroids
For unconfirmed acute sinusitis, nasal sprays using corticosteroids have not been found to be better than a placebo either alone or in combination with antibiotics. There is limited evidence to support corticosteroids by mouth in combination with antibiotics for acute sinusitis; it has only short-term effect improving the symptoms. 
Does taking DHEA have an anti-aging effect by increasing the physical and mental well-being of older people? [SEP] An association between DHEA levels and aging was first reported in 1965. In 1965, an association between DHEA sulfate levels and aging was reported by De Nee and Vermeulen. Following this, DHEA became of interest to the scientific community, and numerous studies assessing the relationship between DHEA and DHEA sulfate levels and aging were conducted.Prasterone, the proposed INN and recommended INN of DHEA and the term used when referring to the compound as a medication, were published in 1970 and 1978, respectively. The findings that DHEA binds to and potently activates neurotrophin receptors may explain the positive association between decreased circulating DHEA levels with age and age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Increasing endogenous production
Regular exercise is known to increase DHEA production in the body. Some theorize that the increase in endogenous DHEA brought about by calorie restriction is partially responsible for the longer life expectancy known to be associated with calorie restriction. Some clinical studies have found benefits of DHEA supplementation in the elderly and people with adrenal insufficiency. It has neuroprotective effects and, along with 7α-hydroxyepiandrosterone, may mediate the neuroprotective effects of DHEA. 
Can DHEA prolong life or improve health in old age? [SEP] An association between DHEA levels and aging was first reported in 1965. In 1965, an association between DHEA sulfate levels and aging was reported by De Nee and Vermeulen. Following this, DHEA became of interest to the scientific community, and numerous studies assessing the relationship between DHEA and DHEA sulfate levels and aging were conducted.Prasterone, the proposed INN and recommended INN of DHEA and the term used when referring to the compound as a medication, were published in 1970 and 1978, respectively. Some clinical studies have found benefits of DHEA supplementation in the elderly and people with adrenal insufficiency. The findings that DHEA binds to and potently activates neurotrophin receptors may explain the positive association between decreased circulating DHEA levels with age and age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Cancer
DHEA supplements have been promoted as chemopreventative, for their claimed cancer prevention properties. Increasing endogenous production
Regular exercise is known to increase DHEA production in the body. Some theorize that the increase in endogenous DHEA brought about by calorie restriction is partially responsible for the longer life expectancy known to be associated with calorie restriction. 
Can the proper use of fluoride toothpaste cause serious long-term health problems? [SEP] Robust evidence supports the use of fluoride toothpaste (with concentrations of 1000 ppm and above) to reduce the risk of dental caries in school-aged children and adolescents. Side effects
Fluorosis
See main article Dental fluorosis.The use of fluoride toothpaste (with concentrations of 1000 ppm and above) and fluoride supplements in children below the age of six years, and especially within the first three years of life, is associated with a greater risk of dental fluorosis. Safety
Fluoride
Fluoride-containing toothpaste can be acutely toxic if swallowed in large amounts, but instances are exceedingly rare and result from prolonged and excessive use of toothpaste (i.e. A major concern of dental fluorosis is for children under 12 months ingesting excessive fluoride through toothpaste. Although fluoride is safe for dental health at low concentrations, sustained consumption of large amounts of soluble fluoride salts is dangerous. Although it is helpful topically for dental health in low dosage, chronic ingestion of fluoride in large amounts interferes with bone formation. Fluoride in toothpaste
Children may experience gastrointestinal distress upon ingesting excessive amounts of flavored toothpaste. Adverse effects
Increased exposure of fluoride may lead to certain adverse side effects, including dental fluorosis and developmental neurotoxicity. 
Does fluoride toothpaste prevent tooth decay? [SEP] Frequent use of toothpaste with 1,100 ppm fluoride content enhances the remineralization of enamel and inhibits the demineralization of enamel and root surfaces. The decline of tooth decay during the 20th century has been attributed to the introduction and regular use of fluoride-containing toothpastes worldwide. Toothpastes containing fluoride are effective at preventing tooth decay. Fluorides
Fluoride in various forms is the most popular and effective active ingredient in toothpaste to prevent cavities. The additional fluoride in toothpaste has beneficial effects on the formation of dental enamel and bones. Further research showed that moderate fluoridation prevents tooth decay. Other fluoride therapies are also effective in preventing tooth decay; they include fluoride toothpaste, mouthwash, gel, and varnish, and fluoridation of salt and milk. Fluoride toothpaste prevents about 25% of cavities in young permanent teeth, and its effectiveness is improved if higher concentrations of fluoride are used, or if the toothbrushing is supervised. 
Do products with the tropical fruit mangosteen promote health? [SEP] Mangosteen (Garcinia mangostana), also known as the purple mangosteen, is a tropical evergreen tree with edible fruit native to tropical lands surrounding the Indian Ocean. History
Mangosteen is a plant native to Southeast Asia. Highly valued for its juicy, delicate texture and slightly sweet and sour flavor, the mangosteen has been cultivated in Malaysia, Borneo, Sumatra, Mainland Southeast Asia, and the Philippines since ancient times. The mangosteen tree generally does not grow well outside the tropics.In Southeast Asia, mangosteen is commonly known as the "Queen of Fruit", and is frequently paired with durian, the "King of Fruit". In Chinese food therapy, mangosteen is considered "cooling", making it a good counterbalance to the "heaty" durian. There is no reliable evidence that mangosteen juice, puree, bark or extracts is effective as a treatment for human diseases. Mangostin and a variety of other xanthonoids from mangosteen have been investigated for biological properties including antioxidant, anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer activities.In animal studies, mangostin has been found to be a central nervous system depressant which causes sedation, decreased motor activity, and ptosis.The rind of partially ripe mangosteen fruit yields mangostin and also the related compound β-mangostin. References
External links
Tradewinds Fruit:Button Mangosteen 
Are topical agents containing acids and oils, such as Excilor and Nailner, effective for nail fungus? [SEP] Fosravuconazole (trade name Nailin) is a triazole antifungal agent. However, some, such as nystatin, are not suitable for dermatophyte fungal infections. Econazole
Econazole in the form of creams and nail lacquers is often used to treat fungal skin and nail infections respectively. Nail infections
Nail lacquers are formulated from ciclopirox olamine solutions to treat mild to moderate onychomycosis of fingernails and toenails without the involvement of the lunula (the white area at the base of a nail).Adverse effects
In general, ciclopirox and ciclopirox olamine preparations are well tolerated by patients when used topically for treatment of fungal infections. There has been limited evidence showing the effectiveness of undecylenic acid in treating nail and scalp fungal infections.Adverse effects
Irritation may occur in some patients after topical application of undecylenic acid or its salts and derivatives. The cream and ointment are not effective for nail infections.Common side effects when taken by mouth include nausea, diarrhea, headache, cough, rash, and elevated liver enzymes. There are oral and topical antifungal therapies for this condition, however, in some instances cutting, filing, or abrading the nail may be necessary to improve cure rates. Naftifine hydrochloride (brand names include Exoderil and Naftin) is an allylamine antifungal drug for the topical treatment of tinea pedis, tinea cruris, and tinea corporis (topical fungal infections). 
Can weight loss programs reduce obesity in children and adolescents? [SEP] Overview
Overall, the programme was successful in reducing the obesity rate amongst schoolchildren from 14% to 9.8% by 2002. When implemented early, certain forms of behavioral and psychological treatment can help children regain and/or maintain a healthy weight. It appears that addressing the psychology of obesity and modifying the family environment are important factors in regaining and maintaining a healthy weight. Psychological and behavioral methods
There is evidence that certain behavioral change techniques may help prevent or treat childhood obesity. prevention and reduction in obesity, warranting further assessment of different strategies’ effectiveness for different groups. Long-term maintenance of weight loss: Do people who lose weight through various weight loss methods use different behaviors to maintain their weight? Some experts believe these are key elements of an effective program.One study found that adolescents reported decreased body shape dissatisfaction and increased self-esteem immediately after losing weight at a weight loss camp. These improvements were directly related to the amount of weight lost, with the greatest benefit to those adolescents who lost the most weight. 
Does valerian help with sleep disorders? [SEP] Crude extract of valerian root may have sedative and anxiolytic effects, and is commonly sold in dietary supplement capsules to promote sleep, but clinical evidence that it is effective for this purpose is weak or inconclusive as yet. Valerenic acid in valerian stimulates GABAA and serotonin receptors as a positive allosteric modulator and partial agonist, respectively. Traditional medicine
Although valerian is a common traditional medicine used for treating insomnia, there is no good evidence it is effective for this purpose. Valerian has not been shown to be helpful in treating restless leg syndrome or anxiety.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved the health claim that valerian can be used as a traditional herb to relieve mild nervous tension and to aid sleep; the EMA stated that although there is insufficient evidence from clinical studies, its effectiveness as a dried extract is considered plausible.The American Academy of Sleep Medicine's 2017 clinical practice guidelines recommended against the use of valerian in the treatment of insomnia due to poor effectiveness and low quality of evidence. Suvorexant helps with falling asleep faster, sleeping longer, being awake less in the middle of the night, and having better quality of sleep. A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of suvorexant for insomnia likewise found that the medication improved subjective sleep onset, subjective total sleep time, and subjective sleep quality when assessed at one to three months of treatment. The effectiveness of approved doses of suvorexant (≤20 mg) in the treatment of insomnia is said to be modest.Network meta-analyses have assessed the sleep-promoting effects of suvorexant and have compared them to those of other orexin receptor antagonists like lemborexant and daridorexant as well as to other sleep aids including benzodiazepines, Z-drugs, antihistamines, sedative antidepressants (e.g., trazodone, doxepin, amitriptyline, mirtazapine), and melatonin receptor agonists. Psychiatry
Suvorexant has been studied in the treatment of insomnia in people with psychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety. 
Is milk thistle extract an effective treatment for liver disease? [SEP] References
External links
Review of the Quality of Evidence for Milk Thistle Use from MayoClinic.com
Morazzoni P, Bombardelli E (1994). "The use of silymarin in the treatment of liver diseases". It has been shown to facilitate liver regeneration in rats. "Treatment of liver disease with malotilate. "Hepatoprotection by malotilate against carbon tetrachloride-alcohol-induced liver fibrosis". The gallbladder flush or liver cleanse is an alternative medicine practice involving fasting, followed by the ingestion of some combination of Epsom salt, olive oil, and grapefruit juice, in some cases substituted by other, similar ingredients. Traditional medicine and adverse effects
Although milk thistle has been used in traditional medicine for centuries, there is no clinical evidence that it has any medicinal effect, and the quality of research has been poor. In 2019, Cancer Research UK stated: "We need a lot more research with reliable clinical trials before we can be sure that milk thistle will play any part in treating or preventing cancers. 
Do dietary supplements with amino acids and proteins help against muscle atrophy in old age (sarcopenia)? [SEP] Amino acids
Some bodybuilders believe that amino acid supplements may benefit muscle development, but consumption of such supplements is unnecessary in a diet that already includes adequate protein intake. Sarcopenia is a type of muscle loss (muscle atrophy) that occurs with aging and/or immobility. Supplements
A component of sarcopenia is the loss of ability for aging skeletal muscle to respond to anabolic stimuli such as amino acids, especially at lower concentrations. However, aging muscle retains the ability of an anabolic response to protein or amino acids at larger doses. Supplementation with larger doses of amino acids, particularly leucine has been reported to counteract muscle loss with aging. "Amino acids and muscle loss with aging". Sarcopenia is age-related muscle atrophy and can be slowed by exercise. Supplementation of protein or branched-chain amino acids, especially leucine, can provide a stimulus for muscle synthesis and inhibit protein breakdown and has been studied for muscle atrophy for sarcopenia and cachexia. 
Can music therapy help people affected by stroke learn to walk normally again? [SEP] Music therapy for non-fluent aphasia is a method for treating patients who have lost the ability to speak after a stroke or accident. with individuals with special needs, songwriting and listening in reminiscence, orientation work with the elderly, processing and relaxation work, and rhythmic entrainment for physical rehabilitation in stroke survivors. Music therapy, when used with other rehabilitation methods, has increased the success rate of sensorimotor, cognitive, and communicative rehabilitation. Stroke
Music is useful in the recovery of motor skills. In a study on stroke patients in the recovery phase, music therapy was used in addition to other types of therapy in one group of patients and was not used in the other group. Even auditory cognition has been shown to have some potential for recovery after stroke. has shown that listening to music and audio books during early recovery from stroke can result in improved cognition.This paradigm has opened doors into the previously believed to be impossible; recovery from strokes, reduced cognitive ageing. Studies have been conducted to see if sensory stimulation could improve functionality after a stroke occurs. 
Can music therapy help stroke victims with other problems??? [SEP] Music therapy for non-fluent aphasia is a method for treating patients who have lost the ability to speak after a stroke or accident. Music therapy can also improve non-fluent aphasic patients’ breathing and vocal ability, articulation and prosody of speech, and verbal and non-verbal communicative behaviours.In addition, Music therapy gives confidence to non-fluent aphasic patients and reduces their frustrated feelings. These studies varied in nature, but the authors concluded that music therapy can be a successful intervention and can improve both cognitive and emotional behaviors, as well as decrease some of the behavioral issues associated with Alzheimer's disease. Music therapy, when used with other rehabilitation methods, has increased the success rate of sensorimotor, cognitive, and communicative rehabilitation. Stroke
Music is useful in the recovery of motor skills. In a study on stroke patients in the recovery phase, music therapy was used in addition to other types of therapy in one group of patients and was not used in the other group. Cancer
There is tentative evidence that music interventions led by a trained music therapist may have positive effects on psychological and physical outcomes in adults with cancer. Ongoing research in clinical practice focuses on the role of improvisational music therapy in addressing the needs of clients with different areas of disability including autism spectrum disorder, stroke, and hearing impairment. 
Does plant or animal protein have an influence on lifespan? [SEP] Plants have both stress-induced and age-related developmental aging. Hormonal regulation of senescence
Programmed senescence seems to be heavily influenced by plant hormones. The position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics is that protein from a variety of plant foods eaten during the course of a day supplies enough of all essential amino acids when caloric requirements are met.Though it is undisputed that diverse foods can be combined to make up for their respective limiting amino acids, a general consensus has emerged among nutrition scientists and writers contrary to the original vegetarian nutrition dogmas of the 1970s. Though historically, protein combining was promoted as a method of compensating for supposed deficiencies in vegetables as foods, studies on essential amino acid contents in plant proteins have shown that vegetarians and vegans typically do not need to complement plant proteins in each meal to reach the desired level of essential amino acids as long as their diets are varied and caloric requirements are met. Thus the "limiting amino acid" will determine the nutritional value of the total nitrogen or protein in the diet.Plants are thus rated as protein sources by their limiting amino acids. Rather, the increased biological value of meals where proteins are combined was noted. Thus, people who avoid consuming animal protein do not need to be at all concerned about amino acid imbalances from the plant proteins that make up their usual diets.While many plant proteins are lower in one or more essential amino acids than animal proteins, especially lysine, and to a lesser extent methionine and threonine, eating a variety of plants can serve as a well-balanced and complete source of amino acids.In 2009, the American Dietetic Association wrote: 

Plant protein can meet protein requirements when a variety of plant foods is consumed and energy needs are met. Research indicates that an assortment of plant foods eaten over the course of a day can provide all essential amino acids and ensure adequate nitrogen retention and use in healthy adults, thus, complementary proteins do not need to be consumed at the same meal.The American Heart Association now states:

You don’t need to eat foods from animals to have enough protein in your diet. 
Does chicken soup help with colds? [SEP] Chicken soup has acquired the reputation of a folk remedy for colds and influenza, and in many countries is considered a comfort food. Alleged medicinal properties
Chicken soup has long been touted as a form of folk medicine to treat symptoms of the common cold and related conditions. In 2000, scientists at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha studied the effect of chicken soup on the inflammatory response in vitro. They found that some components of the chicken soup inhibit neutrophil migration, which may have an anti-inflammatory effect that could hypothetically lead to temporary ease from symptoms of illness. "It has also been shown that chicken soup contains the amino acid cysteine, which is very similar to acetylcysteine, which is used by doctors for patients with bronchitis and other respiratory infections to help clear them. It is believed by some to help cure minor illnesses such as the common cold. It is believed to help a person overcome colds and digestive problems, among other mild forms of sickness. Chicken soup inhibits neutrophil chemotaxis in vitro. 
Do herbal remedies containing an extract of Chinese tragacanth root, such as Lectranal or Allvent, help against allergies? [SEP] Nambudripad's Allergy Elimination Techniques (NAET) is a form of alternative medicine which proponents claim can treat allergies and related disorders. She then formulated a hypothesis that contact with a small amount of an allergen during an acupuncture or acupressure session can remove reactions to food and other substances.NAET is promoted by her Nambudripad’s Allergy Research Foundation (NARF) which also publishes its own journal called The Journal of NAET, Energetics & Complementary Medicine.She is licensed as a chiropractor and acupuncturist in California. Theory
NAET uses the term word allergy differently from medicine. The theory of NAET proposes that these allergies can be eliminated by addressing the energy blockages through the use of acupuncture or acupressure. Loratadine, sold under the brand name Claritin among others, is a medication used to treat allergies. It is marketed in Europe for the treatment of allergies. Chronic allergies increase the risk of health problems which antihistamines might not treat, including asthma, sinusitis, and lower respiratory tract infection. Subsequently, other non-sedating antihistamines like loratadine (Claritin), cetirizine (Zyrtec), and fexofenadine (Allegra) were developed and introduced.The introduction of the first-generation antihistamines marked the beginning of medical treatment of nasal allergies. 
Does alkaline water keep you healthy or can it prevent disease? [SEP] Proponents claim that consumption of alkaline water results in a variety of health benefits, making it similar to the alternative health practice of alkaline diets. There is no medical evidence for any health benefits of alkaline water. A wide variety of benefits have been claimed, including the ability to slow aging, prevent disease, give the body more energy, and offset alleged effects of acidic foods.There is no empirical evidence to support these claims, nor the claims that drinking ionized water will have a noticeable effect on the body. Drinking ionized water or alkaline water does not alter the body's pH due to acid-base homeostasis. This helps prevent kidney stones.Oral alkali supplementation can also slow the rate of kidney function decline and “potentially reduce the risk of end stage kidney disease (ESKD) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and metabolic acidosis.”The compound also raises urine pH. Because of the body's natural regulatory mechanisms, which do not require a special diet to work, eating an alkaline diet can, at most, change the blood pH minimally and transiently.A similar proposal by those advocating this diet suggests that cancer grows in an acidic environment, and that an alkaline diet can change the environment of the body to treat cancer. Historical uses of alkaline diets
Historically, the medical application of alkaline diets largely focused on preventing recurrence of kidney stones as well as the prevention of recurrent urinary tract infections, by relying on the recognized ability of such diets to affect urinary pH. "Can an alkaline diet help prevent cancer?". 
Do remedies with hops or valerian help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] These techniques in addition to others, according to both American Psychiatric Association (2016) and Stapleton and colleagues, are effective for treating Generalized Anxiety Disorder, Depression, and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. Medical uses
Treatment of severe anxiety. This effect is in contrast to anxiogenic agents which increase anxiety. Anxiolytic medications are used for the treatment of anxiety disorders and their related psychological and physical symptoms. They are not recommended as the first-line anti-anxiety drugs, but they can be used in combination with SSRIs/SNRIs during the initial treatment stage. It can also be used to treat anxiety with symptoms like tremor or increased heart rate. Therefore, the drug can alleviate symptoms of anxiety disorder and make the person less nervous. Hydroxyzine has a calming effect which helps ameliorate anxiety. 
Do extracts of African devil's claw (Harpagophytum procumbens) relieve pain in patients with osteoarthritis? [SEP] Harpagoside is a natural product found in the plant Harpagophytum procumbens, also known as devil's claw. Biological activity
Harpagoside is widely used as a folk remedy to treat rheumatic complaints. Subsequent studies have shown that extracts have good- anti-inflammatory and analgesic activities. Harpagophytum ( HAR-pə-GOF-it-əm), also called grapple plant, wood spider, and most commonly devil's claw, is a genus of  plants in the sesame family, native to southern Africa. Devil's claw's tuberous roots are used in folk medicine to reduce pain. H. procumbens is one of the floral emblems of Botswana where it is thought to be useful in treating a variety of pain conditions.Preparations of the plant or its extracts, such as harpagoside, are presumed to have uses in folk medicine and phytotherapy as an anti-inflammatory herbal drug or dietary supplement. Although there is no accepted clinical evidence of its efficacy and bioavailability, limited effects were noted for treating lower back pain and osteoarthritis.A 2016 Cochrane review of clinical research noted that devil's claw seems to reduce low back pain more than placebo, although evidence was of moderate quality at best. The name devil's claw is shared with the South African plant Harpagophytum procumbens. 
Can probiotics prevent diarrhea after treatment with antibiotics? [SEP] Treatment
Meta-analyses have concluded that probiotics may protect against antibiotic-associated diarrhea in both children and adults. Diarrhea
Some probiotics are suggested as a possible treatment for various forms of gastroenteritis. As a treatment for infectious diarrhea probiotics are of no benefit to people who have the condition for more than two days, and there is no evidence they lessen the duration of diarrhea overall. Moreover, there has been evidence showing that probiotics can prevent children and infants from gastroenteritis (also known as stomach flu), which may also cause diarrhea to occur. In a review of six trials related to antibiotic-associated diarrhea in 766 children aged one month to six years, there was an overall reduction in AAD when children were fed probiotics. As a result, it is seen that probiotics can alter and prevent changes in the intestinal microflora caused by antibiotics. Persistent diarrhea
A 2013 review suggested probiotics are effective in treating persistent diarrhea in children, though more research is needed. Probiotics are health promoting bacteria which, when consumed in adequate amounts, confer a benefit on the host, normally associated with positive effects on the digestive and immune systems, and are usually prescribed during or after antibiotic treatment to alleviate the symptoms of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. 
Is exercise an effective measure to combat depression? [SEP] Over the short-term, aerobic exercise functions as both an antidepressant and euphoriant, whereas consistent exercise produces general improvements in mood and self-esteem.Regular aerobic exercise improves symptoms associated with a variety of central nervous system disorders and may be used as adjunct therapy for these disorders. Major depressive disorder
A number of medical reviews have indicated that exercise has a marked and persistent antidepressant effect in humans, an effect believed to be mediated through enhanced BDNF signaling in the brain. Several systematic reviews have analyzed the potential for physical exercise in the treatment of depressive disorders. The 2013 Cochrane Collaboration review on physical exercise for depression noted that, based upon limited evidence, it is more effective than a control intervention and comparable to psychological or antidepressant drug therapies. Three subsequent 2014 systematic reviews that included the Cochrane review in their analysis concluded with similar findings: one indicated that physical exercise is effective as an adjunct treatment (i.e., treatments that are used together) with antidepressant medication; the other two indicated that physical exercise has marked antidepressant effects and recommended the inclusion of physical activity as an adjunct treatment for mild–moderate depression and mental illness in general. These benefits have also been noted in old age, with a review conducted in 2019 finding that exercise is an effective treatment for clinically diagnosed depression in older adults.A meta-analysis from July 2016 concluded that physical exercise improves overall quality of life in individuals with depression relative to controls. Exercise
The 2013 Cochrane Collaboration review on physical exercise for depression noted that, based upon limited evidence, it is moderately more effective than a control intervention and comparable to psychological or antidepressant drug therapies. Three subsequent 2014 systematic reviews that included the Cochrane review in their analysis concluded with similar findings: one indicated that physical exercise is effective as an adjunct treatment with antidepressant medication; the other two indicated that physical exercise has marked antidepressant effects and recommended the inclusion of physical activity as an adjunct treatment for mild–moderate depression and mental illness in general. 
Can a tantrum trigger a heart attack? [SEP] A tantrum, temper tantrum, lash out, meltdown, fit or hissy fit is an emotional outburst, usually associated with those in emotional distress, that is typically characterized by stubbornness, crying, screaming, violence, defiance, angry ranting, a resistance to attempts at pacification, and, in some cases, hitting and other physically violent behavior. Throwing a temper tantrum can lead to a child getting detention or being suspended from school for older school age children. Intellectual and developmental disorders
Some people who have developmental disorders such as autism, Asperger syndrome, ADHD, and intellectual disability could be more vulnerable to tantrums than others, although anyone experiencing brain damage (temporary or permanent) can suffer from tantrums. Anyone may be prone to tantrums once in a while, regardless of gender or age. See also
Acting out
Running amok
Philippic (tirade, orations)

References
External links
 The dictionary definition of tantrum at Wiktionary Case series looking at large groups of patients report that some patients develop takotsubo cardiomyopathy after experiencing emotional stress. Microvascular dysfunction/Transient vasospasm: Some of the original researchers of takotsubo suggested that multiple simultaneous spasms of coronary arteries could cause enough loss of blood flow to cause transient stunning of the myocardium. Stress cardiomyopathy is now a well-recognized cause of acute congestive heart failure, lethal abnormal heart rhythms, and rupture of the heart wall. 
Can anger over a long period of time increase the risk of heart attack??? [SEP] Anger, also known as wrath or rage, is an intense emotional state involving a strong uncomfortable and non-cooperative response to a perceived provocation, hurt or threat.A person experiencing anger will often experience physical effects, such as increased heart rate, elevated blood pressure, and increased levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline. Uncontrolled anger can negatively affect personal or social well-being and negatively impact those around them. While anger can activate aggression or increase its probability or intensity, it is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for aggression. In one study, test subjects primed to feel angry felt less likely to have heart disease, and more likely to receive a pay raise, compared to fearful people. There are also studies that link suppressed anger and medical conditions such as hypertension, coronary artery disease, and cancer. Anger inflames the mind. There is evidence that having an anxiety disorder increases the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Cardiovascular disease
People who have been diagnosed with panic disorder have approximately double the risk of coronary heart disease. 
Can capsules with omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil relieve depression? [SEP] The most promising evidence supports supplementation for prevention of cardiac death.Fish oil and omega-3 fatty acids have also been studied in a wide variety of other conditions such as clinical depression, anxiety, cancer, and macular degeneration, yet their benefit in these conditions has also not been verified.The fish used as sources do not actually produce omega-3 fatty acids. In the one eligible study, omega-3s were an effective adjunctive therapy for depressive but not manic symptoms in bipolar disorder. Prescription fish oil pills, capsules and tablets have more omega-3 fatty acids than those which are non-prescription. Mental health
Omega-3 supplementation has not been shown to significantly affect symptoms of anxiety, major depressive disorder or schizophrenia. Omega−3 fatty acids have also been investigated as an add-on for the treatment of depression associated with bipolar disorder although there is limited data available. Two reviews have suggested that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation significantly improves depressive symptoms in perinatal women.In contrast to dietary supplementation studies, there is significant difficulty in interpreting the literature regarding dietary intake of omega−3 fatty acids (e.g. There is also more preliminary evidence showing that dietary ω-3 can ease symptoms in several psychiatric disorders. DHA and EPA in fish oils
Fish oil is widely sold in capsules containing a mixture of omega-3 fatty acids, including EPA and DHA. 
Does regular consumption of coffee increase the risk of heart disease such as heart attack or stroke? [SEP] Mortality
In 2012, the National Institutes of Health–AARP Diet and Health Study found that higher coffee consumption was associated with lower risk of death, and that those who drank any coffee lived longer than those who did not. A 2014 meta-analysis found that coffee consumption (4 cups/day) was inversely associated with all-cause mortality (a 16% lower risk), as well as cardiovascular disease mortality specifically (a 21% lower risk from drinking 3 cups/day), but not with cancer mortality with exception being oral cancer mortality.Additional meta-analyses corroborated these findings, showing that higher coffee consumption (2–4 cups per day) was associated with a reduced risk of death by all disease causes. An association of coffee drinking with reduced risk for death from various sources was confirmed by a widely cited prospective cohort study of ten European countries in 2017. Cardiovascular disease
Moderate coffee consumption is not a risk factor for coronary heart disease. A 2012 meta-analysis concluded that people who drank moderate amounts of coffee had a lower rate of heart failure, with the biggest effect found for those who drank more than four cups a day. A 2014 meta-analysis concluded that cardiovascular disease, such as coronary artery disease and stroke, is less likely with three to five cups of non-decaffeinated coffee per day, but more likely with over five cups per day. A 2016 meta-analysis showed that coffee consumption was associated with a reduced risk of death in patients who have had a myocardial infarction.The effect of no or moderate daily consumption of coffee on risk for developing hypertension has been assessed in several reviews during the 21st century. Atrial fibrillation
The Women's Health Study showed an increased risk of atrial fibrillation with 2-3 cups/day of caffeinated coffee, but other studies found either no effect or a protective effect.The 2021 European Society of Cardiology Guidelines on Cardiovascular Disease Prevention in Clinical Practice state: "Non-filtered coffee contains LDL-C-raising cafestol and kahweol, and may be associated with an up to 25% increased risk of ASCVD mortality by consumption of nine or more drinks a day. 
Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of becoming overweight later in life? [SEP] Increased Caesarean birth – Postterm babies may be larger than an average baby, thus increasing the length of labor. Studies have shown that the long-term overweight risk is doubled when the birth weight is greater than 4,000 g. The risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adult is 19% higher in babies weighing more than 4,500 g at birth compared to those with birth weights between 4,000 g and 4,500 g.

Pregnant mother complications
Complications of the pregnant mother include: emergency cesarean section, postpartum hemorrhage, and obstetric anal sphincter injury. In general, obese mothers or women with excessive gestational weight gain may have higher risk of pregnancy complications (ranging from LGA, shoulder dystocia, etc.). Thus, women in Europe and the United States, with higher gestational weight gain, tend to have higher associated risk of LGA infants, macrosomia and cesarean. The presence of chorioamnionitis and obesity predisposes the woman to develop a surgical site infection.Women who had caesarean sections are more likely to have problems with later pregnancies, and women who want larger families should not seek an elective caesarean unless medical indications to do so exist. Higher infant mortality risk: In caesarean sections performed with no indicated medical risk (singleton at full term in a head-down position with no other obstetric or medical complications), the risk of death in the first 28 days of life has been cited as 1.77 per 1,000 live births among women who had caesarean sections, compared to 0.62 per 1,000 for women who delivered vaginally.Birth by caesarean section also seems to be associated with worse health outcomes later in life, including overweight or obesity, problems in the immune system, and poor digestive system. Large birth weight has been associated with significantly higher rates of neonatal morbidity. Influence on adult life
Studies have investigated how a person's birth weight can influence their future life, including potential links with obesity, diabetes and intelligence.A baby born small or large for gestational age (either of the two extremes) was previously thought to have an increased risk of developing obesity, but it was later found that both high birth weight and maternal BMI are associated with increased risk of developing obesity in childhood.Growth hormone (GH) therapy at a certain dose induced catch-up of lean body mass (LBM). 
Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of asthma and allergies later in life? Do they have an increased risk of type 1 diabetes?? [SEP] Long term, children are at higher risk of being overweight and of developing type 2 diabetes.Gestational diabetes can occur during pregnancy because of insulin resistance or reduced production of insulin. Untreated GDM also interferes with maturation, causing dysmature babies prone to respiratory distress syndrome due to incomplete lung maturation and impaired surfactant synthesis.Unlike pre-gestational diabetes, gestational diabetes has not been clearly shown to be an independent risk factor for birth defects. This fits with evidence that delivery by Caesarean section may be associated with increased allergies, whilst breastfeeding can be protective. The increase in allergy rates is primarily attributed to diet and reduced microbiome diversity, although the mechanistic reasons are unclear.The use of antibiotics in the first year of life has been linked to asthma and other allergic diseases, and increased asthma rates are also associated with birth by Caesarean section. Risks for the child
The negative effects of pregestational diabetes are due to high blood sugar and insulin levels primarily during the first trimester of pregnancy (in contrast to gestational diabetes, which can lead to fetal complications during the second and third trimester). Gestational diabetes increases risk for further maternal and fetal complications such as development of pre-eclampsia, need for cesarean delivery, preterm delivery, polyhydramnios, macrosomia, shoulder dystocia, fetal hypoglycemia, hyperbilirubinemia, and admission into the neonatal intensive care unit. Pre-existing diabetes - Pre-existing diabetes that is not managed during pregnancy is associated with increased risk of spontaneous abortions in the first few weeks of pregnancy and increased risk of congenital malformations such as congenital heart defects and neural tube defects. Uncontrolled gestational diabetes increases the risk for adverse perinatal outcomes such as preterm labor and delivery, preeclampsia, and other hypertension-related conditions in pregnancy. 
Does the pregnancy hormone hCG help with weight loss? [SEP] HCG diet
British endocrinologist Albert T. W. Simeons proposed HCG as an adjunct to an ultra-low-calorie weight-loss diet (fewer than 500 calories). There is no substantial evidence that HCG increases weight loss beyond that resulting from caloric restriction, that it causes a more attractive or "normal" distribution of fat, or that it decreases the hunger and discomfort associated with calorie-restrictive diets. There was a resurgence of interest in the "HCG diet" following promotion by Kevin Trudeau, who was banned  from making HCG diet weight-loss claims by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in 2008, and eventually jailed over such claims.A 1976 study in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition concluded that HCG is not more effective as a weight-loss aid than dietary restriction alone.A 1995 meta analysis found that studies supporting HCG for weight loss were of poor methodological quality and concluded that "there is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity; it does not bring about weight-loss or fat-redistribution, nor does it reduce hunger or induce a feeling of well-being".On November 15, 2016, the American Medical Association (AMA) passed policy that "The use of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) for weight loss is inappropriate." The authors stated "…the use of HCG should be regarded as an inappropriate therapy for weight reduction…" In the authors opinion, "Pharmacists and physicians should be alert on the use of HCG for Simeons therapy. According to the American Society of Bariatric Physicians, no new clinical trials have been published since the definitive 1995 meta-analysis.The scientific consensus is that any weight loss reported by individuals on an "HCG diet" may be attributed entirely to the fact that such diets prescribe calorie intake of between 500 and 1,000 calories per day, substantially below recommended levels for an adult, to the point that this may risk health effects associated with malnutrition. Homeopathic HCG for weight control
Controversy about, and shortages of, injected HCG for weight loss have led to substantial Internet promotion of "homeopathic HCG" for weight control. The United States Food and Drug Administration has stated that over-the-counter products containing HCG are fraudulent and ineffective for weight loss. In 1954, he published a book called "Pounds and Inches", and a paper in the Lancet on his theories.Scientific consensus does not support Simeons's claims, finding no weight loss attributable to the use of hCG. 
Does cupping relieve chronic neck and back pain? [SEP] Cupping therapy is a form of alternative medicine in which a local suction is created on the skin with the application of heated cups. Cupping has been characterized as a pseudoscience and its practice as quackery.Cupping practitioners attempt to use cupping therapy for a wide array of medical conditions including fevers, chronic low back pain, poor appetite, indigestion, high blood pressure, acne, atopic dermatitis, psoriasis, anemia, stroke rehabilitation, nasal congestion, infertility, and menstrual period cramping.Despite the numerous ailments for which practitioners claim cupping therapy is useful, there is insufficient evidence it has any health benefits, and there are some risks of harm, especially from wet cupping and fire cupping. Scientific evaluation
The American Cancer Society notes that "available scientific evidence does not support claims that cupping has any health benefits" and also that the treatment carries a small risk of burns. Many reviews suggest that there is insufficient scientific evidence to support the use of cupping techniques to combat relevant diseases and chronic pain. Claimed uses
Cupping practitioners use cupping therapy for a wide array of medical conditions including fevers, pain, poor appetite, indigestion, high blood pressure, acne, atopic dermatitis, psoriasis, anemia, stroke rehabilitation, nasal congestion, infertility, and dysmenorrhea. Cupping also is used on back, neck, shoulder and other musculoskeletal conditions. Acupuncture may provide some relief for back pain. It was reported that he once used cupping for migraines. 
Can eating broccoli or broccoli sprouts improve gastritis symptoms? [SEP] Broccoli sprouts are three- to four-day-old broccoli plants that look like alfalfa sprouts, but taste like radishes. History
While health-conscious people in the 1970s embraced raw sprouts as a dietary staple, it was not until the 1990s that broccoli sprouts became the mainstream. Glucosinolate and sulforaphane
Broccoli sprouts are rich in sulforaphane. Although there has been some basic research on how sulforaphane might exert beneficial effects in vivo, there is no high-quality evidence for its efficacy against human diseases.Broccoli sprouts also contain a particular glucosinolate compound, glucoraphanin, which is found in vacuoles within the cytoplasm of the plant cell. Broccoli seeds are available for home growing. One can sprout broccoli seeds using a jar or a commercial sprouting kit. Broccoli sprout powders and capsules are also available. See also
Chronic gastritis

References


== External links == 
Do Schuessler salts work? (alternative spellings: Schuessler salts or Schuessler salts) [SEP] Wilhelm Heinrich Schüßler — also spelled Schuessler, particularly in English-language publications — (21 August 1821 – 30 March 1898) was a German medical doctor in Oldenburg who searched for natural remedies and published the results of his experiments in a German homeopathic journal in March 1873, leading to a list of 12 so-called "biochemic cell salts" that remain popular in alternative medicine. An English translation appeared in the Medical Investigator in May 1873, then in "The Twelve Tissue Remedies" by Dr C. Hering, and in 1888 in a book of the same name by Boericke and Dewey, two medical doctors in San Francisco.Around the beginning of the twentieth century, Eli Jones and other doctors studied Schüßler's ideas and derived new ones; by the end of that century Schüßler's name (in various forms of spelling) and list of twelve "tissue salts" were commonly found in health shops and alternative medicine books. Schuessler salts are discussed in Western Australia's Government Gazette of 12 April 1946:

THE following report is issued under section 210 of the Health Act, 1911-1944:- It is claimed that the above "remedy" [Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts, Kali Phos. Dr. Schuessler's Cell Salts can therefore have no curative value. 1917 Digital edition by the University and State Library Düsseldorf

See also
George W. Carey

References
External links
Dr. WH Schuessler
List of Schuessler Cell Salts and pharmacological pictures
Biography The name derives from instances in which the drugs were disguised as bath salts. Smelling salts, also known as ammonia  inhalants, spirit of hartshorn or sal volatile, are chemical compounds used as stimulants to restore consciousness after fainting. In the 17th century, the distillation of an ammonia solution from shavings of harts' (deer) horns and hooves led to the alternative name for smelling salts as spirit or salt of hartshorn.They were widely used in Victorian Britain to revive fainting women, and in some areas, constables would carry a container of them for the purpose. 
Does pelvic floor training help women with stress-related urinary incontinence? [SEP] Pelvic floor muscle therapy is the first line of treatment for urinary incontinence and thus should be considered before more invasive procedures such as surgery. Lifestyle modifications
Treatment for pelvic floor dysfunction, especially the symptom of urinary incontinence, is essential, but so is prevention. Behavioral changes (Conservative treatments)
Some behavioral changes can improve stress incontinence. Weak evidence suggests that bladder training may be helpful for the treatment of urinary incontinence. For some women this may reduce stress leakage, however it is not clear how well these mechanical devices help women with stress urinary incontinence. Pelvic-floor exercises may help in cases of fecal incontinence and in pelvic organ prolapse conditions e.g. Urinary incontinence
Pelvic floor exercises (muscle training) can be included in conservative treatment approaches for women with urinary incontinence. There is no clear evidence that teaching pelvic floor exercises alters the risk of stress urinary incontinence in men that develop this condition post prostatectomy.In pregnant women, antenatal PFMT probably helps prevent urinary continence during pregnancy and up to six months after giving birth but for pregnant women who already have incontinence, it is not clear if antenatal PFMT helps to reduce symptoms. 
Can methadone enhance the effects of chemotherapy or other cancer treatments and help cure cancer? [SEP] Methadone is an opioid agonist that binds to the same receptors in the brain as heroin and other opioids. Methadone, sold under the brand names Dolophine and Methadose among others, is a synthetic opioid agonist used for chronic pain and also for opioid dependence. Medical uses
Opioid addiction
Methadone is used for the treatment of opioid use disorder. A 2009 Cochrane review found methadone was effective in retaining people in treatment and in the reduction or cessation of heroin use as measured by self-report and urine/hair analysis, and did not affect criminal activity or risk of death.Treatment of opioid-dependent persons with methadone follows one of two routes: maintenance or detoxification. Pain
Methadone is used as an analgesic in chronic pain, often in rotation with other opioids. Methadone has been shown to reduce neuropathic pain in rat models, primarily through NMDA receptor antagonism. Acting as an NMDA antagonist may be one mechanism by which methadone decreases craving for opioids and tolerance, and has been proposed as a possible mechanism for its distinguished efficacy regarding the treatment of neuropathic pain. References
External links
"Methadone". 
Can treatment with tea tree oil relieve pimples (acne)? [SEP] Uses
Although tea tree oil is claimed to be useful for treating dandruff, acne, lice, herpes, insect bites, scabies, and skin fungal or bacterial infections, there is insufficient evidence to support any of these claims due to the limited quality of research. A 2015 Cochrane review of acne complementary therapies found a low-quality, single trial showing benefit on skin lesions compared to placebo.According to the Committee on Herbal Medicinal Products (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency, traditional usage suggests that tea tree oil is a possible treatment for "small superficial wounds, insect bites and small boils", and that it may reduce itching in minor cases of athlete's foot. Hormonal effects
Tea tree oil potentially poses a risk for causing abnormal breast enlargement in men, and pre-pubertal children. Low-quality evidence suggests topical application of tea tree oil or bee venom may reduce the total number of skin lesions in those with acne. Tea tree oil appears to be approximately as effective as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid but is associated with allergic contact dermatitis. Proposed mechanisms for tea tree oil's anti-acne effects include antibacterial action against C. acnes and anti-inflammatory properties. Numerous other plant-derived therapies have demonstrated positive effects against acne (e.g., basil oil; oligosaccharides from seaweed; however, few well-done studies have examined their use for this purpose. Dermatologists say this medication reduces inflammation of the skin, thereby reducing acne. 
Does sugar consumption impair memory or other mental performance? [SEP] The physiological effects of chronic stress can negatively affect memory and learning. Several studies have shown that stress and glucocorticoids enhance memory formation while they impair memory retrieval. Short-term memory
Other studies have suggested stress can decrease memory function. Sporadic, high-carbohydrate snacks and meals are deemed the specific causes of sugar crashes. Glycopenia affects the function of neurons, and alters brain function and behavior. In both young and old individuals, the brain may habituate to low glucose levels with a reduction of noticeable symptoms, sometimes despite neuroglycopenic impairment. Sugars have an overwhelming effect on gene expression. GABA could also be responsible for causing the memory impairment that many people experience. 
Does extra folic acid in men help prevent birth defects in children? [SEP] Folic acid is also used as a supplement by women during pregnancy to reduce the risk of neural tube defects (NTDs) in the baby. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends folic acid as the supplement or fortification ingredient, as forms of folate other than folic acid have not been studied.A meta-analysis of folate supplementation during pregnancy reported a 28% lower relative risk of newborn congenital heart defects. Prenatal supplementation with folic acid did not appear to reduce the risk of preterm births. Fertility
Folate contributes to spermatogenesis. However, several reviews reported that supplementation with folic acid alone or in combination with other B vitamins did not prevent development of cognitive impairment nor slow cognitive decline.A 2017 meta-analysis found that the relative risk of autism spectrum disorders was reduced by 23% when the maternal diet was supplemented with folic acid during pregnancy. After the discovery of the link between insufficient folic acid and neural tube defects, governments and health organizations worldwide made recommendations concerning folic acid supplementation for women intending to become pregnant. The results of folic acid fortification on the rate of neural tube defects in Canada have been positive, showing a 46% reduction in prevalence of NTDs; the magnitude of reduction was proportional to the prefortification rate of NTDs, essentially removing geographical variations in rates of NTDs seen in Canada before fortification. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in 2015 that since the addition of folic acid in grain-based foods as mandated by the FDA, the rate of neural tube defects dropped by 35%. 
Does taking ginger reduce nausea and vomiting during pregnancy? [SEP] In the United States and Canada, the doxylamine-pyridoxine combination (as Diclegis in US and Diclectin in Canada) is the only approved pregnancy category "A" prescription treatment for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy.Ondansetron may be beneficial, but there are some concerns regarding an association with cleft palate, and there is little high quality data. Pregnancy Sickness Support is a UK charity supporting women experiencing nausea and vomiting in pregnancy and Hyperemesis gravidarum. Limited evidence from published clinical trials suggests the use of medications to treat hyperemesis gravidarum.While pyridoxine/doxylamine, a combination of vitamin B6 and doxylamine, is effective in nausea and vomiting of pregnancy, some have questioned its effectiveness in HG.Ondansetron may be beneficial, however, there are some concerns regarding an association with cleft palate, and there is little high-quality data. It is generally used for nausea and vomiting of pregnancy (morning sickness); even though its efficacy has not been proven and subsequent research has led to the removal of recommendations in medical journals. Medical uses
The combination of pyridoxine, commonly referred to as vitamin B6 and doxylamine may be an effective for the management of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy, but it is only recommended for use in a small number of cases after lifestyle, diet and vitamin B6. Medical organizations’ position
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) states "Safe and effective treatments are available for more severe cases, and mild cases of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy may be resolved with lifestyle and dietary changes." Evidence-based treatment algorithm” and “Treatment of nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. Evidence-based treatment algorithm” and “Treatment of nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. 
Does taking ginger prevent motion sickness?? [SEP] It is used as an antivertigo/antiemetic agent, specifically in the prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting, and dizziness associated with motion sickness. A number of medications used for nausea such as ondansetron are not effective for motion sickness.Nearly all people are affected with sufficient motion and most people will experience motion sickness at least once in their lifetime. Defense against poisoning
It has also been proposed that motion sickness could function as a defense mechanism against neurotoxins. Behavioral measures
Behavioral measures to decrease motion sickness include holding the head still and lying on the back. Antihistamines
Antihistamine medications are sometimes given to prevent or treat motion sickness. This class of medication is often effective at reducing the risk of getting motion sickness while in motion, however, the effectiveness of antihistamines at treating or stopping motion sickness once a person is already experiencing it has not been well studied. Alternative medicine
Alternative treatments include acupuncture and ginger, although their effectiveness against motion sickness is variable. Preliminary clinical data suggests ginger may be effective for treatment of nausea and/or vomiting in a number of settings. 
Are electric cigarettes less harmful than tobacco smoking? [SEP] A 2014 review found that e-cigarette aerosol contains far fewer carcinogens than tobacco smoke, and concluded that e-cigarettes "impart a lower potential disease burden" than traditional cigarettes. A study conducted found that people using electronic cigerattes go through more nicotrine than traditional tobacco users.Opinions that e-cigarettes are a safe substitute to traditional cigarettes may compromise tobacco control efforts. This claim is consistent with the view of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine of the United States, which argues that e-cigarettes are not without risk, but compared to combustible tobacco cigarettes, they contain fewer toxicants. Even though e-cigarettes are anticipated to produce fewer harmful substances than traditional cigarettes, limited evidence recognizes they comparatively have a lowered raised cardiovascular risk.Preliminary studies have shown that using a nicotine containing e-cigarette for just five minutes causes similar lung irritation, inflammation, and effect on blood vessels as smoking a traditional cigarette, which may increase the risk of a heart attack. It is generally considered by users that e-cigarettes are safer than tobacco. A 2016 survey of people 14 years of age and up in Germany reported that 20.7% of participants consider e-cigarettes to be not as harmful as cigarettes, 46.3% just as harmful, and 16.1% thought they were more harmful, and 17.0% gave no answer. A 2015 analysis reports that 34.20% (8433/24,658) of American youth sampled believe that e-cigarettes are less harmful than cigarettes, and 45% (11,096/24,658) are not sure.As of 2018, under 50% of adults in the UK believe vaping is less harmful than smoking. Electronic cigarettes are marketed to smoking and non-smoking men, women, and children as being safer than cigarettes. 
Does parents licking the pacifier protect children from allergic diseases? [SEP] A pacifier is a rubber, plastic, or silicone nipple substitute given to an infant or toddler to suckle upon between feedings to quiet its distress by satisfying the need to suck when it does not need to eat. Babies will take their suck out on the pacifier instead of nursing or comfort nursing at the breast which is good for the mother's supply. The effectiveness of avoiding the use of a pacifier to prevent ear infections is not known.Although it is commonly believed that using a pacifier will lead to dental problems, it does not appear to lead to long-term damage if used for less than around three years. Benefits
Researchers have found that use of a pacifier is associated with a substantial reduction in the risk of sudden infant death syndrome. They are divided over whether this association is sufficient reason to prefer pacifier use. Researchers in Brazil have shown that neither "orthodontic" nor standard pacifiers prevent dental problems if children continue sucking past the age of three years.It is commonly reported anecdotally that pacifier use among stimulant users helps reduce bruxism and thus prevents tooth damage. Prevalence of attachments to pacifiers and their psychological functions
In the late 1970s researchers dispelled the notion that pacifiers were psychologically unhealthy and aberrant. In an unfamiliar playroom, one-year-old toddlers accompanied by their pacifier evidenced more play and demonstrated less distress than did babies without them. 
Does calcium help with allergy? [SEP] Prevention
Reviews of food allergens in general stated that introducing solid foods at 4–6 months may result in the lowest subsequent allergy risks for eczema, allergic rhinitis and more severe reactions. Milk allergy is an adverse immune reaction to one or more proteins in cow's milk. For mothers of infants considered at high risk of developing cow's milk allergy because of a family history, there is some evidence that the nursing mother avoiding allergens may reduce risk of the child developing eczema, but a Cochrane review concluded that more research is needed.There is some evidence that formula supplement given within the first 24 hours of a babies life in hospital increases the incidence of cow's milk allergy for mothers who then go on to exclusively breast feed.Guidelines from various government and international organizations recommend that for the lowest allergy risk, infants be exclusively breastfed for four to six months, but there does not appear to be any benefit beyond six months. Allergy UK is a British medical charity dedicated to helping adults and children with their allergies. See also
Allergy

References
Further reading
Great Britain Parliament - Health Committee (2004). External links
Official website
"Allergy UK, registered charity no. National Allergy Strategy Group J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 
Can taking vitamin D relieve chronic pain? [SEP] Vitamin D is a steroid hormone that plays a vital role in calcium and phosphate absorption. The role of vitamin D is best characterized as enabling calcium absorption and regulating calcium homeostasis. These findings suggest that vitamin D potentially affects the development of neurons as well as their maintenance and survival. Another study comparing daily, weekly, and monthly supplementation of vitamin D in deficient patients was published by Takacs et al. Co-supplementation with vitamin K
The combination of vitamin D and vitamin K supplements has been shown in trials to improve bone quality. Research
Some evidence suggests vitamin D deficiency may be associated with a worse outcome for some cancers, but evidence is insufficient to recommend that vitamin D be prescribed for people with cancer. A review by authors from the University of Maryland School of Pharmacy suggested that while low-dose vitamin D supplementation was unlikely to be harmful, "sensible sun exposure" was "an inexpensive and enjoyable way" to ensure healthy levels of vitamin D.

Evidence
Evidence both for and against an association of vitamin D and respiratory infections has been reported. It has been noted that large doses of vitamin D can lead to hypercalcemia and that "single megadoses" of vitamin D, while not especially harmful, may be associated with an increased risk of bone fractures. 
Does aloe vera relieve discomfort caused by psoriasis? [SEP] Vitamin D analogues may allow less steroids to be used.Another topical therapy used to treat psoriasis is a form of balneotherapy, which involves daily baths in the Dead Sea. Dead Sea balneotherapy is also effective for psoriatic arthritis. UV phototherapy
Phototherapy in the form of sunlight has long been used for psoriasis. Diet
Uncontrolled studies have suggested that individuals with psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis may benefit from a diet supplemented with fish oil rich in eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Preliminary research has suggested that antioxidants such as polyphenols may have beneficial effects on the inflammation characteristic of psoriasis.Many novel medications being researched during the 2010s target the Th17/IL-23 axis, particularly IL-23p19 inhibitors, as IL-23p19 is present in increased concentrations in psoriasis skin lesions while contributing less to protection against opportunistic infections. References
Further reading
External links

"Psoriatic arthritis". "Psoriasis". Aveeno offers products to treat skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, urushiol-induced contact dermatitis, pruritus ani, chickenpox, hives, and sunburn. 
Does aloe vera help with neurodermatitis, poorly healing or fresh wounds? [SEP] The alginate will form a gel in contact with the exudates of the wound and give it a strong absorbent power.There is no evidence of superior effectiveness in those with diabetic foot ulcers. Wound healing properties
Calcium alginate dressings may help the production of mouse fibroblasts and in vitro, of human fibroblasts. It has been shown that calcium alginate activates human macrophages to produce TNFα (Tumor Necrosis Factor α) which is involved in the inflammatory signals and consequently wound healing process. Moreover, the clotting mechanisms during the first stage of wound healing may be improved by calcium alginate. The early use of alginates as haemostats and wound dressings and their apparent lack of toxicity are discussed. Uses
Alginate dressings are useful for moderate to heavily exuding wounds. References
External links
Aloe Vera at IMDb
Review at Ghana Movie Freak A two-year clinical trial at the University of Alabama at Birmingham resulted in bone marrow and stem cell transplant recipients reporting an improvement in pain following light treatment from WARP 10 and WARP 75 devices.The application of HEALS has also been proven to aid in the healing of human wounds, burns, diabetic skin ulcers and oral mucositis. 
Does electromagnetic radiation from cell phone towers cause health problems such as headaches or sleep disorders? [SEP] Since at least the 1990s, scientists have researched whether the now-ubiquitous radiation associated with mobile phone antennas or cell phone towers is affecting human health. A 2012 study of low-frequency radiation on humans found "no evidence for acute effects of short-term mobile phone radiation on cerebral blood flow". This report concludes after the review with an updated statement that "there is clear evidence that male rats exposed to high levels of radio frequency radiation (RFR) like that used in 2G and 3G cell phones developed cancerous heart tumors.... Electromagnetic hypersensitivity
Some users of mobile phones and similar devices have reported feeling various non-specific symptoms during and after use. A 2020 study in Environmental Research found that "Although direct causation of negative human health effects from RFR from cellular phone base stations has not been finalized, there is already enough medical and scientific evidence to warrant long-term liability concerns for companies deploying cellular phone towers" and thus recommended voluntary setbacks from schools and hospitals. Microwave News reports on the health and environmental impacts of electromagnetic fields (EMFs) and other types of non-ionizing radiation, with special emphasis on cell phones and power lines. Environmental impact
5G kills birds or insects: Radio wave emissions above 10 MHz from cell telephone towers are not known to harm birds. Non-ionizing radio frequency radiation from mobile phones, electric power transmission, and other similar sources have been investigated as a possible carcinogen by the WHO's International Agency for Research on Cancer, but to date, no evidence of this has been observed. 
Can antibiotic-resistant germs from animal husbandry be transferred to humans? [SEP] Sources of antibiotic resistance
Summary
While the human medical use of antibiotics is the main source of antibiotic resistant infections in humans, it is known that humans can acquire antibiotic resistance genes from a variety of animal sources, including farm animals, pets and wildlife. Three potential mechanisms by which agricultural antibiotic use could lead to human disease have been identified as: 1 - direct infection with resistant bacteria from an animal source; 2 - breaches in the species barrier followed by sustained transmission in humans of resistant strains arising in livestock; 3 - transfer of resistance genes from agriculture into human pathogens. Direct contact with animals
In terms of direct infection with resistant bacteria from an animals source, studies have shown that direct contact with livestock can lead to the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Some of them are associated with livestock and companion animals that are then able to be transmitted to humans, also called livestock-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (LA-MRSA). Dairy products, ground minced beef and poultry are among the most common foods that can harbour pathogens both resistant and susceptible to antibiotics, and surveillance of retail meats such as turkey, chicken, pork and beef have found Enterobacteriaceae. While one study suggests a large proportion of resistant E. coli isolates causing bloodstream infections in people could emanate from livestock produced for food, other studies have since contradicted this, finding little commonality between resistance genes from livestock sources and those found in human infections, even when examining plasmid-mediated resistance.The use of antibiotics in livestock also has the potential to introduce antibiotic-resistant bacteria to humans via environmental exposure or inhalation of airborne bacteria. This means that as well as finding antibiotics in human sewage and animal manure, both can also contain antibiotic-resistant bacteria which have developed in vivo or in the environment. However, cases of zoo-sapronoses involving Listeria, Erysipelothrix, Yersinia pseudotuberculosis, Burkholderia pseudomallei, and Rhodococcus equi can be transferred by an animal or an abiotic substrate but usually occur via a fecal-oral route between humans and other animals. 
Does the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry harm human health? [SEP] Antibiotic use in livestock is the use of antibiotics for any purpose in the husbandry of livestock, which includes treatment when ill (therapeutic), treatment of a group of animals when at least one is diagnosed with clinical infection (metaphylaxis), and preventative treatment (prophylaxis). Antibiotics are an important tool to treat animal as well as human disease, safeguard animal health and welfare, and support food safety. However, used irresponsibly, this may lead to antibiotic resistance which may impact human, animal and environmental health.While levels of use vary dramatically from country to country, for example some Northern European countries use very low quantities to treat animals compared with humans, worldwide an estimated 73% of antimicrobials (mainly antibiotics) are consumed by farm animals. At that time, milk was seen as an agricultural product which was highly susceptible to bacterial contamination, and farmers welcomed the opportunity to 'purify' their produce for the safety of consumers; it was only later that concern switched from the bacterial load of the product to the residues that might result from untimely or unregulated treatment.The use of antibiotics to treat and prevent disease has followed a similar path to that used in human medicine in terms of therapeutic and metaphylactic applications to treat and manage disease and improve population health, and the application of case-by-case strategic preventative treatments when animals are deemed at particular risk. Antibiotics given to livestock in sub-therapeutic concentrations to stimulate growth when there is no diagnosis of disease – a practice still permitted in some countries – may kill some, but not all, of the bacterial organisms in the animal, possibly leaving those that are naturally antibiotic-resistant in the environment. It noted that many dairy and meat producers in Asia and the Americas had an economic incentive to continue high usage of antibiotics, particularly in crowded or unsanitary living conditions.However, the World Organisation for Animal Health has acknowledged the need to protect antibiotics but argued against a total ban on antibiotic use in animal production. For example, experiences from farms where antibiotic use has been cut back or eliminated in the interests of meeting a consumer demand for 'antibiotic-free' or 'reared without antibiotics' produce have been shown to have a detrimental effect on animal health and welfare. More specifically in 2012, the FDA speculated the most significant public health threat in regard to antimicrobial use in animals is the exposure of antimicrobial resistant bacteria to humans. 
Does regular vitamin D intake lower the risk of cancer in adults? [SEP] Vitamin D has been suggested as having a wide range of positive health effects, which include strengthening bones and possibly inhibiting the growth of some cancers. Research
Some evidence suggests vitamin D deficiency may be associated with a worse outcome for some cancers, but evidence is insufficient to recommend that vitamin D be prescribed for people with cancer. Taking vitamin D supplements has no significant effect on cancer risk. Vitamin D supplements do not alter the outcomes for myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebrovascular disease, cancer, bone fractures or knee osteoarthritis.A US Institute of Medicine (IOM) report states: "Outcomes related to cancer, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and diabetes and metabolic syndrome, falls and physical performance, immune functioning and autoimmune disorders, infections, neuropsychological functioning, and preeclampsia could not be linked reliably with calcium or vitamin D intake and were often conflicting. Cancer
Potential associations have been found between low vitamin D levels and the risk of developing several types of cancer. Meta-analyses of observational studies have found reduced risk of cancer incidence related to vitamin D intake and 25(OH)D levels, particularly for colorectal cancer, although the strength of the associations was classified as weak. While randomized controlled trials have not confirmed that vitamin D supplements reduce the risk of cancer incidence, the relative risk of cancer deaths was lower by up to 16% in several meta-analyses. As of 2022, there is insufficient evidence for an effect of vitamin D supplementation on the risk of cancer. 
Does regular consumption of ground flaxseed harm health? [SEP] In food, it can be found in commercial breads containing flaxseed. Flax, also known as common flax or linseed, is a flowering plant, Linum usitatissimum, in the family Linaceae. Uses
Flax is grown for its seeds, which can be ground into a meal or turned into linseed oil, a product used as a nutritional supplement and as an ingredient in many wood-finishing products. Whole flax seeds are chemically stable, but ground flax seed meal, because of oxidation, may go rancid when left exposed to air at room temperature in as little as a week. This is not an issue in meal cake due to the processing temperature during oil extraction.Flax straw left over from the harvesting of oilseed is not very nutritious; it is tough and indigestible, and is not recommended to use as ruminant fodder, although it may be used as bedding or baled as windbreaks. Linseed oil
Toxicity
Flax seed and its oil are generally recognized as safe for human consumption. Like many common foods, flax contains small amounts of cyanogenic glycoside, which is nontoxic when consumed in typical amounts, but may be toxic when consumed in large quantities as with staple foods such as cassava. Nutritional supplement and food
Raw cold-pressed linseed oil – commonly known as flax seed oil in nutritional contexts – is easily oxidized, and rapidly becomes rancid, with an unpleasant odour, unless refrigerated. 
1. can MMR vaccination cause autism? [SEP] The scientific consensus is that there is no link between the MMR vaccine and autism and that the vaccine's benefits greatly outweigh its potential risks. In 2011, Deer provided further information on Wakefield's improper research practices to the British Medical Journal, which in a signed editorial described the original paper as fraudulent.The scientific consensus is that there is no link between the MMR vaccine and autism and that the vaccine's benefits greatly outweigh its risks. Italy
In June 2012, a local court in Rimini, Italy, ruled that the MMR vaccination had caused autism in a 15-month-old boy. The Petitioners' Steering Committee have claimed that MMR vaccines can cause autism, possibly in combination with thiomersal-containing vaccines. A 2006 review of the literature regarding vaccines and autism found "[t]he bulk of the evidence suggests no causal relationship between the MMR vaccine and autism." This finding was later shown to be due to errors made by the laboratory where the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests were performed.The CDC, the IOM of the National Academy of Sciences, and the UK National Health Service have all concluded that there is no link between the MMR vaccine and autism. See also
MMR vaccine and autism
Thiomersal and vaccines
Vaccine court

References
External links
Immunizing Against Bad Science by Lauren Haertlein Background
In 1998 Wakefield and 12 other authors published a study in The Lancet suggesting that the MMR vaccine caused autism. 
3. does vaccination against rotavirus increase the risk of intestinal intussusception in infants? [SEP] Immunizing babies decreases rates of disease among older people and those who have not been immunized.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that rotavirus vaccine be included in national routine vaccinations programs, especially in areas where the disease is common. Both are taken orally and contain disabled live virus.The World Health Organization recommends that rotavirus vaccine be included in all national immunization schedules because the risk of intussusception following rotavirus vaccination remains very low compared with the benefits of preventing the impact of severe and deadly diarrhea. References
Further reading
External links
"Rotavirus Vaccine Information Statement". Rotavirus Vaccines at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Rotavirus gastroenteritis is a major cause of severe diarrhoea among infants and young children globally. "Pathogenesis of intestinal and systemic rotavirus infection". Rotaviruses are the most common cause of diarrhoeal disease among infants and young children. Maternal trans-placental IgG might play a role in the protection neonates from rotavirus infections, but on the other hand might reduce vaccine efficacy. 
Is ozone suitable for the treatment of tooth decay? [SEP] It improves the oxidation efficiency of ozone. It also promotes remineralisation of the dental tissues affected by decay. Can achieve good cavity seal
Seals decay into the tooth away from sugar and oxygen which it needs to progress. Frequent use of toothpaste with 1,100 ppm fluoride content enhances the remineralization of enamel and inhibits the demineralization of enamel and root surfaces. This aids in the repair of microscopic dental decay. Fluoride varnish has shown to be effective in reducing initial dental decay lesions in both primary and permanent dentition. Application of fluoride varnish every six months is effective in preventing dental decay in primary and permanent teeth of children and adolescents. It is one of a number of biologically orientated strategies for managing dental decay. 
Does the so-called blood group diet have any health benefits? [SEP] The blood type diets are fad diets advocated by several authors, the most prominent of whom is Peter J. These diets are based on the notion that blood type, according to the ABO blood group system, is the most important factor in determining a healthy diet, and each author recommends a distinct diet for each blood type. In other words, those who were eating the "right" diet for their blood type did not show different biomarker values on average compared to those eating the "wrong" diet.The blood type diet was named by the British Dietetic Association as one of the "Top 5 Celeb Diets to Avoid in 2019". "Based on the ‘Blood-Type’ diet theory, group O is considered the ancestral blood group in humans so their optimal diet should resemble the high animal protein diets typical of the hunter-gatherer era. Following the same rationale, individuals with blood group B are considered to benefit from consumption of dairy products because this blood group was believed to originate in nomadic tribes. Finally, individuals with an AB blood group are believed to benefit from a diet that is intermediate to those proposed for group A and group B." Lack of evidence
As of 2017 there is no scientific evidence to support the blood type diet hypothesis and no clinical evidence that it improves health. "blood type diet". 
Can pumpkin seeds or preparations from them help women and men with irritable bladder, bladder weakness or incontinence? [SEP] Cuisine
Pumpkin seeds are a common ingredient in Mexican cuisine and are also roasted and served as a snack. An example of this is pumpkin seed oil. Pumpkin seeds can also be made into a nut butter. Pumpkin seeds can also be used steeped in neutral alcohol, which is then distilled to produce an eau de vie.A salsa made of pumpkin seeds known as sikil pak is a traditional dish of the Yucatán. Traditional medicine
Pumpkin seeds were once used as an anthelmintic in traditional medicine to expel tapeworms parasites, such as Taenia tapeworms. Using muscle relaxants or narcotics can lead to increased smooth and skeletal muscle relaxation, potentially related to urinary incontinence. Symptoms of urinary incontinence can also be reduced by making dietary changes such as limiting intake of acidic and spicy foods, alcohol and caffeine. An increase in fiber intake may alleviate symptoms. 
Do products from bees like honey, propolis, royal jelly or bee venom help against cancer? [SEP] Apitherapy is a branch of alternative medicine that uses honey bee products, including honey, pollen, propolis, royal jelly and bee venom. In 1957, the USSR Ministry of Health sanctioned use of bee venom to treat certain ailments by approval of Nikolay Artemov's "Instruction for Bee Sting Venom Apitherapy".Humans have historically used bee products in various ways: beeswax was used in casting metals and making incendiary weapons, honey was used for food and religious offerings, propolis was used as an adhesive, and pollen was used for agricultural work such as plant breeding. Bee venom or other honeybee products are ineffective for the treatment or prevention of cancer. See also
List of ineffective cancer treatments
Melittin
Mānuka honey#Research


== References == Royal jelly is a honey bee secretion that is used in the nutrition of larvae and adult queens. Sometimes honey or beeswax is added to the royal jelly, which is thought to aid its preservation. It is a significant commercial activity that provides those involved with honey, beeswax, royal jelly, queen bees, propolis, flower pollen and bee pollen. In addition, queen bee acid has been reported to have in vitro anti-tumor, anti-biotic, immunomodulatory, estrogenic, neurogenic, and innate immune response modulating activities.In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration has taken legal action against companies that have used unfounded claims of health benefits to market royal jelly products. 
Do pumpkin seed preparations improve symptoms caused by a benign enlarged prostate? [SEP] Water vapor thermal therapy was looked at in larger volume prostates (>80 mL) and in those with middle lobes protruding into the bladder and appears to work. Other herbal medicines somewhat effective at improving urine flow include beta-sitosterol from Hypoxis rooperi (African star grass), pygeum (extracted from the bark of Prunus africana), pumpkin seeds (Cucurbita pepo), and stinging nettle (Urtica dioica) root.About 105 million men are affected globally. Therapy with a 5α-reductase inhibitor markedly reduces the DHT content of the prostate and, in turn, reduces prostate volume and BPH symptoms.Testosterone promotes prostate cell proliferation, but relatively low levels of serum testosterone are found in patients with BPH. Other bone modifying agents like zoledronic acid and denosumab can reduce prostate cancer bone pain, even though they have little effect on tumor size. Such therapies could provide an advantage; particularly in treating prostate cancers that are resistant to current therapies. Medical uses
Benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer
Dutasteride is used for treating BPH, colloquially known as an "enlarged prostate". A meta-analysis of people with prostate enlargement and healthy males showed a significant reduction of residual volume, while a trend towards an improved urinary flow rate and decreased voiding time was found. Benign prostatic hyperplasia
Doxazosin is considered to be effective in reducing urinary symptom scores and improving peak urinary flow in men with benign prostatic hypertrophy. 
Can gels and ointments containing arnica, hawthorn, cypress, butcher's broom, Asian (or Indian) pennywort, and heparin, such as VaricoFix, relieve discomfort and secondary symptoms of varicose veins? [SEP] Varicose veins usually cause few symptoms. The symptoms of varicose veins can be controlled to an extent with the following:

Elevating the legs often provides temporary symptomatic relief. The wearing of graduated compression stockings with variable pressure gradients (Class II or III) has been shown to correct the swelling, nutritional exchange, and improve the microcirculation in legs affected by varicose veins. Topical gel application helps in managing symptoms related to varicose veins such as inflammation, pain, swelling, itching, and dryness. Sclerotherapy
A commonly performed non-surgical treatment for varicose and "spider leg veins" is sclerotherapy, in which medicine called a sclerosant is injected into the veins to make them shrink. Sclerotherapy has been used in the treatment of varicose veins for over 150 years. Sclerotherapy can also be performed using foamed sclerosants under ultrasound guidance to treat larger varicose veins, including the great saphenous and small saphenous veins.There is some evidence that sclerotherapy is a safe and may be an effective treatment option for improving the cosmetic appearance, reducing residual varicose veins, improving the quality of life, and reducing symptoms that may be present due to the varicose veins. References
External links
 Media related to Varicose veins at Wikimedia Commons 
Does putting onion bags help with acute otitis media? [SEP] Management
Oral and topical pain killers are effective to treat the pain caused by otitis media. Antibiotics
Use of antibiotics for acute otitis media has benefits and harms. For people requiring surgery to treat otitis media with effusion, preventative antibiotics may not help reduce the risk of post-surgical complications.For bilateral acute otitis media in infants younger than 24 months, there is evidence that the benefits of antibiotics outweigh the harms. There is tentative evidence that children with recurrent acute otitis media (AOM) who receive tubes have a modest improvement in the number of further AOM episodes (around one fewer episode at six months and less of an improvement at 12 months following the tubes being inserted). An option for severe acute otitis media in which analgesics are not controlling ear pain is to perform a tympanocentesis, i.e., needle aspiration through the tympanic membrane to relieve the ear pain and to identify the causative organism(s). "AAP, AAFP, AAO-HNS release guideline on diagnosis and management of otitis media with effusion". However, its main use is for treatment of otitis (ear infection), including otomycosis (fungal ear infection). References
A View Through-Distinguishing Acute Otitis Media From Otitis Media With Effusion THE OTOSCOPE 
Can serious problems occur after stopping antidepressants? [SEP] Rarely psychosis may occur.A discontinuation syndrome can occur after stopping any antidepressant including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). People may also be switched to the long acting antidepressant fluoxetine which can then be gradually decreased.Approximately 20–50% of people who suddenly stop an antidepressant develop an antidepressant discontinuation syndrome. If symptoms of discontinuation are severe, or do not respond to symptom management, the antidepressant can be reinstated and then withdrawn more cautiously, or by switching to a drug with a longer half life, (such as fluoxetine), and then tapering and discontinuing that drug. While people taking antidepressants do not commonly exhibit drug-seeking behavior, stopping antidepressants leads to  similar symptoms as found in drug withdrawal from benzodiazapines, and other psychotropic drugs. Discontinuation syndrome, which resembles recurrent depression, along with post-SSRI sexual dysfunction (PSSD) in the case of the SSRI class, may occur after stopping the intake of any antidepressant, effects of which may be permanent and irreversible.Research regarding the effectiveness of antidepressants for depression in adults is controversial, and has found both benefits and drawbacks. Rarely psychosis may occur.A discontinuation syndrome can occur after stopping any antidepressant including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). People may also be switched to the long-acting antidepressant fluoxetine, which can then be gradually decreased.Approximately 20–50% of people who suddenly stop an antidepressant develop an antidepressant discontinuation syndrome. Some restart antidepressants due to the severity of the symptoms. 
Does self urine help with health problems? [SEP] Urine therapy or urotherapy, (also urinotherapy, Shivambu,  uropathy, or auto-urine therapy) in alternative medicine is the application of human urine for medicinal or cosmetic purposes, including drinking of one's own urine and massaging one's skin, or gums, with one's own urine. No scientific evidence exists to support any beneficial health claims of urine therapy. History
Though urine has been believed useful for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in several traditional systems, and mentioned in some medical texts, auto-urine therapy as a system of alternative medicine was popularized by British naturopath John W. Armstrong in the early 20th century. Health concerns
There is no scientific evidence of a therapeutic use for untreated urine.According to the American Cancer Society, "available scientific evidence does not support claims that urine or urea given in any form is helpful for cancer patients".In 2016 the Chinese Urine therapy Association was included on a list of illegal organizations by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. References
External links
Urine Therapy explained by Boulder resident Brother SageShivambhu, non profit organization Urologic diseases or conditions include urinary tract infections, kidney stones, bladder control problems, and prostate problems, among others. In balanced ecosystems, urine fertilizes the soil and thus helps plants to grow. The loss of urine may be large. 
Do unsaturated fats (from plants and fish) reduce cardiovascular disease compared to saturated fats (from meat and dairy products)? [SEP] Health
Potential benefits
Because of their effects in the diet, unsaturated fats (monounsaturated and polyunsaturated) are often referred to as good fats; while saturated fats are sometimes referred to as bad fats. Some fat is needed in the diet, but it is usually considered that fats should not be consumed excessively, unsaturated fats should be preferred, and saturated fats in particular should be limited.In preliminary research, omega-3 fatty acids in algal oil, fish oil, fish and seafood have been shown to lower the risk of heart attacks. At first, the argument was a financial one due to lower costs; advocates also said that the unsaturated trans fats of margarine were healthier than the saturated fats of butter.As early as 1956, there were suggestions in the scientific literature that trans fats could be a cause of the large increase in coronary artery disease but after three decades the concerns were still largely unaddressed. Second, while both saturated and trans fats increase levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), trans fats also lower levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), thus increasing the risk of coronary artery disease. "The replacement of saturated fat or trans unsaturated fat by cis (unhydrogenated) unsaturated fats was associated with larger reductions in risk than an isocaloric replacement by carbohydrates." By comparison, replacing a larger 5% of food energy from saturated fat with non-trans unsaturated fats reduces the risk of CAD by 43%.Another study considered deaths due to CAD, with consumption of trans fats being linked to an increase in mortality, and consumption of polyunsaturated fats being linked to a decrease in mortality.There are two accepted tests that measure an individual's risk for coronary artery disease, both blood tests. Saturated fat has been shown to raise total and LDL cholesterol in a large number of studies and has also been correlated with a higher risk of heart disease. Furthermore, lower total cholesterol was associated with lower intake of saturated fat and higher intake of polyunsaturated fat, HDL increases were associated with high monounsaturated fat intake and triglycerides associated with high carbohydrate intake. 
Is a vegetarian diet including eggs and dairy products healthier than a diet that includes meat? [SEP] Lacto-ovo vegetarianism (the most common type of vegetarianism in the Western world) includes eggs and dairy products (such as milk and cheese without rennet). However, in practice, compared to non-vegetarians, vegetarians on average have an increased consumption of:

Fruits
Vegetables
Avocados
Non-fried potatoes
Whole grains
Legumes
Soy foods
Nuts
SeedsIn comparison to non-vegetarians, practising vegetarians on average have a decreased consumption of:

Dairy products
Eggs
Refined grains
Added fats
Sweets
Snacks
Non-water (often sweetened) beveragesThis difference is observed, but is not required to be vegetarian. A typical ovo-lacto vegetarian diet may include fruits, vegetables, grains, legumes, meat substitutes, nuts, seeds, soy, cheese, milk, yogurt and eggs.In India, such vegetarians are known as "eggetarian," which is a portmanteau of egg and vegetarian as "vegetarianism" usually refers to lacto vegetarianism in India. A lacto-vegetarian (sometimes referred to as a lactarian; from the Latin root lact-, milk) diet is a  diet that abstains from the consumption of meat as well as eggs, while still consuming dairy products such as milk, cheese, yogurt, butter, ghee, cream, and kefir. In India, lacto vegetarian is considered synonymous to vegetarian, while eggs are considered a meat product. However, in other parts of the world, vegetarianism generally refers to ovo lacto vegetarianism instead, allowing eggs into the diet.ISKCON encourages devotees to adopt a lacto-vegetarian diet and gives agriculture as the ideal economic basis of society. whether  ‘vegetarian’  or  ‘non- vegetarian’. There are number of  persons who treat egg as vegetarian food. 
Can washing hands with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing triclosan or triclocarban prevent the risk of contracting diseases in the household? [SEP] The majority of antibacterial soaps contain triclosan, though other chemical additives are also common. Ingredients
Triclosan and triclocarban are the most common compounds used as antibacterials in soaps. Effectiveness
Claims that antibacterial soap is effective stem from the long-standing knowledge that triclosan can inhibit the growth of various bacteria, as well as some fungi. However, more recent reviews have suggested that antibacterial soaps are no better than regular soaps at preventing illness or reducing bacteria on the hands of users.In September 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration banned the use of the common antibacterial ingredients triclosan and triclocarban, and 17 other ingredients frequently used in "antibacterial" soaps and washes, due to insufficient information on the long-term health effects of their use and a lack of evidence on their effectiveness. Some studies suggest that antimicrobial hand soaps containing triclosan provide a slightly greater bacterial reduction on the hands compared to plain soap. Alternatives
A comprehensive meta-analysis published in 2007 indicated that, in community settings, plain soap was no less effective than soaps containing triclosan for "preventing infectious illness symptoms and reducing bacterial levels on the hands. However, antibacterial soaps contain common antibacterial agents such as triclosan, which has an extensive list of resistant strains of organisms. Besides the surfactant and skin-protecting agent, the sophisticated formulations may contain acids (acetic acid, ascorbic acid, lactic acid) as pH regulator, antimicrobially active benzoic acid and further skin conditioners (aloe vera, vitamins, menthol, plant extracts).A 2007 meta-analysis from the University of Oregon School of Public Health indicated that plain soaps are as effective as consumer-grade anti-bacterial soaps containing triclosan in preventing illness and removing bacteria from the hands. 
Can hand washing with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing other disinfectants reduce the risk of infection compared to regular soap??? [SEP] In clinical trials, alcohol-based hand sanitizers containing emollients caused substantially less skin irritation and dryness than soaps or antimicrobial detergents. Hand rubs also prove to have more effective microbiological properties as compared to antiseptic soaps. The FDA stated "There is no data demonstrating that over-the-counter antibacterial soaps are better at preventing illness than washing with plain soap and water". Soap lifts pathogens from the skin, and studies show that people tend to wash their hands more thoroughly when soap is used rather than water alone. 48% of reductions in diarrhoea episodes can be associated with hand washing with soap.Handwashing with soap is the single most effective and inexpensive way to prevent diarrhea and acute respiratory infections (ARI), as automatic behavior performed in homes, schools, and communities worldwide. Besides the surfactant and skin-protecting agent, the sophisticated formulations may contain acids (acetic acid, ascorbic acid, lactic acid) as pH regulator, antimicrobially active benzoic acid and further skin conditioners (aloe vera, vitamins, menthol, plant extracts).A 2007 meta-analysis from the University of Oregon School of Public Health indicated that plain soaps are as effective as consumer-grade anti-bacterial soaps containing triclosan in preventing illness and removing bacteria from the hands. Washing with plain soap results in more than triple the rate of bacterial infectious disease transmitted to food as compared to washing with antibacterial soap.Comparing hand-rubbing with alcohol-based solution with hand washing with antibacterial soap for a median time of 30 seconds each showed that the alcohol hand-rubbing reduced bacterial contamination 26% more than the antibacterial soap. However, one review suggests that promoting hand washing with soap is significantly more cost-effective than other water and sanitation interventions. 
Does homeopathy work better than a placebo? [SEP] Practitioners claim that such preparations, upon oral intake, can treat or cure disease.All relevant scientific knowledge about physics, chemistry, biochemistry and biology contradicts homeopathy. No homeopathic preparation has been shown to be different from placebo. Lack of scientific evidence
The lack of convincing scientific evidence supporting its efficacy and its use of preparations without active ingredients have led to characterizations of homeopathy as pseudoscience and quackery, or, in the words of a 1998 medical review, "placebo therapy at best and quackery at worst". Efficacy
No individual homeopathic preparation has been unambiguously shown by research to be different from placebo. The Russian Commission on Pseudoscience has said homeopathy is not safe because "patients spend significant amounts of money, buying medicines that do not work and disregard already known effective treatment." who concluded on the basis of a systematic review of the scientific literature that there is no evidence that homeopathic treatments work better than a placebo. Referring specifically to homeopathy, the House of Commons of the United Kingdom Science and Technology Committee has stated:In the Committee's view, homeopathy is a placebo treatment and the Government should have a policy on prescribing placebos. In an opinion piece about homeopathy, Ernst argues that it is wrong to support alternative medicine on the basis that it can make patients feel better through the placebo effect. 
Does toothpaste containing xylitol reduce the risk of caries? [SEP] Toothpastes may also help to control and remove plaque build-up, promoting healthy gums. However, the active ingredients in toothpastes are able to prevent dental diseases with regular use. At similar fluoride concentrations, toothpastes containing stannous fluoride have been shown to be more effective than toothpastes containing sodium fluoride for reducing the incidence of dental caries and dental erosion, as well as reducing gingivitis. A systematic review revealed stabilised stannous fluoride-containing toothpastes had a positive effect on the reduction of plaque, gingivitis and staining, with a significant reduction in calculus and halitosis compared to other toothpastes. This is thought to contribute to a reduction in plaque and gingivitis when using stannous fluoride-containing toothpastes when compared to other toothpastes, and has been evidenced through numerous clinical trials. Xylitol
A systematic review reported two out of ten studies by the same authors on the same population showed toothpastes with xylitol as an ingredient were more effective at preventing dental caries in permanent teeth of children than toothpastes containing fluoride alone. However, further investigation into the efficacy of toothpastes containing xylitol is required as the currently available studies are of low quality and high risk of bias. It has been shown to be effective in preventing dental plaque and reducing gingivitis. 
Do other xylitol-containing products (e.g. chewing gums, sweets, mouth rinses) reduce the risk of caries in addition to normal dental care? [SEP] Toothpastes may also help to control and remove plaque build-up, promoting healthy gums. However, the active ingredients in toothpastes are able to prevent dental diseases with regular use. At similar fluoride concentrations, toothpastes containing stannous fluoride have been shown to be more effective than toothpastes containing sodium fluoride for reducing the incidence of dental caries and dental erosion, as well as reducing gingivitis. A systematic review revealed stabilised stannous fluoride-containing toothpastes had a positive effect on the reduction of plaque, gingivitis and staining, with a significant reduction in calculus and halitosis compared to other toothpastes. Clinical trials support the use of high fluoride (5,000 ppm fluoride) dentifrices, for prevention of root caries in elderly adults by reducing the amount of plaque accumulated, decreasing the number of mutans streptococci and lactobacilli and possibly promoting calcium fluoride deposits to a higher degree than after the use of traditional fluoride containing dentifrices. These ingredients are claimed by the manufacturers to fight plaque, bad breath and prevent gum disease. Xylitol
A systematic review reported two out of ten studies by the same authors on the same population showed toothpastes with xylitol as an ingredient were more effective at preventing dental caries in permanent teeth of children than toothpastes containing fluoride alone. This bacterium has been added to chewing gum, but it does not remove the need to brush one's teeth. 
Are paper towels or electric dryers more hygienic after washing hands? [SEP] WHO recommends that everyone “frequently clean [their] hands…” and “dry [them] thoroughly by using paper towels or a warm air dryer.” The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that, “Both [clean towels or air hand dryers] are effective ways to dry hands.” 
A study in 2020 found that hand dryers and paper towels were both found to be equally hygienic hand-drying solutions.Other research suggests paper towels are much more hygienic than the electric hand dryers found in many public toilets. A review in 2012 concluded that "From a hygiene standpoint, paper towels are superior to air dryers; therefore, paper towels should be recommended for use in locations in which hygiene is paramount, such as hospitals and clinics. Respondents overwhelmingly considered paper towels to offer faster hand drying than electric hand dryers (68% vs 14%). On the whole they also considered paper towels to be the most hygienic form of hand drying in public washrooms (53% vs 44%). However, paper towels are quicker than hand dryers: after ten seconds, paper towels achieve 90% dryness, while hot air dryers require 40 seconds to achieve a similar dryness. The CDC report that, "Both [clean towels or air hand dryers] are effective ways to dry hands." A growing volume of research suggests paper towels are much more hygienic than the electric hand dryers found in many public toilets. A review in 2012 concluded that "From a hygiene standpoint, paper towels are superior to air dryers; therefore, paper towels should be recommended for use in locations in which hygiene is paramount, such as hospitals and clinics. 
Are soy foods risky for people with unremarkable, or subclinical, hypothyroidism? [SEP] Dosage tolerance
People with a mild soy allergy can tolerate small or moderate amounts of soy protein: the typical dose needed to induce a strong allergic response in a person with a mild soy allergy is about 100 times higher than for many other food allergens. If the etiology involves subacute thyroiditis, antithyroid medications are not always used, and its use is “controversial”. Hypothyroidism (also called underactive thyroid, low thyroid or hypothyreosis) is a disorder of the endocrine system in which the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormone. Pregnancy
Even mild or subclinical hypothyroidism leads to possible infertility and an increased risk of miscarriage. Prevention
Hypothyroidism may be prevented in a population by adding iodine to commonly used foods. Untreated subclinical hypothyroidism may be associated with a modest increase in the risk of coronary artery disease when the TSH is over 10 mIU/L. There is no association between subclinical hypothyroidism and an increased risk of bone fractures, nor is there a link with cognitive decline.Since 2008, consensus American opinion has been that in general people with TSH under 10 to 20 mIU/L do not require treatment.American guidelines recommend that treatment should be considered in people with symptoms of hypothyroidism, detectable antibodies against thyroid peroxidase, a history of heart disease or are at an increased risk for heart disease, if the TSH is elevated but below 10 mIU/L. Those with an elevated TSH but below 10 mIU/L who have symptoms suggestive of hypothyroidism should have a trial of treatment but with the aim to stopping this if the symptoms persist despite normalisation of the TSH.A recent meta-analysis, however, found an increased risk for cardiovascular death in subclinical hypothyroidism. 
Does taking vitamin B3 prolong life? [SEP] B vitamins are a class of water-soluble vitamins that play important roles in cell metabolism and synthesis of red blood cells. Though these vitamins share similar names (B1, B2, B3, etc. Individual B vitamin supplements are referred to by the specific number or name of each vitamin, such as B1 for thiamine, B2 for riboflavin, and B3 for niacin. The elderly and athletes may need to supplement their intake of B12 and other B vitamins due to problems in absorption and increased needs for energy production. Vitamin B13: orotic acid. It is one of eight B vitamins. Because 10 to 30 percent of older people may be unable to effectively absorb vitamin B12 naturally occurring in foods, it is advisable for those older than 50 years to meet their RDA mainly by consuming foods fortified with vitamin B12 or a supplement containing vitamin B12. A Mayo Clinic review concluded that there is no solid evidence that vitamin B12 injections provide an energy boost or aid weight loss.There is evidence that for elderly people, physicians often repeatedly prescribe and administer cyanocobalamin injections inappropriately, evidenced by the majority of subjects in one large study either having had normal serum concentrations or had not been tested prior to the injections. 
Can taking Ribose help with heart conditions such as heart failure, narrowing of the coronary arteries (coronary artery disease), or heart attack? [SEP] This is recommended in those with symptoms consistent with heart failure such as shortness of breath.The European Society of Cardiology defines the diagnosis of heart failure as symptoms and signs consistent with heart failure in combination with "objective evidence of cardiac structural or functional abnormalities". Clinical significance
Cardiac glycosides have long served as the main medical treatment to congestive heart failure and cardiac arrhythmia, due to their effects of increasing the force of muscle contraction while reducing heart rate. SHIFT also showed that administration of ivabradine to heart failure patients significantly reduced the risk of death from heart failure by 26% (P=0.014) and hospitalization for heart failure by 26% (P<0.0001). It has been found to be particularly useful in heart failure due to systolic dysfunction together with hydralazine. Medical uses
It is used for angina, in addition to other medications for congestive heart failure, and for esophageal spasms. It can be used both to treat and to prevent heart-related chest pain; however, it is generally less preferred than beta blockers or calcium channel blockers. These food choices can reduce the risk of a heart attack or any other congestive heart failure event. These medications help to prevent clots in the coronary artery and the occlusion which can lead to a heart attack. 
Are vitamins and minerals effective and safe in lowering cholesterol? [SEP] It studied the use of the cholesterol lowering drug, simvastatin 40 mg and vitamin supplementation (vitamin E, vitamin C and beta carotene) in people who were at risk of cardiovascular disease. Initial results were published in 2002, which indicated that vitamins made little difference in modifying cardiovascular risk, but that simvastatin could significantly reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. Its goal is to reduce increased cardiovascular disease rates due to hypercholesterolemia (elevated cholesterol levels) in the United States of America. The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. The cholesterol was found to be responsible for the thickening of the arterial walls and thus decreasing the radius in the arteries which leads in most cases to hypertension and increased risk of occlusive vascular diseases.In the 1950s the Framingham heart study led by Dawber revealed the correlation between high blood cholesterol levels and coronary heart diseases. It reduces triglyceride levels and increases HDL cholesterol. A cholesterol crystal is a solid, crystalline form of cholesterol found in gallstones and atherosclerosis. Cholesterol crystals are a hallmark of atherosclerosis, which is believed to be an early cause of atherosclerotic inflammation. 
Is fasting effective and safe in the long term for arthritis and other diseases? [SEP] Ramadan fasting is safe for healthy people provided that overall food and water intake is adequate, but those with medical conditions should seek medical advice if they encounter health problems before or during fasting. Health effects
Fasting may have different results on health in different circumstances. Mental health
In one review, fasting improved alertness, mood, and subjective feelings of well-being, possibly improving overall symptoms of depression, and boosting cognitive performance. Data from the Second World War suggests fasting inhibits atherosclerosis. Longevity
There is no good clinical evidence that fasting can promote longevity in humans, as of 2021. A Study of Prolonged Fasting. Psychological Effects of Fasting. Fasting – the ultimate diet?. 
Do green smoothies promote health? [SEP] A health shake is a blended beverage intended to be healthful for one to consume and some are commercially marketed for that purpose. Smoothies—particularly green smoothies—are arguably a type of health shake, except stereotypical health shakes often contain some processed ingredients rather than just raw fruit and vegetables. Green Spot is a brand of non-carbonated, non-caffeinated orange-based soft drink originating in the United States but today produced in Thailand and Venezuela. Its original company, Green Spot USA, now produces flavorings for beverages, ice-creams, and other food products. New research, by Auckland University of Technology, is now investigating the additional social, physical and mental health benefits of Group Green Exercise. The Green Gym is viewed by participants as being beneficial to their mental health and wellbeing. Happy Planet produces three products lines: juices, cooler (a mix of juice and tea), and smoothies. Green Drinks is an informal networking event where environmentally minded people meet over drinks. 
Does chocolate have a mood-lifting effect? [SEP] Mood
By some popular myths, chocolate is considered to be a mood enhancer, such as by increasing sex drive or stimulating cognition, but there is little scientific evidence that such effects are consistent among all chocolate consumers. If mood improvement from eating chocolate occurs, there is not enough research to indicate whether it results from the favorable flavor or from the stimulant effects of its constituents, such as caffeine, theobromine, or their parent molecule, methylxanthine. A 2019 review reported that chocolate consumption does not improve depressive mood. The quantity of sugars used in chocolate confections also impacts the psychoactive effects of chocolate.Although the concept of a chocolate addiction is still controversial in the medical literature, chocolate (especially dark chocolate) is considered to have effects on mood, and chocolate confectioneries almost always top the list of foods people say they crave. The consumption of chocolate creates a positive emotional experience, providing comfort and often used for alleviating stress and negative emotions. Chocolate is known to regulate an imbalance in the functioning of the neurotransmitter, serotonin, a factor influencing emotional states. This encourages the user to consume more chocolate due to its ability to make the consumer feel good. He applauded smaller doses of chocolate, advising that chocolate consumed as a liquid resulted in consumers feeling revitalised.Chocolate also had a significant medical use. 
Do sprouts or buds have a healing effect? [SEP] Sprouting is the natural process by which seeds or spores germinate and put out shoots, and already established plants produce new leaves or buds, or other  structures experience further growth. Sprouts are rich in digestible energy, vitamins, minerals, amino acids, proteins, and phytochemicals, as these are necessary for a germinating plant to grow. Increases in vitamin content
According to Chavan and Kadam (1989), most reports agree that sprouting treatment of cereal grains generally improves their vitamin value, especially the B-group vitamins. According to Shipard (2005): Sprouts provide a good supply of Vitamins A, E & C plus B complex. However, a sprout, just starting out in life, is likely to need, and thus have more nutrients percentage-wise of weight, than a mature vegetable. How can I grow and use sprouts as living food?. Self-heal is edible: the young leaves and stems can be eaten raw in salads; the plant as a whole can be boiled and eaten as a leaf vegetable; and the aerial parts of the plant can be powdered and brewed in a cold infusion to make a beverage. Vigorous upright water sprouts often develop in response to damage or pruning. 
Is belly fat or is a large abdominal girth particularly dangerous for health? [SEP] Abdominal obesity, also known as central obesity and truncal obesity, is the human condition of an excessive concentration of visceral fat around the stomach and abdomen to such an extent that it is likely to harm its bearer's health. An excess of adipose visceral fat is known as central obesity, the "pot belly" or "beer belly" effect, in which the abdomen protrudes excessively. Health risks
Heart disease
Abdominal obesity is typically associated with a statistically higher risk of heart disease, hypertension, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes (see below). It is now generally believed that intra-abdominal fat is the depot that conveys the biggest health risk.Recent validation has concluded that total and regional body volume estimates correlate positively and significantly with biomarkers of cardiovascular risk and BVI calculations correlate significantly with all biomarkers of cardio-vascular risk. (2007) concluded that a high abdominal circumference is associated with great functional repercussion.Research published in The Lancet (2023) found that high levels of visceral fat were related to poorer cognitive performance. Another diagnosis of obesity is the analysis of intra-abdominal fat having the most risk to one's personal health. As mentioned above, abdominal fat is linked with cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer. Specifically it's the deepest layer of belly fat (the fat that cannot be seen or grabbed) that poses health risks, as these "visceral" fat cells produce hormones that can affect health (e.g. 
Can choline ingested with food - alone or in the form of lecithin, for example - improve memory? [SEP] Studies performed in the 1980s demonstrated significant impairment of cholinergic markers in Alzheimer's patients.Thus it was proposed that degeneration of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and the associated loss of cholinergic neurotransmission in the cerebral cortex and other areas contributed significantly to the deterioration in cognitive function seen in patients with Alzheimer's diseaseFurther studies on the cholinergic system and AD demonstrated acetylcholine plays a role in learning and memory. Dietary supplement
Because it contains phosphatidylcholines, lecithin is a source of choline, an essential nutrient. Choline and L-carnitine
Choline is a water-soluble nutrient that prevents and improves epilepsy and cognitive disorders. Its consumption elevates the free choline levels for about 8–12 hours, but does not affect phosphatidylcholine levels significantly.Choline is a water-soluble ion and thus requires transporters to pass through fat-soluble cell membranes. It substitutes for choline nutritionally, but only partially. Higher maternal intake of choline is likely associated with better neurocognition/neurodevelopment in children. Cognition
Studies observing the effect between higher choline intake and cognition have been conducted in human adults, with contradictory results. In particular, there is interest in the impact of choline consumption on the brain. 
Does white sugar cause cancer? [SEP] White sugar, also called table sugar, granulated sugar, or regular sugar, is a commonly used type of sugar, made either of beet sugar or cane sugar, which has undergone a refining process. Consumption of alcohol in any quantity can cause cancer. Other mechanisms
Additional mechanisms contribute to cancer risk with alcohol consumption. Taubes contends that carbohydrates, specifically refined carbohydrates like white flour, sugar, and starches, contribute to obesity, diabetes, heart disease, and other ailments. Taubes posits a causal link between carbohydrates and cancer, as well. Sugar — White Death) was a Ukrainian rock band formed in Kyiv, Ukraine. Critics and competitors of high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS), notably the sugar industry, have for many years used various public relations campaigns to claim the sweetener causes certain health conditions, despite the lack of scientific evidence that HFCS differs nutritionally from sugar. See also
Citizens for Health
High-fructose corn syrup and health
That Sugar Film


== References == 
Do wound care products with sodium hypochlorite such as ActiMaris promote the healing process of wounds? [SEP] Sodium hypochlorite washes are skin cleansers formulated with sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) and surfactants. The use of sodium hypochlorite in the form of a bleach bath, has been reported to improve atopic dermatitis severity in children with moderate-to-severe dermatitis or eczema.Solutions of 0.05–0.06% NaOCl are considered safe and still maintain bactericidal activity against Staphylococcus aureus. Findings suggest that sodium hypochlorite baths may have a direct suppressive effect on the inflammation. Sodium hypochlorite cleansers
A sodium hypochlorite cleanser is used to cleanse and soothe skin that is prone to infection and conditions such as eczema, atopic dermatitis, folliculitis and other skin conditions. Wound healing properties
Calcium alginate dressings may help the production of mouse fibroblasts and in vitro, of human fibroblasts. It has been shown that calcium alginate activates human macrophages to produce TNFα (Tumor Necrosis Factor α) which is involved in the inflammatory signals and consequently wound healing process. Moreover, the clotting mechanisms during the first stage of wound healing may be improved by calcium alginate. The early use of alginates as haemostats and wound dressings and their apparent lack of toxicity are discussed. 
Does the dietary supplement MSM help with osteoarthritis? [SEP] The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) is a widely used, proprietary set of standardized questionnaires used by health professionals to evaluate the condition of patients with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip, including pain, stiffness, and physical functioning of the joints. A disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) is a disease-modifying drug that would inhibit or even reverse the progression of osteoarthritis. Since the main hallmark of osteoarthritis is cartilage loss, a typical DMOAD would prevent the loss of cartilage and potentially regenerate it. Several approved drugs are being investigated as repurposed agents in the treatment of osteoarhritis such as liraglutide (anti-diabetic and anti-obesity drug: NCT02905864), Metformin (anti-diabetic drug: NCT04767841, NCT05034029), Zoledronic acid (anti-osteoporotic drug: NCT04303026), etc.Paroxetine has been deemed to have dmoad activity. As of June 2015, they are the only North American manufactures of methylsulfonylmethane (MSM), an ingredient utilized in dietary supplement products. The mission of OARSI is to promote and advance research for the prevention and treatment of osteoarthritis. References
External links
Osteoarthritis Research Society International This is one of the joints where most humans develop osteoarthritis with age. 
Is wheat lectin, which is found in high amounts especially in whole wheat, harmful to health? [SEP] Wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) is a lectin that protects wheat (Triticum) from insects, yeast and bacteria. Although "gluten" often only refers to wheat proteins, in medical literature it refers to the combination of prolamin and glutelin proteins naturally occurring in all grains that have been proved capable of triggering celiac disease. The storage proteins in other grains, such as maize (zeins) and rice (rice protein), are sometimes called gluten, but they do not cause harmful effects in people with celiac disease. Celiac disease
Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic, multiple-organ autoimmune disorder primarily affecting the small intestine caused by the ingestion of wheat, barley, rye, oats, and derivatives, that appears in genetically predisposed people of all ages. Wheat allergy
People can also experience adverse effects of wheat as result of a wheat allergy. Wheat or other allergens are listed after the ingredient line. Different toxic lectins are present in seeds of different origin. Glutenin (a type of glutelin) is a major protein within wheat flour, making up 47% of the total protein content. 
Is it harmful to health to regularly eat large quantities of fish contaminated with dioxins and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)? [SEP] According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), PCBs cause cancer in animals and are probable human carcinogens. PCBs can cause harm to human health or even death when eaten. PCBs biomagnify up the food web and are present in fish and overflow of contaminated aquifers. PCBs that have dioxin-like activity are known to cause a variety of teratogenic effects in animals. According to the U.S. EPA, PCBs have been shown to cause cancer in animals and evidence supports a cancer-causing effect in humans. Fish and waterfowl who live in and around the river contain significant levels of PCBs and are not safe to eat. Scientists discovered that low levels of PCBs could kill fish and other wildlife and as such their use in manufacturing was reduced.In 2008, a dioxin poisoning event caused the 2008 Irish pork crisis in which Irish pork was recalled worldwide. The Department of Health cites mercury, PCBs, dioxin, and cadmium as the chemicals impacting fish in these areas.PCBs are thought to be responsible for health concerns that include neurological disorders, lower IQ and poor short-term memory (active memory), hormonal disruption, suppressed immune system, cancer, skin irritations, Parkinson's disease, ADHD, heart disease, and diabetes. 
Is the DMPS test suitable to reliably indicate mercury poisoning? [SEP] Mercury poisoning is a type of metal poisoning due to exposure to mercury. In those with acute poisoning from inorganic mercury salts, chelation with either dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) or dimercaptopropane sulfonate (DMPS) appears to improve outcomes if given within a few hours of exposure. Chelation therapy
Chelation therapy for acute inorganic mercury poisoning, a formerly common method, was done with DMSA, 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid (DMPS), D-penicillamine (DPCN), or dimercaprol (BAL). Only DMSA is FDA-approved for use in children for treating mercury poisoning. However, several studies found no clear clinical benefit from DMSA treatment for poisoning due to mercury vapor. The effects of DMPS on heavy metal poisoning, including with polonium-210, were investigated in the following years. DMPS was found to have some protective effect, prolonging the survival time.A study was undertaken of DMPS use by workers involved in the production of a calomel skin bleaching lotion and in direct contact with mercurous chloride and that already showed elevated urine mercury levels. The sodium salt of DMPS was found to be effective in lowering the body burden of mercury and in decreasing the urinary mercury concentration to normal levels.DMPS administrated to a mercury poisoned animal model failed to remove the mercury from tissues and reduce the inorganic mercury burden in the brain, indicating it is not a useful intra-cellular chelation agent. 
Can stevia lower high blood pressure? [SEP] Stevioside is a glycoside derived from the stevia plant, which can be used as a sweetener. A second review that looked at higher-risk people (mostly diabetics whose blood pressure was difficult to control) found the medication prevented stroke for 1 in 223 and death for 1 in 110 who took it. These have all been shown to significantly reduce blood pressure in people with hypertension. If hypertension is high enough to justify immediate use of medications, lifestyle changes are still recommended in conjunction with medication.Dietary change, such as a low sodium diet and a vegetarian diet, are beneficial. Elderly
Treating moderate to severe hypertension decreases death rates and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in people aged 60 and older. For high blood pressure, it is a less preferred option. For high blood pressure, it is a less preferred option. It is a reasonable initial treatment for high blood pressure. 
Is eating genetically modified corn a health concern? [SEP] Genetically modified maize (corn) is a genetically modified crop. "GMO Safety - Overview on biosafety research projects on genetically modified maize funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF)". Corn is a 2004 drama-thriller starring Jena Malone about the dangers of genetically modified food. I can't think of a biological reason why GMO corn should do this.....So even though I strongly support labeling, I'm skeptical of this study.'" No reports of ill effects have been documented in the human population from genetically modified food.There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Health
There is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. These cases have been used as evidence that genetic modification can produce unexpected and dangerous changes in foods, and as evidence that safety tests effectively protect the food supply.During the Starlink corn recalls in 2000, a variety of GM maize containing the Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) protein Cry9C, was found contaminating corn products in U.S. supermarkets and restaurants. The StarLink corn recalls occurred in the autumn of 2000, when over 300 food products were found to contain a genetically modified corn that had not been approved for human consumption. 
Are privately performed IgG tests to clarify food intolerances meaningful? [SEP] European guidelines suggest that in children and adolescents with symptoms which are compatible with coeliac disease, the diagnosis can be made without the need for an intestinal biopsy if anti-tTG antibodies titres are very high (10 times the upper limit of normal).A recently proposed criterion to non-coeliac gluten sensitivity diagnosis concludes that an improvement of gastrointestinal symptoms and extra-intestinal manifestations higher than 50% with a gluten-free diet, assessed through a rating scale, may confirm the clinical diagnosis of non-coeliac gluten sensitivity. This newly proposed protocol has shown higher tolerability and compliance, and it has been calculated that its application in secondary-care gastrointestinal practice would identify celiac disease in 7% patients referred for suspected non-coeliac gluten sensitivity, while in the remaining 93% would confirm non-coeliac gluten sensitivity, but is not yet universally adopted. With idiopathic gluten sensitivity only antibody recognition to gliadin has been resolved. Its biological response mechanism is characterized by an increased production of IgE (immunoglobulin E) antibodies.A food intolerance on the other hand does not activate the individual's immune response system. A food intolerance differs from a food allergy or chemical sensitivity because it generally requires a normal serving size to produce symptoms similar to an IgE immunologic response. Although an individual may have an adverse reaction to a food, this is not considered a food intolerance.Elimination diets are useful to assist in the diagnosis of food allergy and pharmacological food intolerance. When reactions occur immediately after certain food ingestion then diagnosis is straight forward and can be documented by using carefully performed tests such as the skin prick test (SPT) and the radioallergosorbent test RAST to detect specific IgE antibodies to specific food proteins and aero-allergens. Currently this test has not been shown to be an effective measure of an allergy or intolerance.Food intolerance due to pharmacological reaction is more common than food allergy and has been estimated to occur in 10% of the population. 
Is a gluten-free diet recommended for people who do not have celiac disease? [SEP] People with a poor understanding of a gluten-free diet often believe that they are strictly following the diet, but are making regular errors.In addition, a gluten-free diet may, in at least some cases, improve gastrointestinal or systemic symptoms in diseases like irritable bowel syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, or HIV enteropathy, among others. Although gluten is highly immunologically reactive and humans appear not to have evolved to digest it well, a gluten-free diet is not a healthier option for the general population, other than people with gluten-related disorders or other associated conditions which improve with a gluten-free diet in some cases, such as irritable bowel syndrome and certain autoimmune and neurological disorders. Local initiatives by clinical commissioning groups had already reduced the cost of gluten-free foods to the NHS by 39% between 2015 and 2017.Healthcare professionals recommend against undertaking a gluten-free diet as a form of self-diagnosis, because tests for coeliac disease are reliable only if the person has been consuming gluten recently. Eating gluten-free
A gluten-free diet is a diet that strictly excludes gluten, proteins present in wheat (and all wheat varieties such as spelt and kamut), barley, rye, oat, and derivatives of these grains such as malt and triticale, and foods that may include them, or shared transportation or processing facilities with them. The results of a 2017 study suggest that non-celiac gluten sensitivity may be a chronic disorder, as is the case with celiac disease.For people with wheat allergy, the individual average is six years of gluten-free diet, excepting persons with anaphylaxis, for whom the diet is to be wheat-free for life.Preferably, newly diagnosed celiacs seek the help of a dietician to receive support for identifying hidden sources of gluten, planning balanced meals, reading labels, food shopping, dining out, and dining during travel. Risks of non-medical and self-diagnosed adoption of a gluten-free diet
Withdrawing gluten from the diet without previously carrying out a complete medical examination can hamper the diagnosis of celiac disease. Catassi and Fasano proposed in 2010 that in patients without celiac disease antibodies, either lymphocytic infiltration associated with IgA subepithelial deposits or a histological response to a gluten-free diet, could support a diagnosis of celiac disease. Many people who are making a gluten-free diet did not previously exclude celiac disease or, when they are fully evaluated, other alternative diagnoses can be found such as fructose intolerance or small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, or a better response to a low-FODMAP diet obtained. 
Does the plant substance nobiletin contained in mandarins protect against weight gain? [SEP] Nobiletin is a flavonoid isolated from citrus peels. Potential pharmacology
Nobiletin was found to potentially inhibit cartilage degradation.Nobiletin was shown to augment AMPA receptor activity and long-term potentiation in cell culture. Synergistic chemopreventive effects of nobiletin and atorvastatin on colon carcinogenesis have been described. References
External links
Nobiletin, phytochemicals.info Cortiplex purportedly "controls cortisol levels within a healthy range to help reduce fat stage and promote fat mobilization - especially fat stored around the midsection in the tough-to-lose abdominal area" and consists of magnolia bark extract (Magnolia officinalis; 1 -5% honokiol), beta-sitoserol, and SuntheanineB (1 00% L-theanine). Ingredients
Magnolia Bark Extract
Beta-sitoserol
SuntheanineB
Green Tea Leaf extract
Bitter orange peel extract
Banana leaf extract

Product Details
Total Weight: 0.25 lbs (0.11 kg)
UPC: 858949002001
Item #: 4282
Package Format: 90 Capsules
Origin: Made In USA

False Advertisement
Window Rock Enterprises, the former owners of the CortiSlim product line, originally claimed that it contributed to weight loss by blocking cortisol. Modes of action
Effect on growth rates
Compounds such as caraway oil, lemon oil, and dried herbs and spices, may improve the growth rate of certain animals. Unlike most botanical feed additives, which are considered as sensory additives (flavors), Delacon was the first and currently only company obtaining zootechnical registrations for its main phytogenic products in the pig and poultry feed sector in 2012 and 2017, covering both digestibility and performance parameters.In order to obtain the registration as a zootechnical feed additive, a dossier of complete, comprehensive and validated data on the quality, safety and efficacy of the feed additive must be submitted to the European Commission. 
Does consumption of dairy products in middle and advanced age protect against bone fractures? [SEP] A diet high in protein may be optimal for bone health, as higher protein diets tend to increase absorption of calcium from the diet and are associated with higher bone density. People with lactose intolerance or milk allergy may develop osteoporosis due to restrictions of calcium-containing foods. There has been conflicting evidence about whether or not dairy is an adequate source of calcium to prevent fractures. There is some evidence that physical exercise may be beneficial for bone density in postmenopausal women and lead to a slightly reduced risk of a bone fracture (absolute difference 4%). A position statement concluded that increased bone activity and weight-bearing exercises at a young age prevent bone fragility in adults. Biological function
Active substances in the milk basic protein fraction promote bone formation and suppress bone resorption. These actions may be beneficial for pre-menopausal and menopausal women in particular, as increased bone mineral density decreases the risk of fractures associated with osteoporosis. Foods high in calcium and vitamin D and 60 minutes of daily bone-strengthening activity will help lower girls’ risk of developing fractures or osteoporosis later in life. 
Is the milk of horn-bearing cows less rich in allergens and more easily tolerated by lactose-intolerant individuals? [SEP] Milk allergy is an adverse immune reaction to one or more proteins in cow's milk. Lactose intolerance
Milk allergy is distinct from lactose intolerance, which is a nonallergic food sensitivity caused by the lack of the enzyme lactase in the small intestines to break lactose down into glucose and galactose. For mothers of infants considered at high risk of developing cow's milk allergy because of a family history, there is some evidence that the nursing mother avoiding allergens may reduce risk of the child developing eczema, but a Cochrane review concluded that more research is needed.There is some evidence that formula supplement given within the first 24 hours of a babies life in hospital increases the incidence of cow's milk allergy for mothers who then go on to exclusively breast feed.Guidelines from various government and international organizations recommend that for the lowest allergy risk, infants be exclusively breastfed for four to six months, but there does not appear to be any benefit beyond six months. However, some people with cow's milk allergy can tolerate goat's or sheep's milk. Though β-lactoglobulin is considered a major allergen, the protective impact of the consumption of raw milk has been shown to dependent on the protein-content of the whey fraction and thus of β-lactoglobulin. Lactose intolerance is different from a milk allergy. Lactose intolerance is not an allergy, because it is not an immune response, but rather a sensitivity to dairy caused by a deficiency of lactase enzyme. The severity of these signs and symptoms typically increases with the amount of lactose consumed; most lactose-intolerant people can tolerate a certain level of lactose in their diets without ill effects.Because lactose intolerance is not an allergy, it does not produce allergy symptoms (such as itching, hives, or anaphylaxis). 
Does daily flossing protect against tooth decay, periodontitis and tooth loss? [SEP] Use of floss is recommended to prevent gingivitis and the build-up of plaque. Efficacy
Evidence
The American Dental Association has stated that flossing in combination with tooth brushing can help prevent gum disease and halitosis.However, evidence favoring commonplace use of floss remains limited. The authors concluded that routine instruction of flossing in gingivitis patients as helpful adjunct therapy is not supported by scientific evidence, and that flossing recommendations should be made by dental professionals on an individual basis.A 2011 Cochrane Database systematic review identified "some evidence from 12 studies that flossing in addition to tooth brushing reduces gingivitis compared to tooth brushing alone", and "weak, very unreliable evidence from 10 studies that flossing plus tooth brushing may be associated with a small reduction in plaque at 1 and 3 months." A 2006 review of 6 studies in which professionals flossed the teeth of school children over a period of 1.7 years showed a 40% reduction in the risk of tooth decay.More recently, a 2019 Cochrane Database systematic review compared toothbrushing alone to interdental cleaning devices, and also compared flossing to other interdental cleaning methods. Notably, small-scale clinical studies have demonstrated that dental floss, when used correctly, may lead to clinically significant improvements in proximal gingival health. Eating a balanced diet and limiting sugar intake can help prevent tooth decay and periodontal disease. Reasons
Brushing teeth properly helps prevent cavities, and periodontal, or gum disease, which causes at least one-third of adult tooth loss. In general, the more effective one's brushing, flossing, and other oral homecare practices, the less plaque will accumulate on the teeth. 
Do protein supplements help build muscle? [SEP] Bodybuilding supplements are dietary supplements commonly used by those involved in bodybuilding, weightlifting, mixed martial arts, and athletics for the purpose of facilitating an increase in lean body mass. Bodybuilding supplements may contain ingredients that are advertised to increase a person's muscle, body weight, athletic performance, and decrease a person's percent body fat for desired muscle definition. Protein
Bodybuilders may supplement their diets with protein for reasons of convenience, lower cost (relative to meat and fish products), ease of preparation, and to avoid the concurrent consumption of carbohydrates and fats. Amino acids
Some bodybuilders believe that amino acid supplements may benefit muscle development, but consumption of such supplements is unnecessary in a diet that already includes adequate protein intake. A protein supplement may be a dietary supplement or a bodybuilding supplement, and may take the form of a protein bar or protein powder. An increased requirement for protein can help elevate protein synthesis, which is seen in athletes training for muscle hypertrophy. Another study determined that muscle protein synthesis was elevated even 72 hours following training.A small study performed on young and elderly found that ingestion of 340 grams of lean beef (90 g protein) did not increase muscle protein synthesis any more than ingestion of 113 grams of lean beef (30 g protein). Protein supplements, usually in a palatable powdered form such as whey protein or rice protein, are also commonly used both for flavour and as a fuel for muscle growth and recovery. 
Does music therapy promote recovery from severe limitations of consciousness after severe brain injury? [SEP] Additionally, another study found that music therapy demonstrated sedative and relaxing effects on patients. These studies varied in nature, but the authors concluded that music therapy can be a successful intervention and can improve both cognitive and emotional behaviors, as well as decrease some of the behavioral issues associated with Alzheimer's disease. Areas of the brain that are influenced by music are one of the last regions to degenerate due to the progression of Alzheimer's disease.Music therapy has a positive effect on immediate and delayed word recall in mild AD patients. They state that music therapy has been found to enhance cognition and can help caregivers better take care of those affected by Alzheimer's. Music therapy for non-fluent aphasia is a method for treating patients who have lost the ability to speak after a stroke or accident. Furthermore, it has been suggested that if a patient can control the music that he or she listens to in the recovery process, then the return to normalcy happens at a much faster, more efficient rate than if the subject was assigned a music genre that he or she did not find appealing. Even auditory cognition has been shown to have some potential for recovery after stroke. has shown that listening to music and audio books during early recovery from stroke can result in improved cognition.This paradigm has opened doors into the previously believed to be impossible; recovery from strokes, reduced cognitive ageing. 
Can eating grapefruit in combination with some medications lead to harmful interactions? [SEP] Affected drugs typically have an auxiliary label saying "Do not take with grapefruit" on the container, and the interaction is elaborated upon in the package insert. Affected fruit
Grapefruit is not the only citrus fruit that can interact with medications. From 2008 to 2012, the number of drugs known to potentially interact with grapefruit, with risk of harmful or even dangerous effects (gastrointestinal bleeding, nephrotoxicity), increased from 17 to 43. Drugs that are metabolized by these enzymes may have interactions with components of grapefruit. To avoid interference with drug absorption and metabolism, the consumption of citrus (especially grapefruit) and other juices with medications is advised against.However, in vitro studies have also shown that naringin in grapefruit is not what causes the inhibitory effects associated with grapefruit juice. Drug interactions
Grapefruit and grapefruit juice have been found to interact with numerous drugs, in many cases resulting in adverse effects. This happens in two ways: one is that grapefruit can block an enzyme which metabolizes medication, and if the drug is not metabolized, then the level of the drug in the blood can become too high, leading to an adverse effect. People taking drugs can ask their health care provider or pharmacist questions about grapefruit/drug interactions. 
Can regular consumption of chocolate prevent cardiovascular disease? [SEP] The health effects of chocolate are the possible effects on health of consuming chocolate, mainly over the long term. Commonly consumed chocolate is high in fat and sugar, which are associated with an increased risk for obesity when consumed in excess. Clinical research studies are insufficient to confirm an effect of chocolate on long-term health. Throughout history, numerous beneficial effects have been attributed to chocolate consumption, although none has been substantiated. "Moreover chocolate may not be the only source of lead in their nutrition" and "chocolate might be a significant source of cadmium and lead ingestion, particularly for children." A 2019 review reported that chocolate consumption does not improve depressive mood. Heart and blood vessels
Reviews support a short-term effect of lowering blood pressure by consuming cocoa products, but there is no evidence of long-term cardiovascular health benefit. While daily consumption of cocoa flavanols (minimum dose of 200 mg) appears to benefit platelet and vascular function, there is no good evidence to support an effect on heart attacks or strokes. 
Is barley grass good for health? [SEP] Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is known to be more environmentally-tolerant than other cereal crops, in terms of soil pH, mineral nutrient availability, and water availability. Barley (Hordeum vulgare), a member of the grass family, is a major cereal grain grown in temperate climates globally. Biology
Barley is a member of the grass family. Health implications
According to Health Canada and the US Food and Drug Administration, consuming at least 3 grams per day of barley beta-glucan or 0.75 grams per serving of soluble fiber can lower levels of blood cholesterol, a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases.Eating whole-grain barley, as well as other high-fiber grains, improves regulation of blood sugar (i.e., reduces blood glucose response to a meal). Consuming breakfast cereals containing barley over weeks to months also improved cholesterol levels and glucose regulation.Like wheat, rye, and their hybrids and derivatives, barley contains gluten, which makes it an unsuitable grain for consumption by people with gluten-related disorders, such as celiac disease, non-celiac gluten sensitivity and wheat allergy sufferers, among others. Barley is an important feed grain in many areas of the world not typically suited for maize production, especially in northern climates—for example, northern and eastern Europe. Barley Information for Growers, eXtension Hordeum pusillum, also known as little barley, is an annual grass native to most of the United States and southwestern Canada. 
Are diets with reduced carbohydrate content better for weight loss than other weight loss programs? [SEP] For weight loss, they perform similarly to a low-carbohydrate diet, since macronutrient composition does not determine weight loss success. According to the carbohydrate–insulin model, low-carbohydrate diets would be the most effective in causing long-term weight loss. Low-carbohydrate diet proponents emphasize research saying that low-carbohydrate diets can initially cause slightly greater weight loss than a balanced diet, but any such advantage does not persist. Body weight
In the short and medium term, people taking a low-carbohydrate diet can experience more weight loss than people taking a low-fat diet. A 2017 review concluded that a variety of diets, including low-carbohydrate diets, achieve similar weight loss outcomes, which are mainly determined by calorie restriction and adherence rather than the type of diet. For individuals with type 2 diabetes who can't meet the glycemic targets or where reducing anti-glycemic medications is a priority, the ADA says that low or very-low carbohydrate diets are a viable approach.A 2021 umbrella review found that low-carbohydrate diets are no better for weight loss than higher-carbohydrate or low-fat diets in diabetic patients. There is some evidence that these diets results in considerable weight loss. Low-carb dieters' initial advantage in weight loss is likely a result of increased water loss, and that after the initial period, low-carbohydrate diets produce similar fat loss to other diets with similar caloric intake.Atkins did not publish any clinical data on his patients and has thus been criticized for making unsupported statements about health. 
Does taking probiotics during pregnancy and early life protect children from atopic dermatitis? [SEP] However, probiotic bacteria have been found to reduce allergic symptoms in some studies. A 2015 review showed low-quality evidence that probiotics given directly to infants with eczema, or in infants whose mothers used probiotics during the last trimester of pregnancy and breastfeeding, had lower risk of eczema. Dermatitis
Probiotics are commonly given to breastfeeding mothers and their young children to prevent eczema (dermatitis), but no good evidence shows efficacy for this purpose. There is little evidence to support the use of probiotics to treat atopic dermatitis, and some risk of adverse effects. The American Academy of Dermatology stated: "The use of probiotics/prebiotics for the treatment of patients with established atopic dermatitis is not recommended due to inconsistent evidence". Research, by Maldonado et al, found that infants receiving a follow-on formula enriched with L. fermentum demonstrated a reduction in gastrointestinal and respiratory infections, thus the administration of such formula may be useful for the prevention of community-acquired gastrointestinal and upper respiratory infections in infants.Human milk probiotics could also act as pioneering species to increase the colonization of ‘beneficial’ bacteria and support the infant’s immature immune system. Allergy
Probiotics are commonly given to breast-feeding mothers and their young children to prevent eczema, but  some doubt exists over the strength of evidence supporting this practice. Probiotics for Kids: How are they useful? 
Is Bulletproof Coffee recommended? [SEP] Bulletproof, indeed." Bulletproof is a 2020 documentary film exploring the culture of fear that has developed at schools as a response to the perceived threat of school shootings and the industry that has developed to market products to secure schools. A 2017 umbrella review of meta-analyses found that drinking coffee is generally safe within usual levels of intake and is more likely to improve health outcomes than to cause harm at doses of 3 or 4 cups of coffee daily. Mortality
In 2012, the National Institutes of Health–AARP Diet and Health Study found that higher coffee consumption was associated with lower risk of death, and that those who drank any coffee lived longer than those who did not. An association of coffee drinking with reduced risk for death from various sources was confirmed by a widely cited prospective cohort study of ten European countries in 2017. A 2016 meta-analysis showed that coffee consumption was associated with a reduced risk of death in patients who have had a myocardial infarction.The effect of no or moderate daily consumption of coffee on risk for developing hypertension has been assessed in several reviews during the 21st century. Bulletproof glass, ballistic glass, transparent armor, or bullet-resistant glass is a strong and optically transparent material that is particularly resistant to penetration by projectiles. The website's critical consensus reads, "In addition to its ability to deflect gunfire, Bulletproof proves sadly impervious to humor, logic, or worthwhile viewing." 
Do apples help with smoking cessation? [SEP] The book aims to help people quit smoking, offering a range of different methods. Clinical trial
A 2018 study funded by DOH Ireland set out with an objective to determine if Allen Carr's Easyway to Stop Smoking was superior to Quit.ie in a randomised clinical trial. "An apple a day keeps the doctor away" is a common English-language proverb that appeared in the 19th century, advocating for the consumption of apples, and by extension, "if one eats healthful foods, one will remain in good health and will not need to see the doctor often." Scientific background
A 2013 study using computer modelling compared eating apples with taking a common daily cholesterol-lowering drug to estimate risk of cardiovascular diseases. The computer model estimated that eating an apple a day was generally comparable for people over age 50 years to using a statin drug to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, concluding that eating an apple a day "is able to match modern medicine and is likely to have fewer side effects," while having similar annual cost.A 2015 study found apple eaters "were more likely, in the crude analysis, to keep the doctor (and prescription medications) away." The study also found that people who ate an apple a day used fewer prescription medications. This is to help users wean off nicotine gradually. chewing gum, lozenges, transdermal systems) are indicated as temporary aids for the cigarette smoker who wants to give up smoking. 
Do products made from fenugreek seeds help you lose weight? [SEP] The fenugreek plant is an annual herbaceous forage legume with aroma, which is used for food in the form of its seeds as spices, and its leaves as a vegetable. Its pods and leaves are used as vegetables, as the leaves are rich in protein, minerals and Vitamin C.In North India and Punjab, fresh fenugreek leaf is used in culinary dishes. Various health benefits are claimed for fenugreek. Its use as a food ingredient in small quantities is safe.Although sold as a dietary supplement, there is no clinical evidence that fenugreek has therapeutic properties. Nutritional profile
In a 100 gram reference amount, fenugreek seeds provide 1,350 kilojoules (323 kcal) of food energy and contain 9% water, 58% carbohydrates, 23% protein, and 6% fat, with calcium at 40% of the Daily Value (DV, table). Fenugreek seeds (per 100 grams) are a rich source of protein (46% DV), dietary fiber, B vitamins, and dietary minerals, particularly manganese (59% DV) and iron (262% DV) (table). Dietary supplement
Fenugreek dietary supplements are manufactured from powdered seeds into capsules, loose powders, teas, and liquid extracts in many countries. Animal feed
Fenugreek is sometimes used as animal feed. 
Does skipping breakfast increase heart attack risk? [SEP] Eating polyunsaturated fat instead of saturated fats has been shown in studies to be associated with a decreased risk of myocardial infarction, while other studies find little evidence that reducing dietary saturated fat or increasing polyunsaturated fat intake affects heart attack risk. Acute and prolonged intake of high quantities of alcoholic drinks (3–4 or more daily) increases the risk of a heart attack. Heart attacks appear to occur more commonly in the morning hours, especially between 6AM and noon. Evidence suggests that heart attacks are at least three times more likely to occur in the morning than in the late evening. The resultant reduction in the heart's blood supply due to atherosclerosis in coronary arteries "causes shortness of breath, angina pectoris (chest pains that are usually relieved by rest), and potentially fatal heart attacks (myocardial infarctions)". AHA added sleep as a factor influencing heart health in 2022.Most guidelines recommend combining these preventive strategies. Evidence also suggests that the Mediterranean diet and a high fiber diet lower the risk.The consumption of trans fat (commonly found in hydrogenated products such as margarine) has been shown to cause a precursor to atherosclerosis and increase the risk of coronary artery disease.Evidence does not support a beneficial role for omega-3 fatty acid supplementation in preventing cardiovascular disease (including myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death). References
External links
Risk Assessment of having a heart attack or dying of coronary artery disease, from the American Heart Association. 
Does wheat make you fat and sick? [SEP] The cereal grain wheat is subject to numerous wheat diseases, including bacterial, viral and fungal diseases, as well as parasitic infestations. In the USA
Wheat is subject to more diseases than other grains, and, in some seasons, especially in wet ones, heavier losses are sustained from those diseases than are in other cereal crops. Wheat may suffer from the attack of insects at the root; from blight, which primarily affects the leaf or straw, and ultimately deprives the grain of sufficient nourishment; from mildew on the ear; and from gum of different shades, which lodges on the chaff or cups in which the grain is deposited. Wheat mildew is a wheat disease that affects the ear, and is brought on by causes somewhat similar to those that cause blight, though at a more advanced period of the season. Another disorder that affects wheat is brought on by excessive heat, which makes the plants suffer from malnutrition, and become sickly and feeble. Light or defective wheat does vegetate and produce a plant, but the plant may be of poor quality and incapable of withstanding winter blasts. Taubes contends that carbohydrates, specifically refined carbohydrates like white flour, sugar, and starches, contribute to obesity, diabetes, heart disease, and other ailments. They damage wheat just after sowing and close to the maturity. 
Do whole grains lower the likelihood of dying early? [SEP] A whole grain is a grain of any cereal and pseudocereal that contains the endosperm, germ, and bran, in contrast to refined grains, which retain only the endosperm.As part of a general healthy diet, consumption of whole grains is associated with lower risk of several diseases. Whole grains are a source of carbohydrates, multiple nutrients and dietary fiber. As components of breakfast cereals, whole grains are associated with improved micronutrient intake and lower risk of several diseases. "By supplying high dietary fiber content, as part of a general healthy diet, consumption of whole grains may lower risk of several diseases, including coronary heart disease, stroke, cancer and type 2 diabetes, with lower all-cause mortality. In addition, some older evidence indicates whole-grain consumption is inversely related to hypertension, diabetes, and obesity when compared to refined grains, all of which are negative indicators in total cardiovascular health. Whole grains contain more dietary fiber than refined grains. Whole grains contain higher amounts of minerals including chromium, magnesium, selenium, and zinc and vitamins such as Vitamin B6 and Vitamin E. Whole grains also provide phytochemicals which enriched grains lack.In the case of maize, the process of nixtamalization (a chemical form of refinement) yields a considerable improvement in the bioavailability of niacin, thereby preventing pellagra in diets consisting largely of maize products. Cardiovascular disease
According to a 2020 review there is insufficient evidence to recommend "whole grains as opposed to refined grains for the prevention and treatment of CVD". 
Does the consumption of dairy products promote mucus and diseases of the ear, nose and throat? [SEP] Common pathogens include bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites and among them, bacterial infection is the leading cause of milk borne diseases.To refine product quality, pasteurisation was invented centuries ago to kill pathogens. Infection can turn milk into an optimal vehicle of disease transmission by contamination in dairy farms, cross-contamination in milk processing plants, and post-pasteurisation recontamination.Symptoms of milk borne diseases depend on the amount of pathogen ingestion, time of pathogen incubation, and individual variation like patient's susceptibility, age, and pre-existing medical conditions. Most of the listeriosis-related outbreaks in the West have been found to be associated with dairy food such as unprocessed milk. Regular consumption of dairy food by lactase deficient individuals may also reduce symptoms of intolerance by promoting colonic bacteria adaptation. In the United States, 90% of allergic responses to foods are caused by eight foods, and cow's milk is the most common. Recognition that a small number of foods are responsible for the majority of food allergies has led to requirements to prominently list these common allergens, including dairy, on food labels. Late-phase responses seen in asthma are slightly different from those seen in other allergic responses, although they are still caused by release of mediators from eosinophils.Six major allergenic proteins from cow's milk have been identified: αs1-, αs2-, β-, and κ-casein from casein proteins and α-lactalbumin and β-lactoglobulin from whey proteins. Milk of all species of mammalians is included among these allergenic foods. 
Does regular consumption of energy drinks harm heart health? [SEP] Energy drinks have been associated with many health risks, such as an increased rate of injury when usage is combined with alcohol, and excessive or repeated consumption can lead to cardiac and psychiatric conditions. Populations at risk for complications from energy drink consumption include youth, caffeine-naïve or caffeine-sensitive, pregnant, competitive athletes and people with underlying cardiovascular disease. Health problems
Excessive consumption of energy drinks can have serious health effects resulting from high caffeine and sugar intakes, particularly in children, teens, and young adults. Excessive energy drink consumption may disrupt teens' sleep patterns and may be associated with increased risk-taking behavior. Excessive or repeated consumption of energy drinks can lead to cardiac problems, such as arrhythmias and heart attacks, and psychiatric conditions such as anxiety and phobias. In Europe, energy drinks containing sugar and caffeine have been associated with the deaths of athletes. Teens Who Consume Energy Drinks Are at Higher Risk for Drug Use Other studies found no such effects.Drinking more than the standard drink amount increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases, high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, stroke, and cancer. 
Do light drinks promote obesity? [SEP] Consumption of sweetened beverages has been linked to weight gain, obesity, and associated health risks. According to the CDC, consumption of sweetened beverages is also associated with unhealthy behaviors like smoking, not getting enough sleep and exercise, and eating fast food often and not enough fruits regularly. Sugar-related health concerns
A number of studies suggest that there is a significant correlation between increased consumption of sweetened beverages and weight gain leading to obesity. Current evidence suggests that increasing consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with weight gain. Reducing consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages can also reduce the risk of unhealthy weight gain in adults. Along with the increase in overweight and obese populations, the consumption of carbohydrates, particularly in the form of added sugars has increased.Research studies have indicated that there is a correlation between drinking sugar-sweetened beverages and gaining weight or becoming obese. Their obesity rate correlates, with 35.6% of the adult population being obese in 2016.The World Health Organization has advised reducing intake of free sugars, such as monosaccharides and disaccharides that are added to beverages by manufacturers, cooks, or consumers. Melanocortins, a group of signaling proteins, are found to be involved in both excessive food intake and alcohol intake.Certain patterns of alcohol use may contribute to obesity. 
Does coffee reduce the risk of dementia? [SEP] Mortality
In 2012, the National Institutes of Health–AARP Diet and Health Study found that higher coffee consumption was associated with lower risk of death, and that those who drank any coffee lived longer than those who did not. An association of coffee drinking with reduced risk for death from various sources was confirmed by a widely cited prospective cohort study of ten European countries in 2017. A 2012 meta-analysis concluded that people who drank moderate amounts of coffee had a lower rate of heart failure, with the biggest effect found for those who drank more than four cups a day. A 2016 meta-analysis showed that coffee consumption was associated with a reduced risk of death in patients who have had a myocardial infarction.The effect of no or moderate daily consumption of coffee on risk for developing hypertension has been assessed in several reviews during the 21st century. Parkinson's disease
Meta-analyses have consistently found that long-term coffee consumption is associated with a lower risk of Parkinson's disease. Type II diabetes
In a systematic review and meta-analysis of 28 prospective observational studies, representing over one million participants, every additional cup of caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee consumed in a day was associated, respectively, with a 9% and 6% lower risk of type 2 diabetes. Liver disease
Preliminary evidence indicates that coffee consumption may be protective against the progression of liver disease, although the possible mechanisms for such an effect remain unclear. Long-term preliminary research, including assessment of symptoms for dementia and cognitive impairment, was inconclusive for coffee having an effect in the elderly, mainly due to the poor quality of the studies. 
Does sugar consumption increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes regardless of obesity? [SEP] Sugar sweetened drinks appear to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes both through their role in obesity and potentially through a direct effect. Obesity
Obesity has been found to contribute to approximately 55% of cases of type 2 diabetes; chronic obesity leads to increased insulin resistance that can develop into type 2 diabetes, most likely because adipose tissue (especially that in the abdomen around internal organs) is a source of several chemical signals, hormones and cytokines, to other tissues. Bariatric surgery often improves diabetes in those who are obese.Rates of type 2 diabetes have increased markedly since 1960 in parallel with obesity. Smoking appears to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks in excess is associated with an increased risk. For example, people with high BMI are at higher risk for diabetes. Obesity is very common in type 2 diabetes and contributes greatly to insulin resistance. A study in the Journal of Periodontology found that poorly controlled type 2 diabetic patients are more likely to develop periodontal disease than well-controlled diabetics are. 
Does a lower salt diet reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Since controlling hypertension is related to a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, it is plausible that salt consumption is a risk factor for cardiovascular health. One 2016 review found that five studies were supportive of the evidence that reduced sodium intake lowers cardiovascular disease incidence and mortality, three contradicted this evidence, and two found insufficient evidence to reach a conclusion. There are several long-term studies which found that groups with sodium-reduced diets have lower incidences of cardiovascular disease in all demographics.Some researchers cast doubts on the link between lowering sodium intake and the health of a given population. Current trends and campaigns
Government regulatory agencies and clinical organizations, the European Food Safety Authority, the US Centers for Disease Control, and the American Heart Association recommend that consumers use less salt in their diets, mainly to reduce the risk of high blood pressure and associated cardiovascular diseases in adults and children. This change has been shown to blunt the effects of excess salt intake on hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Taken together, a low salt diet (median of approximately 4.4 g/day – approx 1800 mg sodium) in hypertensive people resulted in a decrease in systolic blood pressure by 4.2 mmHg, and in diastolic blood pressure by 2.1 mmHg.Advising people to eat a low salt diet, however, is of unclear effect in either hypertensive or normal tensive people. In 2012, the British Journal Heart published an article claiming that a low salt diet appears to increase the risk of death in those with congestive heart failure, but the article was retracted in 2013. A 2021 Cochrane review of controlled trials in people with chronic kidney disease at any stage, including those on dialysis, found high-certainty evidence that reduced salt intake may help to lower both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as well as albuminuria. 
Is less eaten from red plates? [SEP] In the case of RED-S, low energy availability may be due to eating disorders, but not necessarily so. Red rice is a variety of rice that is colored red by its anthocyanin content. It is usually eaten unpolished or partially polished, and has a red bran layer, rather than the more common pale brown. Red rice has a nutty flavor. Some red rice has a low glycemic index. References

Mastering the Art of Cooking Red Rice Red meat is meat that is red when raw and not white when cooked. Red Meat may also refer to:

Red Meat (comic strip), a comic strip by Max Cannon
Red Meat (band), a country band
"Red Meat" (Supernatural), an episode of Supernatural
Red Meat (film), a 1997 film by Allison Burnett

See also
Red Red Meat, a 1990s alternative rock band 
Does red wine protect better against cardiovascular disease than white wine? [SEP] Preliminary studies found that drinking small quantities of wine (up to one standard drink per day for women and one to two drinks per day for men), particularly of red wine, may be associated with a decreased risk of cardiovascular diseases, cognitive decline, stroke, diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome, and early death. Heavy drinkers have increased risk for heart disease, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertension, and elevated cholesterol levels.The alcohol in wine has anticoagulant properties that may limit blood clotting. : 569 Although red wine and white vine varieties produce similar amounts of resveratrol, red wine contains more than white, since red wines are produced by maceration (soaking the grape skins in the mash). : 341–2

French paradox

The hypothesis of the French paradox assumes a low prevalence of heart disease due to the consumption of red wine despite a diet high in saturated fat. Although epidemiological studies indicate red wine consumption may support the French paradox, there is insufficient clinical evidence to confirm it, as of 2017. People who moderately consume alcoholic drinks have a 25–30% lower risk of cardiovascular disease. Red wine has 20–200% more histamine on average than white wine, and those who react to it may be deficient in the enzyme diamine oxidase. This idea of a particular significance of color in the perception of wine is especially true in red wines.Browning is therefore an important issue both for winemakers and for wine consumers, and is generally avoided. 
Do azo food dyes cause attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity in children? [SEP] Fast Yellow AB is an azo dye. Azo dyes are organic compounds bearing the functional group R−N=N−R′, in which R and R′ are usually aryl and substituted aryl groups. Azo dyes comprise 60-70% of all dyes used in food and textile industries. Azo dyes are widely used to treat textiles, leather articles, and some foods. Azo dyes are solids. Azo pigments are important in a variety of plastics, rubbers, and paints (including artist's paints). Safety and regulation
Many azo pigments are non-toxic, although some, such as dinitroaniline orange, ortho-nitroaniline orange, or pigment orange 1, 2, and 5 are mutagenic and carcinogenic.Azo dyes derived from benzidine are carcinogens; exposure to them has classically been associated with bladder cancer. Orange B is a food dye from the azo dye group. 
Does turmeric prevent or cure cancer? [SEP] Turmeric juice is claimed to have health benefits that include easing an upset stomach and reducing arthritis pain. Medical research has been carried out on purported health-giving properties of the main ingredient in turmeric juice, curcumin, though studies have not determined a precise dose, safety, or mechanism of action to require rational use of it in treatment of human diseases. Indian traditional medicine, called Siddha, has recommended turmeric for medicine. His research has been in the areas of cytokines, the role of inflammation in cancer, and the anti-cancer effects of spices and herbs, particularly curcumin (a chemical constituent of the spice turmeric). Aggarwal was Chief of the Cytokine Research Section, Department of Clinical Immunology, Bioimmunotherapy, Experimental Therapeutics at MD Anderson Cancer Center of the University of Texas in Houston from 1989 to 2015.Aggarwal's research has focused on potential anti-cancer properties of herbs and spices, particularly curcumin, which is found in the spice turmeric. "Turmeric: A Review of Its Chemical Composition, Quality Control, Bioactivity, and Pharmaceutical Application". "Turmeric: Isolation and synthesis of important biological molecules". Medical research
Turmeric and curcumin have been studied in numerous clinical trials for various human diseases and conditions, with no high-quality evidence of any anti-disease effect or health benefit. 
Does breastfeeding reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome? [SEP] Breastfeeding helps reduce the risk of SIDS when done exclusively for any length of time. It is recommended to breastfeed the infant from birth to 6 months exclusively to decrease the risk of SIDS by 50%. Diarrhea and upper respiratory illnesses, both linked to a higher risk of SIDS, occur less frequently for infants who are breastfed when compared to babies that are not breastfed, thus reducing the risk. Increased breastfeeding to near-universal levels in low and medium income countries could prevent approximately 820,000 deaths of children under the age of five annually. Breastfeeding decreases the risk of respiratory tract infections,  ear infections,  sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), and diarrhea for the baby, both in  developing and  developed countries. Breastfeeding may protect against sudden infant death syndrome, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, childhood lymphoma, allergic diseases, digestive diseases, obesity, or childhood leukemia later in life. According to the American Heart Association, breastfeeding also reduces the risk of maternal heart disease and stroke.A 2011 review found it unclear whether breastfeeding affects the risk of postpartum depression. Breastfeeding
Breastfeeding is associated with a lower risk of SIDS. 
Do boron preparations such as borax, boric acid, or calcium fructoborate relieve pain associated with age-related joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] Calcium fructoborate is a salt of an organoboron compound containing boron (and fructose and calcium). Boric is a chemistry term that refers to substances containing boron, such as:

boric acid or orthoboric acid, B(OH)3
metaboric acid, an acid containing boron, HBO2
tetraboric acid or pyroboric acid, an acid containing boron, H2B4O7
boric oxide, specifically boron trioxide  B2O3
a boric ester, or organic borateBoric may also refer to:

People
Borić, a South Slavic surname
Gabriel Boric (born 1986), Chilean politician of Croatian descent, current President of Chile
Ban Borić (fl. at the 2005 Alan D. Leman Swine Conference suggests that boron deficiency produces osteochondrosis in swine that is correctable by addition of 50 ppm of boron to the diet. Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. Borinic acid, also known as boronous acid, is  an oxyacid of boron with formula H2BOH. Borinate is the associated anion of borinic acid with formula H2BO−; however, being a Lewis acid, the form in basic solution is H2B(OH)−2. This too is called borinate. "Synthesis of Phenyl- and Thienyl-Substituted Boronic and Borinic Acids". 
Can glutamate in food cause intolerance symptoms? [SEP] Specifically MSG in the diet does not increase glutamate in the brain or affect brain function.A 1995 report from the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) for the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concluded that MSG is safe when "eaten at customary levels" and, although a subgroup of otherwise-healthy individuals develop an MSG symptom complex when exposed to 3 g of MSG in the absence of food, MSG as a cause has not been established because the symptom reports are anecdotal.According to the report, no data supports the role of glutamate in chronic disease. No symptoms were observed when MSG was used in food.Adequately controlling for experimental bias includes a blinded, placebo-controlled experimental design and administration by capsule, because of the unique aftertaste of glutamates. Food intolerance reactions can occur to naturally occurring chemicals in foods, as in salicylate sensitivity. GIT symptoms include mouth ulcers, abdominal cramp, nausea, gas, intermittent diarrhea, constipation, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and may include anaphylaxis.Food intolerance has been found associated with irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease, chronic constipation, chronic hepatitis C infection, eczema, NSAID intolerance, respiratory complaints, including asthma, rhinitis and headache, functional dyspepsia, eosinophilic esophagitis and ear, nose and throat (ENT) illnesses. Celiac disease, an autoimmune disorder caused by an immune response to the protein gluten, results in gluten intolerance and can lead to temporary lactose intolerance.The most widely distributed naturally occurring food chemical capable of provoking reactions is salicylate, although tartrazine and benzoic acid are well recognised in susceptible individuals. Symptoms due to, or exacerbated by, food additives usually involve non-IgE-mediated mechanisms (food intolerance) and are usually less severe than those induced by food allergy, but can include anaphylaxis. Excess glutamate allows high levels of calcium ions (Ca2+) to enter the cell. History
The harmful effects of glutamate on the central nervous system were first observed in 1954 by T. Hayashi, a Japanese scientist who stated that direct application of glutamate caused seizure activity, though this report went unnoticed for several years. 
Does the Orthopulse device accelerate the orthodontic correction of malocclusions? [SEP] Those who have more severe malocclusions, which present as a part of craniofacial anomalies, may require orthodontic and sometimes surgical treatment (orthognathic surgery) to correct the problem. Treatment
Orthodontic management of the condition includes dental braces, lingual braces, clear aligners or palatal expanders. Treatment
Malocclusion is often treated with orthodontics, such as tooth extraction, clear aligners, or dental braces, followed by growth modification in children or jaw surgery (orthognathic surgery) in adults. Studies indicate that tooth extraction can have benefits to correcting malocclusion in individuals. This is a less invasive approach that uses orthodontic brackets to correct malocclusion and try to hide the skeletal discrepancy. For children, orthodontics is usually used to compensate for continued growth. Orthodontic technology is a specialty of dental technology that is concerned with the design and fabrication of dental appliances for the treatment of malocclusions, which may be a result of tooth irregularity, disproportionate jaw relationships, or both. This technique is a combination of both Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Orthodontics. 
Is it harmful for the mental development of the unborn child if the mother regularly eats fish contaminated with mercury during pregnancy? [SEP] The presence of mercury in fish is a health concern for people who eat them, especially for women who are or may become pregnant, nursing mothers, and young children. This indicates that families intending to raise children should be especially careful about exposing their unborn babies to toxic mercury via fish. Because methyl mercury and high levels of elemental mercury can be particularly toxic to a fetus or young children, organizations such as the U.S. EPA and FDA recommend that women who are pregnant or plan to become pregnant within the next one or two years, as well as young children, avoid eating more than 6 ounces (170g, one average meal) of fish per week.In the United States, the FDA has an action level for methylmercury in commercial marine and freshwater fish that is 1.0 parts per million (ppm). However, certain seafood might contain levels of mercury that may cause harm to an unborn baby (and especially its brain development and nervous system). Mercury in its various forms is particularly harmful to fetuses as an environmental toxin in pregnancy, as well as to infants. In children and fetuses (exposed to mercury through the mother's consumption of contaminated seafood), extensive brain lesions were observed and the patients experienced more serious effects like cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and primitive reflexes. Eating fish is the main source of mercury exposure in humans and some fish may contain enough mercury to harm the developing nervous system of an embryo or fetus, sometimes leading to learning disabilities. Surviving infants exposed to mercury in-utero had extremely high rates of physical and intellectual disabilities, as well as physical abnormalities from exposure in the womb during key stages in fetal physical development. 
Can the consumption of caffeine during pregnancy harm the unborn child? [SEP] Tobacco, alcohol, marijuana, and illicit drug use while pregnant may be dangerous for the unborn baby and may lead to severe health problems and/or birth defects. There is no established association with teratogenicity or elevated occurrence of birth defects and the usage of acetaminophen at any point during a pregnancy. This can negatively affect blood flow to the fetus. Some dietary supplements can cause side effects and harm to the mother or unborn child. Consumption of caffeine is not associated with adverse reproductive and developmental effects. The half-life of caffeine is longer in pregnancy by 8 to 16 more hours, which means that caffeine stays in the person longer, increases fetal exposure to caffeine, and is eliminated slower in the body. Other comprehensive reviews reported that caffeine intake of more than 300 mg per day have been associated with spontaneous abortions and low birth weight, but further research is needed to establish this causal relationship. There was very little difference between mothers who had high caffeine consumption during pregnancy as opposed to mothers who did not have high consumption of caffeine during their pregnancy.Caffeine in younger children has been found to shorten their sleep duration and increase daytime sleepiness. 
Are vegetables prepared in a microwave oven less healthy than those prepared in other ways? [SEP] Effects on food and nutrients
Any form of cooking diminishes overall nutrient content in food, particularly water-soluble vitamins common in vegetables, but the key variables are how much water is used in the cooking, how long the food is cooked, and at what temperature. Boiled food reaches a maximum of 100 °C (212 °F) (the boiling point of water), whereas microwaved food can get internally hotter than this, leading to faster breakdown of vitamin B12. The higher rate of loss is partially offset by the shorter cooking times required.Spinach retains nearly all its folate when cooked in a microwave oven; when boiled, it loses about 77%, leaching nutrients into the cooking water. Steamed vegetables tend to maintain more nutrients when microwaved than when cooked on a stovetop. In contrast with conventional cooking, the nutritional content of some foods may be altered differently, but generally in a positive way by preserving more micronutrients – see above. There is no indication of detrimental health issues associated with microwaved food.There are, however, a few cases where people have been exposed to direct microwave radiation, either from appliance malfunction or deliberate action. While microwave ovens can destroy bacteria as well as conventional ovens can, they cook rapidly and may not cook as evenly, similar to frying or grilling, leading to a risk of some food regions failing to reach recommended temperatures. However food reheated in a microwave oven typically reaches lower temperature than classically reheated, therefore pathogens are more likely to survive. 
Can garlic extract reduce high blood pressure and thus the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Health Effects
Cardiovascular Disease and Hypertension
The first modifications recommended by guidelines for people at risk of cardiovascular disease are typically lifestyle changes, such as diet and physical activity followed by pharmacotherapy. The DASH-sodium results indicate that low sodium levels correlated with the largest reductions in blood pressure for participants at both pre-hypertensive and hypertensive levels, with the hypertensive participants showing the greatest reductions in blood pressure overall. Delicious DASH Flavours: The proven, drug-free, doctor-recommended approach to reducing high blood pressure. There is no clear evidence that the modest reduction in blood pressure with stress reduction techniques results in prevention of cardiovascular disease.Several exercise regimes—including isometric resistance exercise, aerobic exercise, resistance exercise, and device-guided breathing—may be useful in reducing blood pressure. Elderly
Treating moderate to severe hypertension decreases death rates and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in people aged 60 and older. Evidence suggests that reduction of the blood pressure by 5 mmHg can decrease the risk of stroke by 34% and of ischaemic heart disease by 21%, and can reduce the likelihood of dementia, heart failure, and mortality from cardiovascular disease. Renin inhibitors can therefore effectively reduce hypertension. Studies have shown the importance of central aortic pressure and its implications in assessing the efficacy of antihypertensive treatment with respect to cardiovascular risk factors. 
Can fructose damage the liver? [SEP] Unlike glucose, which is directly metabolized widely in the body, fructose is almost entirely metabolized in the liver in humans, where it is directed toward replenishment of liver glycogen and triglyceride synthesis. In addition, reduced phosphorylation potential within hepatocytes can occur with intravenous infusion of fructose. Whether or not sufficient amounts of dietary fructose could be absorbed to cause a significant reduction in phosphorylating potential in liver cells remains questionable and there are no clear examples of this in the literature. "Metabolic effects of fructose and the worldwide increase in obesity". If fructose is ingested, the enzymatic block at aldolase B causes an accumulation of fructose-1-phosphate which, over time, results in the death of liver cells. It could thus increase or cause fructose malabsorption. Potential health effects
In 2022, the European Food Safety Authority stated that there is research evidence that fructose and other added free sugars may be associated with increased risk of several chronic diseases: the risk is moderate for obesity and dyslipidemia (more than 50%), and low for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, type 2 diabetes (from 15% to 50%) and hypertension. Cardiometabolic diseases
When fructose is consumed in excess as a sweetening agent in foods or beverages, it may be associated with increased risk of obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disorders that are part of metabolic syndrome. 
Can green tea affect the likelihood of dying early and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] In clinical research conducted over the early 21st century, tea has been studied extensively for its potential to lower the risk of human diseases, but there is no good scientific evidence to indicate that consuming tea affects any disease or improves health.In regions without access to safe drinking water, boiling water to make tea is effective for reducing waterborne diseases by destroying pathogenic microorganisms. There is preliminary evidence that the caffeine from long-term tea (or coffee) consumption provides a small amount of protection against the progression of dementia or Alzheimer's disease during aging, although the results across numerous studies were inconsistent. Cancer
In 2011, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reported that there was very little evidence to support the claim that green tea consumption may reduce the risk of breast and prostate cancer.A 2010 report by the US National Cancer Institute stated that epidemiological studies and the few clinical trials of tea for the prevention of cancer were inconclusive. Though there is some positive evidence for risk reduction of breast, prostate, ovarian, and endometrial cancers with green tea, it is weak and inconclusive.Meta-analyses of observational studies have concluded that black tea consumption does not appear to protect against the development of oral cancers in Asian or Caucasian populations, the development of esophageal cancer or prostate cancer in Asian populations, or the development of lung cancer. In 2018, a meta-analysis based on 14 case-control studies found that tea consumption appears protective of oral cancer with a greater decrease in risk occurring with a larger intake (except for black tea and American people).The consumption of very hot tea could increase the risk of esophageal cancer. Cardiovascular disease
In preliminary long-term clinical studies, black tea consumption showed evidence for providing a small reduction in the risk of stroke, whereas, in another review, green tea and black tea did not have significant effects on the risk of coronary heart disease. A 2013 Cochrane review found some evidence of benefit from tea consumption on cardiovascular markers (total and LDL cholesterol), though more research is needed. Weight loss
Although green tea is commonly believed to be a weight loss aid, there is no good evidence that its long-term consumption has any meaningful benefit in helping overweight or obese people to lose weight, or that it helps to maintain a healthy body weight. 
Is matcha tea particularly healthy? [SEP] The traditional Japanese tea ceremony centers on the preparation, serving and drinking of matcha as hot tea, and embodies a meditative spirituality. The highest grades of matcha have a more intense sweetness and deeper flavour than the standard or coarser grades of tea harvested later in the year. The use of matcha in modern drinks has also spread to North American cafés, such as Starbucks, which introduced "green tea lattes" and other matcha-flavoured drinks after they became successful in their Japanese store locations. Compared to traditional green tea, the production of matcha requires the tea leaves to be protected from sunlight. See also
Green tea
Food powder

Notes
References
External links
 Media related to Matcha at Wikimedia Commons Green tea ice cream (抹茶アイスクリーム, Matcha aisu kurīmu) or matcha ice (抹茶アイス Matcha aisu) is an ice cream flavor popular in Japan and other parts of East Asia. This is as opposed to matcha (抹茶), powdered Japanese green tea, where the green tea powder is mixed with hot water and therefore the leaf itself is included in the beverage. The production of high-quality matcha powder increased the reputation of Uji tea. 
Can acupuncture prevent migraines and tension headaches? [SEP] They consisted of one observational study on acupuncture side effects, and four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating acupuncture treatment for low back pain, knee osteoarthritis, migraine prophylaxis, and tension-type headache. A study conducted by the University of North Carolina School of Medicine found that compared to medicinal treatment alone, medicinal treatment plus acupuncture resulted in more improvement for chronic daily headache patients. Another acupuncture study in Germany found that 52.6% of patients reported a decrease in headache frequency In both studies, acupuncture was not the only treatment. Trials show that acupuncture can cause "relevant improvements" for people with chronic headaches. Meditation in a relaxing environment is also suggested to prevent headaches. "A Randomized, Controlled Trial of Acupuncture for Chronic Daily Headache". "Acupuncture for Chronic Headaches--an Epidemiological Study". Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. 
Can green tea reduce the likelihood of dying from cancer ? [SEP] Cancer
In 2011, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reported that there was very little evidence to support the claim that green tea consumption may reduce the risk of breast and prostate cancer.A 2010 report by the US National Cancer Institute stated that epidemiological studies and the few clinical trials of tea for the prevention of cancer were inconclusive. Though there is some positive evidence for risk reduction of breast, prostate, ovarian, and endometrial cancers with green tea, it is weak and inconclusive.Meta-analyses of observational studies have concluded that black tea consumption does not appear to protect against the development of oral cancers in Asian or Caucasian populations, the development of esophageal cancer or prostate cancer in Asian populations, or the development of lung cancer. In 2018, a meta-analysis based on 14 case-control studies found that tea consumption appears protective of oral cancer with a greater decrease in risk occurring with a larger intake (except for black tea and American people).The consumption of very hot tea could increase the risk of esophageal cancer. See also
Coffee
Decaffeination
Detox tea
gamma-Glutamylmethylamide
Phenolic content in tea
Release of microplastics by tea bags
Traditional medicine

References
External links
Tea and Cancer Prevention – National Cancer Institute press release
Green Tea (an overview from Drugs.com) Although green tea may enhance mental alertness due to its caffeine content, there is only weak, inconclusive evidence that regular consumption of green tea affects the risk of cancer or cardiovascular diseases, and there is no evidence that it benefits weight loss.A 2020 review by the Cochrane Collaboration listed some potential adverse effects of green tea extract including gastrointestinal disorders, higher levels of liver enzymes, and, more rarely, insomnia, raised blood pressure, and skin reactions. Cancer
It has been suggested that it may inhibit cancer development and growth by preventing "cell damage" based on its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.However, Green tea interferes with the chemotherapy drug bortezomib (Velcade) and other boronic acid-based proteasome inhibitors, and should be avoided by people taking these medications. Cardiovascular disease
A meta-analysis of observational studies reported an increase in one cup of green tea per day was correlated with slightly lower risk of death from cardiovascular causes. Green tea consumption may be correlated with a reduced risk of stroke. 
Can plant sterols or foods with them reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Consumption of 2 grams per day of plant sterols is associated with a reduction in blood LDL cholesterol of 8–10%, possibly lowering cardiovascular disease risk. Despite a well documented cholesterol lowering effect, there are no data available indicating that functional foods supplemented with plant sterol esters reduce cardiovascular events. This may be of importance since elevated plant sterol concentrations have been identified as an independent risk factor for  coronary heart disease (CHD). Furthermore, several epidemiological studies have shown that the risk of developing heart disease seems to be increased even at more "normal" plant sterol levels. "Controversial role of plant sterol esters in the management of hypercholesterolaemia". Based on this and other efficacy data, the EFSA scientific panel provided the following health advisory: "Plant sterols have been shown to lower/reduce blood cholesterol. FDA
The FDA has approved the following claim for phytosterols:  For plant sterol esters: (i) Foods containing at least 0.65 g per serving of plant sterol esters, eaten twice a day with meals for a daily total intake of at least 1.3 g, as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease. Plant sterol levels in the blood have been shown to be positively, negatively or not associated with CVD risk, depending on the study population investigated.The link between plant sterols and CVD or CHD risk is complicated because phytosterol levels reflect cholesterol absorption. 
Can too much iodine cause autoimmune thyroid disease and consequently hypothyroidism? [SEP] Epidemiology
Autoimmune thyroiditis is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in settings of sufficient iodine. It is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in areas of sufficient iodine. Also, radioiodine treatment of Graves' disease often eventually leads to hypothyroidism. Iodine
Excessive iodine intake is a well-established environmental factor for triggering thyroid autoimmunity. Several mechanisms by which iodine may promote thyroid autoimmunity have been proposed. It may lead to the occurrence or aggravation of the autoimmune thyroid disease. Although an adequate amount of dietary iodine is important, too much may worsen specific forms of hypothyroidism.Worldwide about one billion people are estimated to be iodine-deficient; however, it is unknown how often this results in hypothyroidism. In areas of the world with sufficient dietary iodine, hypothyroidism is most commonly caused by the autoimmune disease Hashimoto's thyroiditis (chronic autoimmune thyroiditis). 
Is the sweetener aspartame harmful to health? [SEP] With the exception of the risk to those with phenylketonuria, aspartame is considered to be a safe food additive by governments worldwide and major health and food safety organizations. The weight of existing scientific evidence indicates that aspartame is safe as a non-nutritive sweetener. Specifically, the hoax websites allege that aspartame is responsible for multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus, and methanol toxicity, causing "blindness, spasms, shooting pains, seizures, headaches, depression, anxiety, memory loss, birth defects" and death. Aspartame is an artificial non-saccharide sweetener 200 times sweeter than sucrose and is commonly used as a sugar substitute in foods and beverages. Safety and health effects
The safety of aspartame has been studied since its discovery, and it is one of the most rigorously tested food ingredients. Aspartame has been deemed safe for human consumption by over 100 regulatory agencies in their respective countries, including the FDA, UK Food Standards Agency, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), Health Canada, and Food Standards Australia New Zealand.As of 2017, reviews of clinical trials showed that using aspartame (or other non-nutritive sweeteners) in place of sugar reduces calorie intake and body weight in adults and children.A 2017 review of metabolic effects by consuming aspartame found that it did not affect blood glucose, insulin, total cholesterol, triglycerides, calorie intake, or body weight. The EFSA, FDA, and US National Cancer Institute state that aspartame is safe for human consumption. Methanol
The methanol produced by aspartame metabolism is unlikely to be a safety concern for several reasons. 
Does coffee affect cancer death risk? [SEP] Mortality
In 2012, the National Institutes of Health–AARP Diet and Health Study found that higher coffee consumption was associated with lower risk of death, and that those who drank any coffee lived longer than those who did not. A 2014 meta-analysis found that coffee consumption (4 cups/day) was inversely associated with all-cause mortality (a 16% lower risk), as well as cardiovascular disease mortality specifically (a 21% lower risk from drinking 3 cups/day), but not with cancer mortality with exception being oral cancer mortality.Additional meta-analyses corroborated these findings, showing that higher coffee consumption (2–4 cups per day) was associated with a reduced risk of death by all disease causes. An association of coffee drinking with reduced risk for death from various sources was confirmed by a widely cited prospective cohort study of ten European countries in 2017. A 2016 meta-analysis showed that coffee consumption was associated with a reduced risk of death in patients who have had a myocardial infarction.The effect of no or moderate daily consumption of coffee on risk for developing hypertension has been assessed in several reviews during the 21st century. Cancer
Research on the effects of coffee consumption on cancer risk generally has indicated no effect or a slightly lower risk of cancer, particularly in the liver. Aflatoxin B1, a frequent food contaminant, increases risk of liver cancer, while drinking coffee is associated with a reduced risk. A 2016 meta-analysis showed that women and men who drank coffee had a lower risk of liver cancer. An umbrella review of meta-analyses found that coffee was associated with a lower risk of liver and endometrial cancer. 
Do diets with primarily or exclusively uncooked foods have health benefits? [SEP] That raw foods have higher nutrient values than foods that have been cooked,: 44  when in fact cooking affects nutrient contents variably – depending on the plant food and cooking method – and may actually increase availability of fat-based nutrients, such as vitamin E and beta-carotene. While a healthy diet minimizes fried food and red meat, not all cooked food contains harmful chemicals, and a diet containing a mix of cooked and raw food is normal. Health effects
A raw food diet is likely to impair the development of children and infants. It has also been claimed that processed foods have been modified to prevent diseases and therefore have some health benefits (in the form of food safety) over a clean eating diet. A healthy diet provides the body with essential nutrition: fluid, macronutrients such as protein, micronutrients such as vitamins, and adequate fibre and food energy.A healthy diet may contain fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, and may include little to no processed food or sweetened beverages. The committee that drafted it wrote: "The major findings regarding sustainable diets were that a diet higher in plant-based foods, such as vegetables, fruits, whole grains, legumes, nuts, and seeds, and lower in calories and animal-based foods is more health promoting and is associated with less environmental impact than is the current U.S. diet. OmniHeart demonstrated that partial replacement of carbohydrate with either protein (about half from plant sources) or with unsaturated fat (mostly monounsaturated fat) can further reduce blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and coronary heart disease risk. Summary
Through an examination of the careers of American physician Caldwell Esselstyn and professor of nutritional biochemistry T. Colin Campbell, Forks Over Knives claims that many diseases, including obesity, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer, can be prevented and treated by eating a whole-food, plant-based diet, avoiding processed food and food from animals.The film includes an overview of the 20-year China–Cornell–Oxford Project that led to Professor Campbell's findings, outlined in his book The China Study (2005), in which he suggests that coronary artery disease, diabetes, obesity, and cancer can be linked to the Western diet of processed and animal-based foods (including dairy products). 
Can increased water consumption prevent migraines or other headaches? [SEP] General dietary restriction has not been demonstrated to be an effective approach to treating migraine.Sexual activity has been reported by a proportion of males and females with migraine to relieve migraine pain significantly in some cases. This method is considered to be efficient for migraine prevention. Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. Since then, several randomized control trials have shown Botulinum Toxin Type A to improve headache symptoms and quality of life when used prophylactically for patients with chronic migraine

Medication
Preventive drugs are used to reduce the frequency, duration, and severity of migraine attacks. Prevention
In general, any patient who has frequent headaches or migraine attacks should be considered as a potential candidate for preventive medications instead of being encouraged to take more and more painkillers or other rebound-causing medications. Migraine (UK: , US: ) is a common neurological disorder of which severe, recurrent headaches may be a predominant symptom. Sexual activity, particularly orgasm, may provide relief for some migraineurs. Children
Ibuprofen helps decrease pain in children with migraines and is the initially recommended treatment. 
Offer the following herbal appetite suppressants effective and safe weight loss support:
Devil's Tongue (Konjac Root), Caralluma fimbriata, Garcinia cambogia, Gymnea sylvestre, Ephedra, Irvinia gabonensis, Fenugreek, Hoodia gordonii, Common Bean, Bitter Orange? [SEP] Leptiplex purportedly "helps to naturally control appetite, increase energy levels, and stimulate metabolism" and consists of green tea leaf extract (Camellia sinenisis; 50% epigallocatechin gallate [EGCG]) and bitter orange peel extract (Citrus aurantium; 5% synephrine). Ingredients
Magnolia Bark Extract
Beta-sitoserol
SuntheanineB
Green Tea Leaf extract
Bitter orange peel extract
Banana leaf extract

Product Details
Total Weight: 0.25 lbs (0.11 kg)
UPC: 858949002001
Item #: 4282
Package Format: 90 Capsules
Origin: Made In USA

False Advertisement
Window Rock Enterprises, the former owners of the CortiSlim product line, originally claimed that it contributed to weight loss by blocking cortisol. Asian (panax) ginseng root extract
Asian (panax) ginseng is used for a wide variety of conditions—without US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) approval—including aiding in thinking and memory, diabetes, erectile dysfunction, premature ejaculation, and aiding in weight loss. While it had been considered toxic due to jojoba seed meal causing weight loss in animals, in recent years its appetite suppressant effect has also been researched as a potential treatment for obesity. Medical uses
Appetite stimulant and anti-emetic
Dronabinol is used to stimulate appetite and therefore weight gain in patients with HIV/AIDS and cancer. "Clinical trials comparing the use of cannabis extracts with Marinol in the treatment of cancer cachexia have demonstrated equal efficacy and well-being among subjects in the two treatment arms. P57 is hypothesized to be the chemical constituent from this plant mainly responsible for the putative appetite suppressant activity of Hoodia extracts.In a rat study at Brown Medical School, intracerebroventricular injections of the purified P57 demonstrated that the compound has a likely central nervous system (CNS) mechanism of action like that of neuroactive steroids. See also
Anorectic, for additional information about appetite suppressants
Neuroactive steroid


== References == 
Are there health benefits to screening the general population for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as a precaution? [SEP] Lung cancer screening is critically important because of the incidence and prevalence of lung cancer. The results showed that more frequent screening resulted in higher resectability rate (more early-stage detection) but made no difference in mortality from lung cancer. This trial led to a recommendation in the United States that CT screening be used on people at high risk for developing lung cancer in an effort to detect the cancer earlier and reduce mortality. A comprehensive evidence review by the European Commission's Scientific Advice Mechanism recommended lung cancer screening for current and ex-smokers, combined with smoking cessation programmes. It is advised that everybody with COPD be screened for A1AD. Testing the peak expiratory flow (the maximum speed of expiration), commonly used in asthma diagnosis, is not sufficient for the diagnosis of COPD.Screening using spirometry in those without symptoms has uncertain effect and is generally not recommended; however, it is recommended for those without symptoms but with a known risk factor. Other tests
A chest X-ray is not useful to establish a diagnosis of COPD but it is of use in either excluding other conditions or including comorbidities such as pulmonary fibrosis and bronchiectasis. WHO recommends that all those diagnosed with COPD be screened for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. 
Can cow's milk cause iron deficiency in babies in the first year of life? [SEP] Bahima disease is caused by iron deficiency in babies which are fed exclusively on cow's milk. If the baby is being fed infant formula, it must be iron-enriched. Infants that only consume cow's milk become deficient in iron and are 50% more likely to lose blood in their stool. If the infant is allergic to cow's milk, it causes inflammation of the digestive system, resulting in chronic blood loss and decreased absorption of iron. This is why infant formula must be iron-enriched if breastfeeding is not possible. Breast milk naturally contains lactoferrin, an iron binding protein that allows better iron absorption and digestion. For the first few months of their life, this protein must come from breast milk or infant formula, it cannot come from cow's milk. Some studies have found an association between infant formula and lower cognitive development, including iron supplementation in baby formula being linked to lowered I.Q. 
Does cow's milk for babies have other health disadvantages?? [SEP] Infants that only consume cow's milk become deficient in iron and are 50% more likely to lose blood in their stool. If the infant is allergic to cow's milk, it causes inflammation of the digestive system, resulting in chronic blood loss and decreased absorption of iron. Promoting digestive health
Breast milk is important for the infant's digestive system. Infants cannot properly digest fats, which cow's milk is full of. Overall, the sticky, thick, yellow liquid called colostrum has many benefits for a newborn baby which can be only provided to the baby through breastfeeding.Breast milk also contains much more protein than cow's milk. The consumption of cow's milk and other non-breast milk beverages (i.e. Those that continued to feed their infants substitutes like cereals, cow's milk, and broths too early, led to the infant's development of scurvy, rickets, gastrointestinal problems, and kidney stones.Continuing on into the 19th century, scientists were relating high rates of mortality and undernourishment to the lack of infants being breastfed. Other groups, such as the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and American Academy of Pediatrics, also warn that raw milk is dangerous, especially for children.The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) cite numerous cases of serious or fatal infections caused by raw milk, with E. coli O157:H7 being the most important because it can cause hemolytic-uremic syndrome, a life-threatening condition. 
Does drinking breast milk as a baby have a positive effect on later health and development? [SEP] Breast milk leads to a slower weight gain in early infancy, and is protective against child obesity and development of type 2 diabetes. Breastfeeding may also improve cognitive development and decrease the risk of obesity in adulthood.Benefits for the mother include less  blood loss following  delivery, better contraction of the uterus, and a decreased risk of postpartum depression. WHO states, "Breast milk is the ideal food for the healthy growth and development of infants; breastfeeding is also an integral part of the reproductive process with important implications for the health of mothers. Some studies show that breastfeeding aids general health, growth and development in the infant. Breastfed babies also appear to have a lower likelihood of developing diabetes mellitus type 2 later in life.Breastfeeding may decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease in later life, as indicated by lower cholesterol and C-reactive protein levels in breastfed adult women. Benefits
Breastfeeding offers health benefits to mother and child even after infancy. Breastfeeding can also reduce the risk of breast cancer later in life. Not only does nursing strengthen the mother-child relationship, but it also improves the intelligence and immunity of breastfed children and diminishes breastfeeding mothers' risks to have ovarian and breast cancer.After establishing breastfeeding, it is crucial to ensure a constant milk supply to infants. 
Does Almased help with excess weight better than other diets? [SEP] Mediterranean diet supplemented with nuts. Despite these criticisms, there is no other dietary pattern with such a strong evidence of cardiovascular benefit, supported by this major trial and by the Lyon Diet-Heart Study but also reinforced by a multitude of other large and well-conducted observational studies. VLCDs were shown to reduce lean body mass. Combining VLCD with other obesity therapies yield more effective results in weight loss. Those authors believed this would result in weight loss as a side effect. Others similarly argue that the HAES focus may encourage people to delay attempts at weight loss indefinitely.There is some evidence HAES interventions can lead to positive psychological, physical, and behavioral outcomes, including short-term decreased body weight, BMI and body fat mass. A follow-up study compared the effectiveness of the MIND diet to that of the Mediterranean and DASH diets within the same study population. The MIND diet also was effective at moderate adherence levels. 
Do products with talc, such as baby powder, increase the risk of ovarian cancer? [SEP] The particles in corn starch powder are larger and less likely to be inhaled.Some studies have found a statistical relationship between talcum powder applied to the perineal area by women and the incidence of ovarian cancer, but there is not a consensus that the two are linked. However, Johnson & Johnson says that its talc-based baby powder is safe to use and does not contain asbestos. Safety
Suspicions have been raised that talc use contributes to certain types of disease, mainly cancers of the ovaries and lungs. Research published in 1995 and 2000 concluded that it was plausible that talc could cause ovarian cancer, but no conclusive evidence was shown. Litigation
In 2006 the International Agency for Research on Cancer classified talcum powder as a possible human carcinogen if used in the female genital area. The family claimed that the use of talcum powder was responsible for her cancer. White women are at a 30–40% higher risk for ovarian cancer when compared to Black women and Hispanic women, likely due to socioeconomic factors; white women tend to have fewer children and different rates of gynecologic surgeries that affect risk for ovarian cancer.Tentative evidence suggests that talc, pesticides, and herbicides increase the risk of ovarian cancer. Case-control studies have shown that use of perineal talc does increase the risk of ovarian cancer, but using talc more often does not create a greater risk. 
Do large portions, large plates or glasses, and larger packaging cause us to eat and drink more? [SEP] Main social environmental factors include:

People who eat in groups tend to eat more than when they are by themselves
When people eat in the presence of models who eat a lot or a little, they are likely to eat similarly to the model
Individuals who eat in the presence of others who they think are watching them, tend to eat less than they do when they are by themselves Along with social environmental factors, ingestive behaviors are also influenced by atmospheric environmental factors. Pleasurable feeding then reduces activity in the stress-response network, reinforcing the feeding habit.One study found that "higher work stress was associated with higher consumption of specific fatty foods among men but not women. Personal choices, food advertising, social customs and cultural influences, as well as food availability and pricing all play a role in determining what and how much an individual eats. The increase in caloric consumption is attributed primarily to the "consumption of food away from home; increased energy consumption from salty snacks, soft drinks, and pizza; and increased portion sizes". Fast food
As societies become increasingly reliant on energy-dense fast-food meals, the association between fast food consumption and obesity becomes more concerning. Consumption of sweetened drinks is also believed to be a major contributor to the rising rates of obesity. Portion size
The portion size of many prepackage and restaurant foods has increased in both the United States and Denmark since the 1970s. Evidence has shown that larger portions of energy-dense foods lead to greater energy intake and thus to greater rates of obesity. 
Does taking coconut oil improve mental abilities in dementia like Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] As of 2017, the product had failed to show a significant effect in decreasing the rate of cognitive decline or delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease, but appeared to cause minor improvement in verbal memory in some people in the very early stages of the disease. Recently, lifestyle medicine has been investigated as a potential means of reducing cognitive decline and other chronic diseases. Specifically, the inclusion of leafy greens and berries have been shown in separate human and rodent studies to protect against cognitive decline. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. ‘MIND Diet, Common Brain Pathologies, and Cognition in Community-Dwelling Older Adults’. MIND diet is associated with better cognitive functioning independently of common brain pathology, suggesting that the MIND diet may contribute to cognitive resilience in the elderly. Association of the MIND diet with cognition and risk of Alzheimer's disease. The important omega-6 fatty acid that plays a role in brain support and cognition is arachidonic acid. 
Does the preparation "CAPS immu" from Ringana reduce the risk of infections in healthy people? [SEP] As of February 2021, the monoclonal antibody therapies bamlanivimab/etesevimab and casirivimab/imdevimab were found to reduce the number of hospitalizations, emergency room visits, and deaths. Specifically it is used to prevent tuberculosis, toxoplasmosis, pneumonia, malaria, and isosporiasis. The complex displays immune stimulating properties and is thus mainly used as a vaccine adjuvant in order to induce a stronger immune response and longer protection. Results
Researchers led by Quarraisha Karim found that a microbicide containing 1% tenofovir was, for women participating in the trial, 39% effective in reducing risk of contracting HIV during sex and 51% effective in preventing genital herpes infections. For the first time, through the CAPRISA 004 trial, we have seen evidence in a human clinical trial that a microbicide can help to prevent sexual transmission. It is not effective for gonorrhea or chlamydia infections. It is now approved for prevention of CMV infection and disease in recipients of an allogeneic stem cell transplant.The FDA considers it to be a first-in-class medication. Ciclosporin increases this bioavailability to about 85%. 
Do extracts from grape seeds have a health-promoting effect? [SEP] Grape seed extract is an industrial derivative of whole grape seeds. Research
A meta-analysis of 16 randomized controlled trials concluded that grape seed extract, in a dose of under 800 milligrams per day over at least 8 weeks, significantly lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressure, although the amounts were small (3–6 mmHg) and occurred only in obese people under age 50 with existing metabolic syndrome and hypertension. An earlier meta-analysis reported lower systolic blood pressure and heart rate, with no effect on blood lipids or C-reactive protein levels.The US National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health reported that oral administration of grape seed extract (dose and frequency unreported) was well tolerated in people over 14 weeks. Grape seed extract is sold as a dietary supplement, but there is insufficient medical evidence it provides any effect on human health. Background
An assumption of some of grape therapy is that consuming grape constituents would provide unusual therapeutic or nutritional benefits. However, consuming grapes has unknown effects against cardiovascular diseases and other diseases, such as metabolic syndrome. Proanthocyanidins, anthocyanins and resveratrol extracted from grape seeds and grape skins are under basic research for their possible biological effects. Advocates of grape therapy argue that grape phytochemicals inhibit the development of cancer, arthritis or diabetes, but there is no scientific evidence for such effects. 
Is the administration of magnesium through the skin effective? [SEP] Magnesium oil can be applied to the skin as an alternative to taking a magnesium supplement by mouth, and it is claimed to have health benefits, such as for the treatment of magnesium deficiency, to relieve muscle pain and ache (especially headaches), and to enhance relaxation. However, such use has been described as "scientifically unsupported" due to lack of any convincing data that magnesium is absorbed in significant amounts through the skin. Magnesium delivered through the skin aids as a muscle relaxant and skin rejuvenation. Transdermal application of magnesium oil has been more popular than magnesium pills due to the ability of the oil to directly circulate through the bloodstream after its administration using skin-adhesive patches. Transdermal Magnesium Therapy: A New Modality for the Maintenance of Health. Magnesium is important to health. Chelated magnesium is sometimes used to aid in absorption. Intravenous or intramuscular magnesium is completely bioavailable, and effective. 
Do kava kava supplements help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] KAP shows significant potential in treating mental disorders such as treatment-resistant depression (TRD), anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCD), post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD), and other conditions. Protocol and Administration
Repeated sessions of KAP have also been found to be an effective method for facilitating clinically-significant reduction in anxiety and depression, when conducted in private practice settings. Research
Several preliminary studies are assessing potential effects of kava, including its anxiolytic actions and hepatotoxicity, but the role specifically of kavalactones among many other kava compounds for these effects remains under study.The major kavalactones (except for desmethoxyyangonin) have been shown to potentiate the activity of GABAA receptors, which may underlie the anxiolytic and sedative properties of kava. A systematic review done by the British nonprofit Cochrane concluded it was likely to be more effective than placebo at treating short-term anxiety.Moderate consumption of kava in its traditional form, i.e., as a water-based suspension of kava roots, has been deemed to present an "acceptably low level of health risk" by the World Health Organization. Kava soothes temperaments. Clinical trials examining the efficacy of aqueous extracts of kava in treating anxiety, although limited, have also not identified adverse health effects. Anxiolytics (CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines and barbiturates): Kava may have potential additive CNS depressant effects (such as sedation and anxiolytic effects) with benzodiazepines and barbiturates. Preliminary randomized controlled trials in anxiety disorders indicate a higher rate of improvement in anxiety symptoms after kava treatment, relative to placebo. 
Do ultrasound devices help against dust mites? [SEP] There are hypotheses of ultrasound avoidance being present in Diptera (flies) and Coleoptera (beetles). Ultrasound is used to clean jewellery, weld rubber, treat abscesses, and sonography. US patent 2815193, issued December 1954 , is the earliest patent on record that specifically uses the term "Ultrasonic cleaning" although earlier patents refer to use of ultrasound for "intense agitation," "treatment" and "polishing," e.g. Ultrasonics are used for industrial cleaning, and also used in many medical and dental techniques and industrial processes. Safety
Ultrasonic cleaners can produce irritating, high-frequency noise and hearing protection may be needed in case of continuous exposure. Prevention
House dust mites are present indoors wherever humans live. Furniture
Furniture with wooden or leather surfaces reduces the dust mite population. This will prevent dust mite faecal pellets that can be small as 10 µm. 
Does the risk of food allergy decrease if babies are fed potentially allergenic foods (cow's milk, peanuts, chicken egg) as late as possible for the first time? [SEP] It is unclear if the early introduction of the eggs to the diet of babies aged 4–6 months decreases the risk of egg allergies.Egg allergy appears mainly in children but can persist into adulthood. Prevention
When eggs are introduced to a baby's diet is thought to affect risk of developing allergy, but there are contradictory recommendations. A 2016 review acknowledged that introducing peanuts early appears to have a benefit, but stated "The effect of early introduction of egg on egg allergy are controversial." A meta-analysis published the same year supported the theory that early introduction of eggs into an infant's diet lowers risk, and a review of allergens in general stated that introducing solid foods at 4–6 months may result in the lowest subsequent allergy risk. For mothers of infants considered at high risk of developing cow's milk allergy because of a family history, there is some evidence that the nursing mother avoiding allergens may reduce risk of the child developing eczema, but a Cochrane review concluded that more research is needed.There is some evidence that formula supplement given within the first 24 hours of a babies life in hospital increases the incidence of cow's milk allergy for mothers who then go on to exclusively breast feed.Guidelines from various government and international organizations recommend that for the lowest allergy risk, infants be exclusively breastfed for four to six months, but there does not appear to be any benefit beyond six months. Desensitization through exposure
In infants with a family history of peanut allergy, consuming peanut proteins at 4 to 11 months old has been shown to reduce the risk of developing an allergic response by 11–25%. The Learning Early About Peanut Allergy (LEAP) study supported by NIAID established that early introduction of peanut products into a child's diet can prevent – rather than only delay – the development of childhood peanut allergies, and that the effect is beneficial and lifelong. Prevention
Reviews of food allergens in general stated that introducing solid foods at 4–6 months may result in the lowest subsequent allergy risks for eczema, allergic rhinitis and more severe reactions. 
for fish, sesame, wheat? [SEP] Sesame has been called a survivor crop. Other major importers are United States, Canada, the Netherlands, Turkey, and France.Sesame seed is a high-value cash crop. Culinary use
Sesame seed is a common ingredient in various cuisines. In Sicily and France, the seeds are eaten on bread (ficelle sésame, sesame thread). In Togo, the seeds are a main soup ingredient and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the north of Angola, wangila is a dish of ground sesame, often served with smoked fish or lobster. Sesame seeds and oil are used extensively in India. Sesame is a common ingredient in many Middle Eastern cuisines. "Evidence for Cultivation of Sesame in the Ancient World". 
Can willow bark tea help with inflammation, pain or fever? [SEP] It is sometimes added to Chinese herbal tea, having a mildly sour taste. In traditional Chinese medicine the plant is believed to help the digestive system, and it is also used for other health problems including colds, hepatitis, diarrhea, heat stroke, and dyspepsia. It has been used as a folk remedy for cancer, inflammation, fever, stomach pain, and acne. Willow water is a traditional method to extract the rooting hormone indolebutyric acid from willow (Salix) trees, which is believed to be present in sufficient quantities to stimulate root growth. Rhododendron groenlandicum (bog Labrador tea, muskeg tea, swamp tea, or in northern Canada, Hudson's Bay tea; formerly Ledum groenlandicum or Ledum latifolium) is a flowering shrub with white flowers and evergreen leaves that is used to make a herbal tea. Uses
The leaves are regularly used to make beverages and medicines—most commonly a fragrant tea—by many Native American tribes such as the Quinault and Makah, the Potawatomi, the Anishinaabe, the Iroquois, and First Nations tribes in Canada. It is used as traditional medicine and health-promoting tea in China for treatment and prevention of sore throats, high blood pressure, inflammation, dizziness and neurasthenia. Uses
Herbal medicine
Rhododendron tomentosum is used in herbalism to make an herbal tea called "Labrador tea". 
Can a supposedly "high acid" diet weaken bones? [SEP] However, their claims are false, and there is no evidence supporting the claimed mechanisms of this diet, which is not recommended by dietitians or other health professionals.The "acid-ash" hypothesis claimed that excess dietary production of acid was a risk factor for osteoporosis, but the scientific evidence does not support this hypothesis. These advocates propose that diets high in acid-producing elements will generally lead the body to become acidic and thereby foster disease. The "acid-ash" hypothesis was once considered a risk factor for osteoporosis, though the current weight of scientific evidence does not support this hypothesis. The acid-ash hypothesis is a medical hypothesis which suggests that excessively acidic diets may result in a number of identifiable health effects, including an increased risk of osteoporosis. Other meta-analyses which have investigated the effect of total dietary acid intake have also found no evidence that acid intake increases the risk for osteoporosis as would be expected under the acid-ash hypothesis.Another review looked at the effects of dairy product intake, which have been hypothesized to increase the acid load of the body through phosphate and protein components. This review found no significant evidence suggesting dairy product intake causes acidosis or increases risk for osteoporosis. Relation to alkaline diets

The acid ash hypothesis suggests that diets high in "acid ash" (acid producing) elements would cause the body to try to buffer (or counteract) any additional acid load in the body by breaking down bone, leading to weaker bones and increased risk for osteoporosis. However, this acceptance of the acid-ash hypothesis as a major modifiable risk factor of osteoporosis by these publications was largely made without significant critical review by high quality systematic analysis.It has also been speculated that an alkaline diet may have an effect on muscle wasting, growth hormone metabolism or back pain, though there is no conclusive evidence to confirm these hypotheses. 
Does a supposedly "alkaline-rich" diet prevent chronic diseases? [SEP] It has also been proposed that acid causes rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, and that an alkaline diet can be used to treat these conditions. Adverse effects
Because the alkaline diet promotes excluding certain families of foods, it could result in a less balanced diet with resulting nutrient deficiencies such as essential fatty acids and phytonutrients. While a selectively alkaline diet may change the pH level in the urine, it has not been shown to elicit a sustained change in blood pH levels, nor to provide the clinical benefits claimed by its proponents. Because of the body's natural regulatory mechanisms, which do not require a special diet to work, eating an alkaline diet can, at most, change the blood pH minimally and transiently.A similar proposal by those advocating this diet suggests that cancer grows in an acidic environment, and that an alkaline diet can change the environment of the body to treat cancer. Evaluation
The British Dietetic Association named the alkaline diet one of the "top 5 worst celeb diets to avoid in 2018", branding it as "nonsense".This proposed mechanism, in which the diet can significantly change the acidity of the blood, goes against "everything we know about the chemistry of the human body" and has been called a "myth" in a statement by the American Institute for Cancer Research.While it has been proposed that this diet can help increase energy, lose weight, and treat cancer and heart disease, there is no evidence to support any of these claims. "Can an alkaline diet help prevent cancer?". About alkaline diets on ScienceBlogs Given an aging population, the effects of an alkaline diet on public health may offer some benefits due to its focus on an increase in fresh fruits and vegetables, but there are limited scientific studies on the topic. 
Can a blood test detect mental illness? [SEP] History
History Tying The Immune System to Psychosis
Since the late 1800’s scientists and physicians have noticed a possible link between the immune system and psychiatric disorders. The mental status examination is an important part of the assessment. There can be considerable overlap with the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder.A more general medical and neurological examination may be needed to rule out medical illnesses which may rarely produce psychotic schizophrenia-like symptoms, such as metabolic disturbance, systemic infection, syphilis, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder, epilepsy, limbic encephalitis, and brain lesions. Some markers such as C-reactive protein are useful in detecting levels of inflammation implicated in some psychiatric disorders but they are not disorder-specific. Diagnosis is usually made by a psychiatrist. Schizophrenia cannot be diagnosed if symptoms of mood disorder are substantially present, or if symptoms of pervasive developmental disorder are present unless prominent delusions or hallucinations are also present. A general medical and neurological examination may also be needed to rule out medical illnesses which may rarely produce psychotic schizophrenia-like symptoms, such as metabolic disturbance, systemic infection, syphilis, HIV infection, epilepsy, and brain lesions. Biomarkers of psychosis for use in clinical tests can be diagnostic, prognostic, predictive of conversion, or monitoring of progression. 
Is surgery for an anterior cruciate ligament tear (by replacing the broken anterior cruciate ligament with tendon tissue from another part of the leg) followed by physical therapy better than physical therapy alone? [SEP] In comparing operative and nonoperative approaches to ACL tears, few differences were noted between surgical and nonsurgical groups, with no significant differences in regard to knee function or muscle strength reported by the patients.The main goals to achieve during rehabilitation (rehab) of an ACL tear is to regain sufficient functional stability, maximize full muscle strength, and decrease risk of reinjury. Operative treatment of the ACL
Anterior cruciate ligament surgery is a complex operation that requires expertise in the field of orthopedic and sports medicine. For adults 18 to 35, though, patients who underwent early surgery followed by rehabilitation fared no better than those who had rehabilitative therapy and a later surgery.The first report focused on children and the timing of an ACL reconstruction. It found no significant statistical difference in performance and pain outcomes for patients who receive early ACL reconstruction vs. those who receive physical therapy with an option for later surgery. In those with high activity levels, surgical repair via arthroscopic anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction is often recommended. Treatment
Treatment for ACL tears is important to:
Reduce abnormal knee movements and improve knee function
Build trust and confidence to use the knee normally again
Prevent further injury to the knee and reduce the risk of osteoarthritis
Optimise long-term quality of life following the injury

Nonsurgical
Nonsurgical treatment for ACL rupture involves progressive, structured rehabilitation that aims to restore muscle strength, dynamic knee control and psychological confidence. This method is less invasive and is proven to result in less pain from surgery, less time in the hospital, and quicker recovery times than "open" surgery (in which a long incision is made down the front of the knee and the joint is opened and exposed).Young athletes or anyone opting for ACL surgery should consider delaying their surgery and completing a 4-6 week prehabilitation program. If an individual with an ACL injury undergoes surgery, the rehabilitation process will first focus on slowly increasing the range of motion of the joint, then on strengthening the surrounding muscles to protect the new ligament and stabilize the knee. 
Can motherwort reduce migraine attacks? [SEP] Folklore
Nicholas Culpeper considered motherwort useful for removing melancholy vapors from the heart, improving cheerfulness, and settling the wombs of mothers. In 15th century Europe, motherwort was considered by some herbalists to protect against evil spirits. Prevention is better than cure, so the ideal treatment goal is to prevent migraine attacks. Biofeedback to induce muscle relaxation is widely used in migraine prevention. Since then, several randomized control trials have shown Botulinum Toxin Type A to improve headache symptoms and quality of life when used prophylactically for patients with chronic migraine

Medication
Preventive drugs are used to reduce the frequency, duration, and severity of migraine attacks. Anticonvulsants
Anticonvulsant medication is commonly prescribed for migraine prevention, because they have been shown in placebo-controlled double-blind trials to be effective in some migraine sufferers. Ibuprofen has been found to provide effective pain relief in about 50% of migraine attacks. Acetylsalicylic acid
Acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin) can relieve moderate to severe migraine pain, with an effectiveness similar to the triptans. 
Does metal in bed disturb sleep? [SEP] In extreme cases, cadmium (present in some older silver solder alloys) can cause loss of consciousness. This is not an allergic reaction, though allergic reactions to metal fumes can occur. It does not prevent you getting metal fume fever." See also
Sleep disorder
Sleep hygiene
Sleep study
Sundowning
White noise machine


== References == Metalloved.)] This can lead to sleep apnea. This phenomenon has been called "sleep inertia." Sleep Research Online. 
Does heat treatment (radiofrequency ablation or radiofrequency heat ablation of benign nodules of the thyroid gland work as well as conventional surgical methods? [SEP] Laser ablation of thyroid nodules is a minimally invasive procedure indicated to treat benign thyroid lesions such as cold nodules or single nodules within a multinodular goiter. Technique
The laser ablation of thyroid nodules is performed in day hospital or day-surgery. For these patients, minimally invasive therapeutic options such as radiofrequency ablation, microwave ablation, and cryoablation have emerged as possible alternatives. For nonsurgical patients, local thermal ablation techniques have enabled local control of tumors without resection. Theoretically, the greater heat intensity generated in MWA compared to other thermal modalities should allow for more complete ablations in larger tumors and thus decreased incidence of residual disease or recurrence at the tumor margins. Thermal Ablation of Lung Tumors. Image-guided Thermal Ablation of Lung Malignancies. Heat therapy using hyperthermia has been used to treat cancer in combination with ionizing radiation. 
Does Imunoglukan strengthen the immune system? [SEP] The complex displays immune stimulating properties and is thus mainly used as a vaccine adjuvant in order to induce a stronger immune response and longer protection. Quillaja saponins are well known for their ability to activate the immune system. Most adjuvants on the market today mainly activate the humoral immune response (i.e. A cell-mediated immune response is crucial for effective vaccination against intracellular pathogens and chronic infections. Other hormones appear to regulate the immune system as well, most notably prolactin, growth hormone and vitamin D.Some publications point towards the effect of deoxycholic acid (DCA) as an immunostimulant of the non-specific immune system, activating its main actors, the macrophages. Claims made by marketers of various products and alternative health providers, such as chiropractors, homeopaths, and acupuncturists to be able to stimulate or "boost" the immune system generally lack meaningful explanation and evidence of effectiveness. Immunosuppression is a reduction of the activation or efficacy of the immune system. Thus they serve as immunomodulators in immunotherapy (therapy that makes use of immune responses), which can be helpful in treating cancer (where targeted therapy often relies on the immune system being used to attack cancer cells) and in treating autoimmune diseases (in which the immune system attacks the self), such as some kinds of arthritis and dermatitis. 
Do cell phones promote the development and growth of tumors in the head? [SEP] The study's results, published in 2010, indicated that mobile phone use did not increase the risk of tumors among most cell phone users, with the possible exception of an increased risk among the 10% of users who used their cell phones the most.In the Interphone study, the top 10% of users used their phones 30 minutes/day. The results indicated that overall, mobile phone use did not increase the risk of glioma or meningioma, and that, in fact, a decrease in risk was observed. cell phones and cancer]". While affected by selection bias and information bias to varying degrees, these studies showed an association between glioma and acoustic neuroma and mobile-phone use; specifically in people with highest cumulative use of mobile phones, in people who had used mobile phones on the same side of the head as that on which their tumour developed, and in people whose tumour was in the temporal lobe of the brain (the area of the brain that is most exposed to RF radiation when a wireless phone is used at the ear)". For cancer in particular only one completed case-control study involving four European countries has investigated  mobile phone use among children or adolescents and risk of brain tumour; showing no association between the two (Aydin et al. In a 2002 case against Motorola, the plaintiffs alleged that the use of wireless handheld telephones could cause brain cancer and that the use of Motorola phones caused one plaintiff's cancer. Smoking has been suggested to increase the risk but evidence remains unclear.Although studies have not shown any link between cell phone or mobile phone radiation and the occurrence of brain tumors, the World Health Organization has classified mobile phone radiation on the IARC scale into Group 2B – possibly carcinogenic. The claim that cell phone usage may cause brain cancer is likely based on epidemiological studies which observed a slight increase in glioma risk among heavy users of wireless phones. 
Does wearing bras promote breast cancer risk? [SEP] Major medical organizations including the National Institutes of Health and the American Cancer Society have found no evidence that bra-wearing increases breast-cancer risk. Background
Singer and Grismaijer argued that bra-wearing might cause breast cancer because of a purported effect on lymphatic circulation. According to the authors, bra-induced constriction of the breast lymphatic vessels could concentrate unnamed, hypothetical toxins within the breast tissue, which might ultimately lead to cancer.In Dressed to Kill, Singer and Grismaijer claim to have examined the bra-wearing attitudes and behaviors of over 4,700 US women in 5 major cities, and that half of the women questioned had had breast cancer. Scientific reception
Medical and scientific bodies have generally not supported the book's claims about bras and breast cancer:

The National Cancer Institute (US) states that bras have not been shown to increase a woman's risk of breast cancer. The American Cancer Society states, "There are no scientifically valid studies that show wearing bras of any type causes breast cancer." The U.S. National Institutes of Health states, "Breast implants, using antiperspirants, and wearing underwire bras do not raise your risk for breast cancer." A study conducted by the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center found "no aspect of bra wearing, including bra cup size, recency, average number of hours a day worn, wearing a bra with an underwire, or age first began regularly wearing a bra, was associated with risks" of breast cancer. The study included detailed studies of women's lifestyle and bra-wearing habits and found no correlation between bra use and cancer.The authors' proposal that bras block the lymphatic system which leads to accumulated toxins and cancer was likewise contradicted by scientific study. 
Are tattoo inks harmful to health? [SEP] A variety of health effects can result from tattooing . Dermatologists have observed rare but severe medical complications from tattoo pigments in the body, and have noted that people acquiring tattoos rarely assess health risks prior to receiving their tattoos. The wide range of pigments currently used in tattoo inks may create unforeseen health problems. Pigments and preservatives in tattoo ink can cause allergic reactions in skin. Some common tattoo pigments are chemicals that may cause cancer, but longer-term studies would be needed to determine whether these chemicals increase risk of cancer if embedded in the skin. This ink may cause irritation and may be carcinogenic, and tattoo artists are divided on whether they consider it safe to use. Health effects
Components of tattoo ink may cause allergic reactions in skin, including red, green, yellow and blue pigments. Tattooed Skin and Health. 
Do plant hormones (phytoestrogens) other than genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause? [SEP] A Cochrane review of the use of phytoestrogens to relieve the vasomotor symptoms of menopause (hot flashes) stated that there was no conclusive evidence to suggest any benefit to their use, although genistein effects should be further investigated. In a rigorous study, the use of one such source of phytoestrogen, red clover, has been shown to be safe, but ineffective in relieving menopausal symptoms (black cohosh is also used for menopausal symptoms, but does not contain phytoestrogens). (PLOs 1 – July 17) and suggests that plant-derived ERb-selective compounds could lead to safer, more attractive alternative therapies for menopausal symptoms. They have been found efficient in alleviating hot flashes. The two soy isoflavones implicated in relieving menopausal symptoms are genistein and daidzein, and are also known as phytoestrogens. Other phytoestrogens
It is believed that dietary changes that include a higher consumption of phytoestrogens from sources such as soy, red clover, ginseng, and yam may relieve hot flashes. Ginseng: Very few studies exist on the effect of ginseng for relief of menopausal symptoms. Flaxseed may reduce the number of hot flashes and improve mood and quality of life in postmenopausal women not receiving estrogen therapy. 
Does the herbal hormone genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause??? [SEP] Mode of action
Menerba has been reported to alleviate menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes, while having no stimulative effects on endometrium or breast tissue.In mouse xenograft models, Menerba produced a different conformation in estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) from ERβ when compared with the conformations produced by estradiol. Menerba showed a statistically significant reduction in the number of hot flashes after 12 weeks of treatment and had a statistically significant reduction in nighttime awakenings from hot flashes (-67%, p=0.05). They have been found efficient in alleviating hot flashes. While not all women respond to clonidine as a hot flash medication, it can reduce hot flashes by 40% in some peri-menopausal women. The two soy isoflavones implicated in relieving menopausal symptoms are genistein and daidzein, and are also known as phytoestrogens. Other phytoestrogens
It is believed that dietary changes that include a higher consumption of phytoestrogens from sources such as soy, red clover, ginseng, and yam may relieve hot flashes. Ginseng: Very few studies exist on the effect of ginseng for relief of menopausal symptoms. Flaxseed may reduce the number of hot flashes and improve mood and quality of life in postmenopausal women not receiving estrogen therapy. 
Does bloodletting according to Hildegard von Bingen have health benefits? [SEP] Bloodletting (or blood-letting) is the withdrawal of blood from a patient to prevent or cure illness and disease. In the overwhelming majority of cases, the historical use of bloodletting was harmful to patients.Today, the term phlebotomy refers to the drawing of blood for laboratory analysis or blood transfusion. One British medical text recommended bloodletting for acne, asthma, cancer, cholera, coma, convulsions, diabetes, epilepsy, gangrene, gout, herpes, indigestion, insanity, jaundice, leprosy, ophthalmia, plague, pneumonia, scurvy, smallpox, stroke, tetanus, tuberculosis, and for some one hundred other diseases. Bloodletting was even used to treat most forms of hemorrhaging such as nosebleed, excessive menstruation, or hemorrhoidal bleeding. The psychological benefit of bloodletting to the patient (a placebo effect) may sometimes have outweighed the physiological problems it caused. Some physicians considered bloodletting useful for a more limited range of purposes, such as to "clear out" infected or weakened blood or its ability to "cause hæmorrhages to cease"—as evidenced in a call for a "fair trial for blood-letting as a remedy" in 1871.Some researchers used statistical methods for evaluating treatment effectiveness to discourage bloodletting. Phlebotomy
Bloodletting is used today in the treatment of a few diseases, including hemochromatosis and polycythemia. In alternative medicine
Though bloodletting as a general health measure has been shown to be pseudoscience, it is still commonly indicated for a wide variety of conditions in the Ayurvedic, Unani, and traditional Chinese systems of alternative medicine. 
Can FGXpress Power Strips reduce pain or improve wound healing? [SEP] Wound closure strips are porous surgical tape strips which can be used to close small wounds. Wound closure strips may be used instead of sutures (stitches) in some injuries, because they lessen scarring and are easier to care for. Additionally, they provide wound support following early suture or staple removal. Benefits
The porous fabric of Steri-Strips allows more fresh air to the wound and prevent skin maceration. The use of this technique in wound management started in the 1990s and this technique is often recommended for treatment of a range of wounds including dehisced surgical wounds, closed surgical wounds, open abdominal wounds, open fractures, pressure injuries or pressure ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, venous insufficiency ulcers, some types of skin grafts, burns, sternal wounds. Mechanism
The use of NPWT to enhance wound healing is thought to be by removing excess extracellular fluid and decreasing tissue edema, which leads to increased blood flow and stabilization of the wound environment. In vivo, NPWT has been shown to increase fibroblast proliferation and migration, collagen organization, and to increase the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and fibroblast growth factor-2, thereby enhancing wound healing. Analysis of healing human wounds showed that PDGF-BB induces fibroblast proliferation and differentiation and was found to increase healing in patients with decreased healing capacity, such as people living with diabetes. 
Does treatment according to the fascial distortion model help with chronic shoulder pain? [SEP] Fascial Manipulation is a manual therapy technique developed by Italian physiotherapist Luigi Stecco in the 1980s, aimed at evaluating and treating global fascial dysfunction by restoring normal motion/gliding to the system.The method is based on a biomechanical model which lays an emphasis on the significant role of fascia, particularly deep muscular fascia in treating musculoskeletal disorders, and internal organ disfunction. The biomechanical model of FM is supported by evidence of numerous anatomical, and histological studies that examine the role of fascia in musculoskeletal disorders. Effectiveness
Studies on the Fascial Manipulation (FM) method provide a statistical, and clinical significance of this technique on joint instability, skeletal and muscular pain arising from abnormal fascia function. In an early pilot study characterizing the clinical implications of applying Fascial Manipulation technique for the treatment of musculoskeletal pain, it was indicated from a study consisting of 28 subjects with chronic posterior brachial pain that the Fascial Manipulation technique could lead to effective reduction of chronic  pain. Later on, a systematic review of research studies from 2005 to 2019 that followed Stecco’s Fascial Manipulation (FM) model was also conducted, and it was indicated that significant improvements were reported suggesting the effectiveness of FM in improving the pain in study subjects.The effects of the FM method for the treatment of rotator cuff tear disease have also been assessed in post stroke patients. It was also proved as an effective, safe, and cost-effective approach to reduce facial pain, and has shown improvement in muscle force, and motor functionality.An early single blinded randomized controlled trial, showed that Fascial Manipulation (FM) reported significant improvements, both from a clinical and statistical viewpoint as compared to usual physiotherapy alone for the treatment of chronic aspecific low back pain (CALBP). Publications
Introducing the Fascial Distortion Model, American Academy of Osteopathy (AAO) Journal, Vol.4, No. Orthopathic Medicine: The Unification of Orthopedics with Osteopathy Through the Fascial Distortion Model • First Edition, 1997, Orthopathic Global Health Publications (OGHP), Brewer, ME • Second Edition, 1998, OGHP, Brewer, ME • Third Edition, 1999, OGHP, Brewer, ME • Japanese Edition, 1998, Sky East Publishing, Tokyo, Japan • German Edition, Verlag für Ganzheltiliche Medicin (VGM), Kötzting, Germany, 1999
FDM – Clinical and Theoretical Application of the Fascial Distortion Model Within the Practice of Medicine and Surgery • 2002, Orthopathic Global Health Publications (OGHP), Brewer, ME • Japanese Edition, 2004, FDM Asia Association, Fukuoka, Japan

References
External links
www.afdma.com
http://www.fdm-europe.com/en_US/
http://osteopathie-blog.blogspot.com/
http://www.typaldos-akademie.de/
http://www.fdm.cc/
http://www.fascialdistortion.com 
Are there effective alternatives to the breathing mask (CPAP) for sleep apnea? [SEP] CPAP therapy is highly effective for managing obstructive sleep apnea. Medical uses
Severe to moderate obstructive sleep apnea
CPAP is the most effective treatment for moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea, in which the mild pressure from the CPAP prevents the airway from collapsing or becoming blocked. CPAP has been shown to be 100% effective at eliminating obstructive sleep apneas in the majority of people who use the therapy according to the recommendations of their physician. In addition, a meta-analysis showed that CPAP therapy may reduce erectile dysfunction symptoms in male patients with obstructive sleep apnea. CPAP can be used to treat UARS as the condition progresses, in order to prevent it from developing into obstructive sleep apnea. Face mask
A full face mask over the mouth and nose is another approach for people who breathe out of their mouths when they sleep. This has the additional benefit of reducing or eliminating the extremely loud snoring that sometimes accompanies sleep apnea.The CPAP machine blows air at a prescribed pressure (also called the titrated pressure). CPAP treatment can be highly effective in treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. 
Does closure of the foramen ovale prevent further strokes in people who have had a stroke of unknown cause? [SEP] In most individuals, the foramen ovale closes at birth. This passageway is called the foramen ovale. Closure
The foramen ovale often closes at birth. Clinical significance
In about 25% of adults the foramen ovale does not close completely, but remains as a small patent foramen ovale ("PFO"). Other causes of stroke can include high blood pressure and narrowing of the blood vessels to the brain. Stroke. While no studies have looked at the optimal diet for secondary prevention of stroke, some observational studies have shown that a Mediterranean diet can reduce stroke risk in patients without cerebrovascular disease. For those with extra-cranial stenosis between 50 and 69%, carotid endarterectomy decreases the 5-year risk of ischemic stroke by about 16%. 
Does stimulation current therapy (TENS - Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation) help with worn knee joints (knee osteoarthritis)? [SEP] Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS or TNS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. In principle, an adequate intensity of stimulation is necessary to achieve pain relief with TENS. A 2010 review did not find evidence to support the use of TENS for chronic low back pain.Another study examining Knee Osteoarthritis (KOA) patients supported that TENS demonstrated a better efficacy and safety profile than Weak Opiates. Given the age and comorbidities of the KOA population being generally older, often prone to polypharmacy and sensitive to adverse reactions, TENS could be a relevant non-pharmacological therapeutic alternative to pharmacological analgesics for the management of Knee Osteoarthritis pain. As of 2015, the efficacy of TENS therapy for phantom limb pain is not known as no randomized controlled trials have been performed.A few studies have shown objective evidence that TENS may modulate or suppress pain signals in the brain. Transcutaneous tibial nerve stimulation
Recent studies have been carried out to demonstrate the efficacy of transcutaneous tibial nerve stimulation with the use of external electrodes. It is believed that the electrical stimulation can penetrate the skin delivering tibial nerve stimulation in the same way, but without the need for a needle electrode.It is thought that further studies on alternative possible treatments, such as home based transcutaneous stimulation, are needed. It can be contrasted with cranial electrotherapy stimulation, which generally uses alternating current the same way, as well as transcranial magnetic stimulation.Research shows increasing evidence for tDCS as a treatment for depression. 
Does taking magnesium salts decrease the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps with unknown cause? [SEP] For those with severe symptoms, intravenous magnesium sulfate may be used. Kidney causes involve increased excretion of magnesium. Magnesium increases prostaglandins, decreases thromboxane, and decreases angiotensin II, microvascular leakage, and vasospasm through its function similar to calcium channel blockers. The vasodilatatory effect of magnesium seems to be the major mechanism. Magnesium acts as a physiologic calcium blocker, which results in abnormalities of the electrical conduction system of the heart. Magnesium salts are available as a medication in a number of formulations. Magnesium is important to health. Increasing magnesium intake may also be beneficial for similar physiological reasons.Potassium chloride supplements by mouth have the advantage of containing precise quantities of potassium, but the disadvantages of a taste which may be unpleasant, and the potential for side-effects including nausea and abdominal discomfort. 
Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of exercise-induced muscle cramps during sports? [SEP] Exercise-associated muscle cramps (EAMC) are defined as cramping (painful muscle spasms) during or immediately following exercise. Muscle cramps during exercise are very common, even in elite athletes. The cause of exercise-associated muscle cramps is hypothesized to be due to altered neuromuscular control, dehydration, or electrolyte depletion. Electrolyte depletion and dehydration theory
It is widely believed that excessive sweating due to strenuous exercise can lead to muscle cramps. Deficiency of sodium and other electrolytes may lead to contracted interstitial fluid compartments, which may exacerbate the muscle cramping. In this hypothesis, it is suggested that cramping is due to altered neuromuscular activity. To prevent or treat, athletes are recommended to stretch, stop movement and rest, massaging the area that is cramping, or drink fluids. Magnesium increases prostaglandins, decreases thromboxane, and decreases angiotensin II, microvascular leakage, and vasospasm through its function similar to calcium channel blockers. 
Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps in pregnancy? [SEP] Magnesium sulfate as a medication is used to treat and prevent low blood magnesium and seizures in women with eclampsia. Eclampsia
Magnesium sulfate is effective in decreasing the risk that pre-eclampsia progresses to eclampsia. Intravenous magnesium sulfate is used to prevent and treat seizures of eclampsia. Early delivery
Magnesium sulfate was once used as a tocolytic, but meta-analyses have failed to support it as an anti-contraction medication. Magnesium salts are available as a medication in a number of formulations. Obstetrics: Magnesium sulfate is used to prevent seizures in women with preeclampsia and eclampsia, and is also used for fetal neuroprotection in preterm deliveries, but has been shown to be an ineffective tocolytic agent. Magnesium increases prostaglandins, decreases thromboxane, and decreases angiotensin II, microvascular leakage, and vasospasm through its function similar to calcium channel blockers. Magnesium toxicity from emergency pre-eclampsia treatment during labor and delivery. 
Does the active ingredient rivaroxaban (drug Xarelto) have a higher risk of dangerous bleeding than other anticoagulants? [SEP] Rivaroxaban, sold under the brand name Xarelto among others, is an anticoagulant medication (blood thinner) used to treat and prevent blood clots. Rivaroxaban is associated with lower rates of serious and fatal bleeding events than warfarin, though rivaroxaban is associated with higher rates of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract.In July 2012, the UK's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence recommended rivaroxaban to prevent and treat venous thromboembolism. Rivaroxaban is associated with lower rates of serious and fatal bleeding events than warfarin but is associated with higher rates of bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract.As of 2015, post-marketing assessments showed liver toxicity, and further studies are needed to quantify this risk. In 2015, rivaroxaban accounted for the highest number of reported cases of serious injury among regularly monitored medications to the FDA's Adverse Events Reporting System (AERS). Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin (activated Factor II), and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated. It allows predictable anticoagulation and dose adjustments and routine coagulation monitoring; dietary restrictions are not needed.Unfractionated heparin (UFH), low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), and fondaparinux also inhibit the activity of factor Xa, indirectly, by binding to circulating antithrombin (AT III) and must be injected, whereas the orally active warfarin, phenprocoumon, and acenocoumarol are vitamin K antagonists (VKA), decreasing a number of coagulation factors, including factor X.Rivaroxaban has predictable pharmacokinetics across a wide spectrum of patients (age, gender, weight, race) and has a flat dose response across an eightfold dose range (5–40 mg). Drug interactions
The risk of bleeding is increased if used at the same time as other blood thinning drugs such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antiplatelet drugs and heparin. Contraindictions
The RUBY-1 phase II trial results show that oral administration of darexaban in combination with the standard dual antiplatelet therapy used for acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients caused a two- to four-fold increase in bleeding rates and no effect on ACS. 
Does vitamin D protect against dementia or memory loss? [SEP] Research suggests that vitamin D may function as a modulator in brain development and as a neuroprotectant. These findings suggest that vitamin D potentially affects the development of neurons as well as their maintenance and survival. Current research is underway investigating whether vitamin D is a factor contributing to normal brain functioning. In several recent studies, higher vitamin D levels have been associated with lower risks of developing Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is associated with a decrease in vitamin D receptors in the Cornu Ammonius areas (CA 1& 2) of the hippocampus. Vitamin D supplements do not alter the outcomes for myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebrovascular disease, cancer, bone fractures or knee osteoarthritis.A US Institute of Medicine (IOM) report states: "Outcomes related to cancer, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and diabetes and metabolic syndrome, falls and physical performance, immune functioning and autoimmune disorders, infections, neuropsychological functioning, and preeclampsia could not be linked reliably with calcium or vitamin D intake and were often conflicting. : 435

Bone health
In general, no good evidence supports the commonly held belief that vitamin D supplements can help prevent osteoporosis. Cognition and dementia
A systematic review of clinical studies found an association between low vitamin D levels with cognitive impairment and a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. 
Does brain training boost intelligence? [SEP] Brain training (also called cognitive training) is a program of regular activities purported to maintain or improve one's cognitive abilities. Cognitive training reflects a hypothesis that cognitive abilities can be maintained or improved by exercising the brain, analogous to the way physical fitness is improved by exercising the body. Cognitive training includes interventions targeted at improving cognitive abilities. In a more specific manner, there is indeed a great deal of evidence that brain training does indeed improve performance on trained tasks, but less evidence in closely related tasks. Could Brain Training Prevent Dementia? Individual studies of the topic show different, and sometime contradictory, results, and as one meta study puts it, asking the question “Does cognitive training improve intelligence?” is as inappropriate as asking “Does medicine cure disease?”, since none of them specify which particular intervention (which medicine or working memory training program) is being evaluated, for alleviating which condition is it applied (ADHD, stroke, general cognitive improvement etc), and under what circumstances is it administered (selection criteria, adherence rate, outcome variables etc). A study done in Germany proved how education did affect the intelligence of students and proof of intelligence affecting education was seen in the military, where people with lesser intelligence were observed to have a slower learning speed and benefited less from education. These findings demonstrate how intelligence is necessary for learning and any form of training, and that those who are more intelligent learn more rapidly and effectively than those who are less intelligent. 
Does petroleum help against cancer? [SEP] In 1926, a British Home Office committee strongly favoured the view that this form of cancer was caused by the prolonged action of mineral oils on the skin of the scrotum, and of these oils, shale oil was deemed to be the most carcinogenic. The carcinogen was thought to be coal tar possibly containing some arsenic.When the first case of scrotal squamous cell carcinoma in a cotton worker in the Manchester Hospital records in 1887, shale oil had been used in the mills for 35 years. Mineral oil and alternative theories
Leitch reported, in 1922, that he had painted mineral oil from shale onto mice, inducing carcinomas, while Henry reported, in 1926, that shale oil was used on the rapidly rotating spindles, which, due to centrifugal force, sprayed out. Background
In the 1950s, scientists began systematically examining natural organisms as a source of useful anti-cancer substances. Subsequent research based on the trial has generally found that selenium and vitamin E do not prevent prostate cancer. The disease was also seen in men exposed to mineral oil and those who worked with coal distillates.This cancer is also referred to as epidermoid carcinoma of the scrotum and epithelioma of the scrotum. Improved personal hygiene also helped in lowering incidence of the cancer. Related diseases
Decades later, it was noticed to occur amongst gas plant and oil shale workers, and it was later found that certain constituents of tar, soot, and oils, known as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, were found to cause cancer in laboratory animals. 
Does lavender scent help with sleep disorders? [SEP] Not only can morning bright light therapy help establish a better sleep-wake schedule, but it also has been shown to be effective for treating depression directly, especially when related to seasonal affective disorder.Individuals with breathing difficulties due to asthma or allergies may experience additional barriers to quality sleep that can be addressed by specific variations of sleep hygiene recommendations. Lavandula latifolia, known as broadleaved lavender, spike lavender, aspic lavender or Portuguese lavender,  is a flowering plant in the family Lamiaceae, native to the western Mediterranean region, from central Portugal to northern Italy (Liguria) through Spain and southern France. %)
Limonene (0.2–0.9%)

Uses
Lavandula latifolia can be used in aromatherapy. Thought to be the original species lavender, harvested for its oil. Uses
The flowers and leaves are used as a herbal medicine, either in the form of lavender oil or as a herbal tea, to alleviate symptoms such as anxiety, and difficulty falling asleep. Lavender essential oil, when diluted with a carrier oil, is commonly used as a relaxant with massage therapy. Dried lavender flowers and lavender essential oil are also used as a prevention against clothing moths, which do not like their scent.Lavandula angustifolia is included in the Tasmanian Fire Service's list of low flammability plants, indicating that it is suitable for growing within a building protection zone. It is present on Madeira and the Canary Islands.One of several species known by the English common name French lavender (see also Lavandula stoechas), it is commonly grown as an ornamental plant and its essential oil is used in perfumes. 
Does the drug Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) enable high cure rates for chronic hepatitis C? [SEP] Sofosbuvir, sold under the brand name Sovaldi among others, is a medication used to treat hepatitis C. It is taken by mouth.Common side effects include fatigue, headache, nausea, and trouble sleeping. Sofosbuvir is in the nucleotide analog family of medications and works by blocking the hepatitis C NS5B protein.Sofosbuvir was discovered in 2007 and approved for medical use in the United States in 2013. Sofosbuvir allows most people to be treated successfully without the use of peginterferon, an injectable drug with severe side effects that is a key component of older drug combinations for the treatment of hepatitis C virus. Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
Sofosbuvir inhibits the hepatitis C NS5B protein. Two months before, the FDA had approved another drug, simeprevir, as a hepatitis C treatment.In 2014, the fixed dose combination drug sofosbuvir/ledipasvir, the latter a viral NS5A inhibitor, was approved; it had also been granted breakthrough status.Prior to the availability of sofosbuvir, hepatitis C treatments involved 6 to 12 months of treatment with an interferon-based regimen. Sovodak was approved by the Iranian Food and Drug Administration in October 2015 and is currently marketed in Iran as the treatment of choice for all genotypes of hepatitis C as recommended by the national Iranian guideline for treating hepatitis C.

Research
The similarities between the hepatitis C and SARS-CoV-2 virus has led some researches to investigate the effectiveness of sofosbuvir/daclatasvir against COVID-19. In the European Union it was approved in July 2016, for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection in adults.The safety and efficacy of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir for a 12-week treatment was evaluated in three Phase III clinical trials of 1,558 subjects without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis (mild cirrhosis). The safety and efficacy of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir was also evaluated in a clinical trial of 267 subjects with decompensated cirrhosis (moderate to severe cirrhosis), of whom 87 subjects received sofosbuvir/velpatasvir in combination with ribavirin for 12 weeks, and 94 percent of these subjects had no virus detected in the blood 12 weeks after finishing treatment.The pharmacokinetics (how the body absorbs, distributes and rids itself of a drug), safety and efficacy of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir, taken orally for 12 weeks, for the treatment of HCV genotypes 1, 2, 3, 4 or 6 infection was established in an open-label, multicenter clinical trial that included a total of 173 treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced pediatric subjects ages six years and older without cirrhosis or with mild cirrhosis. 
Does alpha lipoic acid help prevent or treat Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Lipoic acid (LA), also known as α-lipoic acid, alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) and thioctic acid, is an organosulfur compound derived from caprylic acid (octanoic acid). Physical and chemical properties
Lipoic acid (LA), also known as α-lipoic acid, alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), and thioctic acid is an organosulfur compound derived from octanoic acid. Clinical research
According to the American Cancer Society as of 2013, "there is no reliable scientific evidence at this time that lipoic acid prevents the development or spread of cancer". As of 2012, there was no good evidence alpha lipoic acid helps people with mitochondrial disorders. As of 2017, the product had failed to show a significant effect in decreasing the rate of cognitive decline or delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease, but appeared to cause minor improvement in verbal memory in some people in the very early stages of the disease. The trial will be finalized in 2020.The Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer’s (A4) study is a phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate whether solanezumab can slow cognitive decline in cognitively unimpaired older adults with elevated levels of amyloid β. Research on laboratory rats suggest that the soluble form of this peptide is a causative agent in the development of Alzheimer's. It is an option for the management of those with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease (modest effect). 
Are Vemma products good for health? [SEP] Vemma () Nutrition Company was a privately held multi-level marketing  company that sold dietary supplements. Vemma Nutrition Company was incorporated in 2004, and by 2011, New Vision had been entirely folded into Vemma.Vemma sold its products through its website, and also through independent distributors (referred to internally as affiliates)  who could potentially earn a share of the revenue from their own product sales as well as those from the network of distributors they build.In 2013, Vemma started describing itself as an affiliate marketing company, although Benson K. Boreyko has said that the compensation plan is the same. Vemma is a member of the U.S. In December 2016, Vemma reached a $238 million settlement with the FTC, which also banned the company, its CEO, and top distributors from recruitment-focused business ventures, deceptive income claims, and unsubstantiated health claims. Business model
Vemma was a multi-level marketing (MLM) company. Products
Vemma had four product lines, all based on their core Vemma nutritional formulation: Vemma, Verve, Bod-e and Next. The name "Vemma" is an acronym representing: vitamins, essential minerals, mangosteen, aloe. Vemma issued a statement that it does not believe it was in violation of the law, and that the company has made a number of changes in response to the government's concerns. 
Do over-the-counter cough medicines relieve cough symptoms? [SEP] Types
There are a number of different cough and cold medications, which may be used for various coughing symptoms. A 2014 Cochrane review concluded that "There is no good evidence for or against the effectiveness of OTC medicines in acute cough". Some cough medicines may be no more effective than placebos for acute coughs in adults, including coughs related to upper respiratory tract infections. No over-the-counter cough medicines have been found to be effective in cases of pneumonia. Some placebo-controlled trials have found that it is ineffective against some forms of cough, including acute cough in children. A number of other commercially available cough treatments have not been shown to be effective in viral upper respiratory infections. In children half of cases go away without treatment in 10 days and 90% in 25 days.According to the American Academy of Pediatrics the use of cough medicine to relieve cough symptoms is supported by little evidence and thus not recommended for treating cough symptoms in children. It does not alleviate coughing to the same extent as dextromethorphan but it shortens the cough duration better than placebo and salbutamol. 
Does a diet rich in vitamin K2 protect against diseases of the cardiovascular system? [SEP] Research suggests that deficiency of vitamin K may also weaken bones, potentially contributing to osteoporosis, and may promote calcification of arteries and other soft tissues.Chemically, the vitamin K family comprises 2-methyl-1,4-naphthoquinone (3-) derivatives. Vitamin deficiency
Because vitamin K aids mechanisms for blood clotting, its deficiency may lead to reduced blood clotting, and in severe cases, can result in reduced clotting, increased bleeding, and increased prothrombin time.Normal diets are usually not deficient in vitamin K, indicating that deficiency is uncommon in healthy children and adults. Vitamin K2 has been shown to lower this ratio and improve lumbar vertebrae bone mineral density. There is a subset of literature on supplementation with vitamin K2 MK-4 and bone health. Lower dietary intakes of vitamin K1 and vitamin K2 were also associated with higher coronary heart disease. When blood concentration of circulating vitamin K1 was assessed there was an increased risk in all cause mortality linked to low concentration. In contrast to these population studies, a review of randomized trials using supplementation with either vitamin K1 or vitamin K2 reported no role in mitigating vascular calcification or reducing arterial stiffness. "Vitamin K2". 
Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with high arches? [SEP] A removable shoe insert, otherwise known as a foot orthosis, insole or inner sole accomplishes many purposes, including daily wear comfort, height enhancement, plantar fasciitis treatment, arch support, foot and joint pain relief from arthritis, overuse, injuries, leg length discrepancy, and other causes such as orthopedic correction and athletic performance. It reduces the pain associated with wearing high-heeled shoes by adjusting weight distribution back toward the heel through altering the geometry of the insole, rather than with padding. The Insolia design shifts some of this weight back to the heel in an attempt to reduce high heel foot pain. Signs and symptoms
Pain and disability
As with certain cases of flat feet, high arches may be painful due to metatarsal compression; however, high arches— particularly if they are flexible or properly cared-for—may be an asymptomatic condition.People with pes cavus sometimes—though not always—have difficulty finding shoes that fit and may require support in their shoes. Children with high arches who have difficulty walking may wear specially-designed insoles, which are available in various sizes and can be made to order.Individuals with pes cavus frequently report foot pain, which can lead to a significant limitation in function. Otherwise, high arches may be handled with care and proper treatment.Suggested conservative management of patients with painful pes cavus typically involves strategies to reduce and redistribute plantar pressure loading with the use of foot orthoses and specialised cushioned footwear. Heel lifts, also known as shoe inserts, are commonly used as therapy for leg-length differences leading to knee, hip, and back pain. Wearing high heels is also associated with musculoskeletal pain, specifically pain in the Paraspinal muscles (muscles running up the back along the spine) and specifically with heel pain and plantar calluses (only women tested).A 2001 survey conducted by Pennsylvania State University using 200 women found that 58% of women complained of lower back pain when wearing heels, and 55% of women said they felt the worst overall back pain when wearing the highest heel. 
Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with foot deformities other than high arch? [SEP] "Efficacy of foot orthoses. It reduces the pain associated with wearing high-heeled shoes by adjusting weight distribution back toward the heel through altering the geometry of the insole, rather than with padding. The Insolia design shifts some of this weight back to the heel in an attempt to reduce high heel foot pain. Heel lifts, also known as shoe inserts, are commonly used as therapy for leg-length differences leading to knee, hip, and back pain. Signs and symptoms
Pain and disability
As with certain cases of flat feet, high arches may be painful due to metatarsal compression; however, high arches— particularly if they are flexible or properly cared-for—may be an asymptomatic condition.People with pes cavus sometimes—though not always—have difficulty finding shoes that fit and may require support in their shoes. Children with high arches who have difficulty walking may wear specially-designed insoles, which are available in various sizes and can be made to order.Individuals with pes cavus frequently report foot pain, which can lead to a significant limitation in function. Otherwise, high arches may be handled with care and proper treatment.Suggested conservative management of patients with painful pes cavus typically involves strategies to reduce and redistribute plantar pressure loading with the use of foot orthoses and specialised cushioned footwear. See also
Arches of the foot
Foot type
En pointe
Foot binding
Rocker bottom foot

References


== External links == 
Can dowsers find harmful soil zones or water veins? [SEP] Dowsing is a type of divination employed in attempts to locate ground water, buried metals or ores, gemstones, oil, claimed radiations (radiesthesia), gravesites, malign "earth vibrations" and many other objects and materials without the use of a scientific apparatus. In the late 1960s during the Vietnam War, some United States Marines used dowsing when locating weapons and tunnels. As late as in 1986, when 31 soldiers were taken by an avalanche during an operation in the NATO drill Anchor Express in Vassdalen, Norway, the Norwegian army attempted to locate soldiers buried in the avalanche using dowsing as a search method.Dowsing is still used by some farmers and by water engineers in Britain, however many of the United Kingdom's water utilities have since tried to distance themselves from the practice. The dowser then walks slowly over the places where he suspects the target (for example, minerals or water) may be, and the dowsing rod is expected to dip, incline or twitch when a discovery is made. The dowsers had to tell whether water was running through each pipe. Daempfle has written that although some dowsers claim success, this can be attributed to the underground water table being distributed relatively uniformly in certain areas.In regard to dowsing and its use in archaeology, Kenneth Feder has written that "the vast majority of archaeologists don't use dowsing, because they don't believe it works. Downhole oil–water separation (DOWS) technologies are apparatuses and methods that separate production fluids into a petroleum-rich stream and water-rich stream within an oil well. A DOWS system installed in a borehole will receive the fluids from an oil-producing zone in an oil reservoir and separate the mixture into a stream that is mostly water and a stream that is primarily  crude oil and natural gas and direct the streams to different destinations. 
Does bioresonance therapy help with health complaints? [SEP] Like many other psychotherapies, RRT does not only target the conscious thinking brain, but also addresses the emotional brain and limbic system, changing how the unconscious mind processes information so that improvements are natural and automatic. Vibroacoustic therapy (VAT) is a type of sound therapy that involves passing low frequency sine wave vibrations into the body via a device with embedded speakers. Vestibular rehabilitation (VR), also known as vestibular rehabilitation therapy (VRT), is a specialized form of physical therapy used to treat vestibular disorders or symptoms, characterized by dizziness, vertigo, and trouble with balance, posture, and vision. Vestibular rehabilitation therapy can be used in conjunction with cognitive behavioral therapy in order to reduce anxiety and depression resulting from an individual's change in lifestyle. Biomesotherapy is an alternative therapy practice that combines homotoxicology, mesotherapy, and acupuncture. Biomesotherapy is used for pain management and general well-being. Neuroreflexotherapy (NRT) is a type of alternative medicine treatment used for some cases of low back pain (LBP). Biothesiometry is a noninvasive medical test used to quantify the perception of vibration by measuring its threshold. 
Do irradiations with cold red light help with chronic gingivitis? [SEP] See also
Desquamative gingivitis

References


== External links == Mouth
Similarly, the use of lasers to treat chronic periodontitis and to speed healing of infections around dental implants is suggested, but there is insufficient evidence to indicate a use superior to traditional practices. See also
Photomedicine
Light therapy
Blood irradiation therapy
Photorejuvenation


== References == Laser gingivectomy is a dental procedure that recontours or scalpels the gingival tissue to improve long term dental health or aesthetics. In severe cases of herpetic gingivostomatitis, mouth rinses are useful in relieving oral discomfort. Research
Management
For adults without severe periodontitis and who get routine dental care, regular scale and polish treatment does not make any difference to gingivitis, probing depths or other oral health-related problems. Clinical investigations demonstrate that quitting smoking and making dietary changes enhance periodontal health. Using an antiseptic mouthwash: Chlorhexidine gluconate-based mouthwash in combination with careful oral hygiene may cure gingivitis, although they cannot reverse any attachment loss due to periodontitis. 
Does the Aspire system help you lose weight? [SEP] The device for this approach was developed by researchers at Washington University in St. Louis to treat obesity and  has been named AspireAssist. In an initial study 18 people those with the device lost more weight than controls. Weight Watchers or WW is a commercial program for weight loss based on a point system, meals replacement and counseling. Description
The Weight Watchers diet aims to restrict energy to achieve a weight loss of 0.5 to 1.0 kg per week, which is the medically accepted standard rate of a viable weight loss strategy. Weight Watchers claims that meal replacements have been shown to outperform calorie-controlled diets, as there is less margin for errors and less decision-making and cooking skills are required.The dieters are also recommended to engage in regular physical activity as part of a broader lifestyle change to complement their dietary changes, which mirrors the US national recommendations since 2013.In addition to the diet and related consumable products made by the brand, the Weight Watchers includes counseling via weekly or monthly meetings, calorie targets, and online support. Efficacy
The Weight Watchers diet claims to produce weight loss comparable to other diets supervised by a nutrition professional.The scientific soundness of commercial diets by commercial weight management organizations (CWMOs) varies widely, being previously non-evidence-based, so there is only limited evidence supporting their use, including Weight Watchers, due notably to high attrition rates.Weight Watchers claims to result in modest weight loss in the long-term, similarly to other commercial diets, non-commercial diets and standard care, although Weight Watchers may have less cardiovascular and glucose-lowering benefits than other diets such as low-carbohydrates.In a trial comparing 4 weight loss diets, the drop-out rate for the Weight Watchers diet was 35% (compared to others which had up to 50% drop-outs).Two systematic reviews found that Weight Watchers was the most cost-effective commercial diet as of 2019. Those authors believed this would result in weight loss as a side effect. Others similarly argue that the HAES focus may encourage people to delay attempts at weight loss indefinitely.There is some evidence HAES interventions can lead to positive psychological, physical, and behavioral outcomes, including short-term decreased body weight, BMI and body fat mass. 
Can FLEXISEQ ointment relieve osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] Flexion Therapeutics is an American biopharmaceutical company based in Burlington, Massachusetts that is focused on  the discovery, development and commercialization of novel, local therapies for the treatment of patients with musculoskeletal conditions, beginning with osteoarthritis (OA), the most common form of arthritis.Flexion was founded around 2007 by two former Eli Lilly & Co. executives, Michael Clayman, MD, and Neil Bodick, MD, PhD., and it went public in 2014. In October 2017 Zilretta was approved by the FDA as the first and only extended-release intra-articular therapy for patients confronting osteoarthritis-related knee pain.In December 2017, Flexion acquired an investigational gene therapy product candidate for the treatment of osteoarthritis (OA), known as FX201. Flexion believes FX201 holds the potential to provide extended relief from OA knee pain for at least six to 12 months and modify the disease.In September 2019, Flexion announced the development of FX301, a locally administered NaV1.7 inhibitor product candidate, known as funapide, formulated for extended release in a thermosensitive hydrogel. Oral steroids are not recommended in the treatment of osteoarthritis.Use of the antibiotic doxycycline orally for treating osteoarthritis is not associated with clinical improvements in function or joint pain. The European Society for Clinical and Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis (ESCEO) recommends glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate for knee osteoarthritis. Its use as a therapy for osteoarthritis is usually safe.A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials of chondroitin found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2014 Cochrane review found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. A 2021 review found that hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) had no benefit in reducing pain and improving physical function in hand or knee osteoarthritis, and the off-label use of HCQ for people with osteoarthritis should be discouraged. 
Can butterbur prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] This method is considered to be efficient for migraine prevention. Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. It has been reported to help people through an attack by relieving the nausea and dulling the head pain, as well as possibly preventing the headache completely when used as soon as possible after the onset of pre-migraine symptoms, such as aura. FeverfewThe plant feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium) is a traditional herbal remedy believed to reduce the frequency of migraine attacks. Prevention is better than cure, so the ideal treatment goal is to prevent migraine attacks. Biofeedback to induce muscle relaxation is widely used in migraine prevention. Ibuprofen has been found to provide effective pain relief in about 50% of migraine attacks. Acetylsalicylic acid
Acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin) can relieve moderate to severe migraine pain, with an effectiveness similar to the triptans. 
Does bisphenol A trigger allergies? [SEP] A 2007 study investigated the interaction between bisphenol A's and estrogen-related receptor γ (ERR-γ). "A 2010 review concluded that bisphenol A may increase cancer risk. Bisphenol A is an endocrine disruptor that can mimic estrogen and has been shown to cause negative health effects in animal studies. […]initial assessment shows that at low levels, bisphenol A can harm fish and organisms over time. Retrieved 8 April 2015
Bisphenol A articles Environmental Health Perspectives by NIEHS. "Is it time to end concerns over the estrogenic effects of bisphenol A?". List
Health effects
Bisphenols A (BPA), F (BPF) and S (BPS) have been shown to be endocrine disruptors. In addition to receptor binding, the compound has been found to affect Leydig cell steroidogenesis, including affecting 17α-hydroxylase/17,20 lyase and aromatase expression and interfering with LH receptor-ligand binding.Bisphenol A's interacts with the estrogen-related receptor γ (ERR-γ). 
Can maggots accelerate the healing of chronic wounds compared to conventional treatment? [SEP] There is evidence that maggot therapy may help with wound healing. Medical uses
Maggot therapy improves healing in chronic ulcers. History
Written records have documented that maggots have been used since antiquity as a wound treatment. "Maggot Therapy for Treating Diabetic Foot Ulcers Unresponsive to Conventional Therapy". "Maggot therapy for the treatment of intractable wounds". Maggot therapy has been shown to accelerate debridement of necrotic wounds and reduce the bacterial load of the wound, leading to earlier healing, reduced wound odor and less pain. The combination and interactions of these actions make maggots an extremely potent tool in chronic wound care. Maggots can debride a wound in one or two days. 
Do electric toothbrushes protect oral health better than manual brushes? [SEP] Effectiveness
In 2014, a Cochrane review demonstrated that power toothbrushes remove more plaque and reduce gingival inflammation more than manual toothbrushes. This review showed electric toothbrushes had greater effectiveness over manual ones. Another large review of studies also concluded that power toothbrushes were more effective in removing plaque than manual brushes for children. For patients with limited manual dexterity or where difficulty exists in reaching rear teeth, electric toothbrushes may be especially beneficial.With regards to the effectiveness of different electric toothbrushes, the oscillation rotation models have been found to remove more plaque than manual toothbrushes. Electric toothbrush
It has been discovered that compared to a manual brush, the multi-directional power brush might reduce the incidence of gingivitis and plaque, when compared to regular side-to-side brushing. Although there is conflicting evidence as to which is more effective, most evidence points to electric toothbrushes with an oscillatory motion being more effective than manual toothbrushes, with toothbrushes lacking an oscillatory motion being equivalent. A 2014 Cochrane review found moderate evidence that electric toothbrushes reduce plaque and gingivitis more than manual ones. Overall, both manual and electric toothbrushes are effective, however, and it is often recommended that people use whichever they feel comfortable with, determine is affordable for them, and will be more likely to regularly brush with. 
Do antidepressants from the group of serotonin reuptake inhibitors help with depression? [SEP] Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are a class of drugs that are typically used as antidepressants in the treatment of major depressive disorder, anxiety disorders, and other psychological conditions. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or serotonin-specific re-uptake inhibitor (SSRIs), are a class of chemical compounds that have contributed to the major advances as antidepressants where they have revolutionised the treatment of depression and other psychiatric disorders. Inhibiting the binding of the neurotransmitter, serotonin (5-HT), to SERT results in increased 5-HT concentration in the synaptic cleft leading to increased binding of 5-HT to postsynaptic receptors which results in improvement of depression symptoms.Today, SSRIs have dominated the market of antidepressants and are recommended by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as a first-line treatment of depression, because they typically have fewer adverse effects than other type of antidepressants with the same effectiveness. Dual inhibition of serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake can offer advantages over other antidepressant drugs by treating a wider range of symptoms. Drugs that selectively block the reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine effectively treat depression and are better tolerated than TCAs. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) selectively inhibit the reuptake of serotonin and are a widely used group of antidepressants. Clinical trials
Depression
Several studies have shown that antidepressant drugs which have combined serotonergic and noradrenergic activity are generally more effective than SSRIs, which act upon serotonin reuptake by itself. Serotonergic-noradrenergic antidepressant drugs may have a modest efficacy advantage compared to SSRIs in treating major depressive disorder (MDD), but are slightly less well tolerated. 
Is there a health risk from metal contaminants in lipsticks? [SEP] Some lipsticks contain traces of toxic materials, such as lead and PFAS, which prompted health concerns and regulation. In the 1850s, reports were being published warning women of the dangers of using lead and vermilion in cosmetics applied to the face. Safety
Lead traces
Lead and other trace metals may be found in many lipsticks; these occur naturally and can accidentally contaminate other ingredients during production. The study found that 61 percent of lipsticks contained lead with levels up to 0.65 parts per million (ppm). The lead levels ranged from 0.09 to 3.06 ppm, with the highest levels found in lipsticks made by Cover Girl, L'Oreal, and Revlon.In 2011, the FDA conducted an expanded survey on its previous study, which broadened the testing to 400 lipsticks that were available on the U.S. market at the time. The Campaign for Safe Cosmetics made a list of chemicals for concern which can contain toxic chemicals such as lead. Whilst only trace amounts of lead are ingested from lipstick, lead accumulates in the body over time, which can eventually lead to lead poisoning. The FDA's maximum lead limit level is 20 parts per million in cosmetics; however, since lipstick is absorbed through the skin and only ingested in very small quantities, the FDA does not "consider the lead levels we found in the lipsticks to be a safety concern". 
Can topiramate reduce the frequency of migraine attacks? [SEP] Topiramate, sold under the brand name Topamax among others, is a medication used to treat epilepsy and prevent migraines. It is most frequently prescribed for the prevention of migraines as it decreases the frequency of attacks. Topiramate is used to treat medication overuse headache and is recommended by the European Federation of Neurological Societies as one of the few medications showing effectiveness for this indication. This might be particularly important for women who take topiramate to prevent migraine attacks. Topiramate
Topiramate has been approved by the FDA for prevention of migraine. Studies have shown that it provides significant reductions in the frequency of migraine episodes in patients with 3-12 headaches a month

Topiramate adverse reactions
Adverse reactions related to topiramate treatment occurred in 82.5% of 328 subjects who took part in an extensive trial covering 46 different centres. Other
A wide range of other pharmacological drugs have been evaluated to determine their efficacy in reducing the frequency or severity of migraine attacks. Manual therapy
A systematic review stated that chiropractic manipulation, physiotherapy, massage and relaxation might be as effective as propranolol or topiramate in the prevention of migraine headaches; however, the research had some problems with methodology. 
Does particulate matter pollution increase the risk of heart attack - even if the EU limits are complied with? [SEP] High levels of air pollution are associated with increased risk of strokes and heart attacks. Very fine particulate matter has been linked to cardiovascular disease. Multiple epidemiological studies have demonstrates that particulate matter exposure is associated with acute respiratory infections, lung cancer, and chronic respiratory and cardiovascular disease. While the effects of air pollution on the respiratory diseases are well understood, air pollution also affects the cardiovascular system at the same level as or higher level than the respiratory system, and the adverse cardiovascular health outcomes in both children and adults are high when exposed to air pollution. Carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, sulfur dioxide, ozone, lead, and particulate matter are also associated with increased hospitalization and mortality due to cardiovascular disease. One study found that PM2.5 exposure increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases by 13%. EPA Concludes Fine Particle Pollution Poses Serious Health Threats

Causes early death (both short-term and long-term exposure)
Causes cardiovascular harm (e.g. In 2001, COMEAP warned that long-term exposure to particulates increases risk of premature death, especially from cardiovascular disease. 
Are endocrine disruptors in cosmetics a health risk? [SEP] Found in many household and industrial products, endocrine disruptors "interfere with the synthesis, secretion, transport, binding, action, or elimination of natural hormones in the body that are responsible for development, behavior, fertility, and maintenance of homeostasis (normal cell metabolism). Endocrine disrupting effects have been noted in animals exposed to environmentally relevant levels of some chemicals. Consumer goods are another potential source of exposure to endocrine disruptors. These “endocrine disruptors” have also been found to affect the levels and behaviors of a number of other bodily hormones. Xenohormones and other endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs) can block and disrupt the natural function of hormones and the endocrine system of the body, so conditions related to hormone imbalance or an improperly functioning endocrine system are possible after exposure. Environmental compounds affecting the endocrine system, termed endocrine disruptors, that antagonistically affect androgen receptors and androgen production can negatively affect animals that come in contact with the compounds as well as their future generations. Endocrine disruption
Theo Colborn, an expert on endocrine disruption, lists endosulfan as a known endocrine disruptor, and both the EPA and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry consider endosulfan to be a potential endocrine disruptor. These compounds are called Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals. 
Can a dietary supplement containing omega-3 fatty acids, lipids, vitamins, and nutrients ("Souvenaid") noticeably slow or halt the decline of mental performance in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Souvenaid is a medical food in the form of a thick, yogurt-like drink that is marketed as helping people with Alzheimer's disease. As of 2017, the product had failed to show a significant effect in decreasing the rate of cognitive decline or delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease, but appeared to cause minor improvement in verbal memory in some people in the very early stages of the disease. The multinutrient intervention slowed decline of measures related to cognition, function, brain atrophy, and disease progression.Souvenaid was originally created by the Dutch company Numico Research, which was acquired by Danone (Dannon in the US) in 2007 and is marketed by Nutricia, a division of Danone. The theory behind the ingredients included in Souvenaid is that they are components or precursors to components of synaptic membranes, the theory that problems with synapse formation are part of the pathology of Alzheimer's disease, and the idea that these problems might be caused or exacerbated by a lack of those components in the diets of people who develop Alzheimer's disease.As of 2013 it was marketed through pharmacies in Brazil, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Italy, the UK, and Australia. Omega-3 fatty acids that support brain development and function are alpha-linolenic acid, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). The important omega-6 fatty acid that plays a role in brain support and cognition is arachidonic acid. Association of the MIND diet with cognition and risk of Alzheimer's disease. The use of statins to lower cholesterol may be of benefit in Alzheimer's. 
Do vitamin E supplements increase the likelihood of early death? [SEP] A report on vitamin E sales volume in the US documented a 50% decrease between 2000 and 2006, with a potential reason being a meta-analysis that concluded high-dosage (≥400 IU/d for at least 1 year) vitamin E was associated with an increase in all-cause mortality. All-cause mortality
Two meta-analyses concluded that as a dietary supplement, vitamin E neither improved nor impaired all-cause mortality. An older meta-analysis had concluded high-dosage (≥400 IU/d for at least 1 year) vitamin E was associated with an increase in all-cause mortality. Age-related macular degeneration
A Cochrane review reported no change to risk of developing age-related macular degeneration from long-term vitamin E suplementation. Alzheimer's disease
An older review of dietary intake studies reported that higher consumption of vitamin E from foods lowered the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) by 24%. A trial which tracked people who chose to consume a vitamin E dietary supplement reported an increased risk of lung cancer for those consuming more than 215 mg/day.For prostate cancer, there are also conflicting results. References
External links
"Vitamin E". Rodale wrote that taking vitamin E in large doses would prevent him from having a heart attack, however, he died from a heart attack, age 72. 
Does meditation help against stress? [SEP] Engaging in mindfulness meditation brings about significant reductions in psychological stress, and appears to prevent the associated physiological changes and biological clinical manifestations that happen as a result of psychological stress. In 2013, researchers found moderate evidence that meditation can reduce anxiety, depression, and pain, but no evidence that it is more effective than active treatments such as drugs or exercise. Effects of mindfulness meditation
A previous study commissioned by the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality found that meditation interventions reduce multiple negative dimensions of psychological stress. Emotion regulation and mindfulness
Research shows meditation practices lead to greater emotional regulation abilities. The meditators also reported a significant decrease in anxiety and stress levels.Another study conducted to understand association between mindfulness, perceived stress and work engagement indicated that mindfulness was associated with lower perceived stress and higher work engagement.Other research shows decreased stress levels in people who engage in meditation after shorter periods of time as well. Brief, daily meditation sessions can alter one's behavioral response to stressors, improving coping mechanisms and decreasing the adverse impact caused by stress. Relaxation helps improve coping with stress. Studies suggest that in addition to reducing physiological and psychological stresses placed on a body, people who practice meditation have fewer doctor visits for physical or psychological illnesses.Hypnosis relaxation therapy has recently become another technique used among healthcare professionals to promote relaxation. 
Are there methods that effectively help against hormonal hair loss? [SEP] In alopecia, male and female-pattern baldness is an effect of androgenic receptor activation, so reducing levels of DHT also reduces hair loss. The management of hair loss, includes prevention and treatment of alopecia, baldness, and hair thinning, and regrowth of hair. Synthetic medicine
Treatments for the various forms of hair loss have only moderate success. Minoxidil
Minoxidil, applied topically, is widely used for the treatment of hair loss. Bicalutamide is another option for the treatment of female pattern hair loss. Other options include topical or systemic spironolactone or flutamide, although they have a high incidence of feminising side effects and are better tolerated in female androgenic hair loss. Hormones
Estrogens are indirect anti-androgens and can be used to treat androgenetic hair loss in women with oral contraceptives. Bicalutamide, an antiandrogen, is another option for the treatment of female pattern hair loss. 
Does eye training help prevent myopia? [SEP] According to some authors, it can be used to train the muscles and nerves of the optical system, correcting visual problems. The game trains players how to relax their eyes and train them to be better. The "Sports Training" involved strengthening vision through sports games such as table tennis, basketball, and baseball. Research into slowing of myopia progression in children
In 2006 and 2007, papers presented at the British Contact Lens Association and the Global Orthokeratology Symposium indicated the possibility of orthokeratology slowing or stopping myopic progression. "Comparative analysis of the efficacy of some methods of conservative treatment of accommodation spasms and myopia in children". Improve your vision without glasses or contact lenses. In many cases, myopia will stabilize once the growth process has been completed, but in more severe chronic cases, loss of vision can occur. Speculation about reinforcement of the eye began in the 19th century, when Rubin noted that sclera reinforcement “is probably the only one of all the surgical techniques [for myopia] which attempts to correct a cause, rather than an effect”. 
Does Cryolipolysis cause noticeable body fat reduction? [SEP] The procedure may be invasive, as with liposuction, or noninvasive using laser therapy, radiofrequency, ultrasound or cold (cryoablation or cryolipolysis) to reduce fat, sometimes in combination with injections.Fat is sometimes removed from one location to another on a person in an autograft, such as in some breast reconstruction and breast augmentation procedures. Cryolipolysis
Cryolipolysis is a method intended to remove fat by freezing. It involves controlled application of cooling within the temperature range of −11 to +5 °C (+12.2 to +41 °F) for the localized reduction of fat deposits, intended to reshape the contours of the body. Some studies indicate that PAH side effects are common on a per-patient basis, since a typical patient receives multiple treatments.Based on the premise that fat cells are more easily damaged by cooling than skin cells (such as popsicle panniculitis), cryolipolysis was developed to apply low temperatures to tissue via thermal conduction. While the process is not fully understood, it appears that fatty tissue that is cooled below body temperature, but above freezing, undergoes localized cell death ("apoptosis") followed by a local inflammatory response that gradually over the course of several months results in a reduction of the fatty tissue layer.Typical cost per treatment area varies depending on location. Medical procedures
Physical lipolysis involves destruction of fat cells containing the fat droplets and can be used as part of cosmetic body contouring procedures. As a cryotherapy technique, cryomassage is said to reactivate the immune system, mobilize the endocrine system and neurohumoral system, improve health, and help to fight stress and fatigue.In moderate doses, cold is said to be a cure for many diseases, including gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer. General cryomassage is said to initiate tissue regeneration and reparation process, improve muscular blood circulation, eliminate metabolic waste and hypoxia. 
Is acupuncture for chronic pain more effective than placebo acupuncture treatment? [SEP] This technique combines traditional acupuncture with injection of what is often an effective dose of an approved pharmaceutical drug, and proponents claim that it may be more effective than either treatment alone, especially for the treatment of some kinds of chronic pain. In other words, 'sham' or 'placebo' acupuncture generally produces the same effects as 'real' acupuncture and, in some cases, does better." A 2013 meta-analysis found little evidence that the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain (compared to sham) was modified by the location of the needles, the number of needles used, the experience or technique of the practitioner, or by the circumstances of the sessions. Some research suggests acupuncture can alleviate pain but the majority of research suggests that acupuncture's effects are mainly due to placebo. Acupuncture is not better than mainstream treatment in the long term.The use of acupuncture has been criticized owing to there being little scientific evidence for explicit effects, or the mechanisms for its supposed effectiveness, for any condition that is discernible from placebo. Acupuncture has been called 'theatrical placebo', and David Gorski argues that when acupuncture proponents advocate 'harnessing of placebo effects' or work on developing 'meaningful placebos', they essentially concede it is little more than that. Release of endorphins or adenosine
Some modern practitioners support the use of acupuncture to treat pain, but have abandoned the use of qi, meridians, yin, yang and other mystical energies as an explanatory frameworks. According to some acupuncturists, this practice augments the use of regular acupuncture, can restore health and well-being, and is particularly good for treating pain. 
Can Internet-based self-help training based on cognitive behavioral therapy reduce the burden of tinnitus? [SEP] A review of tinnitus retraining therapy trials indicates that it may be more effective than tinnitus masking. better hearing), high Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI) score, and positive attitude toward therapy. Counseling
The first component of TRT, directive counseling, may change the way tinnitus is perceived. A study that compared cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) in combination with the counselling part of TRT versus standard care (ENT, audiologist, maskers, hearing aid) found that the specialized care had a positive effect on quality of life as well as on specific tinnitus metrics. Alternatives
Cognitive behavioral therapy
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), the counselling part of TRT, as a generalized type of psychological and behavioral counselling, has also been used by itself in the management of tinnitus. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Clinical Guidelines. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Patient Counseling Guide. Podcasts topics have included:

exploring noninvasive neuromodulation for tinnitus relief
habituation to tinnitus using cognitive behavioral therapy
implementing successful tinnitus treatment
ototoxicity and tinnitus
over-the-counter medications for tinnitus reliefThe ATA provides tinnitus support groups to promote further awareness of tinnitus, improve treatments, and provide ongoing support for the 25 million Americans who experience tinnitus. 
Do probiotic foods have an antidepressant effect or a positive effect on the mind? [SEP] Psychobiotics is a term used in preliminary research to refer to live bacteria that, when ingested in appropriate amounts, might confer a mental health benefit by affecting microbiota of the host organism. A 2020 literature review suggests that the consumption of psychobiotics could be considered as a viable option to restore mental health  although lacking randomized controlled trials on clear mental health outcomes in humans. There is some evidence that probiotics are beneficial for some conditions, but there is little evidence for many of the health benefits claimed for them.The first discovered probiotic was a certain strain of bacillus in Bulgarian yoghurt, called Lactobacillus bulgaricus. Depression and anxiety
A 2019 meta-analysis found low-quality evidence for probiotics having a small improvement in depression and anxiety. A 2020 review found probiotics might improve depression, but more studies are needed. People receiving probiotics were 73% more likely to experience disease remission and over 2x as likely to report improvement in symptoms compared to those receiving a placebo, with no clear difference in minor or serious adverse effects. Probiotics are live microorganisms promoted with claims that they provide health benefits when consumed, generally by improving or restoring the gut flora. Probiotics for Kids: How are they useful? 
Does treatment with radioactive agents help with pain in chronic inflammatory joint disease? [SEP] Radionuclide therapy (RNT, also known as unsealed source radiotherapy or molecular radiotherapy) uses radioactive substances called radiopharmaceuticals to treat medical conditions, particularly cancer. Joint inflammation
Yttrium-90 colloid
An yttrium-90 (90Y) colloidal suspension is used for radiosynovectomy in the knee joint. In medicine, a joint injection (intra-articular injection) is a procedure used in the treatment of inflammatory joint conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, gout, tendinitis, bursitis, Carpal Tunnel Syndrome,  and occasionally osteoarthritis. Efficacy in osteoarthritis
In osteoarthritis, joint injection of glucocorticoids (such as hydrocortisone) leads to short term pain relief that may last between a few weeks and a few months. Based on studies in AS, the results suggest infliximab, etanercept, and adalimumab have the potential to reduce the signs and symptoms of moderate to severely active axial involvement in PsA in patients who have had an inadequate response to NSAID (level 1a, grade A). These experimental mice develop arthritis as a result of their production of human TNF-α, and when administered after disease onset, infliximab allows damaged joints to heal.Other monoclonal antibodies targeting TNF-α are golimumab, adalimumab, and certolizumab pegol. In osteoarthritis, the choice of treatment is based on pain and decreased function, but radiography can be useful before surgery in order to prepare for the procedure. A 2014 study published in the Journal of Vascular and Interventional Radiology showed a decrease in tumor volume and metabolic activity in all 34 patients who received the treatment.The ability to provide localized t-RFA of metastatic lesions of the spine may provide rapid and lasting pain relief, enabling patients to restore their quality of life with minimal, if any, delay in systemic, curative therapy of their primary cancer. 
Does frequent porn use reduce gray matter volume in the brain? [SEP] Psychological effects
Men who consume pornography regularly have reported less stable mental health, specifically higher levels of depression. The consumption of pornography has been shown to have an impact on sexual risk-taking, including less frequent usage of condoms and birth control, as well as more casual sexual encounters. Strong associations exist between increased pornography consumption, as well as frequency of pornography consumption, and problematic decreases in sexual desire for men. Men who more frequently use pornography report less desire for their partner, and less desire for sex in general.While most modern research on pornography focuses on men, the findings in women hold interesting information on pornography's gendered impact on sexual desire. In addition to increased sexual desire, women also express more sexual desire specifically for their partner on days when they watch pornography, indicating pornography may function as a form of foreplay.Although men and women do differ in many significant ways with respect to pornography consumption and sexual behavior, they share one important similarity: brain activity. Primarily thought to affect men, there is a notable relationship between pornography consumption and sexual function problems. A number of studies have found neurological markers of addiction in internet porn users, which is consistent with a large body of research finding similar markers in other kinds of problematic internet users. While it has not been proven that either porn or masturbation addiction exist, porn or masturbation compulsion probably exist.The role pornography plays in the neuropsychological development of adolescents is not well understood, due to a lack of empirical research. 
Can the active ingredient acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) protect against cancer? [SEP] In 1853, chemist Charles Frédéric Gerhardt treated the medicine sodium salicylate with acetyl chloride to produce acetylsalicylic acid for the first time. More recent data also suggest salicylic acid and its derivatives modulate signalling through NF-κB. In 2012, salicylic acid was found to activate AMP-activated protein kinase, which has been suggested as a possible explanation for some of the effects of both salicylic acid and aspirin. In 1897, scientists at the drug and dye firm Bayer began investigating acetylsalicylic acid as a less-irritating replacement for standard common salicylate medicines, and identified a new way to synthesize it. There is evidence that aspirin is effective at preventing colorectal cancer, though the mechanisms of this effect are unclear. Cancer prevention
Aspirin may reduce the overall risk of both getting cancer and dying from cancer. Cancer prevention
Evidence from observational studies were conflicting on the effect of aspirin in breast cancer prevention, a randomized controlled trial showed that aspirin had no significant effect in reducing breast cancer  thus further studies are needed to clarify aspirin effect in cancer prevention. The combination drug acetylsalicylic acid/dipyridamole (trade names Aggrenox, Asasantin) is a drug combination of:
Acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin) - An extremely common NSAID that has anticoagulant effects
Dipyridamole, a drug that inhibits platelet activation when given chronically and causes vasodilation when given at high doses over short time.The combination acts as an extended release formulation and is primarily used for platelet inhibition in patients suffering, or at risk from, acute coronary events and stroke. 
Is tick-borne tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) much milder in children than in adults? [SEP] Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is a viral infectious disease involving the central nervous system. TBE is posing a concerning health challenge to Europe, as the number of reported human cases of TBE in all endemic regions of Europe have increased by almost 400% within the last three decades.The tick-borne encephalitis virus is known to infect a range of hosts including ruminants, birds, rodents, carnivores, horses, and humans. Cause
TBE is caused by tick-borne encephalitis virus, a member of the genus Flavivirus in the family Flaviviridae. References
External links

Tickborne encephalitis at Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Factsheet from Viral Special Pathogens Branch at the CDC Medical uses
In the United States, tick-borne encephalitis vaccine is indicated for active immunization to prevent tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) in individuals one year of age and older.The efficacy of these vaccines has been well documented. References
External links
"Tick-borne Encephalitis Vaccine". Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) is a positive-strand RNA virus associated with tick-borne encephalitis in the genus Flavivirus. References
External links
Encephalitis+Viruses,+Tick-Borne at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Tick-borne encephalitis at World Health Organization 
Does treatment with cyanoacrylate (for example, Sapheon Venaseal™) help against varicose veins as well or better than other methods? [SEP] CHIVA method  is a type of surgery used to treat varicose veins that occur as a result of long term venous insufficiency. Areas where the veins are varicose may also be removed. Historical aspects
Sclerotherapy has been used in the treatment of spider veins and occasionally varicose veins for over 150 years. During that time carbolic acid and perchlorate of mercury were tried and whilst these showed some effect in obliterating varicose veins, side-effects also caused them to be abandoned. Sclerotherapy can also be performed using microfoam sclerosants under ultrasound guidance to treat larger varicose veins, including the great and small saphenous veins. found that microfoam ultrasound guided sclerotherapy was "effective in treating all sizes of varicose veins with high patient satisfaction and improvement in quality of life".A Cochrane Collaboration review of the medical literature concluded that "the evidence supports the current place of sclerotherapy in modern clinical practice, which is usually limited to treatment of recurrent varicose veins following surgery and thread veins." However, the evidence was not of very good quality and more research is needed.A Health Technology Assessment found that sclerotherapy provided less benefit than surgery, but is likely to provide a small benefit in varicose veins without reflux from the sapheno-femoral or sapheno-popliteal junctions. A 1986 independent study suggests that cyanoacrylate can be safer and more functional for wound closure than traditional suturing (stitches). 
Did oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) or other neuraminidase inhibitors help reduce deaths from the H1N1 influenza virus ("swine flu" virus)? [SEP] Oseltamivir, sold under the brand name Tamiflu, is an antiviral medication used to treat and prevent influenza A and influenza B, viruses that cause the flu. A 2014 Cochrane Review concluded that oseltamivir does not reduce hospitalizations, and that there is no evidence of reduction in complications of influenza. However, another meta-analysis found that oseltamivir was effective for prevention of influenza at the individual and household levels.Common side effects include vomiting, diarrhea, headache, and trouble sleeping. A 2016 systematic review found that oseltamivir slightly reduced the time it takes for the symptoms of influenza to be alleviated, and that it also increased the risk of "nausea, vomiting, [and] psychiatric events in adults and vomiting in children." Any benefit of treatment must be balanced against side effects, which include psychiatric symptoms and increased rates of vomiting.The 2014 Cochrane Collaboration review concluded that oseltamivir did not affect the need for hospitalizations, and that there is no proof of reduction of complications of influenza (such as pneumonia) because of a lack of diagnostic definitions, or reduction of the spread of the virus. In 2003, a pooled analysis of ten randomised clinical trials concluded that oseltamivir reduced the risk of lower respiratory tract infections resulting in antibiotic use and hospital admissions in adults.Oseltamivir (as Tamiflu) was widely used during the H5N1 avian influenza epidemic in Southeast Asia in 2005. However, after the pandemic caused by H1N1 in 2009, the effectiveness of early treatment with neuraminidase inhibitors in reducing serious cases and deaths was reported in various countries.In countries where influenza-like illness is treated using NAIs on a national level, statistical reports show a low fatality record for symptomatic illness because of the universal implementation of early treatment using this class of drugs. Prophylaxis trials showed that zanamivir reduced the risk of symptomatic influenza in individuals and households, but there was no evidence of an effect on asymptomatic influenza or on other, influenza-like illnesses. 
Is aluminum intake responsible for the development of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Oxidative stress
Oxidative stress is emerging as a key factor in the pathogenesis of AD. Aluminium is a potentially toxic metal, and aluminium poisoning may lead to mainly three disorders: aluminium-induced bone disease, microcytic anemia and neurological dysfunction (encephalopathy). About 5–10 mg of aluminium enters human body daily through different sources like water, food, occupational exposure to aluminium in industries, and so on. A number of genetic, cell biology, biochemical and animal studies using experimental models support the concept that Aβ plays a central role in the development of Alzheimer's disease pathology.Brain Aβ is elevated in people with sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Genetics
Autosomal-dominant mutations in APP cause hereditary early-onset Alzheimer's disease (familial AD, fAD). Alzheimer's disease
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, irreversible neurodegenerative disease and it is the leading cause of dementia. AD is a neurodegenerative disease, characterized by the presence of amyloid-beta plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, that causes memory loss and cognitive decline in its patients. Onset of sporadic AD has both genetic and environmental risk factors. 
Can regular exercise prevent or relieve migraine symptoms? [SEP] Such treatments can take many forms, including everything from surgery, taking certain drugs or nutritional supplements, to lifestyle alterations such as increased exercise and avoidance of migraine triggers. Behavioral treatments
Exercise for 15–20 minutes per day may be helpful for reducing the frequency of migraine attacks.Diet, visualization, and self-hypnosis are also alternative treatments and prevention approaches. General dietary restriction has not been demonstrated to be an effective approach to treating migraine.Sexual activity has been reported by a proportion of males and females with migraine to relieve migraine pain significantly in some cases. This method is considered to be efficient for migraine prevention. Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. The pain is generally made worse by physical activity during an attack, although regular physical exercise may prevent future attacks. However, the effects of physical activity on migraine are complex, and some researchers have concluded that, while exercise can trigger migraine attacks, regular exercise may have a prophylactic effect and decrease frequency of attacks. There is also tentative evidence for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation decreases the frequency of migraines. 
Does less than 7h of sleep daily increase mental performance? [SEP] It is known that sleep deprivation can affect the efficiency at which one performs, such as at work for example. Research indicates that sleep does more than allow the brain to rest; it may also aid the consolidation of long-term memories. Current studies demonstrate that a healthy sleep produces a significant learning-dependent performance boost. The 'synaptic scaling' hypothesis suggests that sleep plays an important role in regulating learning that has taken place while awake, enabling more efficient and effective storage in the brain, making better use of space and energy.Healthy sleep must include the appropriate sequence and proportion of NREM and REM phases, which play different roles in the memory consolidation-optimization process. This study gives evidence that REM sleep is a significant factor in consolidating motor skill procedural memories, therefore sleep deprivation can impair performance on a motor learning task. Learning is the process of strengthening connections, therefore this process could be a major explanation for the benefits that sleep has on memory.Research has shown that taking an afternoon nap increases learning capacity. Their recommendation further stipulates that less than 7 hours and more than 11 hours of sleep may be harmful. Brain
Poor sleep duration has been found to be related to altered brain development during adolescence. 
Does regular intake of extra virgin olive oil protect against coronary heart disease such as heart attack? [SEP] Other important observed benefits included a strong reduction in peripheral artery disease, breast cancer, and atrial fibrillation (only associated with the consumption of extra-virgin olive oil). Virgin olive oils contain the highest levels of polyphenols, antioxidants that have been linked with better health. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration permitted a claim on olive oil labels stating: "Limited and not conclusive scientific evidence suggests that eating about two tablespoons (23 g) of olive oil daily may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease." (23 g) of olive oil daily may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease due to the monounsaturated fat in olive oil. In a review by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in 2011, health claims on olive oil were approved for protection by its polyphenols against oxidation of blood lipids, and for maintenance of normal blood LDL-cholesterol levels by replacing saturated fats in the diet with oleic acid. Despite its approval, the EFSA has noted that a definitive cause-and-effect relationship has not been adequately established for consumption of olive oil and maintaining normal (fasting) blood concentrations of triglycerides, normal blood HDL-cholesterol concentrations, and normal blood glucose concentrations.A 2014 meta-analysis concluded that increased consumption of olive oil was associated with reduced risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular events and stroke, while monounsaturated fatty acids of mixed animal and plant origin showed no significant effects. Another meta-analysis in 2018 found high-polyphenol olive oil intake was associated with improved measures of total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, malondialdehyde, and oxidized LDL when compared to low-polyphenol olive oils, although it recommended longer studies, and more investigation of non-Mediterranean populations. Olives and Olive Oil in Health and Disease Prevention, Academic Press, 2010. 
Do frequent ejaculations have a protective effect against prostate cancer? [SEP] Some doctors speculate that the frequency of POIS "in the population may be greater than has been reported in the academic literature", and that many POIS sufferers are undiagnosed.It is not clear whether frequent ejaculation has any effect on the risk of prostate cancer. Two large studies examining the issue were "Ejaculation Frequency and Subsequent Risk of Prostate Cancer" and "Sexual Factors and Prostate Cancer". These suggest that frequent ejaculation after puberty offers some reduction of the risk of prostate cancer. The US study involving 29,342 US men aged 46 to 81 years suggested that "high ejaculation frequency was related to decreased risk of total prostate cancer". An Australian study involving 1,079 men with prostate cancer and 1,259 healthy men found that "there is evidence that the more frequently men ejaculate between the ages of 20 and 50, the less likely they are to develop prostate cancer":

[T]he protective effect of ejaculation is greatest when men in their twenties ejaculated on average seven or more times a week. This group were one-third less likely to develop aggressive prostate cancer when compared with men who ejaculated less than three times a week at this age. Erectile dysfunction – also very common in men as they age – is associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. Several dietary supplements have been studied and found not to impact prostate cancer risk, including selenium, vitamin C, vitamin D, and vitamin E.

Inflammation
Chronic inflammation can cause various cancers. 
Does condom use cause depression in women? [SEP] Condom fatigue is a term used by medical professionals and safer sex educators to refer to the phenomenon of decreased condom use. Condom fatigue is linked to increased HIV infection, as consistent condom use can significantly lower one's risk of transmitting or catching HIV.Condom fatigue is not a universal phenomenon. Condom fatigue can also be related to fears about sex, in part due to condom use's constant link with HIV/AIDS prevention. Condom fatigue is further related to the HIV/AIDS epidemic as not using a condom puts men who have sex with men at a higher risk of contracting the disease.Although condom fatigue is often cited as a reason for inconsistent condom use, it is not necessarily expressed as a complete disavowal of condoms. Rather, condom fatigue acts in combination with other factors of inconsistent condom use, such as the perception of lower sexual satisfaction when using a condom or thinking one is not at risk of STIs. Among heterosexuals
Condom fatigue also affects people in heterosexual encounters. References
External links
N.I.C.E article on HIV transmission and Condom fatigue Producers claim that condom use depresses sales. 
Do today's children have a shorter life expectancy than their parents? [SEP] Life expectancy
A 2008 paper found a U-shaped association between paternal age and the overall mortality rate in children (i.e., mortality rate up to age 18). The researchers also found a correlation between paternal age and offspring death by injury or poisoning, indicating the need to control for social and behavioral confounding factors.In 2012, a study showed that greater age at paternity tends to increase telomere length in offspring for up to two generations. Older parents also tend to occupy a higher socio-economic position and report feeling more devoted to their children and satisfied with their family. The offspring of older fathers have longer telomeres in both their sperm and white blood cells. Human longevity and parental age at conception. Parental age at conception and offspring longevity. These findings support the hypothesis that DNA damage has a significant role in the aging process.Genetic modifications in other species have not achieved as great a lifespan extension as have been seen for C. elegans. These differences in life expectancy increased between the 1970s and 1990s, and between the 1990s and 2000s. 
Do rising temperatures and CO2 levels increase the risk of pollen allergy? [SEP] Pollen counts, and forecasts of pollen conditions, are routinely produced and reported to the public because high aerial pollen concentration is associated with increased rates of allergic reaction for those with conditions such as hay fever and asthma. Thunderstorm asthma events as well as mild winters with warmer days lead to increases in pollen counts, while colder winters lead to delayed pollen release. that was presented to the American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology in 2012, climate changes are expected to cause pollen counts to more than double by 2040. Development, causes
A person with an allergic disposition is sensitized to allergenic pollen proteins through the respiratory route can develop an allergy to heat labile food proteins (for example profilins) in certain fruits and vegetables, which cross-react with pollen proteins. Allergic rhinitis, of which the seasonal type is called hay fever, is a type of inflammation in the nose that occurs when the immune system overreacts to allergens in the air. Cause
Pollen is often considered as a cause of allergic rhinitis, hence called hay fever (See sub-section below). Pollen-related causes
Allergic rhinitis triggered by the pollens of specific seasonal plants is commonly known as "hay fever", because it is most prevalent during haying season. Seasonal allergic rhinitis occurs in particular during pollen seasons. 
Does training on vibration platforms cause a noticeable buildup of muscle strength? [SEP] The effects of sustained vibratory stimulation on muscle contraction, posture and kinesthetic perceptions are much more complex than merely contraction of the muscle being vibrated. Humans are generally exposed to many different forms of vibration in their daily lives. A 2018 meta-analysis showed that whole body vibration can improve bone mineral density in the lumbar spine of postmenopausal women as well as the femoral neck density of postmenopausal women younger than 65. Workplace exposure
Workplace exposures to whole-body vibrations for long durations can lead to musculoskeletal problems of many kinds. Vibration training
Vibration training is the deliberate exposure to the body of varying frequencies/amplitudes/forces using certain joint angles for any limited time (approximately 1 minute sets). Training effects
A 2018 meta-analysis concluded that whole body vibration improved lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) in postmenopausal women, and enhanced femoral neck BMD in postmenopausal women younger than 65 years.A review in 2014 concluded that there is little and inconsistent evidence that acute or chronic whole body vibration could improve the performance of competitive or elite athletes.Cochrane reviews have concluded that there is insufficient evidence of effect of whole body vibration training on functional performance of people with neurodegenerative disease, or in disease-related problems in people with fibromyalgia.Some research supports benefits for arthritis and knee pain. Traditional exercises such as squats and push-ups can be done on the vibrating base.LifetimeVibe is a brand of vibration machine with a platform and a vertical column with handles and controls at arm-level. Effects
The effects of strength training include greater muscular strength, improved muscle tone and appearance, increased endurance, cardiovascular health, and enhanced bone density. 
Does glucosamine prolong life? [SEP] Glucosamine is marketed as a supplement to support the structure and function of joints, and the marketing is targeted to people with osteoarthritis.Commonly sold forms of glucosamine are glucosamine sulfate, glucosamine chondroitin, glucosamine hydrochloride, and N-acetylglucosamine. Clinical studies on glucosamine efficacy are divided, with some reporting relief from arthritic pain and stiffness, while others report no benefit above placebo.As of 2015, there is no evidence that consumption of glucosamine by sport participants prevents or limits joint damage after injury. Since glucosamine is classified as a dietary supplement in the United States, evidence of safety is required by FDA regulations, but evidence of efficacy is not required so long as it is not advertised as a treatment for a medical condition.In 2004, the FDA declared there was insufficient evidence for supplement manufacturers to state that glucosamine was effective for treating arthritis, joint degeneration, or cartilage deterioration, a position remaining in effect as of 2018. Since glucosamine is a precursor for glycosaminoglycans, and glycosaminoglycans are major components of cartilage, ingesting glucosamine might nourish joints, and thereby alleviate arthritis symptoms. Published in the Annals of Pharmacotherapy, the authors of this review concluded that "The available evidence suggests that glucosamine sulfate may be effective and safe in delaying the progression and improving the symptoms of knee OA. Another 2007 review of the available research concluded that there was "compelling evidence" that glucosamine sulfate (but not hydrochloride) slowed the progression of knee and hip osteoarthritis. A 2014 review and analysis conducted by the La Universidad del Zulia located in Maracaibo, Venezuela and funded by the Venezuelan government's Technological, Humanistic, and Scientific Development Council concluded that the preponderance of the available evidence indicates that glucosamine, specifically the sulfate form, has disease-modifying effects and provides symptomatic relief for at least some individuals suffering from OA. The report classified glucosamine as a Symptomatic Slow Acting Drugs for Osteoarthritis (SYSADOA) and states:  Although further research is required...glucosamine supplements have been more than sufficiently proven to display overtly beneficial risk-to-reward profiles, and they should remain fundamental components of OA therapy. 
Does Kinesio tape help in the treatment of joint and muscle injuries? [SEP] This increase in the interstitial space purportedly reduces pressure on the body's nociceptors, which detect pain, and stimulates mechanoreceptors, to improve overall joint proprioception.In the article, Kinesio Tape for Athletes: A Big Help, or Hype?, Web MD reports that "There has not been conclusive scientific or medical evidence to confirm the effectiveness of the tape. He reports that kinesio tape is claimed to be good for a plethora of issues including "pain management, injury treatment, injury prevention, enhanced performance, increased range of motion, and just about anything else an athlete might want." Based on two different studies, kinesio tape showed quicker drainage than manually and better patient compliance.A 2012 meta analysis found that the efficacy of elastic therapeutic tape in pain relief was trivial, because no reviewed study found clinically important results. The tape "may have a small beneficial role in improving strength, range of motion in certain injured cohorts, and force sense error compared with other elastic tapes, but further studies are needed to confirm these findings". In conclusion, there was little quality evidence to support the use of KT over other types of elastic taping in the management or prevention of sports injuries"A 2013 journal article examined the use of Kinesio Tape and Stretching on shoulder joint range of motion (ROM). It was found that the usage of Kinesio Tape can increase shoulder ROM, and that stretching had no effect on shoulder ROM if being used alone or when coupled with the Kinesio Tape.A 2014 meta analysis looked at methodological quality of studies, along with overall population effect, and suggested that studies of lower methodological quality are more likely to report beneficial effects of elastic therapeutic taping, thus indicating the perceived effect of using kinesio taping is not real. It was found that the color of the tape might affect the feelings of the participants, but no difference to the trapezius muscle was noted.In June 2016, an article published by The Physician and Sportsmedicine found that treatment for Pes anserinus bursitis using Kinesio Tape significantly decreased pain and swelling when compared to Naproxen (an anti inflammatory medicine) + Physical Therapy. Pain reduction and injury prevention are also frequently-cited benefits that similarly lack evidence, at least none showing an effect specific to kinesio tape... 
Do injections with Botulinum Toxin A (Botox®) help with urinary incontinence? [SEP] Most of the time this procedure prevents urinary stress incontinence in women. Uses
A urethral bulking injection is one type of treatment for incontinence in women. The surgery that implants this device can help treat urinary incontinence and uterine prolapse. Medication may reduce this number by 2-3 and reduce urinary incontinence events by 1-2 per day.A 2009 literature review on women found that no drug seemed better than others, and paid special attention to comparing newer drugs to older ones. Oxybutynin is sometimes used in combination with Kegel exercises and Functional electrical stimulation.A 2019 systematic review of studies related to urinary incontinence in women found that behavioral therapy, alone or combined with other treatments, is generally more effective than any other single treatment alone. Behavioral therapy as a treatment has been used to improve or cure urge incontinence while also improving patient satisfaction. Additionally, despite the novel treatment options (slings, urethral bulking injections, stem-cell therapy), AUS is considered to be the gold standard surgical management both for stress incontinence in men and for urinary incontinence developed as a complication of surgery, such as prostatectomy, cystectomy and TURP.There are several case reports published in the literature of AUS implantation in children for secondary incontinence resulting from traumatic urethral injury.There is limited data on AUS use in women, and not every product available in the market is designed for use in women. A randomised controlled trial found that the artificial urinary sphincter was non-inferior to the male or synthetic sling with respect to improving incontinence. 
Can apigenin reduce cancer risk or prevent cancer progression? [SEP] Apigenin (4′,5,7-trihydroxyflavone), found in many plants, is a natural product belonging to the flavone class that is the aglycone of several naturally occurring glycosides. Sources in nature
Apigenin is found in many fruits and vegetables, but parsley, celery, celeriac, and chamomile tea are the most common sources. Biosynthesis
Apigenin is biosynthetically derived from the general phenylpropanoid pathway and the flavone synthesis pathway. Apigeninidin (Also, apigenidin, or Gesneridin) is a chemical compound belonging to the 3-deoxyanthocyanidins and that can be found in the Patagonian plant Ephedra frustillata and in the soybean. Globalized cancer prevention is regarded as a critical objective due to its applicability to large populations, reducing long term effects of cancer by promoting proactive health practices and behaviors, and its perceived cost-effectiveness and viability for all socioeconomic classes.The majority of cancer cases are due to the accumulation of environmental pollution being inherited as epigenetic damage and many, but not all, of these environmental factors are controllable lifestyle choices. Consumption of coffee is associated with a reduced risk of liver cancer. In the general population, NSAIDs reduce the risk of colorectal cancer however due to the cardiovascular and gastrointestinal side effects they cause overall harm when used for prevention. Aspirin has been found to reduce the risk of death from cancer by about 7%. 
Do generic drugs work as well as original drugs? [SEP] A generic drug is a pharmaceutical drug that contains the same chemical substance as a drug that was originally protected by chemical patents. Because the active chemical substance is the same, the medical profile of generics is equivalent in performance. A generic drug has the same active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) as the original, but it may differ in some characteristics such as the manufacturing process, formulation, excipients, color, taste, and packaging.Although they may not be associated with a particular company, generic drugs are usually subject to government regulations in the countries in which they are dispensed. A generic drug must contain the same active ingredients as the original brand-name formulation. Once generic drugs enter the market, competition often leads to substantially lower prices for both the original brand-name product and its generic equivalents. Generic drugs
Generic drugs are drugs that have the same active ingredient with a patent-expired drug, and are virtually bio-equivalent. In most cases, receiving a generic medicine is fully appropriate and effective for patient treatment and should continue. Variations between generics
Generic medicines have the same active ingredient as the branded medicine, but are not always identical, which could affect some patients. 
Are animal-assisted therapies effective for mental illness? [SEP] Some studies have shown that animal-assisted therapy can improve many aspects of a patient's life, such as improving their overall mood or reducing feelings of isolation. It is understood that pets provide benefits to those with mental health conditions, but further research is required to test the nature and extent of this relationship with an animal as a pet and how it differs between pets, emotional support animals, service animals, and animal-assisted therapy. Animal-assisted therapy can be used in children with mental health problems, as a stand-alone treatment, or along with conventional methods. Animal-assisted therapy is commonly used for psychological disorders. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and major depressive disorder are among the psychological disorders that can benefit from animal-assisted therapy.In recent decades, an increased amount of research indicates the social, psychological, and physiological benefits of animal assisted therapy in health and education field. Although the effectiveness of animal-assisted therapy is still unclear due to the lack of clarity regarding the degree to which the animal itself contributes in the recovery process, there is a growing awareness that the therapy may be effective in treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, autism spectrum disorder, and dementia. Studies show that animal-assisted therapy leads to an overall reduction of symptoms including anger, depression, and dissociation in survivors of sexual assault. Animal-assisted therapy has been shown to slightly reduce depressive symptoms in people with dementia in a 2019 systematic review. 
Can lack of sleep cause obesity? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
Most people with obesity hypoventilation syndrome have concurrent obstructive sleep apnea, a condition characterized by snoring, brief episodes of apnea (cessation of breathing) during the night, interrupted sleep and excessive daytime sleepiness. Lack of sleep also affects the forming of memories. Eating
Less sleep can lead to weight gain and obesity due to decreases in the body's energy expenditure and ability to stop eating once full. Physiological effects of sleep debt
The effects of chronic sleep debt on the human body's metabolic and endocrine processes are significant, particularly for those individuals who are overweight. Sleep debt and obesity
Epidemiological research has solidified the association between sleep debt and/or deprivation and obesity as a result of an elevated body mass index (BMI) through various ways such as disruptions in the hormones leptin and ghrelin that regulate appetite, higher food consumption and poor diets, and a decrease in overall calorie burning. However, in recent years, multimedia usages such as Internet and television consumption that play an active role in sleep deficit has also been linked to obesity by provoking unhealthy, sedentary lifestyles and habits as well as higher food consumption. Moreover, work-related behaviors such as long working and commuting hours and irregular work timings such as during shift work also function as contributing factors to being overweight or obese as a result of shorter sleeping periods. In comparison to adults, children exhibit a more consistent association between sleep debt and obesity. 
Is breaking an energy-saving lamp harmful to health? [SEP] Ozone production
For most purposes, ozone production would be a detrimental side effect of lamp operation. In addition to causing sunburn and (over time) skin cancer, this light can produce extremely painful inflammation of the cornea of the eye, which may lead to temporary or permanent vision impairment. The lamp becomes unsafe in a current of from 8 to 12 feet per second, about twice that of the Davy. Using average U.S. commercial electricity and gas rates for 2006, a 2008 article found that replacing each 75 W incandescent lamp with a CFL resulted in yearly savings of $22 in energy usage, reduced HVAC cost, and reduced labour to change lamps. A 2012 study comparing cellular health effects of CFL light and incandescent light found statistically significant cell damage in cultures exposed to CFL light. In areas where coal is not used to produce energy, the emissions would be less for both types of bulb.Special handling instructions for breakage are not printed on the packaging of household CFL bulbs in many countries. A Maine Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) study of 2008 comparing clean-up methods warns that using plastic bags to store broken CFL bulbs is dangerous, because vapors well above safe levels continue to leak from the bags. Energy saving lamps are sources of artificial light that employ advanced technology to reduce the amount of electricity used to generate light, relative to traditional filament-burning light bulbs. 
Does copper intake increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Alzheimer's disease
Elevated free copper levels exist in Alzheimer's disease, which has been hypothesized to be linked to inorganic copper consumption. At high concentrations copper is known to produce oxidative damage to biological systems, including peroxidation of lipids or other macromolecules.While the cause and progression of Alzheimer's disease are not well understood, research indicates that, among several other key observations, iron, aluminum, and copper accumulate in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. Research has been ongoing over the past two decades to determine whether copper is a causative or a preventive agent of Alzheimer's disease. For example, as a possible causative agent or an expression of a metal homeostasis disturbance, studies indicate that copper may play a role in increasing the growth of protein clumps in Alzheimer's disease brains, possibly by damaging a molecule that removes the toxic buildup of amyloid beta (Aβ) in the brain. There is an association between a diet rich in copper and iron together with saturated fat and Alzheimer's disease. On the other hand, studies also demonstrate potential beneficial roles of copper in treating rather than causing Alzheimer's disease. For example, copper has been shown to 1) promote the non-amyloidogenic processing of amyloid beta precursor protein (APP), thereby lowering amyloid beta (Aβ) production in cell culture systems 2) increase lifetime and decrease soluble amyloid production in APP transgenic mice, and 3) lower Aβ levels in cerebral spinal fluid in Alzheimer's disease patients.Furthermore, long-term copper treatment (oral intake of 8 mg copper (Cu-(II)-orotate-dihydrate)) was excluded as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease in a noted clinical trial on humans and a potentially beneficial role of copper in Alzheimer's disease has been demonstrated on cerebral spinal fluid levels of Aβ42, a toxic peptide and biomarker of the disease. Excess copper intake also induces toxicity indirectly by interacting with other nutrients. 
Do air ions cause an improvement of allergies? [SEP] Negative air ionization therapy (NAIs) uses air ionisers as a non-pharmaceutical treatment for respiratory disease, allergy, or stress-related health conditions. Some commercial air purifiers are designed to generate negative ions. Ionic air purifiers
Air ionisers are used in air purifiers to remove particles from air. The frequency of nosocomial infections in British hospitals prompted the National Health Service (NHS) to research the effectiveness of anions for air purification, finding that repeated airborne acinetobacter infections in a ward were eliminated by the installation of a negative air ioniser—the infection rate fell to zero, an unexpected result. Positive and negative ions produced by air conditioning systems have also been found by a manufacturer to inactivate viruses including influenza.A 2018 review found that negative air ions are highly effective in removing particulate matter from air.The SARS epidemic fuelled the desire for personal ionisers in East Asia, including Japan (where many products have been specialised to contain negative ion generators, including toothbrushes, refrigerators, air conditioners, air cleaners, and washing machines). Health effects
A 2013 comprehensive review of 80 years of research into air ions and respiratory function outcomes found that there was no clear support for any beneficial role in respiratory function, nor evidence for significant detrimental effect. In conclusion, "exposure to negative or positive air ions does not appear to play an appreciable role in respiratory function. External links

Ionic Air Purifiers and Smog
The Negative-Ion Myth (archive)
Do "corona discharge" devices alleviate asthma? 
Do air ions cause an improvement of asthma?? [SEP] Other studies have found improvement in asthmatic symptoms from alcohol. Yoga could provide small improvements in quality of life and symptoms in people with asthma. Low levels of evidence suggest that inhaled (nebulised) magnesium sulfate may have a small benefit for treating acute asthma in adults. Air ionisers show no evidence that they improve asthma symptoms or benefit lung function; this applied equally to positive and negative ion generators. Positive and negative ions produced by air conditioning systems have also been found by a manufacturer to inactivate viruses including influenza.A 2018 review found that negative air ions are highly effective in removing particulate matter from air.The SARS epidemic fuelled the desire for personal ionisers in East Asia, including Japan (where many products have been specialised to contain negative ion generators, including toothbrushes, refrigerators, air conditioners, air cleaners, and washing machines). Health effects
A 2013 comprehensive review of 80 years of research into air ions and respiratory function outcomes found that there was no clear support for any beneficial role in respiratory function, nor evidence for significant detrimental effect. In conclusion, "exposure to negative or positive air ions does not appear to play an appreciable role in respiratory function. External links

Ionic Air Purifiers and Smog
The Negative-Ion Myth (archive)
Do "corona discharge" devices alleviate asthma? 
Do smoking bans lead to fewer preterm births? [SEP] Recently the U.S. Public Health Service reported that if all pregnant women in the United States stopped smoking, there would be an estimated 11% reduction in stillbirths and a 5% reduction in newborn deaths. The study found that expectant mothers who smoke at any time during the first trimester increase the risk that their child will develop birth defects, particularly congenital heart defects than expectant mothers who have never smoked. Low birth-weight children born to smoking mothers have a lower infant mortality rate than the low birth weight children of non-smokers. So it is a surprising real-world observation that low birth weight babies of smoking mothers have a lower child mortality than low birth weight babies of non-smokers. A 2013 review found that smoking bans were associated with "significant reduction in acute MI [myocardial infarction] risk", but noted that "studies with smaller population in the United States usually reported larger reductions, while larger studies reported relatively modest reductions".A 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis found that smoke-free legislation was associated with approximately 10% reductions in preterm births and hospital attendance for asthma, but not with a decrease in low birth weight. Babies with birth defects are at higher risk of being born preterm.Passive smoking and/or smoking before the pregnancy influences the probability of a preterm birth. Smoking bans are effective in decreasing preterm births. Reducing smoking is expected to benefit pregnant women and their offspring. 
Do special garments with the active ingredient Liporeductyl help against cellulite? [SEP] Cellulite or gynoid lipodystrophy (GLD) is the herniation of subcutaneous fat within fibrous connective tissue that manifests as skin dimpling and nodularity, often on the pelvic region (specifically the buttocks), lower limbs, and abdomen. Hormonal factors
Hormones play a dominant role in the formation of cellulite. Estrogen it thought to be an important hormone in the development of cellulite, and it has been proposed that an imbalance of estrogen relative to progesterone may be associated with cellulite. However, there has been no reliable clinical evidence to support the claim that estrogen levels are linked to cellulite, and many women with elevated estrogen levels do not get cellulite. Aside from 'topical' products (creams, ointments) and injectables (collagenase), treatments for cellulite include non-invasive therapy such as mechanical suction or mechanical massage. "Treatment of cellulite. "Treatment of cellulite. External links

 Media related to Cellulite at Wikimedia Commons 
Does alcohol in moderate amounts prolong life? [SEP] Heart
According to the National Institutes of Health, researchers now understand that drinking moderate amounts of alcohol can protect the hearts of some people from the risks of coronary artery disease. Mortality effects
A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found that moderate ethanol consumption does not prolong life compared with lifetime abstention from ethanol consumption. "Extensive research of Western cultures has consistently shown increased survival associated with light to moderate alcohol consumption. The observed decrease in mortality of light-to-moderate drinkers compared to never drinkers might be partially explained by superior health and social status of the drinking group; however, the protective effect of alcohol in light to moderate drinkers remains significant even after adjusting for these confounders. Low-to-moderate alcohol use increases the risk of death for individuals aged 16–34 (due to increased risk of cancers, accidents, liver disease, and other factors), but decreases the risk of death for individuals ages 55+ (due to decreased risk of ischemic heart disease).A study in the United Kingdom found that alcohol causes about 4% of cancer cases in the UK (12,500 cases per year). Among those who drank regularly, the one-quarter who drank the most were up to 50% less likely to develop the disease compared to the half who drank the least.The researchers noted that moderate alcohol consumption also reduces the risk of other inflammatory processes such as cardiovascular disease. Alcohol dependence is linked to a lifespan that is reduced by about 12 years relative to the average person. Alcoholism reduces a person's life expectancy by around ten years and excessive alcohol use is the third leading cause of early death in the United States. 
Does caffeine make us die sooner??? [SEP] Those who consumed high amounts of caffeine daily, were found to be 1.9 times more likely to have difficulty sleeping and 1.8 times more likely to feel sleepy in the morning compared to those who consume almost no caffeine. This can include reduced alertness, attention, vigilance, speed of motor functions.Though caffeine can be shown to decrease the quality of sleep, there is no evidence that caffeine affects all people the same way. Caffeine consumption
Overconsumption
Although the maximum daily consumption of caffeine varies with consideration of couple of aspects such as sex, age, race, physical activity and smoking, excessive ingestion of caffeine can lead to a state of intoxication. Even doses of caffeine relating to just one cup of coffee can increase sleep latency and decrease the quality of sleep especially in non-REM deep sleep. Numerous studies have shown caffeine consumption to heavily disrupt sleep patterns. In cases of much larger overdoses, mania, depression, lapses in judgment, disorientation, disinhibition, delusions, weight loss, loss of appetite, hallucinations, or psychosis may occur.Death can occur as a result of caffeine overdose. Caffeine is a stimulant drug. Disadvantages from caffeine
Physical
Caffeine is a mild diuretic, which can often lead to dehydration. 
Does light freezing help with weight loss? [SEP] This can cause weight loss. Since water contains zero calories, consuming it with meals reduces total energy intake and aids in weight loss, particularly if it is taken instead of calorific drinks, such as juice or soft drinks. Freezing food slows decomposition by turning residual moisture into ice, inhibiting the growth of most bacterial species. Quicker freezing generates smaller ice crystals and maintains cellular structure. History
Natural food freezing (using winter frosts) had been in use by people in cold climates for centuries. It is commonly accepted that the loss of Riboflavin has to do with the preparation for freezing rather than the freezing process itself. Effectiveness
Freezing is an effective form of food preservation because the pathogens that cause food spoilage are killed or do not grow very rapidly at reduced temperatures. The Freezing Preservation of Foods. 
Does acupuncture help against hay fever? [SEP] Acrivastine is a medication used for the treatment of allergies and hay fever. The theory of NAET proposes that these allergies can be eliminated by addressing the energy blockages through the use of acupuncture or acupressure. Practitioners will then aim to remove energy blockages by having the patient hold a glass bottle containing the allergen whilst acupressure or acupuncture techniques are employed. For larger animals, acupuncture has been used for treating downer cow syndrome, facial nerve paralysis, allergic dermatitis, respiratory problems, nonsurgical colic, and certain reproductive disorders. According to some acupuncturists, this practice augments the use of regular acupuncture, can restore health and well-being, and is particularly good for treating pain. The reviewers further conclude that acupuncture has no effect on ESR, CRP, pain, patient's global assessment, number of swollen joints, number of tender joints, general health, disease activity and reduction of analgesics. "A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found inconclusive evidence that electroacupuncture was effective for nausea and vomiting and hyperemesis gravidarum during pregnancy.Regarding EAV devices, "results are not reproducible when subject to rigorous testing and do not correlate with clinical evidence of allergy". They consisted of one observational study on acupuncture side effects, and four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating acupuncture treatment for low back pain, knee osteoarthritis, migraine prophylaxis, and tension-type headache. 
Do earrings cause discomfort by destroying acupuncture points or meridians? [SEP] Play piercing, needle play, or recreational acupuncture is body piercing done for the purpose of enjoying the experience rather than producing a permanent body decoration. Play piercing should always be carried out using new sterile hypodermic needles or acupuncture needles on skin which has been cleaned with an antiseptic such as alcohol or povidone iodine (which is a potential allergen), by people who have been properly trained. In treatment, physical pressure is applied to acupuncture points, or ashi trigger points, with the aim of clearing blockages in these meridians. There is no physically verifiable anatomical or histological basis for the existence of acupuncture points or meridians. As with traditional acupuncture, needles are inserted on specific points along the body. Similarly, the net unbalanced DC current, which could lead to tissue damage, electrolysis, and electrolytic degradation of the acupuncture needle, was within the limits of the standard at 30 pulses per second, but not at higher frequencies. Battlefield Acupuncture involves placing gold aiguille semi-permanent needles at up to five sites in the ears. Battlefield Acupuncture involves placing gold aiguille semi-permanent needles at up to five sites in the ears. 
Does the "Rolfing" treatment cause an improvement of body malpositions as well as certain pains? [SEP] Rolfing () is a form of alternative medicine originally developed by Ida Rolf (1896–1979) as Structural Integration. Rolfing is marketed with unproven claims of various health benefits. The safety of Rolfing has not been confirmed.The principles of Rolfing contradict established medical knowledge, and there is no good evidence Rolfing is effective for the treatment of any health condition. Conceptual basis
Science writer Edzard Ernst offers this definition: "Rolfing is a system of bodywork invented by Ida Pauline Rolf (1896–1979) employing deep manipulation of the body's soft tissue allegedly to realign and balance the body's myofascial structures. "Rolfing is based on the unproven belief that such alignment results in improved movement, breathing, pain reduction, stress reduction, and even emotional changes.Rolf described the body as organized around an axis perpendicular to the earth, pulled downward by gravity, and she believed the function of the body was optimal when it was aligned with that pull. Rolfers aim to lengthen the fascia in order to restore the body's arrangement around its axis and facilitate improved movement. Positions for the work include lying on a table, sitting, and standing.Rolfing treatments are sometimes painful. Proponents of Rolfing claim it can be used to alleviate pain. 
Does marijuana use reduce the risk of developing diabetes? [SEP] Others show that cannabis can impair certain abilities important to safe driving (such as reaction time, divided attention, and cognitive functions)–but no studies have been able to show that this increases the actual risk of crashing, or that drivers with THC in their blood cause a disproportionate number of crashes. "An extensive 2013 review of 66 studies regarding crash risk and drug use found that cannabis was associated with minor, but not statistically significant increased odds of injury or fatal accident. A number of more recent studies do suggest orgasms are improved with marijuana use, however.Studies on marijuana consumption’s effects on sex have shown little other significant physical improvements. Some studies show a correlation between chronic marijuana use and reduced testosterone levels in men. Furthermore, it has been found that heavy use of marijuana decreases the sperm count of healthy men. The results of the study show women who used cannabis prior to having sex had higher odds of satisfactory orgasms and an increase in sex drive. Women having frequent marijuana use had higher odds of satisfactory orgasms, regardless of use prior to sex or not. One study observed the risky-behavior of individuals who use cannabis. 
Do fish oil capsules promote prostate cancer? [SEP] Subsequent research based on the trial has generally found that selenium and vitamin E do not prevent prostate cancer. The initial results found that the increase in risk associated with Vitamin E was "statistically nonsignificant", which the researchers wanted to verify in a subsequent study.A subsequent 2010 study further described SELECT's results and found that neither selenium nor vitamin E, on their own or in combination, prevented prostate cancer.A 2011 study based on the trial found that the risk of prostate cancer was elevated by 17% in the group that took vitamin E supplements, which was statistically significant.A 2014 study based on SELECT data found that selenium supplementation increased the risk of high-grade prostate cancer in men who had a higher baseline selenium status.A 2014 Cochrane review found that SELECT raised concerns about a possible association between selenium supplements and an increase in risk of type 2 diabetes, alopecia and dermatitis. Prostate cancer
The effect of fish oil consumption on prostate cancer is controversial. However, another reported increased risk of more aggressive prostate cancer with higher blood levels of combined EPA and DHA. Some evidence indicated an association between high blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids and an increased prostate cancer risk.However, this evidence from the Select Trial has been challenged on the grounds of methodology and that the quantitative difference between those who developed prostate cancer and those who did not "is so small as to be biologically irrelevant". Prescription fish oil pills, capsules and tablets have more omega-3 fatty acids than those which are non-prescription. Those participating in the lawsuit claim that because the liver is the major filtering and detoxifying organ, PCB content may be higher in liver-based oils than in fish oil produced from the processing of whole fish.An analysis based on data from the Norwegian Women and Cancer Study (NOWAC) with regards to the dangers of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in cod liver came to the conclusion that "in Norwegian women, fish liver consumption was not associated with an increased cancer risk in breast, uterus, or colon. The Sponsor is Brigham and Women's Hospital with collaborators, National Cancer Institute, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Office of Dietary Supplements, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, Pharmavite LLC, Pronova BioPharma and BASF.It aims to enroll 20,000 participants (women 55 or over, men 50 or over) who will be randomized to one of four groups:
daily vitamin D (2000 IU) and fish oil (1 g);
daily vitamin D and fish-oil placebo;
daily vitamin-D placebo and fish oil;
daily vitamin-D placebo and fish-oil placebo.Participants will answer annual questionnaires to determine effects on risk of cancer, heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, diabetes, memory loss and depression. 
Does virgin conception exist? [SEP] Prasad also explores the possibilities of virgin birth in humans and touches on ovarian teratomas.The book also takes a historical look of sexless reproduction and ancient stories of virgin birth. See also
Parthenogenesis, birth without fertilization
Miraculous births, virgin birth in mythology and religion


== References == The virgin birth of Jesus is the Christian doctrine that Jesus was conceived by his mother, Mary, through the power of the Holy Spirit and without sexual intercourse. The ancient world had no understanding that male semen and female ovum were both needed to form a fetus; this cultural milieu was conducive to miraculous birth stories, and tales of virgin birth and the impregnation of mortal women by deities were well known in the 1st-century Greco-Roman world and Second Temple Jewish works.The Quran asserts the virgin birth of Jesus, deriving its account from the 2nd century AD Protoevangelium of James, but denies the Trinitarian implications of the gospel story (Jesus is a messenger of God but also a human being and not the Second Person of the Christian Trinity). The Real Story of Mary and Her Son Jesus, argued that early Christians had developed the idea of a virgin birth as a later "reaction to the report, meant as a slander but historically correct, that Jesus was conceived or born outside wedlock. The virgin cleansing myth (also referred to as the virgin cure myth, virgin rape myth, or simply virgin myth) is the belief that having sex with a virgin girl cures a man of HIV/AIDS or other sexually transmitted diseases.Anthropologist Suzanne Leclerc-Madlala says the myth is a potential factor in infant rape by HIV-positive men in South Africa. Prevalence
People all over the world have heard this myth, including in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, Europe and the Americas.A survey by the University of South Africa (UNISA) in South Africa found that 18 percent of laborers thought that having sex with a virgin cures HIV/AIDS. In Zimbabwe, some people also believe that the blood produced by raping a virgin will cleanse the infected person's blood of the disease.In 2002, psychologist Mike Earl-Taylor wrote that the virgin cure myth may explain the staggering rise in child or infant rapes in South Africa, which is facing an HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
Are movement exercises useful for back pain? [SEP] For this purpose a form of exercises called range of motion exercises which are used to keep the muscles and joints in the patients back strong and flexible. Although, for acute back pain exercises usually not recommended and physical activity should be slow, but it is critical to keep moving as much as possible, because inactivity leads to weakening back muscles and ligaments, and to gain more weight, which might exacerbate back pain. Maintaining good posture when walking, standing, and sitting in addition to  standard medical treatments (and alternative  therapies such as chiropractic manipulations) is likely to address the roots of many back pain problems. Regular activity and gentle stretching exercises is encouraged in uncomplicated back pain and is associated with better long-term outcomes. However, one review found that exercise is effective for chronic back pain but not for acute pain. Spinal manipulation appears to provide similar effects to other recommended treatments for chronic low back pain. There is no evidence it is more effective than other therapies or sham, or as an adjunct to other treatments, for acute low back pain
"Back school" is an intervention that consists of both education and physical exercises. Spinal manipulation, massage, and acupuncture have been used to treat the pain associated with various back injuries, but there is little consensus on their degree of effectiveness. 
Does taking the birth control pill adversely affect mate choice? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] Sexual desire
In 2012, The Journal of Sexual Medicine published a review of research studying the effects of hormonal contraceptives on female sexual function that concluded that the sexual side effects of hormonal contraceptives are not well-studied and especially in regards to impacts on libido, with research establishing only mixed effects where only small percentages of women report experiencing an increase or decrease and majorities report being unaffected. A growing body of research evidence has suggested that hormonal contraception may have an adverse effect on women's psychological health. One study claims that the pill may affect what male body odors a woman prefers, which may in turn influence her selection of partner. The ability to control fertility without sacrificing sexual relationships allowed women to make long term educational and career plans.Because the pill was so effective, and soon so widespread, it also heightened the debate about the moral and health consequences of pre-marital sex and promiscuity. Notes
References
Barbara Seaman, "The Pill and I: 40 Years on, the Relationship Remains Wary", New York Times, June 25, 2000, https://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9A04E0D7113FF936A15755C0A9669C8B63&sec=health&pagewanted=2
"The Pill and the Doctor/Patient Relationship," PBS transcript, https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/pill/filmmore/pt.html During the fertile window, women not using hormonal contraceptives self-report increased feelings of intrasexual competitiveness, describe other women as less attractive, and use more dehumanizing terms when talking about women, but not men. It has been proposed that the synthetic hormones present in hormonal contraception that suppress ovulation also suppress the subsequent cognitive and behavioral changes found in naturally-cycling women. The metabolic impact of oral contraceptives are significant and  contraceptive pills can increase the risk of  heart attacks. 
Does UV light reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Long-term sun exposure is associated with reduced all-cause mortality and reduced mortality risk from cardiovascular disease (CVD), some forms of cancer, and non-CVD/noncancer related disease, with indications in these studies that Vitamin D is not the mediator. UV exposure also has positive effects for endorphin levels, and possibly for protection against multiple sclerosis. Abundant visible light to the eyes gives health benefits through its association with the timing of melatonin synthesis, maintenance of normal and robust circadian rhythms, and reduced risk of seasonal affective disorder.On the negative side, UV is a mutagen and carcinogen for skin. It has been found that ultraviolet radiation (even UVA) produces nitric oxide (NO) in the skin, and nitric oxide can lower blood pressure. Although long-term exposure to ultraviolet contributes to non-melanoma skin cancers that are rarely fatal, it has been found in a Danish study that those who get these cancers were less likely to die during the study, and were much less likely to have a heart attack, than those who did not have these cancers.People in certain situations, such as people with intellectual disabilities and neurodevelopmental disorders who stay inside most of the time have low vitamin D levels. Beneficial effects
UV light (specifically, UV‑B) causes the body to produce vitamin D, which is essential for life. Skin conditions
UV rays also treat certain skin conditions. Ultraviolet Radiation: How it Affects Life on Earth. 
Is the Gynefix® contraceptive necklace as effective for contraception as the birth control pill or the "IUD"? [SEP] The copper IUD is the most effective form of emergency contraception. It is more effective than the hormonal EC pills currently available. It may reduce expulsion and discontinuation rates compared to framed copper IUDs.Gynefix is the only frameless IUD brand currently available. Among birth control methods, IUDs, along with other contraceptive implants, result in the greatest satisfaction among users.IUDs are safe and effective in adolescents as well as those who have not previously had children. It is the most effective form of emergency contraception available. Medical uses
The hormonal IUD is an extremely effective method of birth control, and a 2021 study demonstrated that it may be used for emergency contraception. The hormonal IUD is considered to be more effective than other common forms of reversible contraception, such as the birth control pill, because it requires little action by the user after insertion. In an intrauterine device (IUD), such as Mirena among others, it is effective for the long-term prevention of pregnancy. 
Can coenzyme Q10 lead to a rejuvenation of the skin's appearance? [SEP] Additional uses
Coenzyme Q10 has also been utilized as an active ingredient in cosmeceuticals and as an inactive ingredient in sunscreen formulations. Research has shown that Coenzyme Q10 supplementation helps to counteract endothelial dysfunction and has anti-inflammatory effects. The articles show the importance of Coenzyme Q10 in the progression of aging and in aging-related diseases. The chapters in the book present current knowledge on the bio-synthesis of Coenzyme Q10, the nature of CoQ10 deficiency, and the results of clinical trials based on CoQ10 supplementation. The data from preclinical and clinical studies indicate that Coenzyme Q10 is highly safe for use as a nutritional supplement. Coenzyme Q10 supplementation did not improve heart function quickly but did result in significantly increased long-term improvement. The increased dosage of Coenzyme Q10 yielded greater effectiveness. In the responders, blood Coenzyme Q10 levels increased five-fold with the supplementation, and lymphocyte counts increased to normal levels. 
Is there an increased risk of long-term effects on the unborn child with chemotherapy starting in the 2nd trimester of pregnancy? [SEP] Medications
Some medications can cause harm to the unborn baby, but in some instances the benefits may outweigh the risks to the baby or mother. There is no established association with teratogenicity or elevated occurrence of birth defects and the usage of acetaminophen at any point during a pregnancy. There is evidence that an increased dose or increased exposure in utero is associated with an increased risk of lower scores on neurodevelopmental tests. Due to this, there is an increased risk for intrauterine growth retardation, fetal hemorrhage, and maternal hemorrhage within organogenesis and in the second/third trimester. Some studies have reported statistically significant evidence of an increased risk of breast cancer in women who have had abortions, while others have merely suggested an increased risk. References
External links
National Cancer Institute: Abortion, Miscarriage, and Breast Cancer Risk
Induced abortion does not increase breast cancer risk, a fact sheet from the World Health Organization
Abortion and Breast Cancer Risk from the American Cancer Society
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists: Finds No Link Between Abortion and Breast Cancer Risk
Jasen P (October 2005). These effects can impair a chemotherapy patient's ability to understand and make decisions regarding treatment, perform in school or employment and can reduce quality of life. These alterations, at the DNA level, may explain, at least in part, the impairments of cognitive function after chemotherapy.Research has revealed that neural progenitor cells are particularly vulnerable to the cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy agents. 
Can regular screening significantly reduce the risk of dying from prostate cancer? [SEP] Prostate cancer screening is the screening process used to detect undiagnosed prostate cancer in men without signs or symptoms. The evidence surrounding prostate cancer screening indicates that it may cause little to no difference in mortality.On the other hand, up to 25% of men diagnosed in their 70s or even 80s die of prostate cancer, if they have high-grade (i.e., aggressive) prostate cancer. Low-risk prostate cancer does not always require immediate treatment, but may be amenable to active surveillance. One in six men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer during their lifetime but screening may result in the overdiagnosis and overtreatment of prostate cancer. Thus, PSA screening is advocated by some as a means of detecting high-risk, potentially lethal prostate cancer, with the understanding that lower-risk disease, if discovered, often does not need treatment and may be amenable to active surveillance.Screening for prostate cancer is controversial because of cost and uncertain long-term benefits to patients. In the European Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer (ERSPC) initiated in the early 1990s, the researchers concluded that PSA-based screening did reduce the rate of death from prostate cancer but created a high risk of overdiagnosis, i.e., 1410 men would need to be screened and 48 additional cases of prostate cancer would need to be treated to prevent just one death from prostate cancer within 9 years.A study published in the European Journal of Cancer (October 2009) documented that prostate cancer screening reduced prostate cancer mortality by 37 percent. Screening for cancer can lead to cancer prevention and earlier diagnosis. Fenton reports that the screening of 1,000 men every four years for 13 years reduces mortality from prostate cancer by just one. 
Does removal and examination of the first lymph nodes after the prostate is affected by cancer (sentinel lymph nodes or sentinel lymph nodes) improve the chances of cure? (Reader Inquiry) [SEP] The sentinel lymph node is the hypothetical first lymph node or group of nodes draining a cancer. The concept of sentinel lymph node surgery is to determine if the cancer has spread to the very first draining lymph node (called the "sentinel lymph node") or not. In addition, there is no compelling evidence that patients who have a full lymph node dissection as a result of a positive sentinel lymph node result have improved survival compared to those who do not have a full dissection until later in their disease, when the lymph nodes can be felt by a physician. The malignancy spreads from the lymph node to the vulva, clitoris, and Bartholin glands, but the removal of the lymph nodes has a higher priority over the immediate removal of a small, localized tumor. See Lymphadenectomy#With sentinel node biopsy. With sentinel node biopsy
For clinical stages I and II breast cancer, axillary lymph node dissection should only be performed  after first attempting a sentinel node biopsy. A sentinel node biopsy can establish cancer staging of the axilla if there are positive lymph nodes present. If cancer is not present in the sentinel lymph nodes, then the axillary lymph node dissection should not be performed.If one or two sentinel nodes have cancer that is not extensive, then no axillary dissection should be performed, but the person with cancer should have breast-conserving surgery and chemotherapy appropriate for their stage of cancer. 
Can a treatment with singing bowls relieve pain? [SEP] Since several studies have shown that right hemispheric regions are more active during singing, music therapy involving melodic elements is deemed to be a potential treatment for non-fluent aphasia, as singing might activate patients’ right hemisphere to compensate with their lesioned left hemisphere. Aside from singing, many other music therapy techniques have also been attempted and the effectiveness of some techniques is shown. Music therapy can also improve non-fluent aphasic patients’ breathing and vocal ability, articulation and prosody of speech, and verbal and non-verbal communicative behaviours.In addition, Music therapy gives confidence to non-fluent aphasic patients and reduces their frustrated feelings. Since pitch difference in language is perceived by the right hemisphere, singing or intoning phrases may allow patients to use the neural pathway in their right hemisphere. As many patients have been noted to have an improvement in speech production after receiving therapeutic singing or vocal intonation practice, some researchers have suggested that these techniques are able to activate their right hemispheric regions potentially responsible for language processingAlthough many studies suggest that singing in music therapy can improve non-fluent aphasic patients’ speech production, the study by Stahl et al. TCES can be used on people with cervical pain, chronic lower back syndrome, or migraines. It works in some chronic pain patients. Ear candling, also called ear coning or thermal-auricular therapy, is a pseudoscientific alternative medicine practice claiming to improve general health and well-being by lighting one end of a hollow candle and placing the other end in the ear canal. 
Is the HIV saliva self-test, which is about to be approved in the U.S., as reliable as a laboratory test or a rapid test at the doctor's office? [SEP] Accuracy of HIV testing
Modern HIV testing is highly accurate. Many studies have confirmed the accuracy of current methods of HIV testing in the United States, reporting false-positive rates of 0.0004 to 0.0007 and false-negative rates of 0.003 in the general population. Criticisms
Oral tests
As a result of an increase in false positive rates with rapid oral HIV testing in 2005, New York City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene added the option of testing finger-stick whole blood after any reactive result, before using a western blot test to confirm the positive result. The accuracy of serologic testing has been verified by isolation and culture of HIV and by detection of HIV RNA by PCR, which are widely accepted "gold standards" in microbiology. While AIDS denialists focus on individual components of HIV testing, the combination of ELISA and western blot used for the diagnosis of HIV is remarkably accurate, with very low false-positive and -negative rates as described above. VCT centers and counselors often use rapid HIV tests that require a drop of blood or some cells from the inside of one's cheek; the tests are cheap, require minimal training, and provide accurate results in about 15 minutes. It is one of only two at-home HIV tests available. Accuracy
Testing performance
In a clinical study, trained professionals compared HIV test results of OraQuick In-Home HIV Test with results from laboratory testing. 
Does religion promote mental health? [SEP] In two chapters, the authors present more encompassing theoretical models that they suggest may explain the generally favorable associations observed between religion and health:

In chapter 15, on mental health, the authors theorize that the relation between religion and mental health outcomes may be mediated (causally explained) by stressful life experiences, as well as various other psychological factors that include coping resources and future goals. Scholarly studies have investigated the effects of religion on health. Some people who suffer from severe mental disorders may find comfort in religion. Additional evidence suggests that this relationship between religion and physical health may be causal. Mental health
According to a meta-analytical review, a large volume of research shows that people who are more religious and spiritual have better mental health and adapt more quickly to health problems compared to those who are less religious and spiritual.Studies have shown that religious believers experience higher levels of "mattering to others, dignity and meaning in their lives". In those who prayed often, the association was stronger.Religiosity has been found to mitigate the negative impact of income inequality and injustice on life satisfaction.The link between religion and mental health may be due to the guiding framework or social support that it offers to individuals. By these routes, religion has the potential to offer security and significance in life, as well as valuable human relationships, to foster mental health. Why religion and spirituality matter for public health: evidence, implications, and resources. 
Do braces treatments have preventive medical benefits in addition to aesthetic ones? [SEP] Dental braces (also known as braces, orthodontic cases, or  cases) are devices used in orthodontics that align and straighten teeth and help position them with regard to a person's bite, while also aiming to improve dental health. Braces can be either cosmetic or structural. Dental braces are often used in conjunction with other orthodontic appliances to help widen the palate or jaws and to otherwise assist in shaping the teeth and jaws. Often with this type of braces, treatment time is reduced, there is less pain on the teeth, and fewer adjustments are required than with traditional braces. Several important dentists helped to advance dental braces with specific instruments and tools that allowed braces to be improved. Studies find that various braces have high success rate in treatment of ingrown nails, and result in lesser pain and better patient satisfaction than surgical methods. It primarily focuses on improvement in dental aesthetics in color, position, shape, size, alignment and overall smile appearance. This procedure offers fast results and can even be a substitute for braces under certain circumstances. 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of vaccinating infants simultaneously with the usual six-dose vaccine (against diphtheria, tetanus, polio, pertussis, hepatitis B, and Haemophilus influenzae B) and a pneumococcal vaccine? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] Uses
The main reason for the use of combination vaccines is because they require fewer shots. Combination vaccines are also more cost effective and make it more likely for children to receive vaccinations. Talk to your doctor about the vaccine schedule that is best for your child. This vaccine is FDA approved to be administered to infants in three doses between ages six weeks and six years. However, it is recommended that the immunizations be done at months two, four, and six. Children
For children, immunizations are commonly given in combination with immunizations against tetanus, diphtheria, polio, and haemophilus influenzae type B at two, four, six, and 15–18 months of age. Since its introduction the maternal pertussis immunisation programme has been shown to be very effective in protecting infants until they can have their first vaccinations at two months of age. The WHO says that the only contraindication to either whole cell or acellular pertussis vaccines is an anaphylactic reaction to a previous dose of pertussis vaccine, while the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) lists encephalopathy not due to another identifiable cause occurring within seven days after a previous dose of pertussis vaccine as a contraindication and recommends those who have had seizures, have a known or suspected neurological disorder, or have had a neurologic event after a previous dose not be vaccinated until after treatment is initiated and the condition stabilized. 
Does the use of laptops with active WLAN (wireless internet access) affect sperm quality in men? [SEP] "Laptops a Hot Fertility Issue". Furthermore, the supplementation with DHA in humans has been reported to increase  sperm motility. Some laptops that have a cellular modem card can also act as mobile Internet Wi-Fi access points. The high power consumption of Wi-Fi makes battery life in some mobile devices a concern. Enabling wireless connectivity reduces security if the network uses inadequate or no encryption.An attacker who has gained access to a Wi-Fi network router can initiate a DNS spoofing attack against any other user of the network by forging a response before the queried DNS server has a chance to reply. Societal aspects
Wireless internet access has become much more embedded in society. Additionally, in the same study it has been noted that wireless connection provides more freedom of movement while working. Health concerns
The World Health Organization (WHO) says, "no health effects are expected from exposure to RF fields from base stations and wireless networks", but notes that they promote research into effects from other RF sources. 
Can phthalates cause diabetes? [SEP] Environment including housing conditions, health status, and diet all affect development of diabetes in the mice. This results in Type 1 Diabetes. Di(2-propylheptyl) phthalate (also known as bis(2-propylheptyl) benzene-1,2-dicarboxylate, di(propylheptyl) orthophthalate, or DPHP) is an organic compound with the formula C28H46O4. The Environmental Determinants of Diabetes in the Young is a longitudinal study examining the environmental causes of Type 1 diabetes (T1D), formerly known as juvenile diabetes. The internal mechanism of Insulin resistance and other metabolic risk factors such as hyperglycaemia, caused by oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation are common processes thought to be contributors to the development of Alzheimer's disease in diabetics.Diagnosis for this disease is different between patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Cholesterol is also a causative risk factor for diabetes. Diabetes can lead to elevated blood sugar levels, which in turn can lead to damage to the heart, blood vessels, kidneys, eyes and nerves. Caudal dysgenesis is one of the most strongly associated diseases to diabetes. 
Does staining brain tumors with the dye aminolevulinic acid before surgery help patients survive longer? [SEP] Also used to stain  blood films in cytology. Vital stain: stains that do not kill cells
PAGE: separation of protein molecules
Barium enema - a type of in vivo stain that creates contrast in the x-ray part of the light spectrum
Diaphonization

References
Further reading
External links

The Biological Stain commission is an independent non-profit company that has been testing dyes since the early 1920s and issuing Certificates of approval for batches of dyes that meet internationally  recognized standards. However, if we are to help patients and ultimately make advances in treating these tumors, meticulous and compassionate care of patients with neurological malignancies are crucial. Neurosurgical interventions  Neurosurgical intervention is warranted in almost all cases of primary central nervous system tumors and for many metastatic tumors. www.soc-neuro-onc.org – Society for Neuro-Oncology


== References == Histological uses
Toluidine blue is a basic thiazine metachromatic dye with high affinity for acidic tissue components. Approvals and indications

Methyl aminolevulinate is approved in New Zealand for treatment of basal cell carcinoma.It is now approved in many countries and has been used to treat non-melanoma skin cancer (including basal cell carcinoma).It has some advantages over Levulan.It has been reported as controversial in some quarters, with severe pain allegedly being experienced by some patients. 9-Aminoacridine is a synthetic dye used clinically as a topical antiseptic and experimentally as a mutagen, an intracellular pH indicator and a small molecule MALDI matrix. 
Can exercise prevent premature deaths from heart attacks, strokes, heart failure, and pre-diabetes as effectively as medication? [SEP] Diabetes prevention is achieved through weight loss and increased physical activity, which can reduce the risk of diabetes by 50% to 60%. A combination of diet and physical activity promotion through counselling and support programs decrease weight, improve systolic blood pressure, improve cholesterol levels and decrease risk of diabetes.Increasing physical activity may be helpful in preventing type 2 diabetes, particularly if undertaken soon after a carbohydrate rich meal that increases blood sugar levels. Lifestyle interventions are, however, more effective than metformin alone at preventing diabetes regardless of weight loss, though evidence suggests that lifestyle interventions and metformin together can be effective treatment in patients who are at a higher risk of developing diabetes.A Cochrane systematic review assessed the effect of alpha-glucosidase inhibitors in people with impaired glucose tolerance, impaired fasting blood glucose, elevated glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c).It was found that Acarbose appeared to reduce incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2 when compared to placebo, however there was no conclusive evidence that acarbose compare to diet and exercise, metformin, placebo, no intervention improved all-cause mortality, reduced or increased risk of cardiovascular mortality, serious or non-serious adverse events, non-fatal stroke, congestive heart failure, or non-fatal myocardial infarction.The same review found that there was no conclusive evidence that voglibose compared to diet and exercise or placebo reduced incidence of diabetes mellitus type 2, or any of the other measured outcomes.Many other medications are well known to modify risk of diabetes 2 although in most cases they are prescribed for reasons unrelated to diabetes 2. Regular exercise is also associated with a lower risk of developing neurodegenerative disorders. Cerebrovascular disease
Physical exercise plays a significant role in the prevention and management of stroke. It is well established that physical activity decrease the risk of ischemic stroke and intracerebral haemorrhage. Engaging in physical activity before experiencing a stroke has been found to have a positive impact on the severity and outcomes of stroke. Exercise and diabetes
One danger for diabetes patients is cardiovascular disease, including lipids and blood glucose levels. 
Can taking the enzyme diamino oxidase prevent alcohol-related hangover symptoms? [SEP] Disulfiram works by inhibiting the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase, causing many of the effects of a hangover to be felt immediately following alcohol consumption. One study in mice indicates that fusel oil may have a mitigating effect on hangover symptoms, while some whiskey congeners such as butanol protect the stomach against gastric mucosal damage in the rat. Drinking water may help relieve symptoms as a result of dehydration but it is unlikely that rehydration significantly reduces the presence and severity of alcohol hangover. These studies suggest that the presence and severity of hangover symptoms can probably be reduced by administration of a cyclooxygenase inhibitor such as aspirin or ibuprofen. Some compounds reduce specific symptoms such as vomiting and headache, but are not effective in reducing other common hangover symptoms such as drowsiness and fatigue. Social drinkers and alcoholics claim that drinking more alcohol gives relief from hangover symptoms, but research shows that the use of alcohol as a hangover cure seems to predict current or future problem drinking and alcohol use disorder, through negative reinforcement and the development of physical dependence. Oxygen: There have been anecdotal reports from those with easy access to a breathing oxygen supply – medical staff, and military pilots — that oxygen can also reduce the symptoms of hangovers sometimes caused by alcohol consumption. Fructose and glucose: Glucose and fructose significantly inhibit the metabolic changes produced by alcohol intoxication, nevertheless they have no significant effect on hangover severity. 
Can an anti-oxidant such as pseudocatalase stop or reverse hair graying? [SEP] Premature greying of hair (PGH), also known as canities, can have negative effects on appearance, self-confidence, self-esteem, and social acceptance of the affected individual. This overproduction causes depletion of the melanocyte stem cells which are required to produce melanin, the pigment responsible for hair color.Premature greying of hair has been observed with greater frequency among certain families, suggesting a familial predisposition for the condition. As hair pigmentation is a result of complex interaction between various genetic factors, it is thought that premature greying could be due to exhaustion of melanocyte's capability to produce hair pigmentation. Premature greying needs to be differentiated from various genetic hypomelanotic hair disorders. Smoking is another factor that is considered to be related to premature greying of hair. Prolonged exposure to ultraviolet rays is considered to initiate similar processes in hair follicles resulting in premature greying of hair. Antioxidants in cosmetic products prevent oxidation of active ingredients and lipid content. Dutasteride was approved for the treatment of BPH in 2001 and was subsequently approved for pattern hair loss in South Korea in 2009 and in Japan in 2015. 
Can sexual activity relieve headaches? [SEP] Sexual headache is a type of headache that occurs in the skull and neck during sexual activity, including masturbation or orgasm. Signs and symptoms
According to the third edition of the International Classification of Headache Disorders (ICHD), which terms this condition primary headache associated with sexual activity, it normally begins as a dull headache that increases with sexual excitement, and becomes intense at orgasm, which is called sexual benign headache. Sudden, severe headaches during sexual activity may also be caused by intracerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, or cerebral infarction, which require immediate medical attention. About 40% of patients with sexual headaches in one study also experienced headaches from non-sexual exertion. For other patients, the pain appears to be specifically activated by sexual excitement and contraction of facial and neck muscles.Sporadic case studies have linked sexual headaches to the use of certain drugs, including amiodarone, pseudoephedrine, birth control pills, and cannabis. These headaches are thought to be due to lower pressure in the head during sex. It is important to realize that headaches that begin during orgasm may be due to a subarachnoid hemorrhage, so serious causes must be ruled out first. These headaches are treated by advising the person to stop sex if they develop a headache. 
Does transcranial direct current stimulation help against severe depression? [SEP] Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a form of neuromodulation that uses constant, low direct current delivered via electrodes on the head. It can be contrasted with cranial electrotherapy stimulation, which generally uses alternating current the same way, as well as transcranial magnetic stimulation.Research shows increasing evidence for tDCS as a treatment for depression. Since then, several studies and meta-analyses have demonstrated tDCS to be a safe and effective treatment for depression.A meta-analysis published in 2020 found moderate- to high-quality evidence for tDCS as a treatment for depression with only low to
moderate clinical efficacy. The lasting modulation of cortical excitability produced by tDCS makes it an effective solution to facilitate rehabilitation and treat a range of neuropsychiatric disorders. Parts
Transcranial direct current stimulation is a relatively simple technique requiring only a few parts. In 1801, Giovanni Aldini (Galvani's nephew) started a study in which he successfully used the technique of direct current stimulation to improve the mood of melancholy patients.There was a brief rise of interest in transcranial direct current stimulation in the 1960s when studies by researcher D. J. Albert proved that the stimulation could affect brain function by changing the cortical excitability. Transcranial Brain Stimulation. "FDA concluded that the four studies published after January 1, 2016, through November 1, 2019, did not contribute sufficient information in the form of valid scientific evidence to demonstrate that the subjects met the criteria for any recognized depressive disorder, as defined in DSM-5"

See also
Transcranial direct-current stimulation
Transcranial magnetic stimulation
Electroconvulsive therapy


== References == 
Is the success of conventional treatment of a herniated disc equivalent to that of disc surgery? [SEP] Indications
Microdiscectomy may be a surgical option for patients with a single-level disc herniation and evidence of nerve root compression with residual unremitting radicular symptoms after failed conservative treatment. Discectomy for athletes
Degeneration caused by years of repetitive mechanical stress can cause the disc of an athlete to be herniated. However, the results of treatments in elite athletes differ due to the demand for optimal treatment, short recovery period, and high performance after the operation.Most athletes return to their pre-surgery level after a discectomy. The treatment is an advanced protocol for herniated, bulging and degenerative discs, based on the currently known and accepted anatomy of the spinal disc. Performing a discogram during the surgery procedure provides additional confirmation of the patient's anatomy and the position of the disc prolapse but might increase the degenerative changes in the disc. .

Surgical procedure
To remove a herniated disc, the Tessys method uses a lateral, transforaminal, endoscopic access path via the intervertebral foramen. In European Musculoskeletal Review 2006
M. Iprenburg, Transforaminal Endoscopic Surgery - Technique and Provisional Results in Primary Disc Herniation. Disc replacement is also an alternative intervention for symptomatic disc herniation with associated arm and hand, or leg symptoms (radicular pain). References
External links
https://web.archive.org/web/20130207010553/http://www.back-pain-info.com/back-pain-nucleotomy-herniated-disk.html 
Does regular use of sleeping pills promote the risk of death or cancer? [SEP] These medications are associated with poorer health outcomes, including cognitive decline. Obesity and drinking alcohol have been correlated with the incidence and progression of some cancers. Dietary components
Alcohol
Alcohol is associated with an increased risk of a number of cancers. Alcohol also increases the risk of cancers of the mouth, esophagus, pharynx and larynx, colorectal cancer, liver cancer, stomach and ovaries. See also
References
External links
"Diet, healthy eating and cancer". Long-term use of sedative-hypnotics for insomnia lacks an evidence base and has traditionally been discouraged for reasons that include concerns about such potential adverse drug effects as cognitive impairment (anterograde amnesia), daytime sedation, motor incoordination, and increased risk of motor vehicle accidents and falls. Adverse effects
Sleeping pills, including eszopiclone, have been associated with an increased risk of death.Hypersensitivity to eszopiclone is a contra-indication to its use. The risk of non-medical use and dependence increases with the dose and duration of usage and concomitant use of other psychoactive substances. 
Does increased time outdoors inhibit myopia in children? [SEP] In contrast, the child with myopia can see objects close to the eye in detail and does learn at an early age to see objects in detail. "Comparative analysis of the efficacy of some methods of conservative treatment of accommodation spasms and myopia in children". that may influence how the blood vessels of the eye develop. From 1 year to 3 years of age, children often undergo a "photoscreening" test where a camera takes pictures of the child's eyes to assess for developmental abnormalities that may lead to amblyopia. "Childhood blindness: a UK epidemiological perspective". Myopes considering refractive surgery are advised that surgically correcting their nearsightedness may be a disadvantage after age forty, when the eyes become presbyopic and lose their ability to accommodate or change focus, because they will then need to use glasses for reading. Myopes with low astigmatism find near vision better, though not perfect, without glasses or contact lenses when presbyopia sets in, but the more astigmatism, the poorer the uncorrected near vision.A surgical technique offered is to create a "reading eye" and a "distance vision eye", a technique commonly used in contact lens practice, known as monovision. This is consistent with the fact that our eyes seem to be in the 'relaxed' state when focusing at infinity, and also explains why no amount of effort seems to enable a myopic person to see farther away.The ability to focus on near objects declines throughout life, from an accommodation of about 20 dioptres (ability to focus at 50 mm away) in a child, to 10 dioptres at age 25 (100 mm), and levels off at 0.5 to 1 dioptre at age 60 (ability to focus down to 1–2 meters only). 
Do household cleaners and room fresheners in spray form cause damage to the heart? [SEP] Some air fresheners contain chemicals that provoke allergy and asthma symptoms or are toxic. A Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) study of 13 common household air fresheners found that most of the surveyed products contain chemicals that can aggravate asthma and affect reproductive development. Even air fresheners called "organic," "green," or with "essential oils" emitted hazardous chemicals, including carcinogens. A 2017 Swedish government report found evidence that workplace exposure to silica dust, engine exhaust or welding fumes is associated with heart disease. An association was also found between heart disease and exposure to compounds which are no longer permitted in certain work environments, such as phenoxy acids containing TCDD (dioxin) or asbestos.Workplace exposure to silica dust or asbestos is also associated with pulmonary heart disease. This agent is believed to cause more heart problems than many of the others. Acute inhalation injury may result from frequent and widespread use of household cleaning agents and industrial gases (including chlorine and ammonia). Exposure to high concentrations can cause bronchiolar and alveolar edema and airway destruction resulting in respiratory distress or failure. 
Can exercise improve mental performance impaired by alcohol consumption? [SEP] Despite these physiological effects in principle, in some cases occasional moderate consumption may have ancillary benefits on the brain due to social and psychological benefits if compared to alcohol abstinence and soberness.While the extent of causation is difficult to prove, alcohol intake – even at levels often considered to be low – "is negatively associated with global brain volume measures, regional gray matter volumes, and white matter microstructure" and these associations become stronger as alcohol intake increases.The effects can manifest much later—mid-life Alcohol Use Disorder has been found to correlate with increased risk of severe cognitive and memory deficits in later life. Alcohol consumption can substantially impair neurobiologically-beneficial and -demanding exercise.Long-term, stable consequences of chronic hazardous alcohol use are thought to be due to stable alterations of gene expression resulting from epigenetic changes within particular regions of the brain. The effects of exercise on cognition have important implications for improving academic performance in children and college students, improving adult productivity, preserving cognitive function in old age, preventing or treating certain neurological disorders, and improving overall quality of life.In healthy adults, aerobic exercise has been shown to induce transient effects on cognition after a single exercise session and persistent effects on cognition following regular exercise over the course of several months. Over the short-term, aerobic exercise functions as both an antidepressant and euphoriant, whereas consistent exercise produces general improvements in mood and self-esteem.Regular aerobic exercise improves symptoms associated with a variety of central nervous system disorders and may be used as adjunct therapy for these disorders. Consistent aerobic exercise over a period of several months induces clinically significant improvements in executive functions and increased gray matter volume in nearly all regions of the brain, with the most marked increases occurring in brain regions that give rise to executive functions. In particular, consistent aerobic exercise has been shown to improve attentional control, information processing speed, cognitive flexibility (e.g., task switching), inhibitory control, working memory updating and capacity, declarative memory, and spatial memory. Reviews and meta-analyses of research on the effects of acute exercise on cognition in healthy young and middle-aged adults have concluded that information processing speed and a number of executive functions – including attention, working memory, problem solving, cognitive flexibility, verbal fluency, decision making, and inhibitory control – all improve for a period of up to 2 hours post-exercise. Effects on central nervous system disorders
Exercise as prevention and treatment of drug addictions
Clinical and preclinical evidence indicate that consistent aerobic exercise, especially endurance exercise (e.g., marathon running), actually prevents the development of certain drug addictions and is an effective adjunct treatment for drug addiction, and psychostimulant addiction in particular. 
Can over-the-counter combination medications help with tension headache and migraine better than medications containing only single active ingredients? [SEP] Aspirin(acetylsalicylic acid) / paracetamol(acetaminophen) / caffeine is a combination drug for the treatment of pain, especially tension headache and migraine. They combine characteristics of tension headaches and migraines. Treatment
Depending on a patient's symptoms, physicians will prescribe treatment for either a tension headache or a migraine. Medication
Tripitan: Causes the constriction of blood vessels and ease of migraines
Analgesics: Consists of ibuprofen and aspirin, commonly used to treat less severe migraines or tension headaches
Ergot Derivative Drugs: Aids in decreasing pain signals transmitted along the nerves
Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs: Reduces inflammation

References
Sheth, K. (2010, November 22). Mixed Tension Migraine. Migraines can also be treated with unspecific analgesics such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or acetaminophen. Combination therapy of an NSAID with a triptan can be used when either medication is insufficient alone for migraine relief or recurrence . Opioids
Opioids are not recommended for treatment of acute migraines due to their significant side effect profile, including twice the risk of MOH headache when compared to NSAIDS, acetaminophen or triptans. 
Does hyperthermia treatment support chemotherapy in fighting cancer? (anonymous request with link to the Standard article) [SEP] Hyperthermia is usually applied as an adjuvant to radiotherapy or chemotherapy, to which it works as a sensitizer, in an effort to treat cancer.Hyperthermia uses higher temperatures than diathermy and lower temperatures than ablation. Treatment
Research has shown that hyperthermia is able to damage and kill cancer cells.Localized hyperthermia treatment is a well-established cancer treatment method with a simple basic principle: If a temperature elevation to 40 °C (104 °F) can be maintained for one hour within a cancer tumor, the cancer cells will be destroyed.The schedule for treatments has varied between study centers. Mechanism
Hyperthermia can kill cells directly, but its more important use is in combination with other treatments for cancer. However it is also induces a natural physiological response called thermotolerance, which tends to protect the treated tumor.Moderate hyperthermia, which heats cells in the range of 40 to 42 °C (104 to 108 °F), damages cells directly, in addition to making the cells radiosensitive and increasing the pore size to improve delivery of large-molecule chemotherapeutic and immunotherapeutic agents (molecular weight greater than 1,000 Daltons), such as monoclonal antibodies and liposome-encapsulated drugs. Around the same period Westermark used localized hyperthermia to produce tumor regression in patients. Magnetic hyperthermia
Magnetic hyperthermia is an experimental treatment for cancer, based on the fact that magnetic nanoparticles can transform electromagnetic energy from an external high-frequency field to heat. During this time research started to show hyperthermia as well as intraperitoneal chemotherapy was effective in killing cancer cells. Hyperthermiatic therapy
Localized and whole-body application of heat has been proposed as a technique for the treatment of malignant tumours. 
Can stress promote dementia? [SEP] Stress can cause acute and chronic changes in certain brain areas which can cause long-term damage. Chronic stress can affect the brain structure and cognition. The physiological effects of chronic stress can negatively affect memory and learning. It was found that the rats exposed to chronic psychosocial stress could not learn to adapt to new situations and environments, and had impaired memory on the RAWM.Chronic stress affects a person's cognitive functioning differently for typical subjects versus subjects with mild cognitive impairment. Chronic stress and elevated cortisol (a biomarker for stress) has been known to lead to dementia in elderly people. Stress can also enhance the neural state of memory formation. Stress, which is often perceived as only having negative effects, can aid in memory formation. (2014) report that it is "biologically plausible" that depression increases the risk of dementia. 
Does the risk for the unborn child to develop asthma later on increase if the mother is exposed to high pollen concentrations during pregnancy? [SEP] Autoimmune disease

Fetal-related factors
In some pregnancies, certain conditions that arise in the developing fetus or fetuses can put a pregnancy into a high risk category. While larger pollen grains are usually filtered by hairs in the nose, the smaller pollen fragments are able to pass through and enter the lungs, triggering the asthma attack. Pollen counts, and forecasts of pollen conditions, are routinely produced and reported to the public because high aerial pollen concentration is associated with increased rates of allergic reaction for those with conditions such as hay fever and asthma. CO inhaled by pregnant women may threaten the unborn child's growth and mental development. A study conducted on European women indicated that higher exposure to particulate matter during the initial first weeks of their pregnancy resulted in low birth weight babies  This toxin is also considered to be the most dangerous of the three because it can be basically anything small enough to be inhaled. Some claims exist that the incidence of autism is higher for babies whose mothers spend time in ‘high traffic pollution’ areas compared to mothers who spend their pregnancy in cleaner air. Furthermore, children who experience severe viral respiratory infections early in life have a high possibility of having asthma later in their childhood. This shows that in addition to causing airway hyperreactivity, rhinovirus also promotes the onset of non-atopic asthma. 
Are children conceived in May more likely to be born prematurely than children conceived in other months? [SEP] Maternal factors
Risk factors in the mother have been identified that are linked to a higher risk of a preterm birth. Certain medical conditions in the pregnant mother may also increase the risk of preterm birth. Babies with birth defects are at higher risk of being born preterm.Passive smoking and/or smoking before the pregnancy influences the probability of a preterm birth. Prenatal care
The absence of prenatal care has been associated with higher rates of preterm births. People born prematurely may be more susceptible to developing depression as teenagers. For instance, children born prematurely have an increased risk for developing chronic kidney disease. This is more common in babies born prematurely or before their due date. Maturity of the baby – Premature babies appear to be at higher risk of complications if delivered vaginally than if delivered by caesarean section. 
Does osteopathy work? [SEP] Osteopathy (from Ancient Greek  ὀστέον (ostéon) 'bone', and  πάθος (páthos) 'pain, suffering') is a type of pseudoscientific system of alternative medicine that emphasizes physical manipulation of the body's muscle tissue and bones. The United Kingdom's National Health Service says there is "limited evidence" that osteopathy "may be effective for some types of neck, shoulder or lower limb pain and recovery after hip or knee operations", but that there is no evidence that osteopathy is effective as a treatment for health conditions unrelated to the bones and muscles. Science in the Art of Osteopathy: Osteopathic Principles and Practice. Foundations for Osteopathic Medicine (2nd ed.). And if there is value in therapy that is uniquely osteopathic, why should its use be limited to osteopaths? There is some evidence that osteopathic treatment is helpful for low back pain. Foundations for osteopathic medicine (2nd ed.). It has not however been found to be significantly effective in increasing bone healing.It is believed to work through the active stimulation of osteoblast proliferation and differentiation as evidenced by increased levels of DNA synthesis and of the osteoblast markers osteocalcin and alkaline phosphatase. 
Do creams with sterol compounds improve the appearance of cellulite skin? [SEP] They can be found in trace amounts in every cell type but are highly enriched in foam cells and are common components of human skin oil.Plant sterol esters have been shown to reduce the level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in blood when ingested. Plant sterol esters used for dietary supplements are made from phytosterols and fatty acids also derived from plants. "The cream" is a testosterone-based ointment that is used in conjunction with anabolic steroids such as tetrahydrogestrinone (THG, also known as "the clear") in order to mask doping in professional athletes. Composition
An affidavit from the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) reveals that "the cream" was a composition of testosterone and epitestosterone designed to increase the natural level of the steroid testosterone while not disrupting the ratio of testosterone to epitestosterone, a common metric used in traditional drug tests. The most familiar type of animal sterol is cholesterol, which is vital to cell membrane structure, and functions as a precursor to fat-soluble vitamins and steroid hormones. Role in biochemistry
Sterols and related compounds play essential roles in the physiology of eukaryotic organisms. Sterols are common components of human skin oils. Phytosterols as a nutritional supplement
Phytosterols, more commonly known as plant sterols, have been shown in clinical trials to block cholesterol absorption sites in the human intestine, thus helping to reduce cholesterol absorption in humans. 
For women at high risk of breast cancer, does a precautionary mastectomy make more sense than regular participation in intensive screening? [SEP] Undergoing a preventive mastectomy does not guarantee that breast cancer will not develop later, however, it reduces the risk by 90% in high risk women. After surgery, routine screening for breast cancer is recommended. Intensified breast cancer screening for high risk women may detect cancer at an early, treatable stage. Similar imaging studies can be performed with magnetic resonance imaging but evidence is lacking.Earlier, more aggressive, and more frequent screening is recommended for women at particularly high risk of developing breast cancer, such as those with a confirmed BRCA mutation, those who have previously had breast cancer, and those with a strong family history of breast and ovarian cancer. Screening targeted towards women with above-average risk produces more benefit than screening of women at average or low risk for breast cancer. While this ability to detect such very early breast malignancies is at the heart of claims that screening mammography can improve survival from breast cancer, it is also controversial. Women who are known to have a higher risk of developing breast cancer usually undertake more aggressive screening programs. In some cases, women believed to be at high risk of breast cancer have the operation as a preventive measure. 
Does tocilizumab specifically help children with rheumatoid arthritis (juvenile idiopathic arthritis) ? [SEP] Medical uses
In the United States, tocilizumab is indicated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, giant cell arteritis, systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, cytokine release syndrome, and COVID‑19.In the European Union, tocilizumab is indicated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, juvenile idiopathic polyarthritis, giant cell arteritis, cytokine release syndrome, and COVID‑19. Rheumatoid arthritis
Tocilizumab is used for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, applied in combination with methotrexate, if other drugs like disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) and TNF alpha blockers have proven to be ineffective or were not tolerated. Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis
The treatment of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) is similar to rheumatoid arthritis treatment: tocilizumab is combined with methotrexate unless the latter is not tolerated. In 2011, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved tocilizumab for the treatment of active systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. In New Zealand, tocilizumab was approved for distribution in July 2009, and Pharmac approved subsidising it with special authority restrictions on 1 July 2013 for systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 1 July 2014 for rheumatoid arthritis. The FDA approved tocilizumab for the treatment of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis for children from two years of age in April 2011, and the EMA followed in August the same year. It has also been shown to have efficacy in moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children four years and older, and is indicated for the treatment of that condition. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the signs and symptoms of moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children aged four years and older. 
Does the Toxoplasma gondii parasite affect suicide rates? [SEP] Toxoplasma gondii () is a parasitic protozoan (specifically an apicomplexan) that causes toxoplasmosis. Another population-representative study with 7440 people in the United States found that Toxoplasma infection was 2.4 fold more common in people who had a history of manic and depression symptoms (bipolar disorder Type 1) compared to the general population.Research on the linkage between T. gondii infection and entrepreneurial behavior showed that students who tested positive for T. gondii exposure were 1.4 times more likely to major in business and 1.7 times more likely to have an emphasis in "management and entrepreneurship". Toxoplasmosis is a parasitic disease caused by Toxoplasma gondii, an apicomplexan. Infections with toxoplasmosis are associated with a variety of neuropsychiatric and behavioral conditions. Toxoplasma gondii is considered the second leading cause of foodborne-related deaths and the fourth leading cause of foodborne-related hospitalizations in the United States.The protist responsible for toxoplasmosis is T. gondii. Supposing a causal link exists between T. gondii and schizophrenia, studies have yet to determine why only some individuals with latent toxoplasmosis develop schizophrenia; some plausible explanations include differing genetic susceptibility, parasite strain differences, and differences in the route of the acquired T. gondii infection.Correlations have also been found between antibody titers to T. gondii and OCD, as well as suicide among people with mood disorders including bipolar disorder. A 2016 study of 236 persons with high levels of toxoplasmosis antibodies found that "there was little evidence that T. gondii was related to increased risk of psychiatric disorder, poor impulse control, personality aberrations or neurocognitive impairment". Toxoplasma gondii: The Model Apicomplexan. 
Is Exemestane better than other hormone-altering drugs for reducing the risk of breast cancer or treating it? [SEP] Exemestane, sold under the brand name Aromasin among others, is a medication used to treat breast cancer. Medical uses
Exemestane is indicated for the adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with estrogen-receptor positive early breast cancer who have received two to three years of tamoxifen and are switched to it for completion of a total of five consecutive years of adjuvant hormonal therapy. US FDA approval was in October 1999.Exemestane is also indicated for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women whose disease has progressed following tamoxifen therapy.For premenopausal women with hormone-receptor–positive breast cancer, adjuvant treatment with ovarian suppression plus the aromatase inhibitor exemestane, as compared with ovarian suppression plus tamoxifen, provides a new treatment option that reduces the risk of recurrence. Pharmacology
Pharmacodynamics
Exemestane is an oral steroidal aromatase inhibitor that is used in ER-positive breast cancer in addition to surgery and/or radiation in post-menopausal women. Research
Oral exemestane 25 mg/day for 2–3 years of adjuvant therapy was generally more effective than 5 years of continuous adjuvant tamoxifen in the treatment of postmenopausal women with early-stage estrogen receptor-positive/unknown receptor status breast in a large well-designed trial. Preliminary data from the open-label TEAM trial comparing exemestane with tamoxifen indicated in 2009 that exemestane 25 mg/day is also effective in the primary adjuvant treatment of early-stage breast cancer in postmenopausal women.Interim phase III trial results in 2011 showed that adding everolimus to exemestane therapy against advanced breast cancer can significantly improve progression-free survival compared with exemestane therapy alone.A Phase III trial was reported in 2011, concluding that the use of exemestane in postmenopausal women at an increased risk for breast cancer reduced the incidence of invasive breast cancer. In 4,560 women, after 35 months, the administration of exemestane at a dose of 25 mg/day resulted in a 65% reduction in the risk of breast cancer compared with placebo; annual incidence rates were 0.19% and 0.55%, respectively (hazard ratio: 0.35; 95% CI [0.18-0.70]; p = 0.002). Indication for exemestane is advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women, where the cancer has progressed following tamoxifen therapy. 
Does a newly approved contraceptive pill with the active ingredient combination nomegestrol acetate and 17ß-estradiol have fewer undesirable side effects than other birth control pills? [SEP] Nomegestrol acetate/estradiol (NOMAC-E2), sold under the brand names Naemis and Zoely among others, is a fixed-dose combination medication of nomegestrol acetate, a progestogen, and estradiol, an estrogen, which is used in menopausal hormone therapy and as a birth control pill to prevent pregnancy in women. Research
Estradiol-containing birth control pills like NOMAC-E2 may have a lower risk of venous thromboembolism than birth control pills containing ethinylestradiol. See also
List of combined sex-hormonal preparations

References
External links
"Estradiol mixture with nomegestrol acetate". Side effects
It is generally accepted that the health risks of oral contraceptives are lower than those from pregnancy and birth, and "the health benefits of any method of contraception are far greater than any risks from the method". Pincus and Rock selected Searle's noretynodrel for the first contraceptive trials in women, citing its total lack of androgenicity versus Syntex's norethisterone very slight androgenicity in animal tests. See also
Mestranol/noretynodrel (Enovid)—the first oral contraceptive
List of progestogens available in the United States
List of estrogens available in the United States


== References == Nomegestrol (INN), also known as 19-normegestrol, is a steroidal progestin which was patented in 1975 but was never marketed. It is the parent compound of nomegestrol acetate, which is marketed as a progestin.Nomegestrol shows relatively low affinity for the progesterone receptor, only about 4% of that of progesterone and about 1.6% of that of nomegestrol acetate in one assay. 
Does PrEP reduce the risk of HIV infection? [SEP] PrEP is one of a number of HIV prevention strategies for people who are HIV negative but who have a higher risk of acquiring HIV, including sexually active adults at increased risk of contracting HIV, people who engage in intravenous drug use (see drug injection), and serodiscordant sexually active couples.When used as directed, PrEP has been shown to be highly effective, reducing the risk of acquiring HIV by up to 99%.As of 2019, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends two drug combinations for the use as PrEP for HIV/AIDS: the combination of tenofovir disoproxil and emtricitabine (Truvada), or the combination of tenofovir disoproxil and lamivudine (Cimduo). Consequently, people with HIV infection and resistance to emtricitabine will have fewer options for selecting HIV treatment medications.PrEP has been shown to be effective at reducing the risk of acquiring HIV in individuals at increased risk. However, PrEP is not 100% effective at preventing HIV, even in people who take the medication as prescribed. The WHO noted that "international scientific consensus is emerging
that antiretroviral drugs, including PrEP, significantly reduce the risk of sexual acquisition and transmission of HIV regardless of population or setting. PrEP does not prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted infections other than HIV, and is not 100% effective. Possibility of increased risk-taking
While PrEP appears to be extremely successful in reducing HIV infection, there is mixed evidence that there might be a change in use of condoms in anal sex, raising risks of spreading sexually transmitted infections other than HIV. Other considerations
Safe sex
Since PrEP only protects against HIV and does not protect against blood-borne infections (e.g., hepatitis C) or other STIs (e.g., herpes, syphilis, chlamydia, gonorrhoea), there is concern that increasing access to PrEP may increase rates of sexually transmitted infections by encouraging fewer safe sex practices like condom use. Among participants whose blood analyses indicated that they took PrEP 7 days a week, HIV acquisition risk was reduced by 99%. 
Does exercise, a restricted diet, or both together help prevent excessive weight gain during pregnancy? [SEP] Since the total weight gain depends on pre-pregnant body weight, it is recommended that underweight women should undergo a larger weight gain for healthy pregnancy outcomes, and overweight or obese women should undergo a smaller weight gain. While exercise and a proper diet are both needed to maintain the recommended weight gain, a balance between the two is very important. Whereas women with BMI of 30 or above are in the obese category and should gain only between 5.0 and 9.0 kilograms overall, which equates to roughly 0.2 kilogram per week in the second and third trimesters.Diet, exercise or a combination of both has been seen to reduce weight gain in pregnancy by 20% and reduce high blood pressure. Diet with exercise may reduce the risk of caesarean section, having a large baby and having a baby with serious breathing problems. Diet and exercise help pregnant women not gain too much weight during pregnancy when compared with giving the women no help to control weight gain or routine care (usually one session in the pregnancy).In general, walking is encouraged for mothers classified in this category. Since conditions during pregnancy will have long-term effects on adult health, "moderation" should be considered for both dietary and physical activity recommendations. It is recommended that obese women should try to lose weight before becoming pregnant, yet women should not diet during pregnancy because sufficient nutrition is important for pregnant women and women planning pregnancy. Exercise recommendations

During pregnancy, doctors recommend light exercise. 
Does taking antibiotics for acute sinusitis speed up the healing of the infection? [SEP] Although most children with acute otitis media who are older than two years old do not benefit from treatment with amoxicillin or other antibiotics, such treatment may be helpful in children younger than two years old with acute otitis media that is bilateral or accompanied by ear drainage. Respiratory infections
Amoxicillin and amoxicillin-clavulanate have been recommended by guidelines as the drug of choice for bacterial sinusitis and other respiratory infections. Most sinusitis infections are caused by viruses, for which amoxicillin and amoxicillin-clavulanate are ineffective, and the small benefit gained by amoxicillin may be overridden by the adverse effects. Studies conducted to investigate the effects of antibiotics on patients with acute periapical periodontitis and acute apical abscess showed that patients receiving antibiotics in addition to root canal treatment did not have a reduced level of inflammation as compared to the patients not receiving antibiotics. Acute sinusitis lasts a maximum of 12 weeks. Acute rhinosinusitis can be caused by a viral or bacterial infection – a distinction is not possible during the first days. There are different therapeutic approaches for acute rhinosinusitis. In case of a bacterial rhinosinusitis, antibiotics are a typical therapeutic treatment. 
Does colonoscopy reduce mortality from colorectal cancer? [SEP] Screening is effective for preventing and decreasing deaths from colorectal cancer. Endoscopic surveillance in this high-risk population may reduce the development of colorectal cancer through early diagnosis and may also reduce the chances of dying from colon cancer. Screening has the potential to reduce colorectal cancer deaths by 60%.The three main screening tests are colonoscopy, fecal occult blood testing, and flexible sigmoidoscopy. Research shows that the risk of cancer is low for 10 years if a high-quality colonoscopy does not detect cancer, so tests for this purpose are indicated every ten years.Colonoscopy screening is associated with approximately two-thirds fewer deaths due to colorectal cancers on the left side of the colon, and is not associated with a significant reduction in deaths from right-sided disease. It is speculated that colonoscopy might reduce rates of death from colon cancer by detecting some colon polyps and cancers on the left side of the colon early enough that they may be treated, and a smaller number on the right side. Most of the potential benefits of colonoscopy have been extrapolated from randomized trials of the sigmoidoscopy.The large randomized pragmatic clinical trial NordICC was the first published trial on the use of colonoscopy as a screening test to prevent colorectal cancer, related death, and death from any cause. To prevent one case of colorectal cancer, 455 invitations to colonoscopy were required.The CONFIRM trial, a randomized trial on colonoscopy vs. Optical colonoscopy is taken as the "gold standard" for colorectal cancer screening by the vast majority of the medical and research communities. 
Do nicotine replacement products like nicotine gum or nicotine patches help with long-term smoking cessation? [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy products (e.g. In addition, behavioral interventions such as in-person counseling, telehealth services, and self-help programs have been shown to further improve tobacco cessation rates.Nicotine gum is often used in conjunction with a long-acting nicotine patch. See also
Smoking cessation
Nicotine replacement therapy
Nicotine lozenge
Nicotine gum
Transdermal patch


== References == Medical uses
Nicotine replacement therapy, in the form of gum, patches, nasal spray, inhaler and lozenges all improve the ability of people trying to quit tobacco products. Nicotine replacement therapy is as effective as medications, such as bupropion, in helping people quit smoking for at least six months. All forms of nicotine replacement therapy, including nicotine gum, patches, nasal spray, inhalers, and lozenges, have similar success rates in terms of helping people stop smoking. Using a few different nicotine replacement methods in combination may improve success rates in stopping tobacco use. Nicotine patches is an alternative. 
Is short, high-intensity training equally effective as longer, moderate-intensity training? [SEP] Subjects using this method training 3 times per week obtained gains similar to what would be expected from subjects who did steady-state (50–70% VO2max) training five times per week. HIIT (when defined as four intervals of four minutes at 85–95% of max heart rate with three-minute intervals at 60–70% of max heart rate) is also more effective than moderate-intensity continuous training at improving blood vessel function and markers of blood vessel health.Comparing HIIT to moderate intensity continuous training (MICT) in people with coronary artery disease, HIIT leads to greater improvements in VO2 max but MICT leads to greater reductions in body weight and heart rate. High-intensity interval training
High-intensity interval training attempts to decrease the overall volume of training by increasing the effort expended during the high-intensity intervals. In overweight and obese individuals, high intensity interval training employing four sets of four-minute intervals has been shown to improve VO2 max to a greater extent than isocaloric moderate continuous training, as well as to a greater extent than with a protocol using shorter, one-minute intervals.Some exercisers find interval training less monotonous than continuous-intensity exercise. A number of studies confirm that in young and healthy individuals, sprint interval training appears to be as effective as continuous endurance training of moderate intensity, and has the benefit of requiring a reduced time commitment. Continuous training can be performed at low, moderate, or high exercise intensities, and is often contrasted with interval training, often called high-intensity interval training. For example, HIIT exercise has been shown to provide the same benefits in a fraction of the time spent exercising per week.Both the health benefits and the performance benefits, or "training effect", require that the duration and the frequency of exercise both exceed a certain minimum. Similar activities
Higher intensity exercise, such as High-intensity interval training (HIIT), increases the resting metabolic rate (RMR) in the 24 hours following high intensity exercise, ultimately burning more calories than lower intensity exercise; low intensity exercise burns more calories during the exercise, due to the increased duration, but fewer afterwards. 
Do behavioral therapy methods help with specific fears (phobias) such as fear of spiders? [SEP] Exposure therapy is a technique in behavior therapy to treat anxiety disorders. Numerous studies have demonstrated its effectiveness in the treatment of disorders such as generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and specific phobias. Phobia
Exposure therapy is the most successful known treatment for phobias. At a post-treatment follow-up four years later 90% of people retained a considerable reduction in fear, avoidance, and overall level of impairment, while 65% no longer experienced any symptoms of a specific phobia.Agoraphobia and social anxiety disorder are examples of phobias that have been successfully treated by exposure therapy. There have been many studies looking at this type of therapy and combatting anxiety and phobias, such as acrophobia. Behaviour therapy techniques can be used to deal with any phobias that a person may have. Modelling has been used in the treatment of fear of snakes as well as a fear of water.Aversive therapy techniques have been used to treat sexual deviations as well as alcohol use disorder.Exposure and prevention procedure techniques can be used to treat people who have anxiety problems as well as any fears or phobias. Treatment outcomes
Systematic desensitization has been shown to successfully treat phobias about heights, driving, insects as well as any anxiety that a person may have. 
Can honey accelerate the healing of second degree burns with pain, redness and blisters? [SEP] Symptoms typically include a burning pain followed by small blisters or sores. Delayed blisters are a cutaneous condition observed weeks to months after the initial healing of second-degree thermal burns, donor sites of split-thickness skin grafts, and recipient sites of split-thickness skin grafts. Heat urticaria presents within five minutes after the skin has been exposed to heat above 43 °C (109 °F), with the exposed area becoming burned, stinging, and turning red, swollen, and indurated. Ice, compression, and elevation may have roles in decreasing swelling and pain, but have not shown to help with healing an injury.There are different variations of the protocol, which may emphasize additional protective actions. By reducing the entry of these cells and signals to the injury, healing can be delayed, or possibly inhibited.The current research supports the role of ice in temporary pain relief, but there is little evidence supporting the use of ice to aid in healing, or even swelling reduction. Tentative evidence has found other antibiotics to be more effective, and therefore it is no longer generally recommended for second-degree (partial-thickness) burns, but is still widely used to protect third-degree (full-thickness) burns.Common side effects include itching and pain at the site of use. Medical uses
Tentative evidence has found other antibiotics to be more effective in the healing of superficial and partial thickness burn injuries; therefore, it is no longer generally recommended. Another Cochrane systematic review from 2010 concluded, "There is insufficient evidence to establish whether silver-containing dressings or topical agents promote wound healing or prevent wound infection". 
Does honey heal small, fresh wounds faster than the usual wound treatment? [SEP] Wounds naturally heal by themselves, but hunter-gatherers would have noticed several factors and certain herbal remedies would speed up or assist the process, especially if it was grievous. The Edwin Smith Papyrus, c. 1600 BCE, describes closing wounds with sutures (for wounds of the lip, throat, and shoulder), bandaging, splints, poultices, preventing and curing infection with honey, and stopping bleeding with raw meat. : 72  The Ebers Papyrus, c. 1500 BCE, details the use of lint, animal grease, and honey as topical treatments for wounds. Remedies used in ancient treatments
Honey
Honey was utilized for its antibacterial properties that helped heal infected wounds. Moreover, honey was used as a topical ointment. A large part of wound care is wound treatment. "The evolution of wound management: ancient origins and advances of the past 20 years". External links
European Wound Management Association (EWMA)
Association for the Advancement of Wound Care
WOUNDS: A Compendium of Clinical Research and Practice 
Does honey work better than other wound treatments for chronic wounds (open leg, diabetic foot)? [SEP] Preventing and treating infection
To lower the bacterial count in wounds, therapists may use topical antibiotics, which kill bacteria and can also help by keeping the wound environment moist,
which is important for speeding the healing of chronic wounds. Optimal management of wounds requires holistic assessment. Diabetics that are not candidates for surgery (and others) may also have their tissue oxygenation increased by Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, or HBOT, which may provide a short-term improvement in healing by improving the oxygenated blood supply to the wound. Secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI), which inhibits not only proteases but also inflammation and microorganisms like viruses, bacteria, and fungi, may prove to be an effective treatment.Research into hormones and wound healing has shown estrogen to speed wound healing in elderly humans and in animals that have had their ovaries removed, possibly by preventing excess neutrophils from entering the wound and releasing elastase. Overview
Though early use focused on burns and surgical wounds, wider use of wounds treated with TCOT have become more common in diabetic foot ulcers, venous stasis and decubitus ulcers (pressure sores). •	Skin ulcers due to diabetes
•	Skin ulcers due to venous stasis
•	Decubitus ulcers (bed sores, pressure sores)
•	Skin ulcers due to post-surgical infections
•	Lesions due to gangrene
•	Skin grafts
•	Burns
•	Frostbite

Effectiveness
Animal studies conducted in 2004-2005 have demonstrated the effectiveness of TCOT on Rabbit ear wounds. A recently published study documented two prevented amputations which have shown TCOT to be highly effective on diabetic foot ulcers, venous stasis and decubitus ulcers and a study completed in 2010 by Dr. Gary Sibbald documented the effectiveness of TCOT on 9 diabetic foot ulcer patients. Many in natural health circles claim that honeygar has wide ranging benefits on health. 
Does sitting for long periods despite compensatory exercise increasingly lead to type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Smoking appears to increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. A lack of sleep has also been linked to type 2 diabetes. Prevention
Onset of type 2 diabetes can be delayed or prevented through proper nutrition and regular exercise. If patients are able to perform 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week, they can significantly lower their chances of having type II diabetes. Sleep
Studies have shown that a reduction in sleep is associated with a significant increase in the incidence of type 2 diabetes. Some experts refer to sitting as "the new smoking" because of its negative effects on overall health.These exercise trends are contributing to the rising rates of chronic long-lasting diseases such as: obesity, heart disease, stroke, preventable causes of death, cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Cardiovascular disorders
Standing for prolonged periods can lead to certain cardiovascular disorders. The authors reported that long periods of standing at work were significantly associated with atherosclerotic progression. 
Do acupuncture or related smoking cessation methods help you stay smoke-free for at least 6 months? [SEP] According to some acupuncturists, this practice augments the use of regular acupuncture, can restore health and well-being, and is particularly good for treating pain. The reviewers further conclude that acupuncture has no effect on ESR, CRP, pain, patient's global assessment, number of swollen joints, number of tender joints, general health, disease activity and reduction of analgesics. A 2013 meta-analysis found little evidence that the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain (compared to sham) was modified by the location of the needles, the number of needles used, the experience or technique of the practitioner, or by the circumstances of the sessions. Acupuncture is not better than mainstream treatment in the long term.The use of acupuncture has been criticized owing to there being little scientific evidence for explicit effects, or the mechanisms for its supposed effectiveness, for any condition that is discernible from placebo. "Acupuncture". "Acupuncture". Herbal cigarettes are often advertised as a smoking cessation aid. "Herbal 'cigarette' may help smokers quit". 
Do gastrointestinal surgeries (bariatric surgeries) improve symptoms of type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment causing weight loss and reducing complications of obesity.As of October 2022, the American Society of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) and International Federation for the Surgery of Obesity (IFSO) recommend bariatric surgery for adults with a body mass index (BMI) >35, regardless of obesity-associated conditions, and recommend considering surgery for people with BMI 30.0-34.9 who have metabolic disease. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Prior to the updated guidelines ASMBS/IFSO, international diabetes organizations had recommended considering bariatric surgery in people with a BMI over 30 who have type 2 diabetes and poorly controlled hyperglycemia. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Some studies have suggested that psychological health can improve after bariatric surgery, due in part to improved body image, self-esteem, and change in self-concept—these findings were also present in pediatric populations. Bariatric surgery has consistently been associated with postoperative decreases in depressive symptoms and reduced severity of symptoms. Compared to the Sleeve Gastrectomy and Rou-en-Y Gastric Bypass, BPD/DS produces the best results in terms of durable weight loss and resolution of Type 2 Diabetes. In published studies, total weight loss and the positive impact or remission of Type 2 Diabetes was better with the SADI-S surgery than with gastric bypass or sleeve gastrectomy. 
Is there a connection between ADHD and neurodermatitis? [SEP] ADHD is associated with other neurodevelopmental and mental disorders as well as some non-psychiatric disorders, which can cause additional impairment, especially in modern society. Comorbidities
Psychiatric
In children, ADHD occurs with other disorders about two-thirds of the time.Other neurodevelopmental conditions are common comorbidities. This could result in trauma-related disorders or ADHD being mis-identified as the other. ASD shows genetic overlap with ADHD at both common and rare levels of genetic variation. : 10  Some symptoms that are due to anxiety disorders, personality disorder, developmental disabilities or intellectual disability or the effects of substance abuse such as intoxication and withdrawal can overlap with ADHD. These disorders can also sometimes occur along with ADHD. Children with ADHD have a higher risk of unintentional injuries. learning disabilities, allergies) that may be associated with ADHD-like behaviors.The use of neuroimaging is also steadily increasing to help in an ADHD diagnosis. 
Can injections with the enzyme collagenase straighten fingers bent by Dupuytren's disease without surgery? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] Dupuytren's contracture (also called Dupuytren's disease, Morbus Dupuytren, Viking disease, palmar fibromatosis and Celtic hand) is a condition in which one or more fingers become permanently bent in a flexed position. It is easier to treat when the amount of finger bending is more mild.It was once believed that Dupuytren's most often occurs in white males over the age of 50  and is rare among Asians and Africans. In Dupuytren's contracture, the palmar fascia within the hand becomes abnormally thick, which can cause the fingers to curl and can impair finger function. Normally, the palmar fascia consists of collagen type I, but in Dupuytren patients, the collagen changes to collagen type III, which is significantly thicker than collagen type I. There are several types of treatment, with some hands needing repeated treatment.The main categories listed by the International Dupuytren Society in order of stage of disease are radiation therapy, needle aponeurotomy (NA), collagenase injection, and hand surgery. As of 2016 the evidence on the efficacy of radiation therapy was considered inadequate in quantity and quality, and difficult to interpret because of uncertainty about the natural history of Dupuytren's disease.Needle aponeurotomy is most effective for Stages I and II, covering 6–90 degrees of deformation of the finger. Collagenase
The cords are weakened through the injection of small amounts of the enzyme collagenase, which breaks peptide bonds in collagen.Clostridial collagenase injections have been found to be more effective than placebo.In February 2010 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved injectable collagenase extracted from Clostridium histolyticum for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture in adults with a palpable Dupuytren's cord. In a case of Dupuytren's contracture, collagen accumulates in the palmar fascia of the hands, so that the fingers cannot be straightened. 
Do mindfulness-based methods effect improvement in chronic pain? [SEP] ": 154  This is based on extensive research indicating that mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) including mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) can result in clinically significant reductions in pain, in addition to other health benefits. : 165

Evaluation of effectiveness
In addition to extensive evidence indicating the effectiveness of mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) in general for pain management, and further evidence indicating the effectiveness of compassion-based practices for pain, a range of studies have specifically supported the effectiveness of Breathworks Mindfulness for Health MBPM programs for the management of chronic pain and other long-term conditions. Mindfulness meditation may provide several methods by which a person can consciously regulate pain. Brown and Jones found that mindfulness meditation decreased pain anticipation in the right parietal cortex and mid-cingulate cortex. A 2018 literature review found that research on the Mindfulness for Health and Stress courses has shown them "to be very helpful for people with severe chronic pain and illness", but also noted that further randomized controlled trials were needed. Mindfulness For Health: A Practical Guide To Relieving Pain, Reducing Stress And Restoring Wellbeing. "Meditation and the Management of Pain". A 2011 brain imaging study, published in the Journal of Neuroscience, found that even very brief instruction in mindfulness meditation (four 20-minute sessions) was effective in relieving pain by reducing the brain's emotional response to painful stimuli. 
Does high air pollution increase the risk for the unborn to develop autism later in life? [SEP] Some claims exist that the incidence of autism is higher for babies whose mothers spend time in ‘high traffic pollution’ areas compared to mothers who spend their pregnancy in cleaner air. This study found that babies who were exposed to higher levels of pollutants while in the womb had a 10% higher risk of autism than babies who had low levels of exposure; another finding from this study is that fine particulates had the strongest association with autism

See also
Environmental impact of transport
List of most-polluted cities by particulate matter concentration

References
External links
Zero To Three - information on child brain development There is an association between exposure to traffic-related air pollution and autism risk. There may be a causative link between both exposure to air pollution, a variant in the MET receptor tyrosine kinase gene and risk of autism. Researchers have also begun to find evidence for air pollution as a risk factor for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In Los Angeles, children who were living in areas with high levels of traffic-related air pollution were more likely to be diagnosed with autism between 3–5 years of age. Researchers at the University of Rochester Medical Center found that early exposure to air pollution causes the same changes in the brain as autism and schizophrenia. Our findings add to the growing body of evidence that air pollution may play a role in autism, as well as in other neurodevelopmental disorders." 
Is it harmful to health to eat apple cores with the apple? [SEP] Scientific background
A 2013 study using computer modelling compared eating apples with taking a common daily cholesterol-lowering drug to estimate risk of cardiovascular diseases. The computer model estimated that eating an apple a day was generally comparable for people over age 50 years to using a statin drug to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, concluding that eating an apple a day "is able to match modern medicine and is likely to have fewer side effects," while having similar annual cost.A 2015 study found apple eaters "were more likely, in the crude analysis, to keep the doctor (and prescription medications) away." An apple corer is a device for removing the core and pips from an apple. It may also be used for similar fruits, such as pears or quince.Some apple corers consist of a handle with a circular cutting device at the end. The core can then be removed from the apple corer. Another type of apple corer can be placed on top of the apple and pushed through, which both cores and slices the apple. This is also often called apple cutter or apple slicer.An apple corer is often used when the apple needs to be kept whole, for example, when making baked apples, or when a large number of apples need to be cored and sliced, for example, when making an apple pie or similar dessert. Apple (Skin to the Core) is a poetic memoir for young adults, written by Eric Gansworth and published October 6, 2020 by Levine Querido. 
Can taking selenium prevent cancer? [SEP] Subsequent research based on the trial has generally found that selenium and vitamin E do not prevent prostate cancer. The review concluded that "no convincing evidence suggests that selenium supplements can prevent cancer in humans." This historic trial claimed that selenium supplementation prevented a variety of cancers, a claim which has not been validated by later enquiry, as there is no good evidence selenium supplementation helps prevent cancer.The Chief Science Officer (CSO) of Cypress is Mark Whitacre. Human health
Selenium in cancer
Selenium has bimodal biological action depending on the concentration. In cancer, studies have been conducted mostly on the benefits of selenium intake in reducing the risk of cancer incidence at the nutritional level; however, fewer studies have explored the effects of supra-nutritional or pharmacological doses of selenium on cancer. "Although an inverse association between selenium exposure and the risk of some types of cancer was found in some observational studies, this cannot be taken as evidence of a causal relation, and these results should be interpreted with caution... Conflicting results including inverse, null and direct associations have been reported for some cancer types... RCTs assessing the effects of selenium supplementation on cancer risk have yielded inconsistent results... To date, no convincing evidence suggests that selenium supplements can prevent cancer in humans." Selenium in anti-tumour immunity
To date, many studies have been conducted on the benefits of selenium intake in reducing the risk of cancer incidence at the nutritional level, indicating that likely selenium functions as an immunostimulator, i.e. 
Does mesotherapy help against pain? [SEP] Mesotherapy (from Greek mesos, "middle", and therapy from Greek therapeia) is a form of alternative medicine which involves intradermal or subcutaneous injections of pharmaceutical preparations, enzymes, hormones, plant extracts, vitamins, and/or other ingredients such as hyaluronic acid. The aim of mesotherapy is to provide the skin with essential nutrients, hydration, and other beneficial compounds to rejuvenate and revitalize its appearance. The effects of the treatment may vary depending on the individual.Pressurized mesotherapy is a needle-free method that uses an accelerated jet of air to insert the ingredients into the skin tissue. The French Académie Nationale de Médecine recognized mesotherapy as a specialty of medicine in 1987. Criticism
Physicians have expressed concern over the efficacy of mesotherapy, arguing that the treatment hasn't been studied enough to make a determination. Mesotherapy for the treatment of cosmetic conditions hasn't been the subject of standard clinical trials; however, the procedure has been studied for the pain relief for several ailments, such as tendonitis, tendon calcification, dental procedures, cancer, cervicobrachialgia, arthritis, lymphedema, and venous stasis.Despite the lack of clinical trials, there have been case studies and medical papers written on mesotherapy as a cosmetic treatment.Rod Rohrich, M.D., chairman of the Department of Plastic Surgery at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center is quoted as saying: "There is simply no data, no science and no information, to my knowledge, that mesotherapy works." Clinical studies
In a prospective study, 10 patients underwent four sessions of facial mesotherapy using multivitamins at monthly intervals. Effectiveness
The American Cancer Society states that "There is little scientific evidence available to support proponents' claims that myofascial release relieves pain or restores flexibility" and cautions against using it as a substitute for conventional cancer treatment. 
Do general health checkups lead to longer life? [SEP] The NHS Health Check is a preventive healthcare programme offered by Public Health England. The programme invites adults aged between 40 and 74 in England for a health check-up every five years to screen for key conditions including heart disease, diabetes, kidney disease, and stroke. Costs and take-up
Peter Walsh, deputy director of the Strategy Group at NHS England admitted that take-up of the checks was poor in January 2016, after a study showed that  20% of those eligible aged 60–74 attended and 9.0% of those between 40 and 59.In May 2016 researchers from Imperial College London concluded that the checkup reduced the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease by 0.21%, equivalent to one stroke or heart attack avoided every year for 4,762 people who attend. Genetics of aging is generally concerned with life extension associated with genetic alterations, rather than with accelerated aging diseases leading to reduction in lifespan. Annual checkups are used to track the impact of genetic markers, brain images, diet, exercise and other lifestyle factors on cognitive changes in the women. A regular moderate workout regimen and healthy diet can improve general appearance markers of good health such as muscle tone, healthy skin, hair and nails, while preventing age or lifestyle-related reductions in health and the series of heart and organ failures that accompany inactivity and poor diet. General Fitness
There are many benefits to increasing one’s general fitness level, such as a reduction in stress, to feel better, a decreased likelihood of contracting many cardiovascular diseases, etc. A 23-year prospective study of 12,000 male British physicians aged 48–78, found that overall mortality was significantly lower in current drinkers compared to non-drinkers even after correction for ex-drinkers. 
Can dementia be prevented? [SEP] The prevention of dementia involves reducing the number of risk factors for the development of dementia, and is a global health priority needing a global response. Although there is no cure for dementia, it is well established that modifiable risk factors influence both the likelihood of developing dementia and the age at which it is developed. Dementia can be prevented by reducing the risk factors for vascular disease such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking, physical inactivity and depression. A study concluded that more than a third of dementia cases are theoretically preventable. Thus, physical exercise, having good blood cholesterol, healthy body weight and blood pressure lowers the risk of developing dementia. Steroid hormones
Estrogen may also help in the prevention of dementia but cannot help when dementia is already present and when cognitive function is already impaired. The length of time needed to prevent dementia varies, but in most studies it is usually between 2 and 10 years. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders. 
Does the plant pigment beta-carotene protect against cancer? [SEP] β-Carotene (beta-carotene) is an organic, strongly coloured red-orange pigment abundant in fungi, plants, and fruits. Beta-carotene is found in many foods and is sold as a dietary supplement. β-Carotene and lung cancer in smokers
Chronic high doses of β-carotene supplementation increases the probability of lung cancer in smokers. Therefore, the oncology from β-carotene is based on both cigarette smoke and high daily doses of β-carotene.Increases in lung cancer may be due to the tendency of β-carotene to oxidize, and may hasten oxidation more than other food colors such as annatto. Cancer
A meta-analysis concluded that supplementation with β-carotene does not appear to decrease the risk of cancer overall, nor specific cancers including: pancreatic, colorectal, prostate, breast, melanoma, or skin cancer generally. High levels of β-carotene may increase the risk of lung cancer in current and former smokers. Carotene protects plant cells against the destructive effects of ultraviolet light so β-Carotene is an antioxidant. β-Carotene and physiology
β-Carotene and cancer
An article on the American Cancer Society says that The Cancer Research Campaign has called for warning labels on β-carotene supplements to caution smokers that such supplements may increase the risk of lung cancer.The New England Journal of Medicine published an article in 1994 about a trial which examined the relationship between daily supplementation of β-carotene and vitamin E (α-tocopherol) and the incidence of lung cancer. 
Can vitamin supplements protect against life-threatening diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular disease? [SEP] Vitamins are useful in preventing and treating illnesses specifically associated with dietary vitamin shortfalls, but the conclusions of medical research are that the broad claims of disease treatment by advocates of megavitamin therapy are unsubstantiated by the available evidence. A study of 161,000 individuals (post-menopausal women) provided, in the words of the authors, "convincing evidence that multivitamin use has little or no influence on the risk of common cancers, cardiovascular disease, or total mortality in postmenopausal women". Long-term sun exposure is associated with reduced all-cause mortality and reduced mortality risk from cardiovascular disease (CVD), some forms of cancer, and non-CVD/noncancer related disease, with indications in these studies that Vitamin D is not the mediator. People with higher levels of vitamin D tend to have lower rates of diabetes, heart disease, and stroke and tend to have lower blood pressure. However, it has been found that vitamin D supplementation does not improve cardiovascular health or metabolism, so the link with vitamin D must be in part indirect. Getting enough vitamin D can help stave off "autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular disease, many types of cancer, dementia, types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, and respiratory tract infections. Supplementation
In those who are otherwise healthy, there is little evidence that supplements have any benefits with respect to cancer or heart disease. Vitamin A and E supplements not only provide no health benefits for generally healthy individuals, but they may increase mortality, though the two large studies that support this conclusion included smokers for whom it was already known that beta-carotene supplements can be harmful. 
Is it true that lowering cholesterol does not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] It states, more concisely, that "decreasing blood cholesterol [...] significantly reduces coronary heart disease".An accumulation of evidence has led to the acceptance of the lipid hypothesis by most of the medical community. In 1913, a study by Nikolay Anichkov showed that rabbits fed on cholesterol developed lesions in their arteries similar to atherosclerosis, suggesting a role for cholesterol in atherogenesis.Dutch physician Cornelis de Langen noted the correlation between nutritional cholesterol intake and incidence of gallstones in  Javanese people in 1916. de Langen showed that the traditional Javanese diet, poor in cholesterol and other lipids, was associated with a low level of blood cholesterol and low incidence of cardiovascular disease (CVD), while the prevalence of CVD in Europeans living in Java on a Western diet was higher. Consensus
The medical consensus supports the lipid hypothesis as evidence from separate meta-analyses, prospective epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that elevated levels of LDL blood cholesterol are a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Initial results were published in 2002, which indicated that vitamins made little difference in modifying cardiovascular risk, but that simvastatin could significantly reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. Hypercholesterolemia is considered to be one of the major risk factors for atherosclerosis which often leads to cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular diseases. The cholesterol was found to be responsible for the thickening of the arterial walls and thus decreasing the radius in the arteries which leads in most cases to hypertension and increased risk of occlusive vascular diseases.In the 1950s the Framingham heart study led by Dawber revealed the correlation between high blood cholesterol levels and coronary heart diseases. The study was sponsored by the pharmaceutical company Merck and enrolled 4,444 people from 94 centres in Scandinavia.Before the 4S study, it was not proven that lowering cholesterol could prolong life in people who had CHD. The objective of the study was to assess the effect of a cholesterol-lowering drug called simvastatin on mortality and morbidity in people with a history of a previous heart attack or angina, who also had a moderately raised cholesterol; between 5.5 and 8.0 mmol/L.A second objective was to investigate whether the incidence of major coronary artery disease events (fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction and sudden death) could be reduced with simvastatin. 
Do static magnets help against pain? [SEP] Magnetic therapy is a pseudoscientific alternative medicine practice involving the weak static magnetic field produced by a permanent magnet which is placed on the body. Magnet therapy products may include wristbands, jewelry, blankets, and wraps that have magnets incorporated into them.Practitioners claim that subjecting certain parts of the body to weak electric or magnetic fields has beneficial health effects. Some practitioners claim that the magnets can restore the body's hypothetical "electromagnetic energy balance", but no such balance is medically recognized. Efficacy
Several studies have been conducted in recent years to investigate what role, if any, static magnetic fields may play in health and healing. According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, studies of magnetic jewelry have not shown demonstrable effects on pain, nerve function, cell growth or blood flow.A 2008 systematic review of magnet therapy for all indications found insufficient evidence to determine whether magnet therapy is effective for pain relief, as did 2012 reviews focused on osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. See also
References
External links
Magnetic Therapy: Can magnets alleviate pain? by James D. Livingston — Skeptical Inquirer
Magnet therapy in the Skeptic's Dictionary by Robert Todd Carroll
Magnet therapy — editorial in the British Medical Journal
Magnet Therapy: A Skeptical View by Stephen Barrett — Quackwatch See also
Magnet therapy, use of static magnetic fields with the aim of treating disease. 
Does hypnosis help with chronic bowel problems? [SEP] Spiegel told a reporter in 1977 that he had used hypnosis to help 4,000 patients control obesity, phobias or addiction to cigarettes over the past ten years.Spiegel's work in the field of hypnosis has been credited with establishing the practice as a legitimate medical therapy. Oriental Hypnosis is an old Indian method of healing practiced by Sadhus, Fakirs, Yogis and sannyasis (Sannyasa). Irritable bowel syndrome
The use of hypnotherapy in treating the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome is supported by research, including randomized controlled trials. A 2015 audit of 1000 patients undertaking gut-focused hypnotherapy in normal clinical practice found that hypnotherapy was an effective intervention for refractory IBS. Gut-directed hypnotherapy is recommended in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome by the American College of Gastroenterology clinical guideline for the management of IBS. Hypnosis has also been used to enhance recovery from non-psychological conditions such as after surgical procedures, in breast cancer care and even with gastro-intestinal problems. In 2007, a meta-analysis from the Cochrane Collaboration found that the therapeutic effect of hypnotherapy was "superior to that of a waiting list control or usual medical management, for abdominal pain and composite primary IBS symptoms, in the short term in patients who fail standard medical therapy", with no harmful side-effects. A 2014 meta-analysis that focused on hypnotherapy's efficacy on irritable bowel syndrome found that it was beneficial for short term abdominal pain and other gastrointestinal issues. 
Does taking vitamin D supplements during pregnancy increase the risk of food allergy for the unborn child? [SEP] Pregnancy
Low levels of vitamin D in pregnancy are associated with gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, and small (for gestational age) infants. Although taking vitamin D supplements during pregnancy raises blood levels of vitamin D in the mother at term, the full extent of benefits for the mother or baby is unclear. Pregnant women who take an adequate amount of vitamin D during gestation may experience a lower risk of pre-eclampsia and positive immune effects. Vitamin D supplementation is also likely to reduce the risk of gestational diabetes, undersized babies and of their poor rate of growth. Pregnant women often do not take the recommended amount of vitamin D.

Weight loss
Though hypothesized that vitamin D supplementation may be an effective treatment for obesity apart from calorie restriction, one systematic review found no association of supplementation with body weight or fat mass. Women with vitamin D deficiency who have been through multiple pregnancies are at elevated risk of osteomalacia. Pre-eclampsia:  There has been an association of vitamin D deficiency and women who develop pre-eclampsia in pregnancy. Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. 
Is combined hormone therapy with estrogen and progestin safe for women in late menopause (after the last menstrual period)? [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy (HRT), also known as menopausal hormone therapy or postmenopausal hormone therapy, is a form of hormone therapy used to treat symptoms associated with female menopause. The North American Menopause Society (NAMS) 2016 annual meeting mentioned that HRT may have more benefits than risks in women before the age of 60.A consensus expert opinion published by The Endocrine Society stated that when taken during perimenopause or the initial years of menopause, HRT carries fewer risks than previously published, and reduces all cause mortality in most scenarios. Endometrial cancer
In postmenopausal women, continuous combined estrogen plus progestin decreases endometrial cancer incidence. The relative risk of breast cancer also varies depending on the interval between menopause and HRT and route of synthetic progestin administration.The most recent follow up of the Women's Health Initiative participants demonstrated a lower incidence of breast cancer in post-hysterectomy participants taking equine estrogen alone, though the relative risk was increased if estrogen was taken with medroxy-progesterone. If HRT is necessary after breast cancer, estrogen-only therapy or estrogen therapy with a progestogen may be safer options than combined systemic therapy. The authors of the study recommended that women with non-surgical menopause take the lowest feasible dose of hormones for the shortest time to minimize risk.The data published by the WHI suggested supplemental estrogen increased risk of venous thromboembolism and breast cancer but was protective against osteoporosis and colorectal cancer, while the impact on cardiovascular disease was mixed. Estrogens and progestogens are the two most often used in menopause. The Postmenopausal Estrogen/Progestin Interventions (PEPI) trial was a large randomized controlled trial which assessed the influence of menopausal hormone therapy on cardiovascular and other outcomes. 
Can negative expectancy reduce the effect of pain medications? [SEP] A nocebo effect is said to occur when negative expectations of the patient regarding a treatment cause the treatment to have a more negative effect than it otherwise would have. Adverse expectations can also cause the analgesic effects of anesthetic medications to disappear.The worsening of the subject's symptoms or reduction of beneficial effects is a direct consequence of their exposure to the placebo, but those symptoms have not been chemically generated by the placebo. On the other hand, research on the role that both expectancy, alongside conditioning play in inducing the analgesic effect, have prompted ideas to better the practice of pharmacotherapy. Expectancy in the analgesic effect comes from the conditioning prior, where the analgesic is associated with physiological pain relief. This would create an expectation in the patient’s mind, of how they should feel upon taking the medication, as well as provide them with confidence it’s going to be beneficial for them. Classical conditioning can inform pharmacotherapy, in encouraging clinicians to help their patients to create associations between the analgesic medication and between pain relieving techniques. This has implications for medication, specifically for painkillers,  with possible evocation of anti-social attitudes amongst people, as was found with acetaminophen. It is not known whether reducing post-operative sensitization by the use of preventive analgesia will affect the likelihood of acute post-operative pain becoming chronic. 
Is sex as good an endurance workout as running? [SEP] Some studies find that running more than 20 miles (32 kilometers) per week yields no lower risk for all-cause mortality than non-runners, although these studies are in conflict with large studies that show longer lifespans for any increase in exercise volume.Elite-level long-distance running is associated with a 3 to 7 times higher risk of the knee osteoarthritis later in life compared to non-runners.The effectiveness of shoe inserts has been contested. Sexercise is physical exercise performed in preparation for sexual activity and designed to tone, build, and strengthen muscles. Sexercises are often performed as part of a sex diet lifestyle, which seeks to maximize the health benefits of regular sexual activity. Exercise is known to improve and quicken the flow of oxygenated blood, in higher and consistent amounts, along with other beneficial chemical compounds, to the genitalia, which is important for fertility and important during intercourse. As such, both types of exercise produce endocrine benefits. The main intention is to increase physical fitness with less stress on the body than from faster running but more than walking, or to maintain a steady speed for longer periods of time. A recent meta-analysis on running/jogging and mortality, including more than 230,000 participants found that runners were at 27% lower risk of death than non-runners, during 5.5-35 year follow-ups. Proponents of this hypothesis propose that endurance running served as a means for hominins to effectively engage in persistence hunting and carcass poaching, thus enhancing their competitive edge in acquiring prey. 
Can electrical brain stimulation reduce the amount of food eaten? [SEP] Gastric electrical stimulation, also known as implantable gastric stimulation, is the use of specific devices to provide electrical stimulation to the stomach to try to bring about weight loss in those who are overweight or improve gastroparesis.Gastric electrical stimulation is a pacemaker-like device with electrical connections to the surface of the stomach. Electrical brain stimulation (EBS), also referred to as focal brain stimulation (FBS), is a form of electrotherapy used as a technique in research and clinical neurobiology to stimulate a neuron or neural network in the brain through the direct or indirect excitation of its cell membrane by using an electric current. History
Electrical brain stimulation was first used in the first half of the 19th century by pioneering researchers such as Luigi Rolando (1773–1831) and Pierre Flourens (1794–1867), to study the brain localization of function, following the discovery by Italian physician Luigi Galvani (1737–1798) that nerves and muscles were electrically excitable. In contrast, EBS, via deeply implanted electrodes in localized areas of the brain (deep brain stimulation; DBS), elicited both pleasurable and aversive responses in laboratory animals and humans as previously described.EBS could elicit the ritualistic, motor responses of sham rage in cats by stimulation of the anterior hypothalamus, as well as more complex emotional and behavioral components of "true rage" in both experimental animals by stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus, and in human subjects by stimulating various deep areas of the brain. Cranial electrotherapy stimulation (CES) is a form of neurostimulation that delivers a small, pulsed, alternating current via electrodes on the head. CES has shown to induce changes in the electroencephalogram, increasing alpha relative power and decreasing relative power in delta and beta frequencies.CES has also shown to reach cortical and subcortical areas of the brain, in electromagnetic tomography and functional MRI studies. In addition, placebo manipulations can affect brain sugar metabolism and MEPs, which may confound results. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a neurosurgical procedure involving the placement of a medical device called a neurostimulator, which sends electrical impulses, through implanted electrodes, to specific targets in the brain (the brain nucleus) for the treatment of movement disorders, including Parkinson's disease, essential tremor, dystonia, and other conditions such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and epilepsy. 
Are plastic kitchen boards more hygienic than wooden ones? [SEP] Kitchen cutting boards are often made of wood or plastic and come in various widths and sizes. There are also cutting boards made of glass, steel, or marble, which are easier to clean than wooden or plastic ones such as nylon or corian, but tend to damage knives due to their hardness. Wood also has natural anti-septic properties.Hardwoods with tightly grained wood and small pores are best for wooden cutting boards. However, unlike wood, plastic boards do allow rinsing with harsher cleaning chemicals such as bleach and other disinfectants without damage to the board or retention of the chemicals to later contaminate food. Wooden boards
Wooden boards should never be placed in the dishwasher, or left immersed for long periods, as the wood or glue may be affected. Plastic boards
Unlike wood, most plastic boards are non-porous, which means that bacteria can't enter below the surface. Bacterial contamination
One 1994 study found that wood was more likely to retain bacterial contamination, while another 1994 study found the opposite. Oak is also not a common cutting board material due to its relatively large pore size.Another study in 2012 found that bamboo had high antimicrobial activity compared to wood.In 2016, a literature review summarizing wood and microbial safety was published. 
Does excessive beer or alcohol consumption lead to obesity? [SEP] Digestive system and weight gain
The impact of alcohol on weight-gain is contentious: some studies find no effect, others find decreased or increased effect on weight gain. Metabolic syndrome
A national survey (NHANES) conducted in the U.S. concluded, "Mild to moderate alcohol consumption is associated with a lower prevalence of the metabolic syndrome, with a favorable influence on lipids, waist circumference, and fasting insulin. Body composition
Alcohol affects the nutritional state of the chronic drinkers. According to Kent Bunting, the research results do not necessarily mean that people who wish to lose weight should continue to consume alcohol because consumption is known to have an enhancing effect on appetite. Biological and environmental factors are thought to contribute to alcoholism and obesity. Some of the brain signaling proteins that mediate excessive eating and weight gain also mediate uncontrolled alcohol consumption. Melanocortins, a group of signaling proteins, are found to be involved in both excessive food intake and alcohol intake.Certain patterns of alcohol use may contribute to obesity. "Alcohol and body weight in United States adults". 
Do omega-3 fatty acids or a diet rich in fish help with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] Consumption of omega−3 fatty acids from marine sources lowers blood markers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, and TNF alpha.For rheumatoid arthritis, one systematic review found consistent but modest evidence for the effect of marine n−3 PUFAs on symptoms such as "joint swelling and pain, duration of morning stiffness, global assessments of pain and disease activity" as well as the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The American College of Rheumatology has stated that there may be modest benefit from the use of fish oils, but that it may take months for effects to be seen, and cautions for possible gastrointestinal side effects and the possibility of the supplements containing mercury or vitamin A at toxic levels. The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health has concluded that "supplements containing omega−3 fatty acids ... may help relieve rheumatoid arthritis symptoms" but warns that such supplements "may interact with drugs that affect blood clotting". Fish oils contain the omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), precursors of certain eicosanoids that are known to reduce inflammation in the body and improve hypertriglyceridemia. Other oily fish, such as tuna, also contain omega-3 in somewhat lesser amounts. Crohn's disease
A 2014 Cochrane review found that, based on two large studies, fish oil supplements did not appear to be effective for maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease. Prescription fish oil pills, capsules and tablets have more omega-3 fatty acids than those which are non-prescription. Of note, while AA supplementation does not appear to have proinflammatory effects in healthy individuals, it may counter the anti-inflammatory effects of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation. 
Does unprocessed red meat increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] A diet that consists of high sodium (>2g daily), sugar-sweetened beverages, red meat (>14g/d) and processed red meat consumption have been associated with cardiovascular death. Health effects
Overall, diets high in red and processed meats are associated with an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer (particularly colorectal cancer), and all-cause mortality. Positive associations have also been observed between red meat consumption and increased risks of pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer but the link is not as clear.The American Institute for Cancer Research, Cancer Research UK and World Cancer Research Fund International have stated there is strong evidence that consumption of processed red meat is a cause of colorectal cancer and there is probable evidence that unprocessed red meat is a cause of cancer. Processed meat is more carcinogenic compared to red meat because of the abundance of potent nitrosyl-heme molecules that form N-nitroso compounds.Heme iron in red meat has been associated with increased colorectal cancer risk. Cardiovascular disease and stroke
Red meat consumption is associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease, high blood pressure and stroke, but it is unclear whether the effect is causal. Factors associated with increased stroke risk from consuming red meat include saturated fats that increase levels of blood cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and heme iron, which may precipitate atherogenesis in cerebral arteries, leading to stroke. Diabetes
A 2022 umbrella review found that four additional 100g of red meat intake per day, was associated with a 17% increased risk of diabetes.A 2022 review of randomized control trials found that eating red meat does not increase risk factors for diabetes mellitus. Another review found that eating red meat does not worsen biomarkers of glycemic control or inflammation in adults at risk for cardiometabolic disease.However, 2017 prospective studies showed that daily consumption of 85 grams of red meat and 35 grams of processed red meat products by European and American consumers increased their risk of type 2 diabetes by 18–36%, while a diet of abstinence of red meat consuming whole grains, vegetables, fruits, and dairy was associated with an 81% reduced risk of diabetes. 
Does processed red meat (sausages, ham, bacon) increase the risk of cardiovascular disease??? [SEP] A diet that consists of high sodium (>2g daily), sugar-sweetened beverages, red meat (>14g/d) and processed red meat consumption have been associated with cardiovascular death. Health effects
Overall, diets high in red and processed meats are associated with an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer (particularly colorectal cancer), and all-cause mortality. These associations are strongest for processed meat, which is meat that has undergone salting, curing, fermentation, smoking, or other processes to enhance flavor or improve preservation, such as bacon, ham, salami, pepperoni, hot dogs, and some sausages.A 2021 umbrella review that sees an increase of 11–51% risk of multiple cancer per 100g/d increment of red meat, and an increase of 8-72% risk of multiple cancer per 50g/d increment of processed meat.A 2022 study challenged the dose-response relationship using a newly developed burden of proof risk function (BPRF). Processed meat is more carcinogenic compared to red meat because of the abundance of potent nitrosyl-heme molecules that form N-nitroso compounds.Heme iron in red meat has been associated with increased colorectal cancer risk. Cardiovascular disease and stroke
Red meat consumption is associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease, high blood pressure and stroke, but it is unclear whether the effect is causal. Factors associated with increased stroke risk from consuming red meat include saturated fats that increase levels of blood cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and heme iron, which may precipitate atherogenesis in cerebral arteries, leading to stroke. Diabetes
A 2022 umbrella review found that four additional 100g of red meat intake per day, was associated with a 17% increased risk of diabetes.A 2022 review of randomized control trials found that eating red meat does not increase risk factors for diabetes mellitus. Another review found that eating red meat does not worsen biomarkers of glycemic control or inflammation in adults at risk for cardiometabolic disease.However, 2017 prospective studies showed that daily consumption of 85 grams of red meat and 35 grams of processed red meat products by European and American consumers increased their risk of type 2 diabetes by 18–36%, while a diet of abstinence of red meat consuming whole grains, vegetables, fruits, and dairy was associated with an 81% reduced risk of diabetes. 
Does hawthorn extract help patients with heart muscle weakness (heart failure)? [SEP] This is relevant in the usage of the medication to treat angina as well as congestive heart failure. It is being studied for a potential role in the treatment of left ventricular systolic heart failure.Systolic heart failure involves a loss of effective actin-myosin cross bridges in the myocytes (heart muscle cells) of the left ventricle, which leads to a decreased ability of the heart to move blood through the body. Licorice can worsen heart failure by increasing blood pressure and promoting fluid retention. This is recommended in those with symptoms consistent with heart failure such as shortness of breath.The European Society of Cardiology defines the diagnosis of heart failure as symptoms and signs consistent with heart failure in combination with "objective evidence of cardiac structural or functional abnormalities". This regimen has been shown to reduce mortality in people with moderate heart failure. CCM is particularly suitable for the treatment of heart failure with normal QRS complex duration (120 ms or less) and has been demonstrated to improve the symptoms, quality of life, and exercise tolerance. In 1785, William Withering described the therapeutic uses of the foxglove genus of plants in the treatment of edema; their extract contains cardiac glycosides, including digoxin, still used today in the treatment of heart failure. Notes
References
External links

Heart failure, American Heart Association – information and resources for treating and living with heart failure
Heart Failure Matters – patient information website of the Heart Failure Association of the European Society of Cardiology
Heart failure in children by Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, UK
"Heart Failure". 
Is glyphosate carcinogenic? [SEP] damaging to DNA) or to pose a carcinogenic threat to humans", later clarifying that while carcinogenic glyphosate-containing formulations may exist, studies "that look solely at the active substance glyphosate do not show this effect." In 2017, the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) classified glyphosate as causing serious eye damage and as toxic to aquatic life, but did not find evidence implicating it as a carcinogen, a mutagen, toxic to reproduction, nor toxic to specific organs. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified glyphosate as "not likely to be carcinogenic to humans." One international scientific organization, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, classified glyphosate in Group 2A, "probably carcinogenic to humans" in 2015.As of 2020, the evidence for long-term exposure to glyphosate increasing the risk of human cancer remains inconclusive. Glyphosate can have carcinogenic effects in nonhuman mammals. In 2015, the EPA initiated a review of glyphosate's toxicity and in 2016 reported that glyphosate is likely not carcinogenic. Carcinogenicity of active ingredient
There is limited evidence human cancer risk might increase as a result of occupational exposure to large amounts of glyphosate, such as agricultural work, but no good evidence of such a risk from home use, such as in domestic gardening. The final assessment of the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority in 2017 was that "glyphosate does not pose a carcinogenic risk to humans". 
Does psychotherapy help with burnout? [SEP] Physician burnout has been classified as a psychological syndrome that can be expressed as a prolonged response to due chronic occupational stressors. In 2008, the Healthcare Management Review suggested that healthcare settings that put programs in place to reduce physician burnout would see greater patient satisfaction and recovery. On the other hand, Dr. Kelly speaks of how altering perception of patients from chores and potential litigation sources to opportunities to heal is key to the reversal of burnout. Psychotherapy (also psychological therapy, talk therapy, or talking therapy) is the use of psychological methods, particularly when based on regular personal interaction, to help a person change behavior, increase happiness, and overcome problems. Psychotherapy aims to improve an individual's well-being and mental health, to resolve or mitigate troublesome behaviors, beliefs, compulsions, thoughts, or emotions, and to improve relationships and social skills. Supportive psychotherapy by contrast stresses strengthening the client's coping mechanisms and often providing encouragement and advice, as well as reality-testing and limit-setting where necessary. In addition to therapy for the child, sometimes instead of it, children may benefit if their parents work with a therapist, take parenting classes, attend grief counseling, or take other action to resolve stressful situations that affect the child. Psychotherapy: An Introduction for Psychiatry Residents and Other Mental Health Trainees. 
Is electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) in combination with ordinary fitness training more efficient than fitness training alone? [SEP] Electrical muscle stimulation (EMS), also known as neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) or electromyostimulation, is the elicitation of muscle contraction using electric impulses. EMS has been proven to be more beneficial prior to exercise and activity due to the early muscle activation. Recent studies have found that electrostimulation has been proven to be ineffective during post exercise recovery and can even lead to an increase in Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS).The impulses are generated by the device and are delivered through electrodes on the skin near to the muscles being stimulated. The use of EMS has been cited by sports scientists as a complementary technique for sports training, and published research is available on the results obtained. The same study also indicates that EMS may lead to increased muscle mass. Low certainty evidence indicates that adding EMS to an existing exercise programme may help people who are unwell spend fewer days confined to their beds.During EMS training, a set of complementary muscle groups (e.g., biceps and triceps) are often targeted in alternating fashion, for specific training goals, such as improving the ability to reach for an item. However, some authors imply that EMS can lead to exercise, since people toning their muscles with electrical stimulation are more likely afterwards
to participate in sporting activities as the body becomes ready, fit, willing and able to take on physical activity. EMS units are designed to cause muscle contraction. 
Can vitamin and nutrient supplements prevent the eye disease age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] The study was designed to:

investigate the natural history and risk factors of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and cataracts, and
evaluate the effects of high doses of antioxidants and zinc on the progression of the two conditions in those with AMD.The results were reported in the October 2001 issue of Archives of Ophthalmology. The anti-oxidants and zinc supplements only reduced the risk of progression to wet macular degeneration. Those that benefited from the dietary supplements included those with intermediate-stage AMD and those with advanced AMD in one eye only. However, dietary supplements may slow the progression in those who already have the disease.Age-related macular degeneration is a main cause of central blindness among the working-aged population worldwide. Pathophysiology
The pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration is not well known, although some theories have been put forward, including oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and inflammatory processes. Dietary supplements
The age related eye disease studies 1 and 2 (AREDS) showed that those with bilateral early or intermediate AMD, or intermediate AMD in one eye and advanced AMD in the other eye may benefit from specific vitamin and mineral supplementation. These specific micronutrient supplementations were associated with a lower risk of progression to more severe forms of AMD and greater visual acuity at 5 years. ISBN 0-451-20264-3
Age-Related Macular Degeneration: Daniel L. Robert. 
Can they delay the progression of eye disease? [SEP] This success paved the way for the development of gene therapies now in clinical trials to treat a wide range of other retinal conditions, including Stargardt disease, Usher syndrome, and age-related macular degeneration. The Foundation is also funding clinical trials of a tiny innovative capsule that is inserted into the eye to slow vision loss from a variety of retinal degenerative diseases. A study in a mouse model of human ROP has shown that beta-blockade is protective against retinal angiogenesis and ameliorate blood-retinal barrier dysfunction. The study was designed to:

investigate the natural history and risk factors of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and cataracts, and
evaluate the effects of high doses of antioxidants and zinc on the progression of the two conditions in those with AMD.The results were reported in the October 2001 issue of Archives of Ophthalmology. The anti-oxidants and zinc supplements only reduced the risk of progression to wet macular degeneration. Those that benefited from the dietary supplements included those with intermediate-stage AMD and those with advanced AMD in one eye only. The supplements had no significant effect on the development or progression of cataracts. Severe cases may cause scarring of the cornea and lead to vision loss if untreated. 
Do milk or dairy products promote colon cancer and rectal cancer? [SEP] In February 2019, evidence was presented of a previously unknown infectious agent in the blood serum and milk of Eurasian cattle that could indirectly trigger the development of colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer (CRC), also known as bowel cancer, colon cancer, or rectal cancer, is the development of cancer from the colon or rectum (parts of the large intestine). It has been suggested that the presence of antibodies to Streptococcus bovis/gallolyticus antigens or the antigens themselves in the bloodstream may act as markers for the carcinogenesis in the colon.Pathogenic Escherichia coli may increase the risk of colorectal cancer by producing the genotoxic metabolite, colibactin. Inflammatory bowel disease
People with inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease) are at increased risk of colon cancer. The risk of colon cancer can be reduced by maintaining a normal body weight through a combination of sufficient exercise and eating a healthy diet.Current research consistently links eating more red meat and processed meat to a higher risk of the disease. "According to the World Cancer Research Fund, consuming alcohol drinks and consuming processed meat both increase the risk of colorectal cancer.The 2014 World Health Organization cancer report noted that it has been hypothesized that dietary fiber might help prevent colorectal cancer, but most studies have not borne this out, and status of the science remained unclear as of 2014. Colorectal cancer
Drinking may be a cause of earlier onset of colorectal cancer. Vulvar cancer
One study reported "No consistent association emerged between milk, meat, liver, alcohol and coffee consumption and risk of vulvar cancer." 
Does yoga change the genetic makeup? [SEP] Yoga helps to maintain bone strength, joint mobility, and joint stability. Physical effects
Skeleton and joints
Yoga helps to keep bones and joints in a healthy state. Physiological effects
Fitness
Yoga can be used as exercise to help maintain physical fitness. On its own, yoga is about as effective as other active treatments for back pain, and more effective at reducing pain and improving function than non-exercise treatments.Yoga is useful to some extent for psychological conditions such as stress and depression, but despite repeated attempts, little or no evidence for benefit for other specific medical conditions. Pseudoscience
The neurologist and sceptic Steven Novella wrote in 2013 that "Yoga .. fits into a more general phenomenon of marketing a specific intervention as if it has specific benefits, when in fact it only has generic benefits" associated with physical exercise. Physiological effects
The techniques of yoga alleviate effects on the body's nervous system. Yoga is by origin an ancient spiritual practice from India. Positioning Yoga: balancing acts across cultures. 
Which of the three most common laser eye surgeries produces the best results and has the fewest side effects? [SEP] LASIK or Lasik (laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis), commonly referred to as laser eye surgery or laser vision correction, is a type of refractive surgery for the correction of myopia, hyperopia, and an actual cure for astigmatism, since it is in the cornea. Both the depth of the corneal incisions and the degree of central corneal flattening correlated with the laser energy applied. Data from a systematic literature review conducted from 1988 to 2008, consisting of 309 peer-reviewed articles about "properly conducted, well-designed, randomized clinical trials" found a 95.4 percent patient satisfaction rate among LASIK patients.A 2017 JAMA study claims that overall, preoperative symptoms decreased significantly, and visual acuity excelled. This project examined patient-reported outcomes with LASIK (PROWL). – Food and Drug Administration
Laser Eye Surgery – United States National Library of Medicine Laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK): The surgeon uses either a microkeratome or a femtosecond laser to cut a flap of the corneal tissue (usually with a thickness of 100–180 micrometres). Because the incisions are outside of the field of view, they do not cause glare and other visual effects that result from other corneal surgeries like radial keratotomy.LRI have become the most common technique to correct astigmatism as part of cataract surgery. They are simpler and less expensive than laser surgery such as LASIK or photorefractive keratectomy and avoid the precise placement reqirements of toric IOLs. 
Can electromagnetic fields with a specific pattern (pulsed electromagnetic fields, PEMF) heal injuries? [SEP] Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMFT, or PEMF therapy), also known as low field magnetic stimulation (LFMS) is the use of electromagnetic fields in an attempt to heal non-union fractures and depression. Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields promote the synthesis of skeletal extracellular matrix. Depression
Use of pulsed electromagnetic field therapy has been studied for depression. Electromagnetic therapy or electromagnetic field therapy refers to therapy involving the use of magnets or electromagnets.Types include :

Bioelectromagnetics, the study of how electromagnetic fields interact with and influence biological processes. Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy, or PEMF, the use of weak electromagnetic fields to initiate osteogenesis. Proponents claim that the pulsed electromagnetic waves or fields generated by the device have pain relieving properties, cure AIDS, cancer and reduce grey hair and wrinkles. Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy
Development of pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) therapy has been problematical because of the lack of scientifically-derived, evidence-based knowledge of the mechanism of action. For example, PEMF therapy used by plastic surgeons the management of postsurgical pain and edema, has been criticized for not having a body of evidence for improving physical function and pain relief.An examination of why few orthopedic surgeons used electric stimulation for treatment of bone fractures, despite evidence of positive outcomes, concluded that high costs and inconsistent results were the principal reasons.Pulsed radio-frequency fields (PRF) are a subsection of PEMFs, which then divide to thermal and non-thermal, based on the energy that delivers to the biological object. 
Does the drug fingolimod reduce the progression of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis similarly or better than previous drugs? [SEP] Fingolimod, sold under the brand name Gilenya, is an immunomodulating medication, mostly used for treating multiple sclerosis (MS). Medical uses
Fingolimod is used in the treatment of the relapsing form of multiple sclerosis. Phospho-fingolimod causes the internalization of S1P receptors, which sequesters lymphocytes in lymph nodes, preventing them from moving to the central nervous system and causing a relapse of multiple sclerosis. This has implications both for increasing susceptibility to viral infections as well as enhancing therapeutic efficacy in multiple sclerosis.Additionally, fingolimod shifts macrophages to an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype. In September 2010, fingolimod became the first oral disease-modifying drug approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to reduce relapses and delay disability progression in patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. The risk/benefit profile compared to other disease-modifiying therapies being unclear due to a lack of direct comparisons.In December 2019, generic fingolimod was approved in the United States for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS) in adults. It is also used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. Currently the only approved treatment for pediatric MS is fingolimod. 
Can cancer be successfully fought with intentionally induced fever? [SEP] "Drug-induced fever". Pyrotherapy (artificial fever) is a method of treatment by raising the body temperature or sustaining an elevated body temperature using a fever. Fever, also referred to as pyrexia, is defined as having a temperature above the normal range due to an increase in the body's temperature set point. While fever evolved as a defense mechanism, treating a fever does not appear to improve or worsen outcomes. This kind of fever is more commonly seen in people receiving immune-suppressing chemotherapy than in apparently healthy people. Fever has been described in teaching texts as assisting the healing process in various ways, including:

increased mobility of leukocytes;: 1044 
enhanced leukocyte phagocytosis;: 1030 
decreased endotoxin effects;: 1029  and
increased proliferation of T cells. Pathophysiology of fever induction
Hypothalamus
Temperature is regulated in the hypothalamus. Small trials have shown no benefit of treating fevers of 38.5 °C (101.3 °F) or higher of critically ill patients in ICUs, and one trial was terminated early because patients receiving aggressive fever treatment were dying more often.According to the NIH, the two assumptions which are generally used to argue in favor of treating fevers have not been experimentally validated. 
Can some forms of headache be successfully treated with heat? [SEP] The previously mentioned medicines can improve headaches, but physicians recommend multiple forms of treatments. Behavioral therapy and psychological therapy
Also, behavioral therapy and psychological therapy are suggested treatments to reduce chronic headaches. For headaches
Heat therapy can be used for the treatment of headaches and migraines. The application of constant heat to the back/upper back area can help to release the tension associated with headache pain. Some new products use heated water, running through pads, to maintain a constant temperature, allowing people with headaches to use hands-free heat therapy in the treatment of their headache pain. Heat therapy can help calm these painful contractions while improving circulation which blocks pain signals to the brain. See also
Contrast bath therapy
Diathermy
Infrared radiation, one means for delivering heat
Migraine#Cryotherapy and Thermotherapy


== References == Advances in the medical management of headache disorders have meant that a substantial proportion of patients can be effectively treated with medical treatments. 
Does electro-acupuncture on the ear help against pain? [SEP] Electroacupuncture is a form of acupuncture where a small electric current is passed between pairs of acupuncture needles. According to some acupuncturists, this practice augments the use of regular acupuncture, can restore health and well-being, and is particularly good for treating pain. Electroacupuncture is considered to be especially useful for conditions in which there is an accumulation of chi, such as in chronic pain syndromes, or in cases where the chi is difficult to stimulate. Electroacupuncture according to Voll (EAV) claims to measure "energy" in acupuncture points and to diagnose ailments. The reviewers concluded:

"Although the results of the study on electroacupuncture show that electroacupuncture may be beneficial to reduce symptomatic knee pain in patients with RA 24 hours and 4 months post treatment, the reviewers concluded that the poor quality of the trial, including the small sample size preclude its recommendation. Auriculotherapy (also auricular therapy, ear acupuncture, and auriculoacupuncture) is a form of alternative medicine based on the idea that the ear is a micro system, which reflects the entire body, represented on the auricle, the outer portion of the ear. The Chinese practice of acupuncture, dating back to 3000 BCE, also utilizes the properties of electroanalgesia by stimulating specific nerves to produce electrical signals which produce pleasurable responses in the brain. Auriculotherapy (also auricular therapy, ear acupuncture, and auriculoacupuncture) is a form of alternative medicine based on the idea that the ear is a micro system, which reflects the entire body, represented on the auricle, the outer portion of the ear. 
Does treatment with the new drug erenumab reduce the number of migraine days per month? [SEP] Erenumab, sold under the brand name Aimovig, is a medication which targets the calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor (CGRPR) for the prevention of migraine. Medical uses
Erenumab is indicated for the prevention of migraine in adults. At baseline the patients experienced between 4 and 14 migraine days per month with an average of 8.3. The medication significantly reduced the number of migraine days per month by 3.2 in the 70-mg group and 3.7 in the 140-mg group, versus 1.8 in the placebo (0-mg) group. Prevention is better than cure, so the ideal treatment goal is to prevent migraine attacks. Anticonvulsants
Anticonvulsant medication is commonly prescribed for migraine prevention, because they have been shown in placebo-controlled double-blind trials to be effective in some migraine sufferers. Studies have shown that it provides significant reductions in the frequency of migraine episodes in patients with 3-12 headaches a month

Topiramate adverse reactions
Adverse reactions related to topiramate treatment occurred in 82.5% of 328 subjects who took part in an extensive trial covering 46 different centres. In testing, gabapentin was found to reduce the number of headache days a month by 9.1%. 
Is screening by optical coherence tomography superior to conventional examinations for the early detection of diabetic macular edema? [SEP] Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) is a non-invasive imaging technique based on optical coherence tomography (OCT) developed to visualize vascular networks in the human retina, choroid, skin and various animal models. Similarly, OCTA was shown to provide more refined information compared to dye-based angiography in other vascular occlusive diseases such as central (or branch) retinal vein occlusion. Intracoronary optical coherence tomography was demonstrated to be safe among heterogeneous groups of patients presenting varying clinical setting. Commercially available optical coherence tomography systems are employed in diverse applications, including art conservation and diagnostic medicine, notably in ophthalmology and optometry where it can be used to obtain detailed images from within the retina. A relatively recent implementation of optical coherence tomography, frequency-domain optical coherence tomography, provides advantages in the signal-to-noise ratio provided, thus permitting faster signal acquisition. Selected applications
Optical coherence tomography is an established medical imaging technique and is used across several medical specialties including ophthalmology and cardiology, and is widely used in basic science research applications. Owing to OCT's capability to show cross-sections of tissue layers with micrometer resolution, OCT provides a straightforward method of assessing cellular organization, photoreceptor integrity, and axonal thickness in glaucoma, macular degeneration, diabetic macular edema, multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis, and other eye diseases or systemic pathologies which have ocular signs. Optical coherence tomography is an imaging modality that uses low-coherence interferometry to obtain high resolution, depth-resolved volumetric images. 
Does the treatment of diabetes-related retinal diseases by injection of VEGF inhibitors provide an advantage compared to conventional laser treatment? [SEP] Anti-VEGF agents are chemicals that could inhibit these growth factors to reduce or prevent the abnormal growth of blood vessels, which could lead to damage to the eye and vision.Anti-VEGF drugs are often injected to reduce the swelling or bleeding of the retina, which can be used to treat wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD), macular oedema (which could be diabetic), diabetic retinopathy, retinal vein occlusion, etc.Some common anti-VEGF drugs are bevacizumab (Avastin), ranibizumab (Lucentis) and aflibercept (Eylea/Zaltrap). "Later studies into the consequences of VEGF inhibitor use have shown that, although they can reduce the growth of primary tumours, VEGF inhibitors can concomitantly promote invasiveness and metastasis of tumours.AZ2171 (cediranib), a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor has been shown to have anti-edema effects by reducing the permeability and aiding in vascular normalization.A 2014 Cochrane Systematic Review studied the effectiveness of ranibizumab and pegaptanib, on patients who have macular edema caused by central retinal vein occlusion. reported that monthly intravitreal injection of ranibizumab led to significant increase in the level of mean visual acuity compared to that of photodynamic therapy with verteporfin. It was concluded from the two year, phase III study that ranibizumab was superior to photodynamic therapy with verteporfin in the treatment of predominantly classic (PC) Wet AMD with low rates of ocular adverse effects.Although the efficacy of ranibizumab is well-supported by extensive clinical trials, the cost effectiveness of the drug is questioned. Research
VEGF is also inhibited by thiazolidinediones (used for diabetes mellitus type 2 and related disease), and this effect on granulosa cells gives the potential of thiazolidinediones to be used in ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.A Cochrane Review seeking to determine the effectiveness of anti-VEGF agents such as ranibizumab and bevacizumab on lowering intraocular pressure in patients with neovascular glaucoma was inconclusive, as more research is needed to compare anti-VEGF treatments with conventional treatments. A 2017 review update found moderate evidence that in patients with diabetic macular edema, aflibercept may have advantages in improving visual outcomes over bevacizumab and ranibizumab, after one year.Anti‐VEGF subconjunctival injections have been proposed as a means of controlling wound healing during glaucoma surgery, however the evidence for or against this therapeutic approach is limited and several studies are ongoing. Although there is a theoretical risk for arterial thromboembolic events in people receiving VEGF-inhibitors by intravitreal injection, the observed incidence rate was low (< 4%) and similar to that seen with placebo. Mouth
Similarly, the use of lasers to treat chronic periodontitis and to speed healing of infections around dental implants is suggested, but there is insufficient evidence to indicate a use superior to traditional practices. 
Do saw palmetto preparations help with benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] Uses and research
Saw palmetto extract is commonly sold as a dietary supplement intended to improve symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)—also called prostate gland enlargement—which is a common condition among men as they age. Saw palmetto extract has been studied in clinical trials as a possible treatment for people with prostate cancer and for men with lower urinary tract symptoms associated with BPH. As of 2020, there is insufficient scientific evidence that saw palmetto extract is effective for treating cancer or BPH and its symptoms.One 2016 review of clinical studies with a standardized extract of saw palmetto (called Permixon) found that the extract was safe and may be effective for relieving BPH-induced urinary symptoms compared with a placebo.Saw palmetto extract has taken by people to manage hair loss. One clinical trial pre-treated prostate surgery patients with saw palmetto for five weeks prior to the surgery, because there was evidence from earlier literature that such pre-treatment reduced operative bleeding. PSA test interference
Saw palmetto has been shown to reduce the levels of PSA in the blood, a hormone produced by the prostate and used as a marker by healthcare providers to evaluate the presence of prostate cancer. Particularly, several systematic reviews found that saw palmetto extract, while one of the most commonly used, is no better than a placebo both in symptom relief and in decreasing prostate size. Medical uses
Benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer
Dutasteride is used for treating BPH, colloquially known as an "enlarged prostate". Benefits
A 2022 Cochrane review of studies involving men over 40 with enlarged prostates and lower urinary tract symptoms found that prostatic arterial embolization (PAE) may work similarly to common surgical options (transurethral resection of the prostate) to relieve symptoms and improve men's quality of life in the short term (up to a year). 
Do plant extracts of African plum tree, beta-sitosterol or ryegrass pollen extract (Cernilton) help benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] It is marketed as a treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia, but there is no clinical evidence that it is effective for this purpose. Uses and research
Saw palmetto extract is commonly sold as a dietary supplement intended to improve symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)—also called prostate gland enlargement—which is a common condition among men as they age. Saw palmetto extract has been studied in clinical trials as a possible treatment for people with prostate cancer and for men with lower urinary tract symptoms associated with BPH. Water vapor thermal therapy was looked at in larger volume prostates (>80 mL) and in those with middle lobes protruding into the bladder and appears to work. Enlarged prostate
Flutamide has been studied in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; enlarged prostate) in men in several clinical studies. It has been found to reduce prostate volume by about 25%, which is comparable to the reduction achieved with the 5α-reductase inhibitor finasteride. While cyproterone acetate for two weeks eliminates the biological and biochemical signs of the flare, no benefits on prostate cancer outcomes were observed.Very low doses of buserelin nasal spray have been assessed for increasing testosterone levels and fertility in men with oligoasthenozoospermia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. "Buserelin in the treatment of prostatic cancer". 
Does not wearing bras provide medical benefits? [SEP] Some users on social media sites also encourage women to post pictures of themselves not wearing a bra. Some women embrace No Bra Day as a political statement while others prefer the comfort of discarding what they view as a restrictive, uncomfortable garment. Feminist connection
Some feminists who support the idea of using No Bra Day to raise awareness of breast cancer are concerned with the sexualization of the #nobraday hashtag in social media. One journalist noted that No Bra Day "asserts femininity and our appreciation of who we are as a woman... One of the issues with the concept is that breast cancer survivors who use prosthetics must wear a bra to conceal their disfigurement or wear prosthetics and inserts in their bra to make them appear "normal". It has nothing to do with wearing a bra or not wearing a bra." A bralette is a lightweight bra without an underwire, designed primarily for comfort. Bralettes are also sometimes worn as outerwear top, and are also designed as undershirts for girls developing breasts. 
Are there medical benefits to wearing a bra? [SEP] Some bras are designed for specific functions, such as nursing bras to facilitate breastfeeding or sports bras to minimize discomfort during exercise. Nursing bras are designed to aid breastfeeding. As lingerie, women wear bras for sex appeal. Doctors often recommend that women wear a well-fitted, supportive bra to help resolve the symptoms. Sturdier than typical bras, they minimize breast movement and alleviate discomfort. There are also sports bras with extra padding for exercises that involve some kind of trauma to the breasts.The sports bra was deemed a serious innovation which gave women the confidence and comfort to play sports, which came with a revolution in women's sport. Bra manufacturers are careful to claim that bras only affect the shape of breasts while they are being worn.There is some evidence that bra use reduces the development of Cooper's ligaments, connective tissue that supports breast shape. Studies have actually documented that, after an initial period of adjustment, women experienced a significant increase in comfort and breast firmness from going without bras. 
Can oral vein products containing herbal active ingredients such as rutosides, hidrosmin, diosmin, extracts of horse chestnut seed and pine bark, Centella asiatica or grape seed extract or the synthetic substances calcium dobesilate or aminaftone relieve symptoms such as itching, restless or swollen legs, pain and cramps in people suffering from varicose veins or chronic venous insufficiency? [SEP] Diosmin (diosmetin 7-O-rutinoside), a flavone glycoside of diosmetin, is manufactured from citrus fruit peels as a phlebotonic non-prescription dietary supplement used to aid treatment of hemorrhoids or chronic venous diseases, mainly of the legs. Uses
Diosmin is a dietary supplement used to aid treatment of hemorrhoids and venous diseases, i.e., chronic venous insufficiency including spider and varicose veins, leg swelling (edema), stasis dermatitis and venous ulcers. Diosmin is not recommended for treating the rectal mucosa, skin irritations, or wounds, and should not be used to treat dermatitis, eczema, or urticaria. There is moderate-quality evidence that diosmin or other phlebotonics improved leg and ankle swelling and lower leg pain, and low-quality evidence for treating hemorrhoids. Phlebotonics
Diosmin is included among a small class of agents called "phlebotonics" having heterogeneous composition and consisting partly of citrus peel extracts (flavonoids, such as hesperidin) and synthetic compounds, which are used to treat chronic venous insufficiency or hemorrhoids.In 2017, the American Working Group in Chronic Venous Disease recommended use of micronized purified flavonoid fraction (diosmiplex) as a medical food for chronic venous disease symptoms and venous ulcers, having "beneficial outcomes without serious adverse events", alone or combined with compression therapy, concurring with the previous guidance of the International European Society for Vascular Surgery. The German Dermatological Society indicated that Diosmin may be used with other treatments for symptoms of chronic venous diseases.The American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons mentions phlebotonics as a possible treatment for symptoms of hemorrhoid grades I to II, as there is only moderate-quality evidence of effectiveness with "expectations of minimal harm", while having no evidence of long-term benefit. Sinecatechins (USAN, trade names Veregen and Polyphenon E) is a specific water extract of green tea leaves from Camellia sinensis that is the active ingredient in an ointment approved by the FDA in 2006 as a botanical drug to treat genital warts. In association with potassium hydrodex-sulfate enters the composition of adjuvant gels in the treatment of varicose veins. 
Do vein preparations for external use help with varicose veins or chronic venous insufficiency? [SEP] Areas where the veins are varicose may also be removed. The symptoms of varicose veins can be controlled to an extent with the following:

Elevating the legs often provides temporary symptomatic relief. The wearing of graduated compression stockings with variable pressure gradients (Class II or III) has been shown to correct the swelling, nutritional exchange, and improve the microcirculation in legs affected by varicose veins. Topical gel application helps in managing symptoms related to varicose veins such as inflammation, pain, swelling, itching, and dryness. Sclerotherapy
A commonly performed non-surgical treatment for varicose and "spider leg veins" is sclerotherapy, in which medicine called a sclerosant is injected into the veins to make them shrink. References
External links
 Media related to Varicose veins at Wikimedia Commons This reduces the diameter of distended veins and increases venous blood flow velocity and valve effectiveness. The formation of varicose veins is an externally visible sign of venous weakness. 
Do milk or dairy products promote bladder cancer? [SEP] Occupational exposure
Thirty percent of bladder tumors probably result from occupational exposure in the workplace to carcinogens. Diet
The American Institute for Cancer Research have stated that there is strong evidence that drinking water containing arsenic increases the risk of bladder cancer.High consumption of animal fat and dietary cholesterol increases bladder cancer risk in men.Ingestion of aristolochic acid present in many Chinese herbal medications has been shown to cause urothelial carcinoma and kidney failure. Prevention
Diet
As of 2019, there is limited high level evidence to suggest that eating vegetable and fruits decreases the risk of bladder cancer. While it is suggested that the polyphenol compounds in tea may have an inhibitory effect on bladder tumor formation and growth, there is limited evidence to suggesting drinking tea decreases bladder cancer risk. Higher consumption of monounsaturated fat and plant-based oils decrease bladder cancer risk in women. Higher consumption of total dietary fiber and whole grains is associated with a reduced risk of bladder cancer. References
External links

Bladder cancer at Curlie have also been proven to influence the likeliness of developing ureteral cancer. 
Do milk or dairy products promote prostate cancer? [SEP] Erectile dysfunction – also very common in men as they age – is associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. Body and lifestyle
Men who are taller are at a slightly increased risk for developing prostate cancer, as are men who are obese. High levels of blood cholesterol are also associated with increased prostate cancer risk; consequently, those who take the cholesterol-lowering drugs, statins, have a reduced risk of advanced prostate cancer.Regular vigorous exercise may reduce one's chance of developing advanced prostate cancer, as can several dietary interventions. Those with a diet rich in cruciferous vegetables, fish, genistein, and/or lycopene (found in tomatoes) are at a reduced risk of symptomatic prostate cancer. Conversely, those who consume high levels of dietary fats, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (from cooking red meats), or calcium may be at an increased risk of developing advanced prostate cancer. Several dietary supplements have been studied and found not to impact prostate cancer risk, including selenium, vitamin C, vitamin D, and vitamin E.

Inflammation
Chronic inflammation can cause various cancers. Potential links between infection (or other sources of inflammation) and prostate cancer have been studied but none definitively found, with one large study finding no link between prostate cancer and a history of gonorrhea, syphilis, chlamydia, or infection with various human papillomaviruses. Rates of prostate cancer rise with age. 
Do green tea products provide effective and safe support for weight loss? [SEP] Research
A 2011 review found tentative evidence that green coffee extract promotes weight loss; however, the quality of the evidence was poor. Green tea extract
Green tea extract is currently used for a variety of conditions including improving mental alertness and aiding in weight loss. There is currently insufficient data to determine the efficacy of green tea extract in aiding weight loss. Cancer
In 2011, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reported that there was very little evidence to support the claim that green tea consumption may reduce the risk of breast and prostate cancer.A 2010 report by the US National Cancer Institute stated that epidemiological studies and the few clinical trials of tea for the prevention of cancer were inconclusive. Weight loss
Although green tea is commonly believed to be a weight loss aid, there is no good evidence that its long-term consumption has any meaningful benefit in helping overweight or obese people to lose weight, or that it helps to maintain a healthy body weight. Use of green tea for attempted weight loss carries a small risk of adverse effects, such as nausea, constipation, and stomach discomfort. Although green tea may enhance mental alertness due to its caffeine content, there is only weak, inconclusive evidence that regular consumption of green tea affects the risk of cancer or cardiovascular diseases, and there is no evidence that it benefits weight loss.A 2020 review by the Cochrane Collaboration listed some potential adverse effects of green tea extract including gastrointestinal disorders, higher levels of liver enzymes, and, more rarely, insomnia, raised blood pressure, and skin reactions. Weight loss
There is no good evidence that green tea aids in weight loss or weight maintenance. 
Can monk's pepper help with cycle disorders? [SEP] It is used where there is "abdominal pain during menstruation due to stagnation of blood by cold ". Practitioners believe that since some seeds promote estrogen production, and others promote progesterone production, that eating these seeds in the correct parts of the menstrual cycle will balance the hormonal rhythm.There is no scientific evidence to support the belief that cycling the seeds actually regulates the hormonal rhythm, but the practice is probably harmless. The seed cycling diet suggests sesame or sunflower seeds to boost progesterone at this time, ground up to increase the surface area for absorption of the essential fatty acids, minerals, and other nutrients. Research
There is currently a lack of solid scientific evidence that supports seed rotating between the phases of the menstrual cycle or the Moon directly impacts hormonal disorders. Seed cycling claims are indirect effects on the women's hormonal cycles, PMS and, menopausal symptoms. However, there is research showing the direct benefits of the nutritional components present in the individual seeds, flax, pumpkin, sesame and sunflower seeds, in promoting hormonal balance. In a study, women taking one tablespoon of flax seed meal daily were able to lengthen their luteal phase, which resulted in fewer months without any ovulation. The Cut quotes dietitian Abby Langer as stating that food is not medicine, but that seed cycling might be "a worthwhile component of a treatment plan" for a hormonal imbalance, warning that seed cycling recipes using primrose oil could interact dangerously with anticoagulants and anaesthetics.Shape magazine notes that the seeds could possibly help regulate hormones, given their phytoestrogen content, but quotes Melinda Ring of the Osher Center for Integrative Medicine at Northwestern University in Chicago as stating that evidence is lacking, that the outcomes are unpredictable, and that she has seen women whose cycles became "more irregular" after taking phytoestrogens. 
Does brisk walking lower mortality? Is some exercise better than none at all? [SEP] The walks aim to reduce heart disease, reduce cholesterol and blood pressure, relieve depression and anxiety, reduce stress, help with weight management / obesity, and help with diabetes. A regular moderate workout regimen and healthy diet can improve general appearance markers of good health such as muscle tone, healthy skin, hair and nails, while preventing age or lifestyle-related reductions in health and the series of heart and organ failures that accompany inactivity and poor diet. While many treatments for obesity are presented to the public, exercise in the form of walking is an easy, relatively safe activity. Walking may initially result in reduced weight, but adopting the habit over the long term may not result in additional weight loss. Normalizing body weight when comparing obese and lean individuals metabolic rates reduces the difference, indicating that body weight rather than body fat composition is the primary indicator for the metabolic cost of walking. He extended the study and noticed that postmen who delivered the mail by bike or on foot had fewer heart attacks than sedentary men who served behind counters or as telephonists and clerks.He performed further studies that showed slow movements such as gardening helped very little, and exercise had to be more vigorous to help. Fit people did better and had less disease than unfit people. Moderates the risk of death due to cardiovascular problems
Reduces risk for heart disease, blood clots, and stroke
Lowers total cholesterol
Raises high-density lipoprotein
Promotes weight loss
Prevents bone lossLowers inflammation
Prevents vascular dysfunction 
Improves Episodic memoryHigh-impact aerobic activities (such as jogging or using a skipping rope) can:

Stimulate bone growth
Reduce the risk of osteoporosis for both men and women

Disadvantages
Some drawbacks of aerobic exercise include:

Overuse injuries because of repetitive, high-impact exercise such as distance running
Not an effective form of fat loss. 
Can arthroscopy reduce pain or improve mobility? [SEP] Knee osteoarthritis
The BMJ Rapid Recommendations group makes a strong recommendation against arthroscopy for osteoarthritis on the basis that there is high quality evidence that there is no lasting benefit and less than 15% of people have a small short-term benefit. It is claimed that German surgeons have continued to perform knee arthroscopy and instead claim rebates on the basis of a sub-diagnosis, such as meniscal tear.A 2017 meta-analysis confirmed that there is only a very small and usually unimportant reduction in pain and improvement in function at 3 months (e.g. Arthroscopy did not reduce pain or improve function or quality of life at one year. Arthroscopic procedures (also endoscopic spinal procedures) allow access to and treatment of spinal conditions with minimal damage to surrounding tissues. The researchers did  however find that arthroscopic surgery did help a minority of patients with milder symptoms, large tears or other damage to the meniscus — cartilage pads that improve the congruence between femur and tibia bones. Arthrograms can be diagnostic and therapeutic. Arthroscopic intervention has the advantages of smaller incisions, faster recovery of wrist function and less pain postoperative. Overall outcome of arthroscopy is not superior to the outcome in open surgery. 
Do health benefits increase with duration and intensity of exercise? [SEP] Most types of physical activity improve health and well-being. Regular physical exercise has several beneficial effects on overall health. Several recent studies have shown that sustained physical activity is associated with decreased markers of inflammation, improved metabolic health, decreased risk of heart failure, and improved overall survival. Physical activity strengthens muscles. What are the benefits of exercising regularly? Exercising regularly has many benefits for both your physical and mental health. The results suggest the physiological effects of incremental exercise can be more predominant than that of a submaximal constant load. Studies have also shown interval training can induce endurance-like adaptations, corresponding to increased capacity for whole body and skeletal muscle lipid oxidation and enhanced peripheral vascular structure and function.There is limited evidence that interval training assists in managing risk factors of many diseases, including metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, obesity and diabetes. 
