Do mitochondria play a role in remodelling lace plant leaves during programmed cell death? [SEP] It's characterized by the intracellular formation of vacuoles and swelling of mitochondria.Pyroptosis, an inflammatory type of cell death, is uniquely mediated by caspase 1, an enzyme not involved in apoptosis, in response to infection by certain microorganisms.Plant cells undergo particular processes of PCD similar to autophagic cell death. Specific types of plant cells carry out unique cell-death programs. Results of this research suggest that mitochondria play the same key role in vascular plant PCD as in other eukaryotic cells. to cells (such as feedback from neighbors, stress or DNA damage), mitochondria release caspase activators that trigger the cell-death-inducing biochemical cascade. Such cell death can be caused by disruptions in the process of either fusion or fission.The shapes of mitochondria in cells are continually changing via a combination of fission, fusion, and motility. Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, begins with the breakdown of mitochondria into smaller pieces. These resulting changes indicate that inner mitochondrial membrane structure is linked with regulatory pathways in influencing cell life and death. The dynamic nature of mitochondria is critical for function. 
Landolt C and snellen e acuity: differences in strabismus amblyopia? [SEP] A Snellen chart is an eye chart that can be used to measure visual acuity. Snellen fraction
Visual acuity is the distance at which test is made / distance at which the smallest optotype identified subtends an angle of five arcminutes and the critical distinguishing features of the optotype subtend an angle of one arcminute. The Landolt C is the standard optotype for acuity measurement in most European countries. See also
Edmund Landolt
Visual acuity
E chart
Golovin–Sivtsev table


== References == Abraham, S. V. "Bilateral ametropic amblyopia." Herman Snellen (February 19, 1834 – January 18, 1908) was a Dutch ophthalmologist who introduced the Snellen chart to study visual acuity (1862). The degree of strabismus can vary based on whether the person is viewing a distant or near target. Expression
Visual acuity is often measured according to the size of letters viewed on a Snellen chart or the size of other symbols, such as Landolt Cs or the E Chart. 
Syncope during bathing in infants, a pediatric form of water-induced urticaria? [SEP] Aquagenic urticaria, also known as water allergy and water urticaria, is a rare form of physical urticaria in which hives develop on the skin after contact with water, regardless of its temperature. Itching after contact with water, without the development of physical hives, is known as aquagenic pruritus. Aquadynia is a condition in which pain occurs after contact with water.In severe cases, drinking water can result in swelling of the oral cavity, swelling of the throat, and in extreme cases, anaphylaxis.The hives associated with aquagenic urticaria are typically small (approximately 1–3 mm), red- or skin-colored welts (called wheals) with clearly defined edges. Interaction between water and a component in or on the skin or sebum has been suggested. Diagnosis
Diagnosis of aquagenic urticaria begins with a clinical history and water challenge test. Aquagenic urticaria differs from aquagenic pruritus, in which contact with water evokes intense itching without visible hives or rash.Once known as a separate, rare disease, aquagenic urticaria is now considered a subtype of general urticaria. Avoidance of water is recommended as a first line of defense, and most treatments are palliative in nature rather than curative:
Oral or topical antihistamine
Topical corticosteroids (specifically stanozolol)
Phototherapy
Barrier cream

See also
Aquagenic pruritus
Aquadynia
Cholinergic urticaria
Solar urticaria
List of cutaneous conditions


== References == Hair-grooming syncope typically manifests as presyncopal symptoms during hair combing, brushing, braiding, trimming, curling or blow drying. 
Are the long-term results of the transanal pull-through equal to those of the transabdominal pull-through? [SEP] A pull-through procedure is the definitive operation for Hirschsprung disease, involving the removal of the abnormal segment of bowel that has no nerves, pulling through the normal bowel and connecting it to the anus. Aim
A pull-through procedure is the definitive treatment for Hirschsprung's disease, with the aim of removing the abnormal part of the bowel and joining the normal part of the intestine with the anus. Transanal pull-through procedures do not require an intra-abdominal dissection. Also called coloanal pull-through. Transanal irrigation (TAI, also termed retrograde irrigation) of the rectum and colon is designed to assist the evacuation of feces from the bowel by introducing water into these compartments via the anus.It is a treatment for persons with bowel dysfunction, including fecal incontinence and/or constipation (especially obstructed defecation). Advantages and disadvantages
Possible advantages:

Avoids surgery, medications, or other procedures
By regularly emptying the bowel using transanal irrigation, controlled bowel function is often re-established to a high degree in patients with bowel dysfunction. Transanal hemorrhoidal dearterialization (THD) is a minimally invasive surgical procedure for the treatment of internal hemorrhoids. further refined this technique, introducing transanal hemorrhoidal dearterialization (THD). 
Can tailored interventions increase mammography use among HMO women? [SEP] It was the first study designed to determine whether mammography was effective among women between the ages of 40 and 49. In February 2014, the BMJ published more results from the study after following up on the participants for twenty-five years, with the authors concluding that "annual mammography in women aged 40-59 does not reduce mortality from breast cancer beyond that of physical examination or usual care when adjuvant therapy for breast cancer is freely available." Congress passed this law in 1992 to assure high-quality mammography for early breast cancer detection, which can lead to early treatment, a range of treatment options leading to an increased chance of survival. In 1992, hearings held by the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources found numerous quality issues in the field of mammography.Congress enacted the MQSA on October 7, 1992. Effects on patients
MQSA is intended to maintain high quality mammography in the United States and its territories. For cases in which a facility’s mammograms are determined to be substandard and a risk to public health, facilities will notify the patients and their doctors and suggest an appropriate plan of action. Mammography is the most commonly used method to screen for cancer, but there are three major drawbacks. And lastly, pain is a major drawback to mammography. 
Double balloon enteroscopy: is it efficacious and safe in a community setting? [SEP] Double-balloon enteroscopy, also known as push-and-pull enteroscopy, is an endoscopic technique for visualization of the small bowel. The process is then continued until the entire small bowel is visualized.The double-balloon enteroscope can also be passed in retrograde fashion, through the colon and into the ileum to visualize the end of the small bowel. Indications
Double-balloon enteroscopy has found a niche application in the following settings:

Bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract of obscure cause
Iron deficiency anemia with normal colonoscopy and gastroscopy
Visualization and therapeutic intervention on abnormalities seen on traditional small bowel imaging
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in post-surgical patients with long afferent limbs

Advantages
Double-balloon enteroscopy offers a number of advantages to other small bowel image techniques, including barium imaging, wireless capsule endoscopy and push enteroscopy:

It allows for visualization of the entire small bowel to the terminal ileum. Disadvantages
The key disadvantage of double-balloon enteroscopy is the time required to visualize the small bowel; this can exceed three hours, and may require that patients be admitted to hospital for the procedure. With the advent of the newer forms of enteroscopy, such as the double-balloon type, visualizing the entire tract is finally a practical reality in at least some cases, although it is still technically demanding. One of the largest intragastric balloon studies ever performed, which included 1770 patients, demonstrated an excellent safety profile.There can be procedure-related side effects due to endoscopy and anesthesia on balloons that require medical intervention for placement or removal. On very rare occasions, the endoscopic placement of a balloon has led to death.Several studies have demonstrated that the data on both the efficacy and safety for the non-endoscopic Allurion Elipse gastric balloon compares favorably with balloons that require endoscopy. This balloon is swallowed for placement but requires endoscopy for removal. 
30-Day and 1-year mortality in emergency general surgery laparotomies: an area of concern and need for improvement? [SEP] Perioperative mortality has been defined as any death, regardless of cause, occurring within 30 days after surgery in or out of the hospital. Globally, 4.2 million people are estimated to die within 30 days of surgery each year. A study based on extrapolation from existing data sources estimated that 4.2 million people die within 30 days of surgery every year, with half of these deaths occurring in low- and middle-income countries.Perioperative mortality figures can be published in league tables that compare the quality of hospitals. In this review of 3.7 million surgical procedures at 102 hospitals in the Netherlands during 1991 – 2005, postoperative mortality from all causes was observed in 67,879 patients, for an overall rate of 1.85%.Anaesthesiologists are committed to continuously reducing perioperative mortality and morbidity. Overall operative mortality ranges between 10% and 20% worldwide for emergent exploratory laparotomies. Outcomes
Postoperative mortality
The likelihood of death after an exploratory laparotomy depends on several factors including the age of the patient, injury or disease severity, other comorbid medical conditions, the skill of the surgeon, and what resources are available in the hospital. Overall, the mortality rate typically ranges between 10% and 20% worldwide for emergent exploratory laparotomies. Recovery
Most patients spend at least several days in the hospital after having an exploratory laparotomy, sometimes in the intensive care unit, depending on the severity of the injury, infection, or disease. 
Is adjustment for reporting heterogeneity necessary in sleep disorders? [SEP] Sleep problems in women can occur across the life cycle. The relationship between sleep and women's psychological well‐being suggests that underlying causes of sleep disturbances across a woman's lifespan are often multi‐factorial. Other contributing factors for sleep quality are age, parity, mood disorders, anxiety and primary sleep disorders. It is, however, curious that in spite of virtually all women experiencing poor sleep, only one third consider themselves to have current sleep problems. Menopausal transition
Poor sleep quality, sleep fragmentation and increased awakenings are common complaints during the menopausal transition. Some of the conditions the sleep disorder specialist helps evaluate and treat are; insomnia, sleep apnea, restless legs syndrome, and narcolepsy. Clinical studies have found the PSQI to be reliable and valid in the assessment of sleep problems to some degree, but more so with self-reported sleep problems and depression-related symptoms than actigraphic measures. Presentation
Consequences
Increased level of anxiety and depression is associated with higher levels of sleep disturbances in TBI patients. 
Do mutations causing low HDL-C promote increased carotid intima-media thickness? [SEP] Cardiovascular disease
Accelerated deposition of cholesterol in the walls of arteries leads to atherosclerosis, the underlying cause of cardiovascular disease. Atherosclerosis risk is increased further with age and in those who smoke, have diabetes, high blood pressure and a family history of cardiovascular disease. While it reduces LDL cholesterol, it does not appear to improve a marker of atherosclerosis called the intima-media thickness. Disease
High Lp(a) in blood correlates with coronary heart disease (CHD), cardiovascular disease (CVD), atherosclerosis, thrombosis, and stroke. Animal studies have shown that Lp(a) may directly contribute to atherosclerotic damage by increasing plaque size, inflammation, instability, and smooth muscle cell growth. Genetic data also support the theory that Lp(a) causes cardiovascular disease.The European Atherosclerosis Society currently recommends that patients with a moderate or high risk of cardiovascular disease should have their Lp(a) levels checked. Dyslipidemia is a risk factor for the development of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). LDL-C molecules bind to the endothelium of blood vessels and cause plaque formation. 
A short stay or 23-hour ward in a general and academic children's hospital: are they effective? [SEP] These hospitals are typically small, using either purpose-built new premises or smaller general hospitals which have been retained to provide non-emergency services after general hospital services have been transferred to more centralised facilities; in some cases the services include in-patient care. In the 2019-2020 fiscal year there were almost 20,000 inpatient stays with an average length of stay of 4.6 days, and 106,000 emergency department visits. This recommendation is based on findings which suggest that the first 24 hours after giving birth poses the greatest risks for both the mother and newborn.The length of postnatal hospital stay has changed internationally since the 19th century when giving birth at hospitals were first introduced. Newborns
Morbidity
Although conclusions on the effects of early postnatal hospital discharge on morbidity of newborns remain unclear, it has been suggested that newborns discharged within 24 hours of birth are more likely to require readmission by one month compared to newborns discharged after 24 hours. Guidelines and policies
Canada
The Healthy Babies Healthy Children program initiated by the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care includes a policy for hospitals to provide mothers with the option of staying at the hospital postpartum for up to 60 hours. United States
In the United States, the Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996 requires health insurance providers and health plans to provide benefits for hospital stays related to childbirth of less than 48 hours for vaginal delivery and 96 hours for cesarean delivery. The hospital treats infants, children, teens, and young adults aged 0–21. Eventually the hospital could not turn away children with infectious diseases and the hospital added an isolation ward.The hospital outgrew its space within a few years and more money was raised to build a new hospital, which opened in 1884 at Jefferson Avenue and Adams Street. 
Did Chile's traffic law reform push police enforcement? [SEP] Investigations Police of Chile (Spanish: Policía de Investigaciones de Chile, PDI) are the civilian police of Chile. History
19th century
The first reference to police work in Chile is in the Police Regulation of 1803, where the terms "high police" and "public security" are used. Crime in Chile is investigated by the Chilean police. Various analysts and politicians concur that in the 2020s crime in Chile is on the rise to levels similar to the rest of Latin America. Created in 1927, their mission is to maintain order and enforce the laws of Chile. Later, cities such as Santiago and Valparaíso created their own city police forces. Carabineros de Chile (1927)
On April 27, 1927, President Carlos Ibáñez del Campo merged the Fiscal Police, the Rural Police, and the existing Corps of Carabineros to form the Carabineros de Chile, one unified, paramilitary and national security institution under the direction of the national government. Traffic patrol
. 
Therapeutic anticoagulation in the trauma patient: is it safe? [SEP] Endovascular and hybrid trauma and bleeding management  is a new and rapidly evolving concept within medical healthcare and endovascular resuscitation. Endovascular devices
The use of endovascular modalities for bleeding control and treatment on hemodynamically unstable trauma patients is increasing. Resuscitative Endovascular Balloon Occlusion of the Aorta (REBOA) for hemorrhage control, angioembolization and stent grafts are highly established tools used for both arterial and venous hemorrhage in both traumatic and non-traumatic patients. Circulation with bleeding control
Hemorrhage is the predominant cause of preventable post-injury deaths. Anticoagulation bridge: Temporary anticoagulation, such as with heparin, is used during a perioperative period when a patient's regular anticoagulant therapy, such as with warfarin, is suspended; the goal is to prevent excess risk of severe bleeding during or after surgery. The lower MAP group was found to need less total IV fluids, used less blood products, had lower early mortality (within the first 24 hours - which accounts for a large portion of mortality in trauma patients) and trend towards lower 30-day mortality and less postoperative coagulation, concluding that permissive hypotension is safe. Trauma care guidelines
The TCCC guidelines are a set of evidence-based best practice guidelines for battlefield trauma care that have been developed over more than 18 years of war. TCCC actively endorses and recommends the early and immediate use of tourniquets to control massive external hemorrhage of limbs. 
Differentiation of nonalcoholic from alcoholic steatohepatitis: are routine laboratory markers useful? [SEP] In people with fatty liver with associated inflammatory injury (steatohepatitis) blood tests are usually used to rule out viral hepatitis (hepatitis A, B, C and herpesviruses such as Epstein–Barr virus or cytomegalovirus), rubella, and autoimmune diseases. They recommend ultrasound-based transient elastography to accurately diagnose both fibrosis and cirrhosis in a routine clinical setting, with more objectivity than ultrasonography but with lower accuracy than magnetic resonance elastography; and plasma cytokeratin 18 (CK18) fragment levels to be a moderately accurate biomarker of steatohepatitis. These tests can be used to detect the presence of liver disease. FibroTest has been validated for chronic hepatitis C, chronic hepatitis B, chronic hepatitis C or B with HIV co-infection, alcoholic liver diseases (steatosis and steatohepatitis), and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (diabetes, overweight, hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension).FibroTest is independent of ethnic origin, sex, genotype, viral load, transaminases or the presence of comorbidities. When inflammation is present it is referred to as alcoholic steatohepatitis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Alcoholic steatohepatitis
Chronic alcohol intake commonly causes steatohepatitis. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis is fatty liver disease due to causes other than alcohol. It is likely to have different pathogenesis than non-alcoholic steatohepatitis which is a diffuse process. 
Prompting Primary Care Providers about Increased Patient Risk As a Result of Family History: Does It Work? [SEP] Although personal genetic information is becoming increasingly important in healthcare, there is a lack of sufficient education in medical genetics among physicians and the general public. In other words, they are studies aimed at detecting the presence or absence of familial aggregation for the disease or trait, in which having a family history is associated with greater risk. Family history of disease is collected in case studies, which seeks if a certain disease of one family member increases the risk of that disease being passed down to others. Accurate knowledge of a patient's family history may identify a predisposition to developing certain illnesses, which can inform clinical decisions and allow effective management or even prevention of conditions. Walshe argued in a lecture at University College Hospital that in addition to a history of the presenting disease itself, a physician should also collect family history. Consequences
Not all positive family histories imply a genetic cause. If a patient has a strong family history of a particular disorder (or group of disorders), this will generally lead to a lower threshold for investigating symptoms or initiating treatment. This is seen particularly in cardiac disease, where strong family history is considered a significant cardiovascular risk factor.In diseases with a known hereditary component, many otherwise healthy people with a positive family history are tested early, with the aim of an early diagnosis and intervention to prevent the symptoms from developing. 
Do emergency ultrasound fellowship programs impact emergency medicine residents' ultrasound education? [SEP] It also appears to make emergency department care faster and better. This point-of-care use of ultrasound is often to evaluate an emergency medical condition, in settings such as an emergency department, critical care unit, ambulance, or combat zone. Setting
Emergency ultrasound is used to quickly diagnose a limited set of injuries or pathologic conditions, specifically those where conventional diagnostic methods would either take too long or would introduce greater risk to a person (either by transporting the person away from the most closely monitored setting, or exposing them to ionizing radiation and/or intravenous contrast agents).Point of care ultrasound has been used in a wide variety of specialties and has increased in use in the last decade as ultrasound machines have become more compact and portable. To describe each of these fully is beyond the scope of this entry, and impossible as the use of ultrasound is expanding rapidly:

Testicular Pain – Evaluation for testicular torsion, orchitis, epididymitis, hernia
Pelvic Pain – Evaluation for ovarian torsion, ovarian cyst, and ovarian cyst rupture
IVC – Evaluation of volume status and estimation of fluid responsiveness
The RUSH exam for Shock or Hypotension
Bones - Evaluation for fractures

Training
Emergency and point-of-care ultrasound is taught in a variety of settings. Many physicians are currently taught bedside ultrasound during the emergency medicine residency or critical care fellowship training programs in the United States. There are specialized fellowship training programs for bedside ultrasound in emergency medicine, but these are not required nor expected for the use of this tool in practice. Candidates are required to have a certain level of experience:

For trainees in an approved UK or Irish training programme: has completed 12 months (or full-time equivalent) of training in Emergency Medicine at ST4/ST5 or equivalent. For non-trainees: has completed 6 years of training post-qualification; 4 years (or full-time equivalent) of which must be in Emergency Medicine, and 1 year (or full time equivalent) of which must be at a level above ST3/SHO. 
Patient-Controlled Therapy of Breathlessness in Palliative Care: A New Therapeutic Concept for Opioid Administration? [SEP] Rather, a patient-centered model prioritizes relief of suffering and tailors care to increase the quality of life for terminally ill patients.Palliative care is appropriate for individuals with serious illnesses across the age spectrum and can be provided as the main goal of care or in tandem with curative treatment. In medicine, specifically in end-of-life care, palliative sedation (also known as terminal sedation, continuous deep sedation, or sedation for intractable distress of a dying patient) is the palliative practice of relieving distress in a terminally ill person in the last hours or days of a dying person's life, usually by means of a continuous intravenous or subcutaneous infusion of a sedative drug, or by means of a specialized catheter designed to provide comfortable and discreet administration of ongoing medications via the rectal route. It is not considered a form of euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide, as the goal of palliative sedation is to control symptoms, rather than to shorten or end the person's life.Palliative sedation is legal everywhere and has been administered since the hospice care movement began in the 1960s. The term "palliative sedation" was then used to emphasize palliative care. opioid in cancer-related pain), physical therapy/modification (i.e. The main indications for midazolam in palliative sedation are to control delirium and alleviate breathing difficulties so as to minimize distress and prevent exacerbation of these symptoms.Opioids: Opioid agents - which relieve pain primarily via modulation of receptor activity in the central nervous system - also commonly induce sedation or drowsiness. Families of patients in some instances said that they thought the doses of sedatives prevented patients from asking for water leading to death from dehydration,: 1.66  there were many accounts of subcutaneous infusions being started as a matter of course rather than to control a specific symptom,  there were many reports of patients being left alone for a short-period of time by their families only to find that sedation had been administered leaving them unable to speak to their relatives;: 1.69  relatives and carers reported instances where they felt that the administration of morphine had directly lead to the death of a patient. See also
Uniform Rights of the Terminally Ill Act (United States)
Principle of Double Effect

Notes
External links
Timothy E. Quill and Ira R. Byock (2000), "Responding to Intractable Terminal Suffering: The Role of Terminal Sedation and Voluntary Refusal of Food and Fluids", American College of Physicians position paper
"Terminal Sedation", The World Federation of Right to Die Societies
Discussion Forum, European Association for Palliative Care
"Hard Choice for a Comfortable Death: Sedation", New York Times, December 27, 2009 
Is there still a need for living-related liver transplantation in children? [SEP] Liver transplantation is a treatment option for end-stage liver disease and acute liver failure, although availability of donor organs is a major limitation. Living donor liver transplantation for pediatric recipients involves removal of approximately 20% of the liver (Couinaud segments 2 and 3). Pediatric transplantation
In children, living liver donor transplantation has become very accepted. "Live donor liver transplantation in adults". "Current trends in live liver donation". "Liver transplantation from non-heart-beating donors: current status and future prospects". "Living-donor liver transplantation: an overview". "The current status of living donor liver transplantation". 
Do patterns of knowledge and attitudes exist among unvaccinated seniors? [SEP] Looking chiefly at high-income countries, the book examines social, political, psychological and cultural factors that make up the various mind-sets to vaccination. By 1 January 2022, 62% of the population was fully vaccinated, but as of 7 February, only 33% of those aged 80 or older had received one dose. As Omicron subvariants spread across the city, a study showed that 15% of those aged 80 or older who weren't immunized at all died after contracting the disease, compared with 3% of those who got two SinoVac shots and 1.5% of those who received two BioNTech doses. A US study conducted in January 2021 found that trust in science and scientists was strongly correlated with likelihood to get vaccinated for COVID-19 among those who had not already gotten vaccinated. In March 2021, 19% of US adults claimed to have been vaccinated while 50% announced plans to get vaccinated.A 2022 study found a link between online COVID-19 misinformation and early vaccine hesitancy and refusal. Despite a strong association between vaccine hesitancy and Republican vote share at the US county and state levels, the authors found that the associations between vaccine outcomes and misinformation remained significant when accounting for political, demographic, and socioeconomic factors. In the United States, vaccine hesitancy could be seen in certain social groups due to lack of trusted medical sources, traumatic past experiences with medical care and widespread theories. Medical mistrust is also seen in Russia where one person described a lack of understanding what the vaccine is and claimed that if there was more statistics and research about the Sputnik V and other Russian made vaccines they would be more "loyal". 
Is there a model to teach and practice retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy? [SEP] Among them are NephSIM, Neuro SIM, GI SIM, and 20/20 SIM, which use case-based study to teach Nephrology, Neurology, Gastroenterology/Hepatology, and Ophthalmology, respectively.Farouk is now dedicated to further studying and developing educational tools like NephSIM, and aims to implement them into medical school curricula. She aims to be a mentor to aspiring clinician educators and to inspire the next generation of physicians to consider careers in nephrology. "Design, Dissemination, and Assessment of NephSIM: A Mobile-Optimized Nephrology Teaching Tool." "Technology Insight: telementoring and telesurgery in urology". (Co-authored with Roger Kirby)
Surgical Simulation. Rogers is known for pioneering minimally invasive robotic kidney surgeries using da Vinci Surgical System including single incision robotic surgeries. Awards and achievements
first nanoknife kidney surgery in Michigan
first clinical study of barbed suture for Robotic-assisted partial nephrectomy 2011 
winner of European Robotic Urology Symposium Video Contest 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 
winner of AUA Northcentral Section Annual Meeting Video Contest 2010
performed first single-incision robotic nephrectomy in state of Michigan 8/08 
performed first robotic retroperitoneal renal cryoablation procedure 2008 
performed first live "Twittered" robotic kidney surgery with coverage on CNN 2009
performed first robot assisted kidney surgery with ultrasound probe 
performed first live webcast of robotic partial nephrectomy (OR Live) 12/6/07

Educational activity
Rogers has been serving as a director and instructor of multiple courses on kidney robotic surgeries, including International Robotic Urology Symposium in Las Vegas, Nevada, European Robotic Urology Symposium and annual Advanced Robotic Renal Surgery Workshops in Detroit. See also
Vattikuti Urology Institute
Robotic Surgery

References
External links
Craig G. Rogers' website 
Cardiovascular risk in a rural adult West African population: is resting heart rate also relevant? [SEP] Heart problems are more common in people with HIV/AIDS. HIV is a major cause of cardiomyopathy (problems with the heart muscle that reduce the efficiency with which the heart pumps blood). A lowered BMI in HIV patients is also associated with cardiomyopathy. Autoimmune cardiomyopathy
Cardiac autoimmunity affects the pathogenesis of HIV-related heart disease as HIV-infected patients with dilated cardiomyopathy are more likely to have cardiac-specific autoantibodies (anti-α-myosin autoantibodies) than HIV-infected patients with healthy hearts and HIV-negative controls. Treatment
Mortality in HIV-infected patients with cardiomyopathy is increased independently of CD4 count, age, sex, and HIV risk group. HAART has reduced the incidence of myocarditis thus reducing the prevalence of HIV-associated cardiomyopathy by about 30% in developed countries. Beyond these terrestrial heart risks, some concern exists that prolonged exposure to microgravity may lead to heart rhythm disturbances. Risk in context of exploration mission operational scenarios
Cardiac rhythm disturbances could jeopardize mission objectives and, at the most extreme, the life of crewmembers. 
Israeli hospital preparedness for terrorism-related multiple casualty incidents: can the surge capacity and injury severity distribution be better predicted? [SEP] They will have preparations in place to receive a massive number of casualties, like calling in more staff, pulling extra and spare equipment out of storage, and clearing non-acute patients out of the hospital. "Trauma Center Levels Explained". A medical surge occurs when "patient volumes challenge or exceed a hospital's servicing capacity"—often but not always tied to high volume of patients in a hospital's emergency room. Medical surges can occur after a mass casualty incident. In a poll by the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) in May 2018, 93% of doctors said their US emergency rooms were not fully prepared for medical surges. Medical Surge Capacity
In February 2019, the American Hospital Association released a report that medical surge capacity was one of four major challenges threatening rural hospitals' ability to provide care, along with the "opioid epidemic," violence in the community, and cyber threats.According to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, medical surge capacity is "the ability to evaluate increased volume of patients .The requirements of surge may extend beyond direct patient care to include such tasks as extensive laboratory studies or epidemiological investigations. The hospital plays a vital role in treating wounded soldiers and terror victims. This allows the hospital to handle a surge in patients and render life-saving care to the greatest number of patients. 
Acute respiratory distress syndrome in children with malignancy--can we predict outcome? [SEP] The pathophysiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome involves fluid accumulation in the lungs not explained by heart failure (noncardiogenic pulmonary edema). Respiratory distress
A child who is exhibiting increased work of breathing, but has normal appearance and circulation to skin, can be initially assumed to be in respiratory distress. Respiratory failure
Respiratory failure can be presumed when a child is exhibiting increased work of breathing, along with either abnormal appearance or abnormal circulation. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a type of respiratory failure characterized by rapid onset of widespread inflammation in the lungs. "Blood transfusion and the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome: more evidence that blood transfusion in the intensive care unit may not be benign". "Acute respiratory distress syndrome". "Antioxidant status in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome". Respiratory distress can progress to respiratory failure which can progress to cardiac arrest. 
Secondhand smoke risk in infants discharged from an NICU: potential for significant health disparities? [SEP] Exposure to secondhand tobacco smoke causes disease, disability, and death. Children exposed to secondhand smoke show reduced vocabulary and reasoning skills when compared with non-exposed children as well as more general cognitive and intellectual deficits. Mental health: Exposure to secondhand smoke is associated with an increased risk of depressive symptoms. During pregnancy:
Miscarriage: a 2014 meta-analysis found that maternal secondhand smoke exposure increased the risk of miscarriage by 11%. Stillbirth and congenital malformations in children
Recent studies comparing females exposed to secondhand smoke and non-exposed females, demonstrate that females exposed while pregnant have higher risks of delivering a child with congenital abnormalities, longer lengths, smaller head circumferences, and neural tube defects. Secondhand smoke exposure is also associated with an almost doubled risk of hospitalization for asthma exacerbation among children with asthma. In the United States, it is estimated that secondhand smoke has been associated with between 150,000 and 300,000 lower respiratory tract infections in infants and children under 18 months of age, resulting in between 7,500 and 15,000 hospitalizations each year. So it is a surprising real-world observation that low birth weight babies of smoking mothers have a lower child mortality than low birth weight babies of non-smokers. 
Do nomograms designed to predict biochemical recurrence (BCR) do a better job of predicting more clinically relevant prostate cancer outcomes than BCR? [SEP] Biochemical recurrence is a rise in the blood level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in prostate cancer patients after treatment with surgery or radiation. References
Further reading
Guidelines:Prostate cancer/Management/Locally advanced and metastatic/Biochemical relapse alternative causes, and implications for treatment
Defining Biochemical Recurrence of Prostate Cancer After Radical Prostatectomy: A Proposal for a Standardized Definition 10 definitions compared. Together with other parameters, it is incorporated into a strategy of prostate cancer staging which predicts prognosis and helps guide therapy. The system is widely accepted and used for clinical decision making even as it is recognised that certain biomarkers, like ACP1 expression, might yield higher predictive value for future disease course.The histopathologic diagnosis of prostate cancer has implications for the possibility and methodology of Gleason scoring. Prostate cancer stage can be assessed by either clinical or pathological staging methods. For prostate cancer, cell morphology is graded based on the Gleason grading system.Of note, this system of describing tumors as "well-", "moderately-", and "poorly-" differentiated based on Gleason score of 2–4, 5–6, and 7–10, respectively, persists in SEER and other databases but is generally outdated. Risk groups
While TNM staging is important, systems based just on anatomic features are not well suited for deciding what treatment is best for a patient with prostate cancer, as there is still considerable heterogeneity of prognosis within the stage categories. PyNomo – open source software for constructing nomograms. 
Are reports of mechanical dysfunction in chronic oro-facial pain related to somatisation? [SEP] Orofacial pain is a general term covering any pain which is felt in the mouth, jaws and the face. These disorders as they relate to orofacial pain include but are not limited to temporomandibular muscle and joint (TMJ) disorders, jaw movement disorders, neuropathic and neurovascular pain disorders, headache, and sleep disorders. The Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders (see TMD).It has also been suggested that the most basic etiologic classification of orofacial pain is into the following 3 groups:
Primarily somatic, arising from musculoskeletal (e.g. TMD is the second most frequent cause of orofacial pain after dental pain (i.e. restricted mandibular movements), and joint pain. a manifestation of somatoform disorder), and as a neuropathy. Odontogenic pain should especially be ruled out, since this accounts for over 95% of cases of orofacial pain.There is considerable symptom overlap between atypical facial pain and temporomandibular joint dysfunction.The diagnosis of facial pain generally is often multidisciplinary. Distinction should be made between somatoform disorder, where affected individuals are not inventing the symptom for some benefit, and other conditions like factitious disorder or malingering.Recent evidence in chronic facial pain research appear to suggest that a proportion of individuals who have been diagnosed with AFP have neuropathic pain,AFP is described as one of the 4 recognizable symptom complexes of chronic facial pain, along with burning mouth syndrome, temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD) and atypical odontalgia. 
Amblyopia: is visual loss permanent? [SEP] Ametropic amblyopia is a medical condition in which the retina cannot focus on the image of a distant object, a condition often described as reduced visual acuity. Amblyopia is the most common cause of decreased vision in a single eye among children and younger adults.The cause of amblyopia can be any condition that interferes with focusing during early childhood. Without treatment, amblyopia typically persists. They further may have, on the affected eye, poor pattern recognition, poor visual acuity, and low sensitivity to contrast and motion.Amblyopia is characterized by several functional abnormalities in spatial vision, including reductions in visual acuity, contrast sensitivity function, and vernier acuity, as well as spatial distortion, abnormal spatial interactions, and impaired contour detection. If not treated in a timely fashion, amblyopia may persist even after the cause of the opacity is removed. Toxic amblyopia, or nutritional optic neuropathy, is a condition where a toxic reaction in the optic nerve results in visual loss. Tobacco amblyopia is marked by a gradual impairment of vision characterised by visual field defects and hindered central vision. The monocular deprivation often leads to amblyopia that is irreversible.This physiological change was paralleled by dramatic anatomical changes. 
Implementation of epidural analgesia for labor: is the standard of effective analgesia reachable in all women? [SEP] For this reason, epidurals are commonly used for pain control during childbirth and surgery. Epidural clonidine is rarely used but has been extensively studied for management of analgesia during labor.Epidural analgesia is considered a safer and more effective method of relieving pain in labor as compared to intravenous or oral analgesia. By 1998, epidural analgesia was used in the UK for almost 25% of childbirths. One survey in 2014 found that over half of pregnant women in a Nigerian antenatal clinic (79.5%) did not know what epidural analgesia was or what it was used for, while 76.5% of them would utilize epidural analgesia if offered after it was explained to them. "The effects of epidural analgesia on labor, maternal, and neonatal outcomes: a systematic review". "Does epidural analgesia prolong labor and increase risk of cesarean delivery? In labouring women, the onset of analgesia is more rapid with combined spinal and epidural anaesthesia compared with epidural analgesia. Combined spinal and epidural anaesthesia in labour was formerly thought to enable women to mobilise for longer compared with epidural analgesia, but this is not supported by a recent Cochrane review.In the UK, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (September 2007) recommends combined spinal and epidural anaesthesia for women who require rapid onset of analgesia in labour. 
Does HER2 immunoreactivity provide prognostic information in locally advanced urothelial carcinoma patients receiving adjuvant M-VEC chemotherapy? [SEP] Herceptin (Trastuzumab) is a treatment for women with breast cancer whose tumors have too much HER2 protein. HER2+ tumors tend to grow and spread more quickly than tumors that are not HER2+. Breast tumor samples were required to demonstrate HER2 overexpression defined as 3+ IHC or ISH amplification ratio ≥ 2.0 determined at a central laboratory using Ventana's PATHWAY anti-HER2-/neu (4B5) Rabbit Monoclonal Primary Antibody or INFORM HER2 Dual ISH DNA Probe Cocktail assays. Trastuzumab binds to and blocks signaling through epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2/neu) on cancers that rely on it for growth. The overall response rate was 60.3%, which reflects the percentage of participants who had a certain amount of tumor shrinkage with a median duration of response of 14.8 months.Efficacy was evaluated in a multicenter, open-label, randomized trial (DESTINY-Gastric01, NCT03329690) in participants with HER2-positive locally advanced or metastatic gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma who had progressed on at least two prior regimens, including trastuzumab, a fluoropyrimidine- and a platinum-containing chemotherapy. A total of 188 participants were randomized (2:1) to receive trastuzumab deruxtecan 6.4 mg/kg intravenously every three weeks or physician’s choice of either irinotecan or paclitaxel monotherapy.Efficacy was based on DESTINY-Breast03 (NCT03529110), a multicenter, open-label, randomized trial that enrolled 524 participants with HER2-positive, unresectable, and/or metastatic breast cancer who received prior trastuzumab and taxane therapy for metastatic disease or developed disease recurrence during or within six months of completing neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy. The results showed improvement in both progression-free survival and overall survival in people with unresectable or metastatic HER2-low breast cancer. "Trastuzumab Deruxtecan in Previously Treated HER2-Positive Breast Cancer". 
Is halofantrine ototoxic? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
Symptoms of ototoxicity include partial or profound hearing loss, vertigo, and tinnitus.The cochlea is primarily a hearing structure situated in the inner ear. Administration of amifostine has been used in attempts to prevent cisplatin-induced ototoxicity, but the American Society of Clinical Oncology recommends against its routine use.The vinca alkaloids, including vincristine, are also associated with reversible ototoxicity. Antiseptics and disinfectants
Topical skin preparations such as chlorhexidine and ethyl alcohol have the potential to be ototoxic should they enter the inner ear through the round window membrane. The ototoxicity of chlorhexidine was further confirmed by studies with animal models.Several other skin preparations have been shown to be potentially ototoxic in the animal model. Ototoxicants in the environment and workplace
Ototoxic effects are also seen with quinine, pesticides, solvents, asphyxiants, and heavy metals such as mercury and lead. Drugs or pharmaceutical agents inducing ototoxicity are regarded as ototoxic medications. Signs and symptoms of ototoxicity include tinnitus, hearing loss, dizziness and nausea and/or vomiting. Halofantrine combined with this fruit or grapefruit juice is dangerous. 
Visceral adipose tissue area measurement at a single level: can it represent visceral adipose tissue volume? [SEP] Subcutaneous adipose tissue is directly underneath the skin, while the intra-abdominal adipose tissue surrounds the organs inside the abdomen such as intestine and kidneys. The intra-abdominal adipose tissues covers the thoracic and abdominal cavity. The visceral adipose tissue is part of the intra-abdominal adipose tissue that surrounds the intestine for the most part. Adipose tissue, body fat, or simply fat is a loose connective tissue composed mostly of adipocytes. Adipose tissue contains many small blood vessels. Visceral fat is composed of several adipose depots, including mesenteric, epididymal white adipose tissue (EWAT), and perirenal depots. Several studies have suggested that visceral fat can be predicted from simple anthropometric measures, and predicts mortality more accurately than body mass index or waist circumference.Men are more likely to have fat stored in the abdomen due to sex hormone differences. Body fat percentage
Cellulite
Lipolysis
Lipodystrophy
Human fat used as pharmaceutical in traditional medicine
Obesity
Starvation
Steatosis (also called fatty change, fatty degeneration or adipose degeneration)
Stem cells
Subcutaneous fat
Bariatrics
Classification of obesity
Classification of childhood obesity
EPODE International Network, the world's largest obesity-prevention network
World Fit  A program of the United States Olympic Committee (USOC), and the United States Olympians and Paralympians Association (USOP)
Obesity and walking
Social stigma of obesity

References
Further reading
External links

Adipose tissue at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Adipose tissue photomicrographs 
Necrotizing fasciitis: an indication for hyperbaric oxygenation therapy? [SEP] The following indications are approved (for reimbursement) uses of hyperbaric oxygen therapy as defined by the UHMS Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy Committee:
Air or gas embolism;
Carbon monoxide poisoning;Carbon monoxide poisoning complicated by cyanide poisoning;
Central retinal artery occlusion;
Clostridal myositis and myonecrosis (gas gangrene);
Crush injury, compartment syndrome, and other acute traumatic ischemias;
Decompression sickness;
Enhancement of healing in selected problem wounds;.Diabetically derived illness, such as short-term relief of diabetic foot, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy;
Exceptional blood loss (anemia);
Idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss;
Intracranial abscess;
Mucormycosis, especially rhinocerebral disease in the setting of diabetes mellitus;
Necrotizing soft tissue infections (necrotizing fasciitis);
Osteomyelitis (refractory);
Delayed radiation injury (soft tissue and bony necrosis);
Skin grafts and flaps (compromised);
Thermal burns.There is no reliable evidence to support its use in autism, cancer, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, Alzheimer's disease, asthma, Bell's palsy, cerebral palsy, depression, heart disease, migraines, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury, sports injuries, or stroke. Despite high-quality treatment, the risk of death is between 25 and 35%.Necrotizing fasciitis occurs in about 0.4 people per 100,000 per year in the U.S., and about 1 per 100,000 in Western Europe. The term "necrotizing fasciitis" first came into use in 1952. Rapid progression to shock despite antibiotic therapy is another indication of necrotizing fasciitis. Skin infections such as abscess and ulcers can also complicate necrotizing fasciitis. Treatment
Surgical debridement (cutting away affected tissue) is the mainstay of treatment for necrotizing fasciitis. Add-on therapy
Hyperbaric oxygen: While human and animal studies have shown that high oxygen tension in tissues helps to reduce edema, stimulate fibroblast growth, increase the killing ability of white blood cells, inhibit bacterial toxin release, and increase antibiotic efficacy, no high-quality trials have been shown to support or refute the use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy in patients with NSTIs. In regard to anaerobic infections, cases of necrotizing fasciitis have been observed to require fewer debridement operations and have improvement in regard to mortality in patients treated with hyperbaric oxygen therapy. 
Is the Hawkins sign able to predict necrosis in fractures of the neck of the astragalus? [SEP] Empty vertebral body sign is a radiological sign used for diagnosing any injury with flexion-distraction mechanism of the vertebrae, particularly Chance fracture of the vertebrae. Usually, this sign indicates a high likelihood of collapse of the affected bone. When the trabeculae experience stress leading to microfractures and collapse, the crescent sign appears.The crescent sign may be seen with other bone diseases, such as shear fractures. Battle's sign, also known as mastoid ecchymosis, is an indication of fracture of middle cranial fossa of the skull. The Hawkins–Kennedy Test is a test used in the evaluation of orthopedic shoulder injury. Interpretation
A positive Hawkins-Kennedy test is indicative of an impingement of all structures that are located between the greater tubercle of the humerus and the coracohumeral ligament. The Hawkins-Kennedy test is considered to be a highly sensitive test (79%) and thus a positive Hawkins-Kennedy test suggests that injury is likely. The Thurstan Holland sign or fragment, also known as the shiny corner sign, is the small metaphyseal triangular portion of bone carried with the physis in type II and IV Salter–Harris fractures. 
Is a mandatory general surgery rotation necessary in the surgical clerkship? [SEP] The Compulsory Rotating Medical Internship (CRMI) refers to one year of compulsory work in hospitals attached to a medical college or in any other approved teaching hospital before becoming qualified to practice as an independent doctor or dentist. Upon successful completion of these examinations, the surgeon becomes a diplomate of the ABS.Certification in general surgery is a prerequisite for certification in pediatric surgery, surgical critical care, surgery of the hand, hospice and palliative medicine, and complex general surgical oncology. Surgical oncology is generally a 2-year fellowship following completion of a general surgery residency (5–7 years). Training
In Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States general surgery is a five to seven year residency and follows completion of medical school, either MD, MBBS, MBChB, or DO degrees. In Canada, residency leads to eligibility for certification by and Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, while in the United States, completion of a residency in general surgery leads to eligibility for board certification by the American Board of Surgery or the American Osteopathic Board of Surgery which is also required upon completion of training for a general surgeon to have operating privileges at most hospitals in the United States. Before the end of HST, the examination of Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons (FRCS) must be taken in general surgery plus the subspeciality. The Surgical Council on Resident Education (SCORE®) is the national curriculum for general surgery and its associated subspecialties, housed within the American Board of Surgery. These doctors assist the college with expertise and funding for the external rotation of residents of the College. 
Is Acupuncture Efficacious for Treating Phonotraumatic Vocal Pathologies? [SEP] Symptomatic voice therapy can modify respiration, phonation, resonance, voice, loudness, rate, and laryngeal muscle tension and may assist in gender reassignment voice change. Resonant voice therapy teaches clients to use resonant voice in order to reduce vocal fold trauma. According to some acupuncturists, this practice augments the use of regular acupuncture, can restore health and well-being, and is particularly good for treating pain. Acupuncture is most often used to attempt pain relief, though acupuncturists say that it can also be used for a wide range of other conditions. Efficacy
As of 2021 many thousands of papers had been published on the efficacy of acupuncture for the treatment of various adult health conditions, but there was no robust evidence it was beneficial for anything, other than evidence for shoulder pain and fibromyalgia. Acupuncture is not better than mainstream treatment in the long term.The use of acupuncture has been criticized owing to there being little scientific evidence for explicit effects, or the mechanisms for its supposed effectiveness, for any condition that is discernible from placebo. "Acupuncture". "Acupuncture". 
Is aneurysm repair justified for the patients aged 80 or older after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage? [SEP] Medical therapy is typically reserved for smaller aneurysms or for elderly, frail patients where the risks of surgical repair exceed the risks of non-operative therapy (observation alone). A large, rapidly expanding, or symptomatic aneurysm should be repaired, as it has a greater chance of rupture. However, recent data on patients aged 60–76 suggest medical management for abdominal aneurysms with a diameter of less than 5.5 cm (2 in). The ISAT authors conclude that "when treating ruptured cerebral aneurysms, the advantage of coil embolization over clip ligation cannot be assumed for patients < 40 years old." Patients with aneurysms require elective repair of their aneurysm when it reaches a diameter large enough (typically greater than 5.5 cm) such that the risk of rupture is greater than the risk of surgery. The main drawback of open repair is the larger physiologic demand of the operation, which is associated with increased rates of short term mortality in most studies.Patients younger than 50 years with descending and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm have low surgical risks, and open repairs can be performed with excellent short-term and durable long-term results. Open surgical repairs should be considered initially in younger patients requiring descending and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repairs. “Surgical risk as related to time of intervention in the repair of intracranial aneurysms.” Journal of Neurosurgery 1968 Jan;28(1):14-20. 
Do general practice characteristics influence uptake of an information technology (IT) innovation in primary care? [SEP] Both the BMA and the Royal College of General Practitioners were keen to support such developments, the RCGP having encouraged them since 2008.In January 2019 NHS England told clinical commissioning groups that they must establish primary care networks, typically covering 30-50,000 people, in their areas by 30 June. The General Practice Data for Planning and Research system was set up by the British National Health Service as a replacement for the General Practice Extraction Service as a means of transmitting data intended for use beyond that of providing individual health care. Privacy and implementation concerns
Amongst patients and the general public concerns have been raised about sale of NHS data to private companies.The Pulse magazine - distributed to general practitioners in the UK, carried articles reflecting concern about the scope of the data being collected and the additional workload and legal risks it would impose on GPsResponsibility for informing patients was devolved to GP Practices, for example by updating the Privacy Notice on their website. General practice is the name given in various nations, such as the United Kingdom, India, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa to the services provided by general practitioners. There is a move to incorporate other health professionals such as pharmacists in to general practice to provide an integrated multidisciplinary healthcare team to deliver primary care. "GP Federations have become popular among English General practitioners. Patient satisfaction
85% of patients rate their overall experience of primary care as good in 2016, but practices run by limited companies operating on APMS contracts (a small minority) performed worse on four out of five key indicators - frequency of consulting a preferred doctor, ability to get a convenient appointment, rating of doctor communication skills, ease of contacting the practice by telephone and overall experience. A decade later it was still widely used with 800 Scottish general medical practices (around 80% of the primary care doctors in the county) using it as a clinical record and practice administration software. 
Prognosis of well differentiated small hepatocellular carcinoma--is well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma clinically early cancer? [SEP] However, due to the unique nature of the carcinoma to fully encompass all the features that affect the categorization of the HCC, a classification system should incorporate tumor size and number, presence of vascular invasion and extrahepatic spread, liver function (levels of serum bilirubin and albumin, presence of ascites, and portal hypertension) and general health status of the patient (defined by the ECOG classification and the presence of symptoms).Of all the staging classification systems available, the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer staging classification encompasses all of the above characteristics. Treatment
Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma varies by the stage of disease, a person's likelihood to tolerate surgery, and availability of liver transplant:

Curative intention: for limited disease, when the cancer is limited to one or more areas of within the liver, surgically removing the malignant cells may be curative. The latter is an FDA-approved treatment for primary liver cancer (HCC) which has been shown in clinical trials to increase the survival rate of low-risk patients. Prognosis
The usual outcome is poor because only 10–20% of hepatocellular carcinomas can be removed completely using surgery. HCC is a cancer formed by liver cells, known as hepatocytes, that become malignant. Hepatocellular carcinoma
Partial surgical resection is the recommended treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) when patients have sufficient hepatic function reserve. The WHO defines "Hepatoid carcinoma" as "An adenocarcinoma with morphologic characteristics similar to hepatocellular carcinoma, arising from an anatomic site other than the liver".In dogs it may refer to a Perianal gland tumor, based on a similar resemblance to healthy liver cells. Poorly differentiated thyroid carcinoma  is malignant neoplasm of follicular cell origin showing intermediate histopathological patterns between differentiated and undifferentiated thyroid cancers. 
Do follow-up recommendations for abnormal Papanicolaou smears influence patient adherence? [SEP] The Papanicolaou test (abbreviated as Pap test, also known as Pap smear (AE), cervical smear (BE), cervical screening (BE), or smear test (BE)) is a method of cervical screening used to detect potentially precancerous and cancerous processes in the cervix (opening of the uterus or womb) or colon (in both men and women). Further tests are unlikely to detect recurrence of cancer but do bring the risk of giving false positive results, which would lead to unnecessary further testing.More frequent Pap smears may be needed to follow up after an abnormal Pap smear, after treatment for abnormal Pap or biopsy results, or after treatment of cancer ( cervical, colon, etc. Effectiveness
The Pap test, when combined with a regular program of screening and appropriate follow-up, can reduce cervical cancer deaths by up to 80%.Failure of prevention of cancer by the Pap test can occur for many reasons, including not getting regular screening, lack of appropriate follow-up of abnormal results, and sampling and interpretation errors. While Pap smears may not be entirely accurate, they remain one of the most effective cervical cancer prevention tools. They do not perform as well as Pap smear screening and colposcopy. He thus became known for his invention of the Papanicolaou test, commonly known as the Pap smear or Pap test, which is used worldwide for the detection and prevention of cervical cancer and other cytologic diseases of the female reproductive system. Some of the follow up options include surveillance, histological diagnosis via colposcopy/biopsy, or removal of the abnormal tissue via an ablative or surgical method.The World Health Organization outlines two different approaches to cervical screening and follow up. The Papanicolaou stain is one of the most widely used stains in cytology, where it is used to aid pathologists in making a diagnosis. 
Biomolecular identification of allergenic pollen: a new perspective for aerobiological monitoring? [SEP] Aerobiologists have traditionally been involved in the measurement and reporting of airborne pollen and fungal spores as a service to those with allergies. One of the main challenges of identifying pollen is that it is often collected as a mixture of pollen from several species. Identifying pollen via microscopy requires a high level of expertise in the pollen characteristics of the specific plants being studied. Identifying pollen is time-consuming, involving spreading pollen on a slide, staining the pollen to improve visibility, then focusing in on individual pollen grains and identifying them based on size, shape, as well as the shape and number of pores. Applications
Use in pollination networks
Being able to identify pollen is especially important in the study of pollination networks which are made up of all the interactions between plants and the animals that facilitate their pollination. Identifying the pollen carried on insects helps scientists understand what plants are being visited by which insects. By studying the pollen in a sample of honey, it is possible to gain evidence of the geographical location and genus of the plants that the honey bees visited, although honey may also contain airborne pollens from anemophilous plants, spores, and dust due to attraction by the electrostatic charge of bees. (2009) The European Pollen Database: past efforts and current activities. 
Does diabetes mellitus influence the efficacy of FDG-PET in the diagnosis of cervical cancer? [SEP] Diabetes is a chronic disease in cats whereby either insufficient insulin response or insulin resistance leads to persistently high blood glucose concentrations. No increase >30% of SUL or size in all other lesions
No new lesionsStable metabolic disease (SMD)

Not CMR, PMR, or Progressive metabolic disease (PMD)
No new lesionsProgressive metabolic disease (PMD)

>30% increase in 18F-FDG SUL peak, with >0.8 SUL units increase in tumor SUV peak from the baseline scan in pattern typical of tumor and not of infection/treatment effect. or Visible increase in the extent of 18F-FDG tumor uptake. or New 18F-FDG avid lesions which are typical of cancer and not related to treatment effect or infection. Dental care
High blood glucose in diabetic people is a risk factor for developing gum and tooth problems, especially in post-puberty and aging individuals. Firstly, people with diabetes are more likely to develop periodontal disease, which causes increased blood sugar levels, often leading to diabetes complications. Tooth decay and cavities are some of the first oral problems that individuals with diabetes are at risk for. There is growing evidence that there is higher levels of clinical depression in patients with diabetes compared to the non-diabetic population. 
Biomechanical and wound healing characteristics of corneas after excimer laser keratorefractive surgery: is there a difference between advanced surface ablation and sub-Bowman's keratomileusis? [SEP] Techniques
Flap procedures
Excimer laser ablation is done under a partial-thickness lamellar corneal flap. Laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK): The surgeon uses either a microkeratome or a femtosecond laser to cut a flap of the corneal tissue (usually with a thickness of 100–180 micrometres). Surface procedures
The excimer laser is used to ablate the most anterior portion of the corneal stroma. Laser Assisted Sub-Epithelium Keratomileusis (LASEK) is also a procedure that changes the shape of the cornea using an excimer laser to ablate the tissue from the corneal stroma, under the corneal epithelium, which is kept mostly intact to act as a natural bandage. Keratoconus occurring after refractive surgery is called Corneal Ectasia. The layers of tissue removed are tens of micrometers thick.Performing the laser ablation in the deeper corneal stroma provides for more rapid visual recovery and less pain than the earlier technique, photorefractive keratectomy (PRK).During the second step, the patient's vision becomes blurry, once the flap is lifted. The incisions, made by 193 nm far-ultraviolet light radiation emitted by the excimer laser, produced corneal flattening ranging from 0.12 to 5.35 diopters. Both the depth of the corneal incisions and the degree of central corneal flattening correlated with the laser energy applied. 
Does radiotherapy of the primary rectal cancer affect prognosis after pelvic exenteration for recurrent rectal cancer? [SEP] Radiation proctitis most commonly occurs after pelvic radiation treatment for cancers such as cervical cancer, prostate cancer, bladder cancer, and rectal cancer. Epidemiology
Up to 30 percent of individuals who receive pelvic radiation therapy for cancer may develop radiation proctopathy. A 2015 article reports that pelvic exenteration can provide long-term survival for patients with locally advanced primary rectal carcinoma. Factors shown to influence the survival rate following a pelvic exenteration procedure include age, the  presence of metastatic disease, lymph node status, circumferential resection margin, local recurrence of disease, and the need for neoadjuvant therapy. Radiation therapy can also affect the bowel at the small intestine (radiation enteritis) or the rectum (radiation proctitis). Signs and symptoms
People who have been treated with radiotherapy for pelvic and other abdominal cancers frequently develop gastrointestinal symptoms.These include:

rectal bleeding
diarrhea and steatorrhea
other defecation disorders including fecal urgency and incontinence. Associated conditions
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth
Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency
Bile acid diarrhea
Urinary urgency
Sexual dysfunction

Causes
A large number of people receive abdominal and or pelvic radiotherapy as part of their cancer treatment with 60–80% experiencing gastrointestinal symptoms. Radiation therapy delivered immediately after surgery when risk factors are present (positive surgical margin, extracapsular extension, seminal vessicle involvement) has been demonstrated to reduce cancer recurrence, decrease distant metastasis, and increase overall survival in two separate randomized trials. 
Can a practicing surgeon detect early lymphedema reliably? [SEP] "Lymphadenopathy: differential diagnosis and evaluation". Signs and symptoms
The most common manifestation of lymphedema is soft tissue swelling, edema. Diagnosis of lymphedema is currently based on history, physical exam, and limb measurements. Enlargement of the nodes lasting more than three weeks may indicate infection or other illnesses such as sequela from breast cancer surgery requiring further medical attention.Diagnosis or early detection of lymphedema is difficult. As lymphedema progresses, definitive diagnosis is commonly based upon an objective measurement of differences between the affected or at-risk limb at the opposite unaffected limb, e.g. Lymphedema is not present. A professional garment fitter or certified lymphedema therapist can help determine the best option for the patient. A 2013 systematic review of manual lymphatic drainage with regard to breast cancer–related lymphedema found no clear support for the effectiveness of the intervention in either preventing limb edema in at-risk women or treating women for the condition. 
Colorectal cancer with synchronous liver metastases: does global management at the same centre improve results? [SEP] A liver metastasis is a malignant tumor in the liver that has spread from another organ affected by cancer. Patients with Colorectal cancer will develop liver metastases during the disease Tumor emboli entering the sinusoids through the liver blood supply appear to be physically obstructed by the Kupffer cells, but if tumor emboli are larger, they tend to become lodged in the portal venous branches. Younger patients with metastases from colorectal cancer confined to one lobe of the liver and up to 4 in number may be treated by partial hepatectomy. The procedure, mostly used in combination with systemic chemotherapy, plays a role in the treatment of liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Although surgical resection remains the standard of care for these liver metastases, majority of patients have lesions that are unresectable. Abstracting and indexing
Clinical Colorectal Cancer is indexed in Index Medicus/PubMed, EMBASE Excerpta Medica, ISI Current Contents, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), Chemical Abstracts, and Journal Citation Reports. External links
Clinical Colorectal Cancer
Clinical Colorectal Cancer at ScienceDirect Presence of synchronous or metachronous colorectal or other Lynch syndrome associated cancers (e.g. 
Is motion perception deficit in schizophrenia a consequence of eye-tracking abnormality? [SEP] Visual processing abnormalities in schizophrenia are commonly found, and contribute to poor social function.There is evidence that schizophrenia affects perception of contrast and motion, control of eye movements, detection of visual contours, and recognition of faces or facial expressions. Subjects with schizophrenia have shown abnormalities in perceptual judgments of motion, speed and direction, with deficits in these judgments generally being reported. Deficits in eye movement behavior among people with schizophrenia have been reported since the beginning of the 20th century. Further, people with schizophrenia often exhibit errors in smooth pursuit eye movements. "Abnormal-Pursuit Eye Movements in Schizophrenia". Eye-tracking patterns in schizophrenia. "Eye-Tracking Dysfunctions in Schizophrenic Patients and Their Relatives". Eye-tracking dysfunctions in schizophrenic patients and their relatives. 
Transgastric endoscopic splenectomy: is it possible? [SEP] The procedure also involves a splenectomy. The original procedure also consisted of an esophageal transection, splenectomy, vagotomy, and pyloroplasty.The Sugiura procedure was originally associated with significant morbidity and mortality; in recent years, though, this procedure and its modifications have been performed in many hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgical centers with improving morbidity and mortality rates. The abdominal operation consists of a splenectomy, devascularization of the abdominal esophagus and cardia, and a selective vagotomy with pyloroplasty. Splenectomy is then performed. A splenectomy is initially performed and is followed by devascularization of the distal esophagus through the diaphragm hiatus and the superior two-thirds of the major and lesser gastric curve taking careful consideration to not ligate the left gastric vein. James, T. W., Reddy, S., Vulpis, T. & McGowan, C. E. Endoscopic Sleeve Gastroplasty Is Feasible, Safe, and Effective in a Non-academic Setting: Short-Term Outcomes from a Community Gastroenterology Practice. Medical uses
Diagnostic
Unexplained anemia (usually along with a colonoscopy)
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding as evidenced by hematemesis or melena
Persistent dyspepsia in patients over the age of 45 years
Heartburn and chronic acid reflux – this can lead to a precancerous lesion called Barrett's esophagus
Persistent emesis
Dysphagia – difficulty in swallowing
Odynophagia – painful swallowing
Persistent nausea
IBD (inflammatory bowel diseases)

Surveillance
Surveillance of Barrett's esophagus
Surveillance of gastric ulcer or duodenal ulcer
Occasionally after gastric surgery

Confirmation of diagnosis/biopsy
Abnormal barium swallow or barium meal
Confirmation of celiac disease (via biopsy)

Therapeutic
Treatment (banding/sclerotherapy) of esophageal varices
Injection therapy (e.g., epinephrine in bleeding lesions)
Cutting off of larger pieces of tissue with a snare device (e.g., polyps, endoscopic mucosal resection)
Application of cautery to tissues
Removal of foreign bodies (e.g., food) that have been ingested
Tamponade of bleeding esophageal varices with a balloon
Application of photodynamic therapy for treatment of esophageal malignancies
Endoscopic drainage of pancreatic pseudocyst
Tightening the lower esophageal sphincter
Dilating or stenting of stenosis or achalasia
Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (feeding tube placement)
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) combines EGD with fluoroscopy
Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) combines EGD with 5–12 MHz ultrasound imaging

Newer interventions
Endoscopic trans-gastric laparoscopy
Placement of gastric balloons in bariatric surgery

Complications
The complication rate is about 1 in 1000. Consequences
Absence of effective splenic function or absence of the whole spleen (asplenia) is associated with increased risks of overwhelming post splenectomy infection, especially from polysaccharide encapsulated bacteria and organisms that invade erythrocytes. 
It's Fournier's gangrene still dangerous? [SEP] Fournier gangrene is a type of necrotizing fasciitis or gangrene affecting the external genitalia or perineum. Signs and symptoms
Initial symptoms of Fournier gangrene include swelling or sudden pain in the scrotum, fever, pallor, and generalized weakness. Cause
Most cases of Fournier gangrene are infected with both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria such as Clostridium perfringens. Diagnosis
Fournier gangrene is usually diagnosed clinically, but laboratory tests and imaging studies are used to confirm diagnosis, determine severity, and predict outcomes. Treatment
Fournier gangrene is a urological emergency requiring intravenous antibiotics and debridement (surgical removal) of dead tissue. Epidemiology
A 2009 epidemiological study found the incidence of Fournier gangrene to be 1.6 cases per 100,000 males, in the United States. References
External links
Fournier gangrene and Jean Alfred Fournier at Who Named It? Prognosis
Gas gangrene left untreated is a potentially fatal infection. 
Is it appropriate to implant kidneys from elderly donors in young recipients? [SEP] If they are deemed a good candidate, they can be placed on a waiting list to receive a kidney from a deceased donor. Evaluation of kidney donors and recipients
Both potential kidney donors and kidney recipients are carefully screened to assure positive outcomes. Living kidney donor evaluation
As candidates for a significant elective surgery, potential kidney donors are carefully screened to assure good long term outcomes. Live donor kidney grafts have higher long-term success rates than those from deceased donors. If a potential living donor is incompatible with their recipient, the donor could be exchanged for a compatible kidney. "Long-term follow-up of living kidney donors: a longitudinal study". Because better donor HLA and age matching are correlated with lower lifetime mortality and longer lasting kidney transplants, many compatible pairs are also participating in swaps to find better matched kidneys. This issue is critical for young transplant recipients who have a life expectancy that is longer than the expected graft survival (i.e. 
Do provider service networks result in lower expenditures compared with HMOs or primary care case management in Florida's Medicaid program? [SEP] Florida has several Medicaid Waiver Programs. Currently, managed care is the most common health care delivery system in Medicaid. In 2007, nearly two-thirds of all Medicaid beneficiaries are enrolled in some form of managed care – mostly, traditional health maintenance organizations (HMO) and primary care case management (PCCM) arrangements. State Medicaid agencies may include additional activities, such as medical management, network management or performance incentives, to improve outcomes and generate cost savings.States vary in how they manage provider networks, provider recruitment, data collection and analysis, monitoring, quality improvement, patient education, disease management programs and enrollment. In general, Medicaid plans pay providers significantly less than commercial insurers or Medicare would pay for the same care, paying around 67% as much as Medicare would for primary care and 78% as much for other services. This disparity has been linked to lower provider rates of participation in Medicaid programs vs Medicare or commercial insurance, and thus decreased access to care for Medicaid patients. Medicaid covers a wider range of health care services than Medicare. After the passing of the Affordable Care Act, many dental practices began using dental service organizations to provide business management and support, allowing practices to minimize costs and pass the saving on to patients currently without adequate dental care. 
Assessment of carotid artery stenosis before coronary artery bypass surgery. Is it always necessary? [SEP] Carotid ultrasound is used to diagnose carotid artery stenosis (CAS) and can assess atherosclerotic plaque morphology and characteristics. Carotid artery stenosis is a major risk factor for stroke, and risk assessment of atherosclerotic carotid plaques is a critical component of stroke prevention. Carotid ultrasound is the preferred initial diagnostic test to evaluate carotid artery stenosis, and can also be used to monitor response to lipid-lowering therapy. Therefore, doppler imaging substantially aids in the diagnosis of carotid artery stenosis by ultrasound. Intravenous contrast is able to improve the performance of carotid ultrasound in diagnosing carotid artery stenosis. This test has good sensitivity and specificity.Typically duplex ultrasound scan is the only investigation required for decision making in carotid stenosis as it is widely available and rapidly performed. Screening
The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends against routine screening for carotid artery stenosis in those without symptoms as of 2021.While routine population screening is not advised, the American Heart Association and the Society for Vascular Surgery recommend screening in those diagnosed with related medical conditions or have risk factors for carotid artery disease. Screening is recommended for people who have:
Vascular disease elsewhere in the body, including:
Peripheral artery disease (PAD)
Coronary artery disease (CAD)
Atherosclerotic aortic aneurysm (AAA)
Two or more of the following risk factors:
High blood pressure (hypertension)
High cholesterol (hyperlipidemia)
Tobacco smoking
Family history – First-degree relative diagnosed with atherosclerosis before age 60 or who had an ischemic strokeThe American Heart Association also recommends screening if a physician detects a carotid bruit, or murmur, over the carotid artery by listening through a stethoscope during a physical exam. 
Should direct mesocolon invasion be included in T4 for the staging of gastric cancer? [SEP] Colon cancer staging is an estimate of the amount of penetration of a particular cancer. The systems for staging colorectal cancers depend on the extent of local invasion, the degree of lymph node involvement and whether there is distant metastasis. Preoperative staging of rectal cancers may be done with endoscopic ultrasound. This subdivided stage C. This staging system was noted to be prognostically relevant to rectal and colonic adenocarcinoma. Cancer staging is the process of determining the extent to which a cancer has developed by growing and spreading. TNM staging system
Cancer staging can be divided into a clinical stage and a pathologic stage. References
External links
"Staging: Questions and Answers" at the National Cancer Institute Cancer staging generally runs from stage 0, which is pre-cancerous or non-invasive, to stage IV, in which the cancer has spread throughout a significant part of the body.The International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system is used for cervical cancer. 
Do Surrogates of Injury Severity Influence the Occurrence of Heterotopic Ossification in Fractures of the Acetabulum? [SEP] Causes
Heterotopic ossification of varying severity can be caused by surgery or trauma to the hips and legs. This may account for the clinical impression that traumatic brain injuries cause accelerated fracture healing.There are also rare genetic disorders causing heterotopic ossification such as fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP), a condition that causes injured bodily tissues to be replaced by heterotopic bone. It is not useful in patients who have had fractures or spine fusion recently, as they will cause elevations.The only definitive diagnostic test in the early acute stage is a bone scan, which will show heterotopic ossification 7 – 10 days earlier than an x-ray. Fractures of the acetabulum occur when the head of the femur is driven into the pelvis. This injury is caused by a blow to either the side or front of the knee and often occurs as a dashboard injury accompanied by a fracture of the femur.The acetabulum is a cavity situated on the outer surface of the hip bone, also called the coxal bone or innominate bone. Fractures of the acetabulum in young individuals usually result from a high energy injury like vehicular accident or feet first fall. Anatomy
To understand the fracture pattern of a fractured acetabulum, it is essential to have minimum three x-ray views, though use of CT scan with 3-D reconstruction of images has made understanding of these fractures easier. Patterns of fracture
Tile's classification of acetabular fracture:

I - Simple fracture, anterior or posterior wall column
II - Transverse fracture
III - T - Type fracture involving two columns
IV - Both columns fractures, floating acetabulum

Diagnosis
Ideal x-ray visualization of an elementary fracture will depend on the fracture type:

Posterior wall fracture: Iliac oblique and obturator oblique views
Posterior column fracture: Iliac oblique and obturator oblique views
Anterior wall fracture: Iliac oblique view
Anterior column fracture: Obturator oblique viewIn all cases, CT scan can assist in identifying impacted bone pieces, which may be found within the joint, and MRI may be done to identify the extent of potential injury to the sciatic nerve. 
Does pretreatment with statins improve clinical outcome after stroke? [SEP] The participants enrolled at 349 sites across Australia, Europe, and North America between November 2000 and December 2001, and the study concluded that statin treatment for secondary prevention reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) events and that atorvastatin had a more marked effect than pravastatin. The JUPITER trial (Justification for the Use of Statins in Primary Prevention: An Intervention Trial Evaluating Rosuvastatin trial) was a clinical trial aimed at evaluating whether statins reduce heart attacks and strokes in people with normal cholesterol levels. Compared to patients taking a placebo, patients given rosuvastatin had reductions in LDL and CRP levels, and a reduction of 0.2% to 0.6% in their absolute risk of heart attack, stroke, and death at one year. The study concluded that statin treatment for primary prevention reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) events by 31% after nearly five years of treatment. The statins inhibit cholesterol synthesis in the body and that leads to reduction in blood cholesterol levels, which is thought to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and diseases caused by it. The primary goals of stroke management are to reduce brain injury and promote maximum patient recovery. What this means for stroke patients and the limitations or concerns with MSCs as a potential treatment
If MSC treatment becomes available for stroke patients, it is possible that current mortality and morbidity rates could substantially improve due to the direct enhancement of neuroprotection and neurorestoration mechanisms rather than only indirect facilitation or prevention of further damage, e.g. References
Sources
External links
"Life After Stroke". 
Processing fluency effects: can the content and presentation of participant information sheets influence recruitment and participation for an antenatal intervention? [SEP] Processing fluency is the ease with which information is processed. Research
Research in cognitive neuroscience and psychology has shown that processing fluency influences different kinds of judgments. Repeating the presentation of a stimulus, also known as priming, is one method for enhancing fluency. It was found that the brief flash of stimulus boosted the fluency of the target item. The notion that processing fluency is inherently positive led to the processing fluency theory of aesthetic pleasure, and it has been used to explain people's negative reactions towards migrants, who appear to be more difficult to process than non-migrants.Research relating to processing fluency and product design has shown that when the form of a product is highly unusual, it becomes difficult to process and is viewed less favourably than fluent counterparts. Indeed, people process information more shallowly when processing fluency is high and employ an analytical thinking style when processing fluency is low.A 2010 study demonstrated that the long-known effect of illegible handwriting in an essay on grading is mediated by a lack of processing fluency (and not, for example, negative stereotypes related to illegible writing). Applications
Basic research on processing fluency has been applied to marketing, to business names, and to finance. Fluency, accuracy, and complexity are distinct but interrelated components of language acquisition and proficiency. 
Sternal fracture in growing children : A rare and often overlooked fracture? [SEP] A sternal fracture is a fracture of the sternum (the breastbone), located in the center of the chest. Sternal fractures may also occur as a pathological fracture, in people who have weakened bone in their sternum, due to another disease process. Sternal fracture can interfere with breathing by making it more painful; however, its primary significance is that it can indicate the presence of serious associated internal injuries, especially to the heart and lungs. Sternal fracture is commonly associated with injuries to the heart and lungs; if a person is injured with enough force to fracture the sternum, injuries such as myocardial and pulmonary contusions are likely. However, when sternal fractures occur in isolation, their outcome is very good.There is controversy over the question of whether the presence of sternal fracture is an indication of cardiac injuries. History
In 1864, E. Guilt published a handbook recording sternal fractures as a rare injury found in severe trauma. A child bone fracture or a pediatric fracture is a medical condition in which a bone of a child (a person younger than the age of 18) is cracked or broken. This occurrence is known as "toddler's fracture". 
Is there a correlation between androgens and sexual desire in women? [SEP] Sexual motivation is influenced by hormones such as testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, oxytocin, and vasopressin. Research suggests androgens, such as testosterone, are not sufficient by themselves to prompt sexual motivation in females. However, some research with nonhuman primates suggests a role for androgens in female sexual behaviour. Later studies revealed this diminished sexual receptivity was specific to the elimination of androgens that can be converted to estrogen.It is also suggested that levels of testosterone are related to the type of relationship in which one is involved. In particular, estrogens have been shown to correlate positively with increases in female sexual motivation, and progesterone has been associated with decreases in female sexual motivation. The decline of estrogen and androgen levels is believed to account for the lowered levels of sexual desire and motivation in postmenopausal women, although the direct relationship is not well understood. There is little support for the notion that physiological levels of testosterone are important for sexual desire in women, although supraphysiological levels of testosterone can increase sexual desire in women similarly to the high levels in men. Estradiol and antiandrogen therapy increase sexual desire and arousal in transgender women after a temporary decrease. 
Does immediate breast reconstruction compromise the delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] "Conventional Adjuvant Chemotherapy with or without High-Dose Chemotherapy and Autologous Stem-Cell Transplantation in High-Risk Breast Cancer". Within the United States, approximately 35% of women who have undergone a total mastectomy for breast cancer will choose to pursue immediate breast reconstruction. Many patients undergoing delayed breast reconstruction have been previously treated with radiation or have had a reconstruction failure with immediate breast reconstruction. While waiting to begin breast reconstruction until several months after radiation therapy may decrease the risk of complications, this risk will always be higher in patients who have received radiation therapy. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy
Neoadjuvant chemo is given before surgery to slow the growth of a fast growing cancer or to shrink the size of a larger breast cancer. Determining the appropriate regimen to use depends on many factors; such as, the character of the tumor, lymph node status, and the age and health of the patient.The following is a list of some of the commonly used adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer:

CMF: cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil. Most adjuvant breast cancer chemotherapy regimens do not routinely require growth factor support except for those associated with a high incidence of bone marrow suppression and infection. See also
Chemotherapy regimens
Breast cancer
Route of administration


== References == 
Human papillomavirus and pterygium. Is the virus a risk factor? [SEP] Human papillomavirus infection (HPV infection) is caused by a DNA virus from the Papillomaviridae family. History
In 1972, the association of the human papillomaviruses with skin cancer in epidermodysplasia verruciformis was proposed by Stefania Jabłońska in Poland. In 1976 Harald zur Hausen published the hypothesis that human papilloma virus plays an important role in the cause of cervical cancer. Papillomas caused by some types, however, such as human papillomaviruses 16 and 18, carry a risk of becoming cancerous.Papillomaviruses are usually considered as highly host- and tissue-tropic, and are thought to rarely be transmitted between species. Association with cancer
Although some papillomavirus types can cause cancer in the epithelial tissues they inhabit, cancer is not a typical outcome of infection. Papillomaviruses have been associated with the development of cervical cancer, penile cancer and oral cancers. AIDS-related cases of anal cancer and cervical cancer are commonly caused by human papillomavirus. In 1993 it was noted that patients with human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated anogenital cancers had a 4-fold increased risk of tonsillar squamous-cell carcinoma. 
Can PRISM predict length of PICU stay? [SEP] The Pediatric Risk of Mortality (PRISM) score was developed from the Physiologic Stability Index (PSI) to reduce the number of physiologic variables required for pediatric intensive-care unit (PICU) mortality risk assessment, from 34 (in the PSI) to 14, and to obtain an objective weighting of the remaining variables.PRISM III, an updated version of the scoring system published in 1996, has several improvements over the original PRISM. There are two types of prisms, the first type is glass prisms which need to be held in the prentice position and the second type is plastic prisms that need to be positioned in the frontal plane. Try to estimate the angle of deviation before placing the prism over the affected eye, this way time can be saved in busy clinics and especially with children who may have a short attention span. The Performance Reporting and Information System (PRISM) is a data system which collects and disseminates performance measurement data for individuals receiving workforce services from the U.S. state of Oregon government. Analysis
A common statistic associated with length of stay is the average length of stay (ALOS), a mean calculated by dividing the sum of inpatient days by the number of patients admissions with the same diagnosis-related group classification. It is useful to be able to predict an individual's expected length of stay or to model length of stay to determine factors that affect it. Various analyses have sought to model length of stay in different condition contexts. Quality metric
Length of stay is commonly used as a quality metric. 
Can predilatation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation be omitted? [SEP] Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), also known as transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI), percutaneous aortic valve implantation (PAVI) or percutaneous aortic valve replacement (PAVR), is the replacement of the aortic valve of the heart through the blood vessels (as opposed to valve replacement by open heart surgery, surgical aortic valve replacement, SAVR). Implantation
The devices are implanted without open heart surgery. A larger incision in the groin may be required in some circumstances.The transapical approach sees the catheter and valve inserted through the tip of the heart and into the left ventricle. "Percutaneous valve implantation: back to the future?". See also
Percutaneous aortic valve replacement
Cardiac catheterization


== References == See also
John G. Webb - performed the first transapical transcatheter aortic valve implantation in 2006


== References == After the world's first transcatheter aortic valve implantation was performed using an antegrade transseptal approach by Prof. Alain Cribier in 2002 at the University of Rouen, Webb developed the transapical and retrograde transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve implantation in 2006 at St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver. See also
Alain Cribier - performed the first transcatheter aortic valve implantation in 2002
TMVR Transcatheter Mitral Valve Replacement Systems


== References == 
Autoerotic asphyxiation: secret pleasure--lethal outcome? [SEP] Erotic asphyxiation can lead to accidental death due to asphyxia. Sergey Sheleg, Edwin Ehrlich: Autoerotic Asphyxiation: Forensic, Medical, and Social Aspects, Wheatmark (15 August 2006), trade paperback, 208 pages ISBN 1587366045 ISBN 978-1587366048
John Money, Gordon Wainwright and David Hingsburger: The Breathless Orgasm: A Lovemap Biography of Asphyxiophilia. "An Objective Overview of Autoerotic Fatalities"
The Medical Realities of Breath Control Play By Jay Wiseman
Is there a safe way to perform autoerotic asphyxiation? Autoerotic fatalities are accidental deaths that occur during sexual self-stimulation when an apparatus, device or prop that is being employed to enhance pleasure causes the death. Both of these lead to autoerotic asphyxia. (1983) and Autoerotic Asphyxiation: Forensic, Medical, and Social Aspects by Sheleg et al. Autoerotic Asphyxiation: Forensic, Medical, and Social Aspects. "Unusual fatal mechanisms in nonasphyxial autoerotic death". 
Major depression and alcohol use disorder in adolescence: Does comorbidity lead to poorer outcomes of depression? [SEP] Depression in youth and adolescence is associated with a wide array of outcomes that can come later in life for the affected individual. Beyond other clinical disorders, there is also an association between depression in childhood, poor psychosocial and academic outcomes, as well as a higher risk for substance abuse and suicide.The prevalence of psychiatric comorbidities during adolescence may vary by race and ethnicity. Even moderate sustained use of alcohol may increase anxiety and depression levels in some individuals. "Differences Among Major Depressive Disorder with and Without Co-occurring Substance Use Disorders and Substance-Induced Depressive Disorder". "Coexisting Psychiatric Disorders in a New Zealand Outpatient Alcohol and other Drug Clinical Population". Chronic alcohol misuse has serious effects on physical and mental health. Mental health effects
High rates of major depressive disorder occur in heavy drinkers. Whether it is more true that major depressive disorder causes self-medicating alcohol use, or the increased incidence of the disorder in people with an alcohol use disorder is caused by the drinking, is not known though some evidence suggests drinking causes the disorder. 
Cold preparation use in young children after FDA warnings: do concerns still exist? [SEP] Alternative treatments used for the common cold include numerous home remedies and alternative medicines. Echinacea
A systematic review by the Cochrane Collaboration, last updated in 2014, examines twenty-four randomized controlled trials studying various echinacea preparations for prevention and treatment of the common cold. Reported side effects were rare.2007 meta-analyses conclude that there is some evidence that echinacea may reduce either the duration or severity of the common cold, but results are not consistent.Use of echinacea preparations is not currently recommended. There have been reports of children being badly burned by accidentally spilling the water used for steam inhalation.Evidence does not support a relationship between cold temperature exposure or a "chill" (feeling of coldness) and the common cold. References
EPA page on CHEERS
Editorial criticizing CHEERS
Urban Legends on CHEERS

Further reading
Lessons Learned From the Children’s Environmental Exposure Research Study
Protecting Kids from Environmental Exposure "A vast portion of the [American] children's medicine market" was affected by the recall. In Canada, only Children's Motrin and Children's Tylenol Cough & Runny Nose were affected by the recall.According to the FDA, consumers should stop using the recalled products even though the chance of related health problems was "remote." ISO 13127 Packaging—Child resistant packaging—Mechanical test methods for reclosable child resistant packaging systems
ASTM D3475,  Standard Classification for Child-Resistant Packages
ASTM F3159, Consumer Safety Specification for Liquid Laundry Packets
ASTM F2517-17 Standard Specification for Determination of Child Resistance of Portable Fuel Containers for Consumer Use

See also
Child safety lock
Childproof
Package pilferage
Over-the-counter drug
Pharmaceutical
Screw cap
Tamper resistance
United States Pharmacopeia

References
General references
Yam, K. L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6
Lockhart, H., and Paine, F.A.,  "Packaging of Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare Products", 2006, Blackie, ISBN 0-7514-0167-6

External links
Institute of Packaging Professionals
Packaging Association of Canada
Jay M. Arena Papers at Duke University Medical Center Archives (During the 1950s Arena persuaded drug companies to develop childproof safety caps for medicine bottles)News stories and press releases:

Mother pushes for childproof packaging Archived 2007-09-30 at the Wayback Machine at ToledoBlade.com, 2005-08-02
Childproof Packaging - new designs could save lives at EPSRC, 2005-05-24 
Does a 4 diagram manual enable laypersons to operate the Laryngeal Mask Supreme®? [SEP] A laryngeal mask airway (LMA), also known as laryngeal mask, is a medical device that keeps a patient's airway open during anaesthesia or while they are unconscious. Laryngeal mask airways are designed to be an easy way to secure the airway and ventilate a patient – they are easier to place than tracheal intubation due to the lack of muscle relaxants and laryngoscopy. Brain realised the exciting possibility that the laryngeal mask could be applied to head and neck surgery and also observed that "In two patients the anatomy was such as to suggest that endotracheal intubation might have presented at least moderate difficulty. Brain published a case series in Anaesthesia in 1985 describing the management of 3 difficult airway patients, illustrating the use of the laryngeal mask for airway rescue. "The laryngeal mask airway: its features, effects and role" [abstract]". "The laryngeal mask airway: a new concept in airway management". Laryngeal Mask Airway Instruction Manual. In: The Laryngeal Mask Airway: A Review and Practice Guide. 
Can we measure mesopic pupil size with the cobalt blue light slit-lamp biomicroscopy method? [SEP] OCT Biomicroscopy is the use of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in place of slit lamp biomicroscopy to examine the transparent axial tissues of the eye. Traditionally, ophthalmic biomicroscopy has been completed with a slit lamp biomicroscope that uses slit beam illumination and an optical microscope to enable stereoscopic, magnified, cross-sectional views of transparent tissues in the eye, with or without the aid of an additional lens. The binocular slit-lamp examination provides a stereoscopic magnified view of the eye structures in detail, enabling anatomical diagnoses to be made for a variety of eye conditions. Cobalt blue- after staining with fluorescein dye, for seeing corneal ulcers, contact lens fitting, Seidel's test

Cobalt blue light
Slit lamps produce light of the wavelength 450 to 500 nm, known as "cobalt blue". Pupil size is traditionally measured using a pupil gauge to estimate the diameter in millimeters of the pupil at rest before any light is shone into the eye—pupils should be of similar size. Pupil light reactivity is evaluated by shining a light into a patient's eye to make the pupil constrict in reaction to the light. is obtained using a pupillometer, and the measurement is compared against a normative model of pupil reaction to light and automatically graded by the NPi on a scale of 0 to 4.9. See also
Pupilometer
Pupillometry


== References == 
Should circumcision be performed in childhood? [SEP] Religious circumcision generally occurs shortly after birth, during childhood, or around puberty as part of a rite of passage. The Canadian Paediatric Society (2015) recommends that circumcisions done in the absence of a medical indication or for personal reasons "should be deferred until the individual concerned is able to make their own choices. Since circumcision involves physical risks which are undertaken for the sake of psychosocial benefits or debatable medical benefit to the child, ... Circumcision as Child Abuse: The Legal and Constitutional Issues. Circumcision of Healthy Boys: Criminal Assault? Is Circumcision Legal? In some cultures, males are generally required to be circumcised shortly after birth, during childhood or around puberty as part of a rite of passage. The religious circumcision of minors is legal in every polity.No major medical organization recommends circumcising all males, and no major medical organization recommends banning the procedure. 
Does a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis affect its management? [SEP] Amongst the complications that can be seen on CT scan are: abscesses, perforation, pylephlebitis, intestinal obstruction, bleeding, and fistula.Barium enema and colonoscopy are contraindicated in the acute phase of diverticulitis because of the risk of perforation. Antibiotics
Mild uncomplicated diverticulitis without systemic inflammation should not be treated with antibiotics. For mild, uncomplicated, and non-purulent cases of acute diverticulitis, symptomatic treatment, IV fluids, and bowel rest have no worse outcome than surgical intervention in the short and medium term, and appear to have the same outcomes at 24 months. Approach
Diverticulitis surgery consists of a bowel resection with or without colostomy. Clinical features of acute diverticulitis include constant abdominal pain, localized abdominal tenderness in the left lower quadrant of the abdomen, nausea, vomiting, constipation or diarrhea, fever and leukocytosis.Most people with colonic diverticulosis are unaware of this structural change. Colonoscopy will show the diverticulum and rule out malignancy. There is no blood test for diverticulosis.It is important to note that both barium enema and colonoscopy are contraindicated during acute episodes of diverticulitis, as the barium may leak out into the abdominal cavity, and colonoscopy can cause perforations of the bowel wall. Complications
Complicated diverticulosis requires treatment of the complication. 
Do instrumental activities of daily living predict dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up? [SEP] Lifestyle
Mental activity
"Use it or lose it" might be applied to the brain when it comes to dementia. The risk decrease is proportional to frequency of activity, with slower cognitive decline being associated with both late-life and early-life increased cognitive activity.Apart from spare time activities, a mentally demanding job may prevent dementia, especially during the thirties, forties and fifties.Mental activity may help to prevent dementia by building up a "brain reserve": additional connections between neurons are created which are more resistant to the deterioration seen in dementia. Physical activity
Since vascular dementia is the second most common form of dementia (after Alzheimer's disease), reducing the risk of cerebrovascular disease also reduces the risk of dementia. An active lifestyle can almost halve the risk compared to a sedentary one.Results of one meta-analysis, which investigated the relationship between physical activity and risk of cognitive decline in people without dementia, showed exercise had a significant and consistent protective effect against cognitive decline, with high levels of physical activity being most protective. Another meta-analysis showed that not only did aerobic exercise reduce the risk of dementia but it may also slow cognitive decline in those with dementia.The effect of physical activity is not limited to vascular effects. Dementia is the general name for a decline in cognitive abilities that impacts a person's ability to do everyday activities. Prevention
Risk factors
A 2020 review increased the number of associated risk factors for dementia; risks of over-indulgence in alcohol, traumatic brain injury, and air pollution were added to lower levels of education, high blood pressure, hearing loss, smoking, obesity, depression, inactivity, diabetes, and low social contact. Exercise programs are beneficial with respect to activities of daily living, and potentially improve dementia.The effect of therapies can be evaluated for example by assessing agitation using the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI); by assessing mood and engagement with the Menorah Park Engagement Scale (MPES); and the Observed Emotion Rating Scale (OERS) or by assessing indicators for depression using the Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD) or a simplified version thereof.Often overlooked in treating and managing dementia is the role of the caregiver and what is known about how they can support multiple interventions. 
Does the Simultaneous Use of a Neuroendoscope Influence the Incidence of Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt Infection? [SEP] Common microbial agents for shunt infection include Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus aureus, and Candida albicans. Further factors that can lead to shunt infection include shunt insertion at a young age (less than six months old) and the type of hydrocephalus being treated. Though the symptoms of a shunt infection are generally similar to the symptoms seen in hydrocephalus, infection symptoms can also include fever and elevated white blood cell counts. 28 patients with infection after ventriculoperitoneal shunt implantation over an 8-year period in their neurosurgical center were studied. suggest managing VP shunt infections via both surgical and medical treatment.An analysis of 17 studies published over the past 30 years regarding children with CSF shunt infections revealed that treating with both shunt removal and antibiotics successfully treated 88% of 244 infections, while antibiotic therapy alone successfully treated the CSF shunt infection in only 33% of 230 infections.While typical surgical methods of handling VP shunt infections involve removal and reimplantation of the shunt, different types of operations have used with success in select patients. have treated 4 patients with non-communicating hydrocephalus who had VP shunt infections with shunt removal and third ventriculostomy. A shunt has risk of infection and failure for which subsequent surgery is needed. ventriculo-peritoneal shunt). 
Body perception: do parents, their children, and their children's physicians perceive body image differently? [SEP] Body image is a person's thoughts, feelings and perception of the aesthetics or sexual attractiveness of their own body. Across these disciplines, there is no single consensus definition, but broadly speaking body image consists of the ways people view themselves; their memories, experiences, assumptions, and comparisons about their own appearances; and their overall attitudes towards their own respective heights, shapes, and weights—all of which are shaped by prevalent social and cultural ideals. Body image can be negative ("body negativity") or positive ("body positivity"). On the other hand, positive body image consists of perceiving one's figure clearly and correctly, celebrating and appreciating one's body, and understanding that one's appearance does not reflect one's character or worth.Many factors contribute to a person's body image, including family dynamics, mental illness, biological predispositions and environmental causes for obesity or malnutrition, and cultural expectations (e.g., media and politics). People who are either underweight or overweight can have poor body image. Body image is a complex construct, often used in the clinical context of describing a patient's cognitive perception of their own body. In research with the term “body image” we currently refer to a conscious mental representation of one’s own body, which involves affects, attitudes, perceptual components and cognition. Of course, many other things influence our body image: parenting, education, intimate relationships, and so on. 
Is a specialised training of phonological awareness indicated in every preschool child? [SEP] However, these other phonological abilities are prerequisite to the development of phonological awareness. The acquisition of phonological awareness skills does not progress in a linear sequence; rather, children continue to refine skills they have acquired while they learn new skills.The development of phonological awareness is closely tied to overall language and speech development. For most children, strong readers have strong phonological awareness, and poor readers have poor phonological awareness skills. Phonological awareness skills in the preschool and kindergarten years also strongly predict how well a child will read in the school years. Phonological awareness instruction improves reading and spelling skills, but the reverse is also true: literacy instruction improves phonological awareness skills. Students in primary education sometimes learn phonological awareness in the context of literacy activities, particularly phonemic awareness. Phonological Awareness, Second Edition: From Research to Practice. Phonemic awareness in young children: a classroom curriculum. 
Is there any relationship between streptococcal infection and multiple sclerosis? [SEP] Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS in which activated immune cells invade the central nervous system and cause inflammation, neurodegeneration, and tissue damage. This was already indicated by previous studies that found a relatively high rate of false diagnoses of MS among patients with AQP4-IgG-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders or MOG encephalomyelitis. Mechanism
The mechanism is hypothesized to be similar to that of rheumatic fever, an autoimmune disorder triggered by streptococcal infections, where antibodies attack the brain and cause neuropsychiatric conditions. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease that affects the central nervous system (CNS). Multiple Sclerosis. However, NMO is not related to MS in the vast majority of cases and differs from MS substantially in terms of pathogenesis, clinical presentation, magnetic resonance imaging, cerebrospinal fluid findings, disease course, and prognosis. Though their role in the lesion evolution is still unclear, their presence in normal-appearing white matter have been suggested to be an early stage of lesion formation

Heterogeneity of the disease
Multiple sclerosis has been reported to be heterogeneous in its behavior, in its underlying mechanisms, in its response to medication  and remarkably, also respect the response to the specific potassium channel autoantibody Kir4.1.For some authors, what we call MS in reality is a heterogeneous group of diseases Some independent reports take also PPMS apart Some others point a connection between some MS cases and peripheral neuropathiesSome reports propose the existence of molecular biomarkers that determine the clinical course of the disease, but the relationship to the pathological types has still not been established as of 2016. Cortical lesions: Not all MS patients develop cortical lesions. 
Is the combination with 2-methoxyestradiol able to reduce the dosages of chemotherapeutices in the treatment of human ovarian cancer? [SEP] 2-Methoxyestradiol (2-ME2, 2-MeO-E2) is a natural metabolite of estradiol and 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-OHE2). 2-Methoxyestradiol prevents the formation of new blood vessels that tumors need in order to grow (angiogenesis), hence it is an angiogenesis inhibitor. 2-Methoxyestradiol is derived from estradiol, although it interacts poorly with the estrogen receptors (2,000-fold lower activational potency relative to estradiol). A phase II trial of 18 advanced ovarian cancer patients reported encouraging results in October 2007.Preclinical models also suggest that 2-methoxyestradiol could also be effective against inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. Several studies have been conducted showing 2-methoxyestradiol is a microtubule inhibitor and is inhibitory against prostate cancer in rodents.As of 2015, all clinical development of 2-methoxyestradiol has been suspended or discontinued. 2-Methoxyestradiol disulfamate exhibits anti-angiogenic activity and induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in human tumor xenografts, with clinical potential for hormone–independent tumors. 2-Methoxyestradiol disulfamate is highly active in tumors that are resistant to chemotherapy.In xenograft models of breast and prostate cancer complete cures were achieved after oral treatment with 2-methoxyestradiol disulfamate and drug-resistant tumors also shrank in size after oral treatment. The combination has also been studied incidentally in the treatment of ovarian cancer.Both high-dose estrogens and high-dose progestogens have been found to be independently effective in the treatment of breast cancer in women. 
Assessing joint line positions by means of the contralateral knee: a new approach for planning knee revision surgery? [SEP] The idea behind the procedure is to realign the weight-bearing line of the knee. According to this protocol, an ideal patient is:
Moderately active
Between 40-60 years old
Experiencing isolated medial joint line tenderness
BMI <30
Malalignment <15°
Tibia bone varus angle >5°
Full range of motion in the knee
Near-normal lateral and patellofemoral compartments without ligamentous instability
A non-smokerContraindications specified by ISAKOS are:
Patients older than 65
Severe osteoarthritis of the medial compartment (Ahlback grade III or higher)
Tricompartmental osteoarthritis
Patellofemoral osteoarthritis
Range of motion in the knee <120°
Flexion contracture >5°
Diagnosed inflammatory arthritis
A large area of exposed bone on the tibial or femoral articular surface (> 15x15 mm)
Heavy smokers

Surgical technique
The general surgical technique includes either performing HTO alone or performing HTO in combination with ligament reconstruction. The drawer test is used in the initial clinical assessment of suspected rupture of the cruciate ligaments in the knee. The examiner positions himself by sitting on the examination table in front of the involved knee and grasping the tibia just below the joint line of the knee. "Modified Intervastus Approach to the Knee". The Journal of Knee Surgery. The knee-chest position or genupectoral position is a position used in a number of medical situations including gynecological examination and surgery, lumbar spine surgery, repair of vesico-vaginal fistula (VVF) by Sims’s saucerisation procedure, labor and delivery for which it is recommended in those with a cord prolapse until delivery can occur, and administrating enemas. The benefit to this questionnaire is that it is short, practical, reliable, valid and sensitive to clinically important changes over time.The Oxford Knee Score is owned, managed and supported by Isis Outcomes, an activity within Isis Innovation Ltd, the Technology Transfer Company for the University of Oxford. 
Does the type of tibial component affect mechanical alignment in unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) is a surgical procedure used to relieve arthritis in one of the knee compartments in which the damaged parts of the knee are replaced. Surgical information
The surgeon may choose which type of incision and implant to use for the subject's knee. Finally, the surgeon will close the wound with sutures.The unicompartmental replacement is a minimally invasive option for people whose arthritis is isolated to either the medial or the lateral compartment. Robotic-assisted knee replacements take into account both mechanical axis and soft-tissue balancing in order to assist the surgeon in placement of a knee replacement. Controversies
Cemented or cementless
The femoral, tibial and patellar components of a total knee replacement are fixed to the bone by using either cement or cementless total knee replacement implants. Other component designs have the polyethylene member fixed to the tibial component, and only articulate at the femur/polyethylene junction. Partial knee replacement
Unicompartmental arthroplasty (UKA), also called partial knee replacement, is an option for some people. A minority of people with osteoarthritis have wear primarily in one compartment, usually the medial, and may be candidates for unicompartmental knee replacement. 
Is tumour expression of VEGF associated with venous invasion and survival in pT3 renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] It was found that VEGF is one of the mediators of glomerular hypertrophy, which causes nephropathy. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, ), originally known as vascular permeability factor (VPF), is a signal protein produced by many cells that stimulates the formation of blood vessels. Solid cancers cannot grow beyond a limited size without an adequate blood supply; cancers that can express VEGF are able to grow and metastasize. VEGFR-2 appears to mediate almost all of the known cellular responses to VEGF. Although VEGF-A has been correlated with poor survival, its exact mechanism of action in the progression of tumors remains unclear.VEGF-A is also released in rheumatoid arthritis in response to TNF-α, increasing endothelial permeability and swelling and also stimulating angiogenesis (formation of capillaries).VEGF-A is also important in diabetic retinopathy (DR). Hence, VEGF is a potential target for the treatment of cancer. Current studies show that VEGFs are not the only promoters of angiogenesis. VEGF-D has also been shown to be over expressed in lymphangioleiomyomatosis and is currently used as a diagnostic biomarker in the treatment of this rare disease.In the kidney, increased expression of VEGF-A in glomeruli directly causes the glomerular hypertrophy that is associated with proteinuria.VEGF alterations can be predictive of early-onset pre-eclampsia.Gene therapies for refractory angina establish expression of VEGF in epicardial cells to promote angiogenesis. 
Injury and poisoning mortality among young men--are there any common factors amenable to prevention? [SEP] Data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control show that unintentional injuries are a significant public health concern: they are by far the leading cause of death from ages 1 through 44. Home safety
Home accidents including burns, drownings, and poisonings are the most common cause of death in industrialized countries. Other
The following is an abbreviated list of other common focal areas of injury prevention efforts:

Bicycle safety
Boat and water safety
Consumer product safety
Farm Safety
Firearm safety
Fire and burn safety
Impaired driving
Poison control
Toy safety
Traffic safety
Sports injury safety

See also
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission
Haddon Matrix
Home Safety Council
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
Accident Analysis and Prevention
Journal of Injury and Violence Research
Injury Prevention
International Journal of Injury Control and Safety Promotion
Journal of Safety Research
Journal of TraumaTraffic Injury Prevention

References
External links
WHO violence and injury prevention
Handicap International [1]
Safe Kids Worldwide
After the Injury - Children's Hospital Of Philadelphia
Healthy Canadians
Canada's Consumer Product Safety Program
National Safety Council United States
The three risk factors most commonly leading to preventable death in the population of the United States are smoking, high blood pressure, and being overweight. In 2008, the top five worldwide unintentional injuries in children are as follows:

See also
Accidental death – Unnatural death caused by accident
Alcohol and health – Health effects of drinking alcohol
Short-term effects of alcohol consumption
Long-term effects of alcohol consumption
Lifestyle medicine – Branch of medicine
List of causes of death by rate
Particulates
Health effects of tobacco § Mortality
Preventive healthcare – Prevent and minimize the occurrence of diseases
Public health – Promoting health through organized efforts and informed choices of society and individuals


== References == Injury Prevention is a bimonthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering the prevention of injuries in all age groups, including child and adolescent injuries. References
External links
Official website
International Society for Child and Adolescent Injury Prevention
Society for Advancement of Violence and Injury Research It is the second most common cause of death in adolescents and in young males is second only to accidental death. 
Continuation of pregnancy after antenatal corticosteroid administration: opportunity for rescue? [SEP] Antenatal steroids, also known as antenatal corticosteroids, are medications administered to pregnant women expecting a preterm birth. Uses
Preterm birth
Antenatal steroids have been shown to reduce the occurrence and mortality of infant respiratory distress syndrome, a life-threatening condition caused by underdeveloped lungs.Current evidence suggests that giving antenatal corticosteroids reduces risk of late miscarriages and baby deaths. Adverse effects
Preliminary research has suggested that the use of antenatal corticosteroids may have adverse long-term effects. In animals, antenatal corticosteroid use has been associated with adverse effects on the cardiometabolic system and inhibited growth of the brain, as well as worsened memory and learning difficulties. While it is not yet certain if human fetuses would experience these same effects, some literature has found that human preterm fetuses treated with antenatal corticosteroids may be at greater risk of developing mental and behavioural disorders during childhood, as these drugs are able to enter the fetus' brain and could affect neurodevelopment. Contraindications
Contraindications to the administration of antenatal corticosteroids include:
Systemic maternal infection
Maternal chorioamnionitis

Drugs
Corticosteroids encourage the development of the lungs in a premature fetus before birth, and are administered when the premature fetus is expected to be delivered within 24 to 48 hours. This preliminary trial showed that the administration of corticosteroids, specifically betamethasone, resulted in immediate improvements that were statistically significant, such as:
Lowered neonatal mortality rate
Reduced incidence of respiratory distress syndrome, but only in fetuses who had
Undergone less than 32 weeks of gestation, and;
Were treated for a minimum 24 hours before they were delivered
Reduced incidence of intraventricular cerebral hemorrhageThese findings were first reported in the article A Controlled Trial of Antepartum Glucocorticoid Treatment for Prevention of the Respiratory Distress Syndrome in Premature Infants, published in the journal Pediatrics in 1972. Antenatal administration of corticosteroids for women at risk of preterm birth: WHO Reproductive Health Library 
Does either obesity or OSA severity influence the response of autotitrating CPAP machines in very obese subjects? [SEP] Positive airway pressure
Positive airway pressure, initially in the form of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), is a useful treatment for obesity hypoventilation syndrome, particularly when obstructive sleep apnea coexists. The recent epidemic increase of obesity prevalence has thus contributed to changes in the prevalence and in the characteristics of pediatric OSA, the severity of OSA being proportional to the degree of obesity.Obesity leads to the narrowing of upper airway structure due to fatty infiltration and fat deposits in the anterior neck region and cervical structures. Obese people show an increase in neck fat tissue which potentiate respiratory obstruction during sleep.However, people of all ages and sex with normal body mass indices (BMIs) can also demonstrate OSA – and these people do not have significant measures of subdermal or intra neck fat as shown on DEXA scans. CPAP therapy can lead to an improvement of some of the cardiovascular component of the metabolic syndrome while weight loss is also recommended for its positive effects on OSA consequences and metabolic dysfunctions. Automatic positive airway pressure, also known as "Auto CPAP", incorporates pressure sensors and monitors the person's breathing. A 5% reduction in weight among those with moderate to severe OSA may decrease symptoms similarly to CPAP.Encouraging people with moderate to severe OSA to use CPAP devices can be challenging as their use often requires a behavioural change in sleeping habits. Moreover, a higher BMI is also linked to a higher prevalence of OSA, where a 10% increase in body weight led to a 6-fold risk of OSA in obese men and women.However, OSA is underdiagnosed as it is not always accompanied by daytime sleepiness which can leave the sleep-disordered breathing unnoticed. Obesity related sleep disorders
Obese subjects are vulnerable for sleep-related breathing disorders, such as sleep apnea. 
Does the clinical presentation of a prior preterm birth predict risk in a subsequent pregnancy? [SEP] Hypertension is considered a risk factor for high-risk pregnancy because it leads to an increased risk of pre-eclampsia, restricted fetal growth, and preterm birth. Pre-existing diabetes - Pre-existing diabetes that is not managed during pregnancy is associated with increased risk of spontaneous abortions in the first few weeks of pregnancy and increased risk of congenital malformations such as congenital heart defects and neural tube defects. Pre-existing diabetes is also associated with an increased risk of high birth weight or macrosomia and preterm birth. Uncontrolled gestational diabetes increases the risk for adverse perinatal outcomes such as preterm labor and delivery, preeclampsia, and other hypertension-related conditions in pregnancy. Early evidence shows that COVID-19 maternal infection in pregnancy may increase adverse outcomes such as preeclampsia. Multiple gestations: Although conditions that are more common in multiple gestations, such as preterm birth, should be monitored properly during the pregnancy, there is currently limited evidence to evaluate the ability of specialized antenatal care on improving outcomes for the parent or infant. It generally includes a pre-conception risk assessment for any potential complications of pregnancy. Domestic violence
It is recommended to screen for domestic violence at a preconception visit, because domestic violence during pregnancy a risk factor for miscarriage, late entry into prenatal care, stillbirth, premature labor and birth, fetal injury and low birth weight, and detection can avail for specific counseling and intervention.There is evidence that direct interview screening result in a higher rate of reporting prenatal domestic abuse than a written, self-report questionnaire method. 
Is the Distance Worth It? [SEP] Distances (Catalan: Les distàncies; Spanish: Las distancias) is a 2018 Spanish drama film directed by Elena Trapé which stars Alexandra Jiménez, Miki Esparbé, Isak Férriz, Bruno Sevilla and Maria Ribera. The Distance is the twelfth studio album by US-American rock singer Bob Seger. The Distance (Spanish: La distancia) is a 2006 Spanish boxing-themed neo-noir thriller film directed and written by Iñaki Dorronsoro in his feature film debut. "The Distance" is a song by American alternative rock band Cake. Released in August 1996, "The Distance" was the first single from the band's second album, Fashion Nugget, and is considered one of their most popular songs. Music video
The video for "The Distance" features footage of the members of the band performing the song in a busy office lobby, mixed with footage of a businessman who inexplicably starts to run off into the sunset; first he runs from his office building (the same one the band is performing in) to the suburbs, then into the country and a forest, and finally into the sea. Worth the Risk? "Was It Worth It?" 
Aripiprazole: a new risk factor for pathological gambling? [SEP] Medical uses
Aripiprazole is primarily used for the treatment of schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Major depression
Aripiprazole is an effective add-on treatment for major depressive disorder; however, there is a greater rate of side effects such as weight gain and movement disorders. Depending on the dose, aripiprazole can increase impulse control issues in a small percentage of people. Likewise it was approved for use as a treatment for schizophrenia by the TGA of Australia in May 2003.Aripiprazole has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of both acute manic and mixed episodes, in people older than ten years.In 2006, the FDA required manufacturers to add a black box warning to the label, warning that older people who were given the drug for dementia-related psychosis were at greater risk of death.In 2007, aripiprazole was approved by the FDA for the treatment of unipolar depression when used adjunctively with an antidepressant medication. A high rate of adverse effects with aripiprazole such as weight gain, sedation, and headache was noted. Substance dependence
Aripiprazole has been studied for the treatment of amphetamine dependence and other substance use disorders, but more research is needed to support aripiprazole for these potential uses. Available evidence of aripiprazole for amphetamine dependence is mixed. As such, aripiprazole may not only be ineffective but potentially harmful for treatment of amphetamine dependence, and caution is warranted with regard to its use for such purposes. 
Immune suppression by lysosomotropic amines and cyclosporine on T-cell responses to minor and major histocompatibility antigens: does synergy exist? [SEP] T cell Response to MiHAs
The MiHAs bound to a MHC presented on a cell surface may be recognized as a self peptide or not recognized by either  CD8+ or CD4+ T cells. Although B cell receptors can also recognize MHCs, immune responses seem to only be elicited by T cells. Although graft or bone marrow rejection can have detrimental effects, there are immunotherapy benefits when cytotoxic T lymphocytes are specific for a self antigen and can target antigens expressed selectively on leukemic cells in order to destroy these tumor cells referred to as graft-versus- leukemia effect (GVL).The recognition of a mature T cell to this self antigen should not induce an immune response. The significance of the peptide changing to an immunogenic form is that now specific HLA-A 0201 restricted T cells can recognize the peptide presented by MHC class I HLA-A0201 molecules. See also
JARID1D

References
External links
Minor+histocompatibility+antigens at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Stimulation of inhibitory receptors leads to phosphorylation of immunoreceptor tyrosine‐based inhibitory motif (ITIM), located in the cytoplasmic part of these receptors. T-independent antigen – Antigens that stimulate B cells directly. The greater susceptibility to infection was shown to be directly attributable to a dramatic decrease in peripheral blood lymphocytes in thymectomized animals. 
Does induction chemotherapy have a role in the management of nasopharyngeal carcinoma? [SEP] Induction chemotherapy is the first-line treatment of cancer with a chemotherapeutic drug. The goal of induction chemotherapy is to cure the cancer. The surgery is effective the treatment of recently diagnosed localized nasopharyngeal cancer for stage I patients. "Minimally Invasive Endoscopic Nasopharyngectomy in the Treatment of Recurrent T1-2a Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma". "Endoscopic Nasopharyngectomy for Patients with Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma at the Primary Site". "Endoscopic nasopharyngectomy with potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) laser for early locally recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma". "Endoscopic nasopharyngectomy for salvage in nasopharyngeal carcinoma: A novel anatomic orientation". "Endoscopic Endonasal Nasopharyngectomy in Selected Cancers" (PDF). 
Treatment of contralateral hydrocele in neonatal testicular torsion: Is less more? [SEP] Of children with testicular pain of rapid onset, testicular torsion is the cause of about 10% of cases. Children with testicular torsion may awaken with testicular or abdominal pain in the middle of the night or in the morning. Testicular torsion often occurs before or during puberty, prior to complete testicular descent. This type occurs exclusively in newborns, however, newborns can be affected by other testicular torsion variants as well. Neonates experiencing such a torsion typically present with painless scrotal swelling, discoloration, and a firm, painless mass in the scrotum. Immediate surgery is recommended regardless of imaging findings if there is a high degree of suspicion based on history and physical examination.Given the treatment implications of testicular torsion, it is important to distinguish testicular torsion from other causes of testicular pain, such as epididymitis, which can present similarly. Treatment
Testicular torsion is a surgical emergency that requires immediate intervention to restore the flow of blood to the testicle. Testicular torsion
Orchiopexy is performed in the event of testicular torsion, a urologic emergency presenting with intense pain and often without inciting injury.While neonatal torsion occurs with no anatomic defect to account for its occurrence (occurring in utero or shortly after birth), adult torsion results from a bilateral congenital anomaly often called a "bell-clapper deformity", where the testis is abnormally anchored in the scrotal sac, leading to increased mobility.Twisting of the spermatic cord results in obstruction of the testicular venous drainage. 
Are normally sighted, visually impaired, and blind pedestrians accurate and reliable at making street crossing decisions? [SEP] In Texas, for example, the Texas Workforce Commission contracts with individual O&M specialists and companies employing several O&M specialists in order to provide services to blind and visually impaired individuals at no cost to them, with the goal that the skills gained through such training will enable the blind or visually impaired person to gain stable employment in the future.Common techniques taught include cane travel, trailing, locating dropped objects, navigating street crossings and others.A systematic review trying to determine the best type of O&M training for people with low vision did not find any significant differences when comparing O&M training delivered by a trained volunteer versus physical exercise, but they had little power to do so because of the small sample size and poor methodological quality. Marked pedestrian crossings are often found at intersections, but may also be at other points on busy roads that would otherwise be too unsafe to cross without assistance due to vehicle numbers, speed or road widths. Unsignalised crossings generally assist pedestrians, and usually prioritise pedestrians, depending on the locality. For blind and visually impaired pedestrians, consistency in design is important to ensure a safe crossing. Visually impaired people with limited sight and neurodivergent people may experience pain or confusion in interpreting colourful crossings or distress from visual noise. This is for pedestrians with visual impairments. Audible signals
Crosswalks have adaptations, mainly for people with visual impairments, through the addition of accessible pedestrian signals (APS) that may include speakers at the pushbutton, or under the signal display, for each crossing location. However, if combined with (placed on top of) a speed table, zebra crossings were found to reduce pedestrian crashes by 80%.A five-year U.S. study of 1,000 marked crosswalks and 1,000 unmarked comparison sites found that on most roads, the difference in safety performance of marked and unmarked crossings is not statistically significant, unless additional safety features are used. 
Is it Crohn's disease? [SEP] Crohn's disease is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that may affect any segment of the gastrointestinal tract. While Crohn's is an immune-related disease, it does not appear to be an autoimmune disease (the immune system is not triggered by the body itself). Systemic
Like many other chronic, inflammatory diseases, Crohn's disease can cause a variety of systemic symptoms. All this new knowledge in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease allows us to put this multifactorial disease in the group of autoinflammatory syndromes.Some examples of how the innate immune system affects bowel inflammation have been described. Genetics
Crohn's has a genetic component. Classification
Crohn's disease is one type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). External links
"Crohn's disease". paratuberculosis, which may be a cause of Crohn's disease. 
Is Chaalia/Pan Masala harmful for health? [SEP] Chaat masala, also spelled chat masala, is a powder spice mix, or masala, originating from South Asia, typically used to add flavor to chaat. Uses
Beyond its use in preparing chaat, chaat masala finds uses in Indian fruit salads made with papaya, sapodilla, apples and bananas. Chaat masala is also sprinkled on potatoes, fruit, egg toasts and regular salads in India. Spice brands market an alternate spice mix called fruit chaat masala, which contains less cumin, coriander, and ginger, but more of chili pepper, black salt, amchoor and asafoetida. Chana masala (also chole masala, or chole) is a chickpea curry originating in the Indian subcontinent. Chaas (gu:છાશ chhash, hi:छाछ chhachh) is a curd-based drink popular across the Indian subcontinent. Chaas or Moru is consumed more in Southern India as it rehydrates the body from the hot climate. People also consume chaas for its health benefits. 
Does multi-modal cervical physical therapy improve tinnitus in patients with cervicogenic somatic tinnitus? [SEP] A review of tinnitus retraining therapy trials indicates that it may be more effective than tinnitus masking. Clinical practice
Tinnitus activities treatment (TAT) is a clinical adaptation of TRT that focuses on four areas: thoughts and emotions, hearing and communication, sleep, and concentration.Progressive tinnitus management (PTM) is a five-step structured clinical protocol for management of tinnitus that may include tinnitus retraining therapy. For people with severe or disabling tinnitus, techniques that are minimally surgical, involving magnetic or electrical stimulation of areas of the brain that are involved in auditory processing, may suppress tinnitus. Alternatives
Cognitive behavioral therapy
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), the counselling part of TRT, as a generalized type of psychological and behavioral counselling, has also been used by itself in the management of tinnitus. Other
Numerous non-TRT methods have been suggested for the treatment or management of tinnitus. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Clinical Guidelines. Tinnitus Retraining Therapy: Patient Counseling Guide. Treatment involves listening to music at specific frequencies that cause a patients tinnitus to be filtered out. 
Detailed analysis of sputum and systemic inflammation in asthma phenotypes: are paucigranulocytic asthmatics really non-inflammatory? [SEP] These patients had increased levels of neutrophil-mediated cytokine activity concluding that "epithelial damage is associated with a locally enhanced chemotactic signal for and activity of neutrophils, but not eosinophils, during acute exacerbations of paediatric asthma. The presence of inflammation and infection in the airways also results in the production of excess mucus, which must be coughed up as sputum. Eosinophils, mast cells, basophils and type 2 innate lymphoid (ILC2) cells have all been found at increased levels in the nasal polyps of AERD patients and appear to be part of the negative cycle of inflammation in AERD. Asthma is a common pulmonary condition defined by chronic inflammation of respiratory tubes, tightening of respiratory smooth muscle, and episodes of bronchoconstriction. Bronchoconstriction
During an asthma episode, inflamed airways react to environmental triggers such as smoke, dust, or pollen. In essence, asthma is the result of an immune response in the bronchial airways.The airways of asthma patients are "hypersensitive" to certain triggers, also known as stimuli (see below). Bronchial inflammation
The mechanisms behind allergic asthma—i.e., asthma resulting from an immune response to inhaled allergens—are the best understood of the causal factors. Pathogenesis
The fundamental problem in asthma appears to be immunological: young children in the early stages of asthma show signs of excessive inflammation in their airways. 
Is HIV/STD control in Jamaica making a difference? [SEP] UNAIDS estimates that 25,000 people in Jamaica are HIV-infected.The primary contributors to the epidemic are sociocultural, behavioral, and economic factors that result in risky behaviors such as multiple sex partners, older men having sex with younger women, and early sexual debut. Gender inequality, high levels of unemployment, persistent poverty, rising crime and violence, population mobility, and the growing commercial sex trade – including sex tourism – compound the country’s vulnerability to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.Although Jamaica has a well-established national surveillance system, collecting accurate data about at-risk groups is challenging. National Response
The Government of Jamaica has aggressively addressed the HIV/AIDS epidemic since 1988, when it established the National HIV/Sexually Transmitted Disease Prevention and Control Program and the National AIDS Committee (NAC), a nongovernmental organization (NGO). NAC, which has more than 100 member organizations, coordinates the national response to the epidemic.During the past two decades, Jamaica has taken several steps to combat HIV/AIDS. The relative successes of the Jamaican program are also notable, as the country has managed to secure its blood supply, expand STI treatment centers, introduce proper surveillance of HIV, and make condoms widely available. Over the past decade, deaths due to AIDS-related illnesses fell by 63% in the Caribbean country.These achievements are the result of collaboration between the Government of Haiti, civil society and international development partners.The recent declines in HIV infection rates are most notable in urban areas, and have been attributed to significant behavioral changes, including decreased number of partners, decreased sexual debut, and increased condom use. Prevention efforts
There are many efforts to combat HIV/AIDS in Jamaica and the broader Caribbean today. To prevent the epidemic, information, education, and communication campaigns have been formed to promote condom use, control sexually transmitted infections (STI), and form workplace programs, HIV testing, and counselling.There have also been efforts to minimize the stigma and discrimination surrounding issues relating to HIV and AIDS in Jamaica. 
Is Panton-Valentine leucocidin associated with the pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia in the UK? [SEP] Panton–Valentine leukocidin (PVL) is a cytotoxin—one of the β-pore-forming toxins. It was named after Sir Philip Noel Panton and Francis Valentine when they associated it with soft tissue infections in 1932. Epidemiology
Panton–Valentine leukocidin (PVL) is one of many toxins associated with S. aureus infection. References
External links
Panton-Valentine+leukocidin at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) The 2 MRSA clones in the United States most closely associated with community outbreaks, USA400 (MW2 strain, ST1 lineage) and USA300, often contain Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL) genes and, more frequently, have been associated with skin and soft tissue infections. First-line treatment for serious invasive infections due to MRSA is currently glycopeptide antibiotics (vancomycin and teicoplanin). Type strain of Staphylococcus aureus at BacDive –  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase One type is Panton-Valentine leukocidin. 
Are even impaired fasting blood glucose levels preoperatively associated with increased mortality after CABG surgery? [SEP] Increased fasting times leads to decreased injury if aspiration occurs.The latest guidelines do not support preoperative fasting, as there is no difference in residual gastric fluid volume, pH or gastric emptying rate following semi-solid meals or drinks, whether in obese or lean individuals. Complications
The most common complications of CABG are postoperative bleeding, heart failure, atrial fibrillation (a form of arrhythmia), stroke, kidney dysfunction, and infection of the wound near the sternum.Postoperative bleeding occurs in 2–5% of cases and may require returning to the operating room; the most common indicator is the amount of blood being drained by chest tubes, which are inserted during the operation to drain fluid or air from the chest. Impaired fasting glucose is a type of prediabetes, in which a person's blood sugar levels during fasting are consistently above the normal range, but below the diagnostic cut-off for a formal diagnosis of diabetes mellitus. Those with impaired fasting glucose are at an increased risk of vascular complications of diabetes, though to a lesser extent. The risks are cumulative, with both higher blood glucose levels, and the total amount of time it spends elevated, increasing the overall complication rate. Those with impaired fasting glucose have a 1.5 fold increased risk of developing clinical diabetes within 10 years, when compared to the general population. Impaired fasting glucose
Impaired fasting glycemia or impaired fasting glucose (IFG) refers to a condition in which the fasting blood glucose is elevated above what is considered normal levels but is not high enough to be classified as diabetes mellitus. Fasting blood glucose levels are in a continuum within a given population, with higher fasting glucose levels corresponding to a higher risk for complications caused by the high glucose levels. 
Does positron emission tomography change management in primary rectal cancer? [SEP] PET response criteria in solid tumors (PERCIST) is a set of rules that define when tumors in cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progress") during treatment, using positron emission tomography (PET). Radiation proctitis or radiation proctopathy is a condition characterized by damage to the rectum after exposure to x-rays or other ionizing radiation as a part of radiation therapy. Radiation proctitis most commonly occurs after pelvic radiation treatment for cancers such as cervical cancer, prostate cancer, bladder cancer, and rectal cancer. Rectal biopsies of acute radiation proctopathy show superficial depletion of epithelial cells and acute inflammatory cells located in the lamina propria. The location of radiation treatment is important, as radiation directed at regions of the body other than the pelvis (eg brain, chest, etc) should not prompt consideration of radiation proctopathy.Endoscopy is the mainstay of diagnosis for radiation damage to the rectum, with either colonoscopy or flexible sigmoidoscopy. Besides its established role as a diagnostic technique, PET has an expanding role as a method to assess the response to therapy, in particular, cancer therapy, where the risk to the patient from lack of knowledge about disease progress is much greater than the risk from the test radiation. "How We Read Oncologic FDG PET/CT". Positron emission mammography (PEM) is a nuclear medicine imaging modality used to detect or characterise breast cancer. 
Can you deliver accurate tidal volume by manual resuscitator? [SEP] Tidal volume (symbol VT or TV) is the volume of air moved into or out of the lungs during a normal breath. Mechanical ventilation
Tidal volume plays a significant role during mechanical ventilation to ensure adequate ventilation without causing trauma to the lungs. Similarly A 2018 systematic review by The Cochrane Collaboration provided evidence that low tidal volume ventilation reduced post operative pneumonia and reduced the requirement for both invasive and non invasive ventilation after surgeryInitial settings of mechanical ventilation:

Patients without pre-existing lung disease
Protective lung ventilation strategies should be applied with VT 6ml/kg to 8ml/kg with RR = 12 to 20 and an average starting target minute ventilation of 7 L/min. In medicine, the ratio of physiologic dead space over tidal volume (VD/VT) is a routine measurement, expressing the ratio of dead-space ventilation (VD) to tidal ventilation (VT), as in physiologic research or the care of patients with respiratory disease. Inability of professional providers to use manual resuscitators within established safety guidelines
Manual resuscitators have no built-in tidal volume control — the amount of air used to force-inflate the lungs during each breath depends entirely on how much the operator squeezes the bag. In response to the dangers associated with the use of manual resuscitators, specific guidelines from the American Heart Association and European Resuscitation Council were issued that specify recommended maximal tidal volumes (or breath sizes) and ventilation rates safe for patients. Another clinical study found "the tidal volume delivered by a manual resuscitator shows large variations", concluding that "the manual resuscitator is not a suitable device for accurate ventilation." It was also found that when guideline-excessive tidal volumes were delivered, changes in blood flow were observed that were transient at low ventilation rates but sustained when both tidal volumes and rates were simultaneously excessive, suggesting that guideline-excessive tidal volume is the principal mechanism of side effects, with ventilation rate acting as a multiplier of these effects. 
Can increases in the cigarette tax rate be linked to cigarette retail prices? [SEP] According to Nobel Prize–winning economist Gary Becker, who has studied the long-run price elasticity of cigarettes, the tax increase as a result of the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act increases the price of cigarettes 13.3% which ultimately means a 10.6% decrease in unit sales. Effects
One of the reasons for the support of increased cigarette taxes among public health officials is that many studies show that this leads to a decrease in smoking rates. The relationship between smoking rates and cigarette taxes follows the property of elasticity; the greater the amount of the tax increase, the fewer cigarettes that are bought and consumed. When Wisconsin raised its state cigarette tax to $1.00 per pack, the hotline received a record of 20,000 calls in a two-month time period versus its typical 9,000 calls annually.An analysis of smoking and cigarette tax rates in 1955 through 1964, prior to the Surgeon General’s first report and general antismoking sentiment, shows the same relationship between tax increases and declining smoking rates that are prevalent today, suggesting that popular attitudes towards smoking are not a confounding factor. Taxes as a proportion of cigarette prices
While the price of cigarettes has continuously increased since 1965, the percentage of that price going towards taxes is now half of what it was then. As smuggled cigarettes are a substitute of taxed cigarettes, the price of the former would also increase for higher tax rates. It increased the cigarette tax by $2.00 per pack, effective April 1, 2017, with equivalent increases on other tobacco products and electronic cigarettes containing nicotine. Cigarette tax is carried out together with the excise. 
Vertical lines in distal esophageal mucosa (VLEM): a true endoscopic manifestation of esophagitis in children? [SEP] The mucosal lining of the esophagus may be inflamed, and this can be seen on endoscopy or on biopsy; the mucosa, however, may also be normal if esophagitis is not the cause of the pseudodiverticulosis. Strictures or narrowings in the esophagus may also be seen, typically in the upper esophagus.As esophageal intramucosal pseudodiverticulosis is also associated with motility disturbances of the esophagus, manometry testing of esophageal pressures may provide information to assist in the diagnosis. Irregularity in the contractions of the esophagus, prominent tertiary contractions of the esophagus, or lack of esophageal contraction (aperistalsis) have all been reported on manometric testing of the esophagus. It is characterized anatomically by a congenital obstruction of the esophagus with interruption of the continuity of the esophageal wall. The mark has the appearance of a longitudinal red streak located on an esophageal varix. See also
Esophageal varices


== References == Imaging
Barium esophagography and videofluoroscopy will help to detect esophageal webs. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy will enable visual confirmation of esophageal webs. 
Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? [SEP] The hypoglycemia can be severe and life-threatening or a minor, occasional nuisance. Diabetic cardiomyopathy, damage to the heart muscle, leading to impaired relaxation and filling of the heart with blood (diastolic dysfunction) and eventually heart failure; this condition can occur independent of damage done to the blood vessels over time from high levels of blood glucose. For people with insulin-requiring diabetes, hypoglycemia is one of the recurrent hazards of treatment. Risk is greater in diabetics who have eaten less than usual, recently exercised, or consumed alcohol. Other causes of hypoglycemia include severe illness, sepsis, kidney failure, liver disease, hormone deficiency, tumors such as insulinomas or non-B cell tumors, inborn errors of metabolism, several medications, and alcohol. Other causes
Other causes of hypoglycemia in diabetics include the following:

Fasting, whether it be a planned fast or overnight fast, as there is a long period of time without glucose intake
Exercising more than usual as it leads to more use of glucose, especially by the muscles
Drinking alcohol, especially when combined with diabetic medications, as alcohol inhibits glucose production
Kidney disease, as insulin cannot be cleared out of circulation well

Non-diabetics
Serious illness
Serious illness may result in low blood sugar. Severe disease of many organ systems can cause hypoglycemia as a secondary problem. In terms of mortality, hypoglycemia causes death in 6–10% of type 1 diabetics.In those with type 2 diabetes, hypoglycemia is less common compared to type 1 diabetics, because medications that treat type 2 diabetes like metformin, glitazones, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, glucagon-like peptide 1 agonists, and dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors, do not cause hypoglycemia. 
Does the radiographic transition zone correlate with the level of aganglionosis on the specimen in Hirschsprung's disease? [SEP] It is a type of Hirschsprung's syndrome. However, others may be diagnosed later in infancy or early childhood.About half of all children with Hirschsprung's disease are diagnosed in the first year of life. Signs and symptoms
Typically, Hirschsprung disease is diagnosed shortly after birth, although it may develop well into adulthood,  because of the presence of megacolon, or because the baby fails to pass the first stool (meconium) within 48 hours of delivery. Genetics
Several genes and specific regions on chromosomes (loci) have been shown or suggested to be associated with Hirschsprung's disease:
The RET proto-oncogene accounts for the highest proportion of both familial and sporadic cases, with a wide range of mutations scattered along its entire coding region. Research suggests that several genes are associated with Hirschsprung's disease. The earlier the RET mutation occurs in Hirschsprung's disease, the more severe the disorder becomes. With Hirschsprung's disease, the segment lacking neurons (aganglionic) becomes constricted, causing the normal, proximal section of bowel to become distended with feces. A barium enema is the mainstay of diagnosis of Hirschsprung's, though a rectal biopsy showing the lack of ganglion cells is the only certain method of diagnosis.The first publication on an important genetic discovery of the disease was from Martucciello Giuseppe et al. 
Is dexamethasone an effective alternative to oral prednisone in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations? [SEP] Dexamethasone is a glucocorticoid medication used to treat rheumatic problems, a number of skin diseases, severe allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, croup, brain swelling, eye pain following eye surgery, superior vena cava syndrome (a complication of some forms of cancer), and along with antibiotics in tuberculosis. Medical uses
Anti-inflammatory
Dexamethasone is used to treat many inflammatory and autoimmune disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis and bronchospasm. It is unclear whether dexamethasone in this condition is significantly better than other glucocorticoids.It is also given in small amounts before and/or after some forms of dental surgery, such as the extraction of the wisdom teeth, an operation which often causes puffy, swollen cheeks.Dexamethasone is commonly given as a treatment for croup in children, as a single dose can reduce the swelling of the airway to improve breathing and reduce discomfort.It is injected into the heel when treating plantar fasciitis, sometimes in conjunction with triamcinolone acetonide.It is useful to counteract allergic anaphylactic shock, if given in high doses.It is present in certain eye drops – particularly after eye surgery – and as a nasal spray, and certain ear drops (can be combined with an antibiotic and an antifungal). COVID-19
Dexamethasone is recommended by the National Health Service in the UK and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in the US for people with COVID-19 who need either mechanical ventilation or supplemental oxygen (without ventilation).The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guideline panel suggests the use of glucocorticoids for people with severe COVID-19, defined as people with SpO2 ≤94% on room air, and those who require supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Endocrine
Dexamethasone is the treatment for the very rare disorder of glucocorticoid resistance.In adrenal insufficiency and Addison's disease, dexamethasone is prescribed when the patient does not respond well to prednisone or methylprednisolone.It can be used in congenital adrenal hyperplasia in older adolescents and adults to suppress Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) production. Pregnancy
Dexamethasone may be given to women at risk of delivering prematurely to promote maturation of the fetus' lungs. A systematic review published in 2013 found no significant adverse effect on the function of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis, growth, and bone mineral density in asthmatic children when inhaled fluticasone is used for up to three months. Dexamethasone isonicotinate is an anti-inflammatory, anti-allergic glucocorticoid that can be administered orally, by inhalation, locally, and parenterally. 
Mammographic screening in Sami speaking municipalities and a control group. Are early outcome measures influenced by ethnicity? [SEP] Breast cancer diagnosis and treatment is influenced by different cultural backgrounds. A study was done to find out reasons why women were still not taking advantage of the screenings that are now available to them.A group of women in Ireland had recently received a mammography; they were interviewed to see what they knew about breast cancer, signs or symptoms, if they had read any material prior to their screening or how they could help prevent breast cancer from occurring. According to the World Health Organization, this is because the region lacks a culture of regular breast cancer screening and therefore, early detection of the disease. This article deals with Sámi political structures, with an emphasis on the contemporary institutions. But there is a difference within the Sami group in Sweden according to their study. MammaPrint is predictive for pre- and post-menopausal women. Pakistan-
Mammaprint is now exclusively available in Pakistan through Precision Diagnostic Laboratory

Tissue sampling technique
Tumor samples may be submitted as core needle biopsies or surgical specimen. Many of the quality measures included in indices of prenatal care lack established correlations to improved maternal health outcomes.Black, Hispanic and Native American women are more likely to report site-related barriers to receiving prenatal care, such as distance to the clinic and lack of transportation to appointments. 
Do Electrochemiluminescence Assays Improve Prediction of Time to Type 1 Diabetes in Autoantibody-Positive TrialNet Subjects? [SEP] The presence of islet cell complement fixing autoantibodies also aids in a differential diagnosis between LADA and type 2 diabetes. In addition to being useful in making an early diagnosis for type 1 diabetes mellitus, GAD antibodies tests are used for differential diagnosis between LADA and type 2 diabetes and may also be used for differential diagnosis of gestational diabetes, risk prediction in immediate family members for type 1, as well as a tool to monitor prognosis of the clinical progression of type 1 diabetes. Prevalence
Since there is no regular autoantibody screening, patients with LADA are at risk of being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, which makes it difficult to estimate the prevalence of LADA. History
Although type 1 diabetes has been identified as an autoimmune disease since the 1970s, the concept of latent autoimmune diabetes mellitus was not noted until 1993, when it was used to describe slow-onset type 1 autoimmune diabetes occurring in adults. This followed the concept that GAD autoantibodies were a feature of type 1 diabetes and not type 2 diabetes. The Environmental Determinants of Islet Autoimmunity (ENDIA) Study is an Australian prospective pregnancy cohort study investigating the environmental triggers responsible for the autoimmune process that leads to type 1 diabetes. The aim of the ENDIA Study is to identify environmental factors and gene-environment interactions that contribute to and protect against the development of islet autoimmunity and progression to type 1 diabetes in children genetically at-risk. The study will follow 1,400 infants with a first-degree relative with type 1 diabetes prospectively from early pregnancy into childhood to investigate relationships between prenatal and postnatal environmental factors, and the development of islet autoimmunity and subsequent type 1 diabetes. 
Assessment of appropriate antimicrobial prescribing: do experts agree? [SEP] Antimicrobial stewardship is the systematic effort to educate and persuade prescribers of antimicrobials to follow evidence-based prescribing, in order to stem antimicrobial overuse, and thus antimicrobial resistance. decrease antibiotic-associated disease, such as Clostridium difficile–associated diarrhea, other antibiotic-associated diarrheas, and invasive candidiasis
guard the patient's microbiome, including the gut flora, respiratory tract flora, urogenital tract flora, and skin flora (this is closely related to the preceding goal of preventing antibiotic-associated disease)
decrease wasted costs
slow the increase in antimicrobial resistance
prevent unforeseen environmental degradation, such as likely adverse effects of altering biotas and animal microbiotas by pervading the water cycle with antimicrobials in wastewater

History
Antimicrobial misuse was recognized as early as the 1940s, when Alexander Fleming remarked on penicillin's decreasing efficacy, because of its overuse.In 1966, the first systematic assessment of antibiotic use in the Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada general hospital was published: Medical records were reviewed during two non-consecutive four-month periods (medicine, psychiatry, urology, gynecology and surgery, orthopedics, neurosurgery, ear, nose and throat, and ophthalmology). The first formal evaluation of antibiotic use in children regarding antibiotic choice, dose and necessity of treatment was undertaken at The Children's Hospital of Winnipeg. Evidence-based treatment guidelines and regulation of antibiotic use surfaced. They suggested "...large-scale, well-controlled trials of antimicrobial use regulation employing sophisticated epidemiologic methods, molecular biological organism typing, and precise resistance mechanism analysis [...] to determine the best methods to prevent and control this problem [antimicrobial resistance] and ensure our optimal antimicrobial use stewardship" and that "...the long-term effects of antimicrobial selection, dosage, and duration of treatment on resistance development should be a part of every antimicrobial treatment decision. Goals of desirable antimicrobial use
For the desired antimicrobial use, goals need to be formulated:

Define "appropriate", rational antimicrobial use for the institution, individual patient units, and define empiric treatment versus culture-directed antimicrobial treatment. Interventions on antimicrobial prescribing
The actual interventions on antimicrobial prescribing consist of numerous elements

Provide feedback, continuing education
Survey prescriber knowledge about antibiotics, antifungal or antiviral drugs. Merely the "amount" of antibiotics used is no straightforward metric for appropriateness. 
Is there a favorable subset of patients with prostate cancer who develop oligometastases? [SEP] Risk stratification and staging
Men with prostate cancer may be characterized as low, intermediate, or high risk for having/developing metastatic disease or dying of prostate cancer. A subsequent rise in PSA level above 0.2 ng/mL L is generally regarded as evidence of recurrent prostate cancer after a radical prostatectomy; less commonly, it may simply indicate residual benign prostate tissue.Following radiation therapy of any type for prostate cancer, some PSA levels might be detected, even when the treatment ultimately proves to be successful. Delayed early detection may partially explain worse outcomes in obese men with early prostate cancer. In men with prostate cancer, the ratio of free (unbound) PSA to total PSA is decreased. Proteolytically active PSA has been shown to have an anti-angiogenic effect  and certain inactive subforms may be associated with prostate cancer, as shown by MAb 5D3D11, an antibody able to detect forms abundantly represented in sera from cancer patients. In human prostate cancer, the higher expressing tumors are associated with quicker time to progression and a greater percentage of patients suffering relapse. Prostate cancers with a Gleason score ≤ 6 usually have rather good prognoses. These are typically found incidentally on surgery for benign prostatic hyperplasia (Note: not a precursor lesion for prostatic carcinoma).The majority of treatable/treated cancers are of Gleason scores 5-7 and are detected due to biopsy after abnormal digital rectal exam or prostate specific antigen evaluation. 
Cycloplegic autorefraction in young adults: is it mandatory? [SEP] Recent studies report that autorefractor measurements without application of cycloplegia medication can result in significant overestimation of myopia. Cycloplegia is paralysis of the ciliary muscle of the eye, resulting in a loss of accommodation. All cycloplegics are also mydriatic (pupil dilating) agents and are used as such during eye examination to better visualize the retina. It is commonly used as an eye drop during pediatric eye examinations to dilate the eye (mydriatic) and prevent the eye from focusing/accommodating (cycloplegic). Cycloplegia is necessary in cases of suspected latent hyperopia (or "over-focusing") so that an ophthalmologist or optometrist can accurately measure how much a person has to flex their focusing muscle (accommodation) in order to see in the distance and up-close. Cycloplegia is also helpful in relieving accommodative spasm. Cyclodestruction or cycloablation is a surgical procedure done in management of glaucoma. Complications
Inflammation, retinal detachment, hypotony, phthisis bulbi and sympathetic ophthalmia are some common complications of cyclodestructive procedures. 
Does screening or surveillance for primary hepatocellular carcinoma with ultrasonography improve the prognosis of patients? [SEP] Ultrasonography of liver tumors involves two stages: detection and characterization.Tumor detection is based on the performance of the method and should include morphometric information (three axes dimensions, volume) and topographic information (number, location specifying liver segment and lobe/lobes). The described changes have diagnostic value in liver nodules larger than 2 cm.Ultrasound is useful in HCC detection, stadialization and assessing therapeutic efficacy. Some authors consider that early pronounced
contrast enhancement of a nodule within 1–2 cm developed on a cirrhotic liver is sufficient
for HCC diagnosis. Therefore, some authors argue that screening
should be excluded in patients with etiologies that prevent curative treatment or in patients
with advanced liver disease (Child-Pugh class C).After curative therapies (surgical resection, local ablative therapies) continuing ultrasound
screening is recommended first at 1 month then at 3 months intervals after the therapy to
assess the effectiveness of therapy and to detect other nodules. Antitumor therapies
Ultrasound exploration can be an effective procedure for the assessment of liver tumors
response to treatment. Screening is recommended in those with chronic liver disease. For example, it is recommended that people with chronic liver disease who are at risk for hepatocellular carcinoma be screened every 6 months using ultrasound imaging.Because liver cancer is an umbrella term for many types of cancer, the signs and symptoms depend on what type of cancer is present. Primary prevention preemptively reduces exposure to a risk factor for liver cancer. 
"Would a man smell a rose then throw it away? [SEP] "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet" is a popular adage from William Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet, in which Juliet seems to argue that it does not matter that Romeo is from her family's rival house of Montague. That which we call a roseBy any other name would smell as sweet;
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Without that title. That which we call a rose,
By any other name would smell as sweet. That which we call a rose,
By any other word would smell as sweet. Smell Like a Man, Man is a television advertising campaign in the United States created by ad agency Wieden+Kennedy for the Old Spice brand of male grooming products, owned by Procter & Gamble. See also
Make a Smellmitment

References
External links
The Man Your Man Could Smell Like on YouTube
The Making of Old Spice's Commercial: The Man Your Man Could Smell Like on YouTube "Smell the Roses" is a song by English rock musician and former Pink Floyd member Roger Waters, and the ninth track on his fifth studio album, Is This the Life We Really Want? In an interview, Waters said of the song: "“Smell the Roses” is almost an afterthought. 
Department of Transportation vs self-reported data on motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions for stroke survivors: do they agree? [SEP] For example, the “accident-prone driver” was a belief that was supported by the data in the sense that a small number of drivers do participate in a disproportionate number of accidents, it follows that the identification and removal of this drivers will reduce crashes. Whereas TEC (2003), quotes a research from the Imperial College, London that indicates than the progress in medical technology and care made a significant contribution to the 45% fall of fatalities during the last 20 years, and account for 700 lives saved annually in the UK, and further puts forward that the lack of consideration of the benefits coming from the medical area, suggests that road safety is probably less effective that thought. Evans (1991) argues that the word “crash” indicates in a simple factual way what is observed, while “Accident” seems to suggest in addition a general explanation of why it occurred. Mackay (1979) Some Characteristics of the Population who Suffer Trauma as Pedestrians When Hit by Cars and Some Resulting Implications, 4th IRCOBI International Conference, Gothenburg. Evans, L. (1991) Older drivers risks to themselves and to other road users. Driver's Privacy Protection Act [1]

References
American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) It thereby provides an empirical basis for international comparisons and more effective road safety policies. Wrong confidential records on surveys
In December 2007, it was revealed that while sending out surveys to 1,215 drivers, the DVLA sent out confidential details, but to the wrong owners. 
Neoadjuvant Imatinib in Locally Advanced Gastrointestinal stromal Tumours, Will Kit Mutation Analysis Be a Pathfinder? [SEP] KIT-p.D419del (exon 8) — A subset of gastrointestinal stromal tumors previously regarded as wild-type tumors carries somatic activating mutations in KIT exon 8 (p.D419del). "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): c-KIT mutations, CD117 expression, differential diagnosis and targeted cancer therapy with Imatinib" (PDF). "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST): a model for molecule-based diagnosis and treatment of solid tumors". "Robust Activity of Avapritinib, Potent and Highly Selective Inhibitor of Mutated KIT, in Patient-derived Xenograft Models of Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors". "PDGFRA Activating Mutations in Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors". "Kinase Mutations and Imatinib Response in Patients with Metastatic Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor". "PDGFRA Mutations in Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors: Frequency, Spectrum and in Vitro Sensitivity to Imatinib". "KIT and PDGFRA mutations in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs)". 
Does the lipid-lowering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors ligand bezafibrate prevent colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease? [SEP] Medical uses
Bezafibrate improves markers of combined hyperlipidemia, effectively reducing LDL and triglycerides and improving HDL levels. The main effect on cardiovascular morbidity is in patients with the metabolic syndrome, the features of which are attenuated by bezafibrate. It lowers lipid levels by activating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα). In addition, PPARγ was reported to be involved in cancer pathogenesis and growth. See for a review and critique of the roles of PPAR gamma in cancer. Knockout studies
Studies using mice lacking functional PPAR-alpha indicate that PPAR-α is essential for induction of peroxisome proliferation by a diverse set of synthetic compounds referred to as peroxisome proliferators. PPAR agonists are drugs which act upon the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor. Aleglitazar is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor agonist (hence a PPAR modulator ) with affinity to PPARα and PPARγ, which was under development by Hoffmann–La Roche for the treatment of type II diabetes. 
Does self-efficacy mediate the relationship between transformational leadership behaviours and healthcare workers' sleep quality? [SEP] Transformational leadership enhances commitment, involvement, loyalty, and performance of followers. Effectiveness as compared to other leadership styles
Studies have shown that transformational leadership styles are associated with positive outcomes in relation to other leadership styles. Other studies show that transformational leadership is positively associated with employee outcomes including commitment, role clarity, and well-being. Studies have shown transformational leadership practices lead to higher satisfaction with leader among followers and greater leader effectiveness, while one transactional practice (contingent reward) lead to higher follower job satisfaction and leader job performance. In essence, when such “favorable conditions” are not present, managers—and the organizations they work for—should see a better return on investment from transformational leadership.It was shown that leader continuity enhanced the effect of transformational leadership on role clarity and commitment, indicating that it takes time before transformational leaders actually have an effect on employees. Transformational leadership is the key (Bass, 1985).Implementing transformational leadership has many positive outcomes not only in the workplace but in other situations as well. Aligning the organization into transformational leaders by committing, being involved, and developing with the employees will lead to higher job satisfaction and motivation.When transformational leadership was used in a nursing environment, researchers found that it led to an increase in organizational commitment. The results of this study indicate that transformational leadership increases cognitive effort while transactional leadership decreases it. 
Does microbial contamination influence the success of the hematopoietic cell transplantation outcomes? [SEP] "Fecal microbiota transplantation: past, present and future perspectives". Bacteria can also spread via the blood to other parts of the body (which is called hematogenous spread), causing infections away from the original site of infection, such as endocarditis or osteomyelitis. Intravenous catheters, urinary tract infections and surgical wounds are all risk factors for developing bacteremia from enterococcal species. These include:

HIV infection
Diabetes Mellitus
Chronic hemodialysis
Solid organ transplant
Stem cell transplant
Treatment with glucocorticoids
Liver failure
Asplenia

Mechanism
Bacteremia can travel through the blood stream to distant sites in the body and cause infection (hematogenous spread). Hematogenous spread of bacteria is responsible for many bone infections (osteomyelitis).Prosthetic cardiac implants (for example artificial heart valves) are especially vulnerable to infection from bacteremia. For example, if the skin is not adequately cleaned before needle puncture, contamination of the blood sample with normal bacteria that live on the surface of the skin can occur. The presence of certain bacteria in the blood culture, such as Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Escherichia coli almost never represent a contamination of the sample. Some research studies have shown that, because of this immune depression, blood transfusions increase the risk of infections and cancer recurrence. 
Very high serum CA 19-9 levels: a contraindication to pancreaticoduodenectomy? [SEP] It is commonly tested along with CEA, CA19-9, and CA242 for detecting pancreatic cancer. Clinical significance
Tumor marker
Guidelines from the American Society of Clinical Oncology discourage the use of CA19-9 as a screening test for cancer, particularly pancreatic cancer. The main use of CA19-9 is therefore to see whether a pancreatic tumor is secreting it; if that is the case, then the levels should fall when the tumor is treated, and they may rise again if the disease recurs. In people with pancreatic masses, CA19-9 can be useful in distinguishing between cancer and other diseases of the gland. Limitations
CA19-9 can be elevated in many types of gastrointestinal cancer, such as colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. It can also be elevated in people with obstruction of the bile ducts.In patients who lack the Lewis antigen A (a blood type antigen on red blood cells), which is about 10% of the Caucasian population, CA19-9 is not produced by any cells, even in those with large tumors. History
CA19-9 was discovered in the serum of patients with colon cancer and pancreatic cancer in 1981. Intractable abdominal pain is the main surgical indication for surgical management of chronic pancreatitis. 
Perioperative care in an animal model for training in abdominal surgery: is it necessary a preoperative fasting? [SEP] Preoperative fasting is the practice of a surgical patient abstaining from eating or drinking ("nothing by mouth") for some time before having an operation. The latest guidelines do not support preoperative fasting, as there is no difference in residual gastric fluid volume, pH or gastric emptying rate following semi-solid meals or drinks, whether in obese or lean individuals. Pulmonary aspiration
The main hypothesized benefit of preoperative fasting is to prevent pulmonary aspiration of stomach contents while under the effects of general anesthesia. Aspiration of as little as 30–40 mL can be a significant cause of suffering and death during an operation and therefore fasting is performed to reduce the volume of stomach contents as much as possible. Increased fasting times leads to decreased injury if aspiration occurs.The latest guidelines do not support preoperative fasting, as there is no difference in residual gastric fluid volume, pH or gastric emptying rate following semi-solid meals or drinks, whether in obese or lean individuals. Gastric conditions
In addition to fasting, antacids are administered the night before (or in the morning of an afternoon operation) and then once again two hours prior to surgery. Phases
Preoperative
The preoperative phase is used to perform tests, attempt to limit preoperational anxiety and may include the preoperative fasting. Background
Perioperative medicine encompasses the care of the patient preparing for, having and recuperating from surgery. 
Are physicians aware of the side effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors? [SEP] Drug-induced angioedema is a known complication of the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists (ARBs), and Angiotensin-Neprilysin Inhibitor LCZ969. Risk factor
Some common ACE Inhibitors are:

Benazepril (Lotensin)
Captopril (Capoten)
Enalapril (Vasotec)
Lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril)
Ramipril (Altace)Some common ARBs are:

Candesartan (Atacand)
Losartan (Cozaar)
Olmesartan (Benicar)
Valsartan (Diovan)

Incidence
The chance of drug-induced angioedema is extremely uncommon, however, as studies show incidence of less than 1%. Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) are a class of medication used primarily for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure. ACE inhibitors inhibit the activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme, an important component of the renin–angiotensin system which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II, and hydrolyses bradykinin. Effects
ACE inhibitors block the conversion of angiotensin I (ATI) to angiotensin II (ATII). Serious side effects may include low blood pressure, liver problems, high blood potassium, and angioedema. Serious side effects may include low blood pressure, liver problems, high blood potassium, and angioedema. Mechanism of action
ACE inhibitors inhibit the actions of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), thereby lowering the production of angiotensin II and decreasing the breakdown of bradykinin. 
Residual fundus or neofundus after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: is fundectomy safe and effective as revision surgery? [SEP] Sleeve gastrectomy or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is a surgical weight-loss procedure, typically performed laparoscopically, in which approximately 75 - 85% of the stomach is removed, along the greater curvature, which leaves a cylindrical, or "sleeve"-shaped stomach the size of a banana. In many cases, sleeve gastrectomy is as effective as gastric bypass surgery, including improvements in glucose homeostasis before substantial weight loss has occurred. Complications
Sleeve gastrectomy may cause complications; some of them are listed below:
Sleeve leaking (occurs 1 in 200 patients)
Blood clots (happens 1% of the time)
Wound infections (occurs in about 10 to 15% of post-op patients)
Strictures (occurs in 3.5% of post-op patients)
Aversion to food, and nausea
Damage to the vagus nerve which will cause constant nausea
Gastroparesis, with a delay in moving food from the stomach to the small intestine
Vomiting
Internal bleeding
Esophageal spasm/pain
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)
Depression after surgery

References
Further reading

Micsorare stomac/ gastric sleeve - info related 

 Media related to Sleeve gastrectomy at Wikimedia Commons Procedures are usually performed laparoscopically, though open surgery may be required if prior bariatric surgery has resulted in extensive scarring. A Nissen fundoplication, or laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication when performed via laparoscopic surgery, is a surgical procedure to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and hiatal hernia. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Sleeve gastrectomy also carries a small risk of stenosis, staple line leak, and gastro-esophageal reflux disease (also known as GERD, or heartburn).In addition to procedure-specific risks, patients also face risks to surgery in general. Most common
Sleeve gastrectomy
Sleeve gastrectomy, or gastric sleeve, is a surgical weight-loss procedure in which the stomach is reduced to about 15% of its original size, by the surgical removal of a large portion of the stomach, following the major curve. 
Are physician estimates of asthma severity less accurate in black than in white patients? [SEP] Rates of asthma-related hospital admissions in 2010 were more than three times higher among African American children and two times higher for African American and Latino adults compared with White and Asian and Pacific Islander people. In the United States, socioeconomic status is associated with race, due to population trends, Black and Hispanic populations are more likely to have asthma, due to higher concentrations in low-income areas. A longitudinal study over more than twenty years found that Black physicians had higher prevalence of cardiovascular disease, earlier onset of disease, twice the incidence of hypertension, and higher prevalence of diabetes compared to White physicians. As a result, black patients are more vulnerable to disease than white counterparts.Demographic changes can have broad effects on the health of ethnic groups. This bias caused the algorithm to find that black patients are generally healthier than white patients and a conclusion was created by the algorithm that black patients do not need extra care in such instances. Some White health care providers also maintain problematic, overt ideas about their Black patients, with being seen as less intelligent, less able to abide by treatment regimens, and more inclined to be subjects of risky behavior than their White counterparts. These symptoms and co-morbidities can ultimately lead to nutritional deficits and highly decreased quality of life.Compared to white patients, black patients have more severe pulmonary imaging findings and display more respiratory symptoms at diagnosis. Similarly, black and hispanic patients have overall worse pulmonary function than white patients that is often present earlier in life. 
Does laparoscopic surgery decrease the risk of atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery? [SEP] The mini-maze procedures are cardiac surgery procedures intended to cure atrial fibrillation (AF), a common disturbance of heart rhythm. It has been clearly demonstrated that longer or more intensive follow-up identifies much more recurrent atrial fibrillation, hence a procedure with more careful follow-up will appear to be less successful. References
External links
Surgical Treatment of Supraventricular Tachyarrhythmias in Cardiac Surgery in the Adult
Cardiologic Interventional Therapy for Atrial and Ventricular Arrhythmias in Cardiac Surgery in the Adult The first such procedure was performed by Dr. Cox at St. Louis' Barnes Hospital—now Barnes-Jewish Hospital—in 1987.The intention was to eliminate AF by using incisional scars to block abnormal electrical circuits (atrial macroreentry) that initiate and perpetuate the abnormal electrical waves of AF. A trial comparing closure against warfarin therapy found closure to be non-inferior when measured against a composite end point of stroke, cardiovascular death and systemic embolism.The left atrial appendage can also be surgically amputated, sutured or stapled simultaneously with other cardiac procedures such as a maze procedure or during mitral valve surgery. Although this procedure results in a regular (paced) heart rhythm it does not prevent the atria from fibrillating and therefore long-term warfarin anticoagulation may still be required. Research
Two 2021 systematic reviews and meta-analyses concluded that more than 1 g/d marine omega-3 fatty acids is associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation (AF). This is when a blade atrial septostomy is performed. 
The Main Gate Syndrome: a new format in mass-casualty victim "surge" management? [SEP] Trauma centers
Trauma centers play a crucial role in the mass casualty incident timeline. Mass casualty event
Generally, in the healthcare field, the term "mass casualty event" (MCE) is used when hospital resources are overwhelmed by the number or severity of casualties. This is critical, as a mass casualty incident can get out of hand quickly. "Activating A Mass Casualty Response". Medical surges can occur after a mass casualty incident. (2006) Mass Fatality Management following the South Asian Tsunami Disaster: Case Studies in Thailand, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka. doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.0030195
Capstone Document: Mass Fatality Management for Incidents Involving Weapons of Mass Destruction, US Army Research Development & Engineering Command and Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Office for Domestic Preparedness, August 2005. Mass Fatality and Casualty Incidents: A Field Guide. 
Do communication disorders extend to musical messages? [SEP] A communication disorder is any disorder that affects an individual's ability to comprehend, detect, or apply language and speech to engage in dialogue effectively with others. In general, communication disorders commonly refer to problems in speech (comprehension and/or expression) that significantly interfere with an individual's achievement and/or quality of life. The following diagnoses are included as communication disorders:

Expressive language disorder – characterized by difficulty expressing oneself beyond simple sentences and a limited vocabulary. This disorder causes many communication problems for the individual and may interfere with social communication and performance in work and/or school settings where communication is essential. Examples
Examples of disorders that may include or create challenges in language and communication and/or may co-occur with the above disorders:

autism spectrum disorders - autistic disorder, pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDDNOS), and Asperger disorder – developmental disorders that affect the brain's normal development of social and communication skills. The inability to hear is not in itself a communication disorder. "Communication disorders in speakers of tone languages: etiological bases and clinical considerations". This is a glossary of medical terms related to communication disorders which are psychological or medical conditions that could have the potential to affect the ways in which individuals can hear, listen, understand, speak and respond to others. 
Do patients with rheumatoid arthritis established on methotrexate and folic acid 5 mg daily need to continue folic acid supplements long term? [SEP] Different dosing protocols are used, but folinic acid should be redosed until the methotrexate level is less than 5 x 10−8 M.Additionally, folinic acid is sometimes used to reduce the side effects of methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis patients. The supplement of folinic acid in people undergoing methotrexate treatment is to give less rapidly dividing cells enough folate to maintain normal cell functions. Discontinuation rates are as high as 16% due to adverse effects.Use of low doses of methotrexate together with NSAIDs such as aspirin or analgesics such as paracetamol is relatively safe in people being treated for rheumatoid arthritis, with appropriate monitoring. Methotrexate is also sometimes used in combination with other conventional DMARDs, such as sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine.Studies and reviews have found that most rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with methotrexate for up to one year had less pain, functioned better, had fewer swollen and tender joints, and had less disease activity overall as reported by themselves and their doctors. Measurements of creatinine are recommended at least every two months.Folic acid is commonly co-prescribed with methotrexate to minimise the risk of adverse effects. Low doses of methotrexate can deplete folate stores and cause side-effects that are similar to folate deficiency. Both high-folate diets and supplemental folic acid may help reduce the toxic side-effects of low-dose methotrexate without decreasing its effectiveness. Anyone taking low-dose methotrexate for the health problems listed above should consult with a physician about the need for a folic acid supplement. 
Can infundibular height predict the clearance of lower pole calyceal stone after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy? [SEP] Lithotomy from Greek for "lithos" (stone) and "tomos" (cut), is a surgical method for removal of calculi, stones formed inside certain organs, such as the urinary tract (kidney stones), bladder (bladder stones), and gallbladder (gallstones), that cannot exit naturally through the urinary system or biliary tract. Lithotomy differs from lithotripsy, where the stones are crushed either by a minimally invasive probe inserted through the exit canal, or by an acoustic pulse (extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy), which is a non-invasive procedure. Uses
Lithotomy is a surgical method for removal of calculi, stones formed inside certain organs, such as the urinary tract (kidney stones), bladder (bladder stones), and gallbladder (gallstones), that cannot exit naturally through the urinary system or biliary tract. Contraindications
Technique
Lithotomy is a procedure in which a surgical incision is made and the bladder, ureters or affected organ opened surgically to remove stones. Procedure
A retrograde pyelogram is done to locate the stone in the kidney. Laser lithotripsy is a surgical procedure to remove stones from urinary tract, i.e., kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra. Comparison
Laser lithotripsy (LL) has been evaluated against Extracorporeal Shock Wave lithotripsy (ESWL), finding both to be safe and effective. A 2013 meta-analysis found LL can treat larger stones (> 2 cm) with good stone-free and complication rates.Holmium laser lithotripsy had superior initial success and re-treatment rate compared to extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) in a 2013 trial.The experimental thulium fiber laser (TFL) is being studied as a potential alternative to the holmium:YAG (Ho:YAG) laser for the treatment of kidney stones. 
Does lung ischemia and reperfusion have an impact on coronary flow? [SEP] Reduced blood flow to the heart associated with coronary ischemia can result in inadequate oxygen supply to the heart muscle. Reperfusion therapy is a medical treatment to restore blood flow, either through or around, blocked arteries, typically after a heart attack (myocardial infarction (MI)). Mechanisms
Reperfusion of ischemic tissues is often associated with microvascular injury, particularly due to increased permeability of capillaries and arterioles that lead to an increase of diffusion and fluid filtration across the tissues. Activated endothelial cells produce more reactive oxygen species but less nitric oxide following reperfusion, and the imbalance results in a subsequent inflammatory response. Both studies found there is no statistical difference in outcome with cyclosporin administration.Reperfusion leads to biochemical imbalances within the cell that lead to cell death and increased infarct size. Third, reperfusion initiates an immune, inflammatory response resulting in the circulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNFα, IL-6 and IL-8 as well as complement activation (such as TCC and C3bc). Lungs
While the lungs are generally oxygenated during the ischemic period of arrest, they are still susceptible to ischemic damage. This decreases the pressure inside the lungs, forcing the air to flow into the lungs. 
Is a patient's self-reported health-related quality of life a prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer patients? [SEP] The self-perceived quality-of-life scale is a psychological assessment instrument which is based on a comprehensive theory of the self-perceived quality of life (SPQL) and provides a multi-faceted measurement of health-related and non-health-related aspects of well-being. During the past several decades researchers investigated the concept of “the good life” based on three theoretical approaches:

Focusing on quality of life (QOL) on a population and on individual levels by considering objective and/or subjective factors present or absent in people's lives;
Focusing on subjective well-being (SWB) by considering an individual's level of overall happiness and life satisfaction; and
Focusing on an individual's level of functionality across social, psychological, and health factors.The comprehensive scale of the good life, the Self-Perceived Quality of Life (SPQL) scale, overcame the limitations of prior approaches by integrating measurements of SWB, QOL, and functionality on an individual level, and by utilizing innovative quantification methods. Health-related quality of life instruments are generally multi-dimensional questionnaires assessing a combination of aspects of impairments and/or disability and reflect a patient's health status. Prospects and challenges in using patient-reported outcomes in clinical practice. Assessing Quality of Life in Clinical Trials: Methods and Practice. Measurement and modeling of health-related quality of life. Patient reported outcome measures: a model-based classification system for research and clinical practice. Wiklund I., Assessment of patient-reported outcomes in clinical trials: the example of health-related quality of life, Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 
Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN): a role for polymorphisms in the beta-adrenergic receptor (ADRB) encoding genes? [SEP] Transient tachypnea of the newborn is a respiratory problem that can be seen in the newborn shortly after delivery. Signs and symptoms
Symptoms of transient tachypnea of the newborn include respiratory distress and rapid breathing (tachypnea). Pathophysiology
Due to the higher incidence of transient tachypnea of the newborn in infants delivered by caesarean section, it has been postulated that it could result from a delayed absorption of fetal lung fluid from the pulmonary lymphatic system. Epinephrine or salbutamol (albuterol) have been suggested as a treatment option for transient tachypnea, as a result of evidence that  β-agonists increase the speed of alveolar fluid clearance in the lung of newborns. Prognosis
Transient tachypnea of the newborn is usually self limiting, however, it may be associated with wheezing syndromes as the child grows older. Epidemiology
Transient tachypnea of the newborn occurs in approximately 1 in 100 preterm infants and 3.6-5.7 per 1000 term infants. The beta-3 adrenergic receptor (β3-adrenoceptor), also known as ADRB3, is a beta-adrenergic receptor, and also denotes the human gene encoding it. The beta-1 adrenergic receptor (β1 adrenoceptor), also known as ADRB1, can either refer to the protein-encoding gene (gene ADRB1) or one of the four adrenergic receptors. 
Is duration of psychological treatment for depression related to return into treatment? [SEP] Another depressive feature that has been associated with poor response to treatment is longer duration of depressive episodes. Psychotherapy may be effective in people with treatment-resistant depression because it can help relieve stress that may contribute to depressive symptoms.A Cochrane systematic review has shown that psychological therapies (including cognitive behavioural therapy, dialectal behavioural therapy, interpersonal therapy and intensive short-term dynamic psychotherapy) added to usual care (with antidepressants) can be beneficial for depressive symptoms and for response and remission rates over the short term (up to six months) for patients with treatment-resistant depression. Outcomes
Treatment-resistant depression is associated with more instances of relapse than depression that is responsive to treatment. One study showed that as many as 80% of people with treatment-resistant depression who needed more than one course of treatment relapsed within a year. Treatment-resistant depression has also been associated with lower long-term quality of life.Another study saw just 8 of 124 patients in remission after two years of standard depression treatment. Successful psychotherapy appears to prevent the recurrence of depression even after it has been terminated or replaced by occasional "booster" sessions. Early or premature discontinuation of medications, prior to 6 to 12 months of having achieved remission, is associated with an increased risk of relapse of the depression.Other medications can be added to SSRIs if a partial response is achieved and further improvement is needed; these agents include lithium, bupropion and atypical antipsychotics. The STAR*D researchers state that their data "suggest that a patient with persistent depression can get well after trying several treatment strategies, but his or her odds of beating the depression diminish as additional treatment strategies are needed." 
Does shaving the incision site increase the infection rate after spinal surgery? [SEP] The wound itself takes a long time to heal; the aim of minimally invasive surgery is reduce tissue trauma and the associated bleeding and risk of infection by minimizing the size of the incision.Some minimally invasive spine surgery may be performed by a spinal neurosurgeon or an orthopedic surgeon and a trained medical team. "The surgeon makes the necessary repairs to the spine, extracting affected disc material out through the tubular retractor and inserting medical devices, such as intervertebral spacers, rods, pedicle screws, facet screws, nucleus replacement devices, and artificial discs, through the retractor.Robot-assisted surgery is another technique that is used occasionally in minimally invasive spine surgery.When the procedure is done the tube is removed, and the wound is stitched, stapled, or glued shut. This allows the pus fluid to escape by draining out through the incision. In incisional abscesses
For incisional abscesses, it is recommended that incision and drainage is followed by covering the area with a thin layer of gauze followed by sterile dressing. Alternatively, if the infection is cleared and healthy granulation tissue is evident at the base of the wound, the edges of the incision may be reapproximated, such as by using butterfly stitches, staples or sutures. Discitis occurs post-surgically in approximately 1–2 percent of patients after spinal surgery. It is a major spine operation with residual scar tissue and may result in postlaminectomy syndrome. With spinal fusion, the recovery time may be longer. 
The influence of atmospheric pressure on aortic aneurysm rupture--is the diameter of the aneurysm important? [SEP] Among those with an aneurysm between 5.5 and 7 cm, the risk is about 10%, while for those with an aneurysm greater than 7 cm the risk is about 33%. An aneurysm is usually defined as an outer aortic diameter over 3 cm (normal diameter of the aorta is around 2 cm), or more than 50% of normal diameter. An aortic aneurysm is an enlargement (dilatation) of the aorta to greater than 1.5 times normal size. Aortic aneurysms result from a weakness in the wall of the aorta and increase the risk of aortic rupture. The risk of rupture of an AAA is related to its diameter; once the aneurysm reaches about 5 cm, the yearly risk of rupture may exceed the risks of surgical repair for an average-risk patient. The determination to perform surgery is usually based upon the diameter of the aortic root (with 5 centimeters being a rule of thumb - a normal size is 2-3 centimeters) and the rate of increase in its size (as determined through repeated echocardiography).An alternative to surgical repair or a ruptured aneurysm is percutaneous closure. An aneurysm is usually defined as an outer aortic diameter over 3 cm (normal diameter of the aorta is around 2 cm), or more than 50% of normal diameter that of a healthy individual of the same sex and age. The pressure of blood within the expanding aneurysm may also injure the blood vessels supplying the artery itself, further weakening the vessel wall. 
Do French lay people and health professionals find it acceptable to breach confidentiality to protect a patient's wife from a sexually transmitted disease? [SEP] Privacy
Medical confidentiality is an important part of the medical ethics of a doctor–patient relationship. Sexual health clinics follow local standards of medical confidentiality to protect the privacy of patients. Some clinics provide anonymous services or protect confidentiality by having a patient use a number or a pseudonym.Additional privacy protections sometimes apply to matters of sexuality and reproduction, since these areas are sensitive in many cultures. Minister for Solidarity and Health is a cabinet position in the Government of France. Physician–patient privilege is a legal concept, related to medical confidentiality, that protects communications between a patient and their doctor from being used against the patient in court. For example, a below-age of consent patient came to a doctor with a sexually transmitted disease. The doctor is usually required to obtain a list of the patient's sexual contacts to inform them that they need treatment. Australia
In New South Wales, Australia, a privilege exists for "communication made by a person in confidence to another person .... in the course of a relationship in which the confidant was acting in a professional capacity". 
Do somatic complaints predict subsequent symptoms of depression? [SEP] Construct validity
The SSD-12 showed positive associations with somatic symptom burden, health anxiety, depression, and anxiety. Development and Validation of the Somatic Symptom Disorder–B Criteria Scale (SSD-12). A somatic symptom disorder, formerly known as a somatoform disorder, is any mental disorder that manifests as physical symptoms that suggest illness or injury, but cannot be explained fully by a general medical condition or by the direct effect of a substance, and are not attributable to another mental disorder (e.g., panic disorder). Somatic symptom disorders, as a group, are included in a number of diagnostic schemes of mental illness, including the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months.Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Definition
Somatic symptom disorders are a group of disorders, all of which fit the definition of physical symptoms similar to those observed in physical disease or injury for which there is no identifiable physical cause. Psychological factors
Patients with somatic syndromes such as fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome have significantly higher rates of both physical and sexual abuse prior to the onset of their physiological symptoms, as well as higher rates of previous emotional abuse, emotional neglect, and physical neglect compared to the general population. the somatization-anxiety-depression triad). 
Are women with major depression in pregnancy identifiable in population health data? [SEP] Mothers with a history of mental health issues should also talk to their doctor about it early in the pregnancy to help with possible depressive symptoms. Typically, depression symptoms associated with pregnancy are categorized as postnatal depression, due to the onset of symptoms occurring after childbirth has occurred. This is a possible explanation as to why antenatal depression has just recently been identified. Depressive symptoms in pregnant women are linked with poor health outcomes in infants. The rates of hospitalization are found increased for infants who are born to women with high depression levels during pregnancy. "Prenatal Depression and Infant Health: The Importance of Inadequately Measured, Unmeasured, and Unknown Confounds". In the US, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists suggests healthcare providers consider depression screening for perinatal women. Clinical depression also is associated with miscarriage. 
Remote ischemic postconditioning: does it protect against ischemic damage in percutaneous coronary revascularization? [SEP] Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) is an experimental medical procedure that aims to reduce the severity of ischaemic injury to an organ such as the heart or the brain, most commonly in the situation of a heart attack or a stroke, or during procedures such as heart surgery when the heart may temporary suffer ischaemia during the operation, by triggering the body's natural protection against tissue injury. History
The phenomenon of ischemic preconditioning (IPC) was discovered in 1986 by C. E. Murry and colleagues, who observed that repeated, temporary cross-clamping of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) in dogs protected the LAD territory of the heart against a subsequent prolonged ischemic event, reducing infarct size by 75%. This was thought to be a local effect and was termed local ischemic preconditioning. Other researchers confirmed this remote effect and found that performing the preconditioning protocol on kidney or gastrointestinal tissue also provided protection to the heart.In 2002, Raj Kharbanda and Andrew Redington, working at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, showed that non-invasively stopping and starting blood flow in the arm provided the same protection as invasive preconditioning of the heart. Heart attacks
In multiple randomized controlled trials, remote ischemic conditioning reduced infarct size in ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients when used in the ambulance or emergency department as an adjunct therapy to primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), or when used with thrombolytic drugs. Percutaneous coronary intervention
Remote ischemic conditioning significantly reduced heart damage (as measured by troponin elevations) in four randomized controlled trials involving 816 elective (non-emergency) PCI patients. Cardioprotection includes strategies that are implemented before an ischemic event (preconditioning, PC), during an ischemic event (perconditioning, PerC) and after the event and during reperfusion (postconditioning, PostC). Remote pre- and post-conditioning
Rather than blocking a coronary artery, similar results have been seen by blocking the brachial artery using a blood pressure cuff prior to surgery. 
Does combining antiretroviral agents in a single dosage form enhance quality of life of HIV/AIDS patients? [SEP] With rare exceptions, no individual antiretroviral drug has been demonstrated to suppress an HIV infection for long; these agents must be taken in combinations in order to have a lasting effect. As a result, the standard of care is to use combinations of antiretroviral drugs. In recent years, drug companies have worked together to combine these complex regimens into single-pill fixed-dose combinations. Adjunct treatment
Although antiretroviral therapy has helped to improve the quality of life of people living with HIV, there is still a need to explore other ways to further address the disease burden. It is used together with other antiretrovirals. It can be used by itself or together with other antiretroviral medications. For treatment, it must be used in combination with other antiretroviral medications. A Cochrane systematic review found a 51% relative risk reduction of contracting HIV with both tenofovir alone and the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination. 
The inverse equity hypothesis: does it apply to coverage of cancer screening in middle-income countries? [SEP] Justification
Although once considered a problem exclusive to high-income countries, cancer is a leading cause of death and disability in the developing world. By 2030, low and middle income countries will bear the brunt of an estimated 27 million new cancer cases and 17 million cancer deaths.Case fatality for the cancers that can be treated or prevented is much higher in the developing world – a result of grave inequity in the opportunity to survive the disease. •       Jordan: King Hussein Cancer Foundation and Center, and the Jordan Breast Cancer Program

References
Further reading
Cancer control opportunities in low- and middle-income countries. Expansion of cancer care and control in countries of low and middle income: a call to action. Closing the Cancer Divide: A Blueprint to Expand Access in Low and Middle Income Countries. Harvard Global Equity Initiative, Boston, MA, October 2011. https://web.archive.org/web/20120216211242/http://ghsm.hms.harvard.edu/uploads/pdf/ccd_report_111027.pdf

External links
Harvard Global Equity Initiative  Archived 2017-09-18 at the Wayback Machine
Dana Farber Cancer Institute
Harvard School of Public Health
Partners In Health
Harvard Medical School
King Hussein Cancer Foundation and Center
Jordan Breast Cancer Program
Tómatelo a Pecho
Brigham and Women's Hospital
Official Website of the Global Task Force on Expanded Access to Cancer Care and Control in Developing Countries Archived 2013-04-24 at the Wayback Machine There is also evidence for a correlation between socioeconomic status and health literacy; one study showed that wealthier Tanzanian families were more likely to recognize disease in their children than those that were coming from lower income backgrounds.Social inequities are a key barrier to accessing health-related educational resources. In the UK, Public Health England, a universal service free at the point of use, which forms part of the NHS, offers regular screening to any member of the population considered to be in an at-risk group (such as individuals over 45) for major disease (such as colon cancer, or diabetic-retinopathy). 
Identification of racial disparities in breast cancer mortality: does scale matter? [SEP] Breast cancer diagnosis and treatment is influenced by different cultural backgrounds. CPIC studies helped scientists and public health agencies understand when ethnic, racial, or other demographic-based variables result in health disparities wherein one group has a higher incidence of cancer compared to other groups of people. Bias and racism also contribute to disparities in health outcomes. Black women have higher maternity mortalilty rates than white women regardless of socioeconomic status and pre-existing health conditions.According to the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, a data analysis was performed using The Behavioral Risk Factor System survey to examining the perceptions of racial privilege in healthcare among different races. The prevalence of this among women and men shows that women more often have diabetes than men, especially in communities of Native American people.A report from Wisconsin's Department of Health and Family Services showed that while black women are more likely to die from breast cancer, white women are more likely to be diagnosed with breast cancer. Gilbert C. Gee's study A Multilevel Analysis of the Relationship Between Institutional and Individual Racial Discrimination and Health Status found that individual (self-perceived) and institutional (segregation and redlining) racial discrimination is associated with poor health status among members of an ethnic group.In the 2020 covid pandemic, a disproportionate rate in the amount of covid deaths in the African American communities compared to other racial groups has been demonstrated in some part of the United States. These results suggest that minority residential segregation may influence mortality risk and underscore the traditional emphasis on the social underpinnings of disease and death.Rates of heart disease among African Americans are associated with the segregation patterns in the neighborhoods where they live (Fang et al. Black women had higher rates of mortality from breast cancer than other demographics.Brown was the first African-American woman appointed to the National Cancer Advisory Board, where she served from 1991 to 1998, first appointed by President George Bush. 
Does the leukocyte count correlate with the severity of injury? [SEP] The term leukemoid reaction describes an increased
white blood cell count (> 50,000 cells/μL), which is a physiological response to stress or infection (as opposed to a primary blood malignancy, such as leukemia). Neutrophil counts can become extremely high in response to some infections and inflammatory states, which is termed leukemoid reaction because the high white blood cell count mimics leukemia. Leukopenia vs. neutropenia
Neutropenia, a subtype of leukopenia, refers to a decrease in the number of circulating neutrophil granulocytes, the most abundant white blood cells. The terms leukopenia and neutropenia may occasionally be used interchangeably, as the neutrophil count is the most important indicator of infection risk. Leukocytosis is a condition in which the white cell (leukocyte count) is above the normal range in the blood. This fact shows suppression of bone marrow activity, as a hematological sign specific for pernicious anemia and radiation sickness.A leukocyte count above 25 to 30 × 109/L is termed a leukemoid reaction, which is the reaction of a healthy bone marrow to extreme stress, trauma, or infection. Treatment
While treatment is usually not necessary in the majority of cases, hyperleukocytosis (WBC count > 50 or 100 × 109/L), which can be seen in some leukemic patients, is treated to prevent leukostasis. See also
Bacterial infection
Complete blood count
Leukocytosis in head trauma
White blood cell

References


== External links == 
Can transcranial direct current stimulation be useful in differentiating unresponsive wakefulness syndrome from minimally conscious state patients? [SEP] Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a form of neuromodulation that uses constant, low direct current delivered via electrodes on the head. Operation
Transcranial direct current stimulation works by sending constant, low direct current through the electrodes. Parts
Transcranial direct current stimulation is a relatively simple technique requiring only a few parts. Transcranial direct current stimulation has the two different directions of current that cause the different effects. Techniques such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) or transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can be used. TMS stimulates cortical tissue without the pain sensations produced in transcranial electrical stimulation. Wake therapy is a specific application of intentional sleep deprivation. Aldini had experimented with galvanic head current as early as 1794 (upon himself) and reported the successful treatment of patients with melancholia using direct low-intensity currents in 1804.CES was initially studied for insomnia and called electrosleep therapy; it is also known as cranial-electro stimulation  and transcranial electrotherapy.Due to the rise of pharmaceutical treatments for depression, anxiety and insomnia, such as Prozac in the 1980s and Ambien in the 1990s, CES was not a well-known treatment for doctors and patients. 
Aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal symptoms: is preventing osteoporosis the key to eliminating these symptoms? [SEP] In the case of either osteoporosis prevention or treatment, supplemental calcium and vitamin D should be added to the diet if daily intake is inadequate.Raloxifene is used to reduce the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Side effects
In women, side effects include an increased risk for developing osteoporosis and joint disorders such as arthritis, arthrosis, and joint pain. Bisphosphonates are sometimes prescribed to prevent the osteoporosis induced by aromatase inhibitors, but also have another serious side effect, osteonecrosis of the jaw. As statins have a bone strengthening effect, combining a statin with an aromatase inhibitor could help prevent fractures and suspected cardiovascular risks, without potential of causing osteonecrosis of the jaw. The more common adverse events associated with the use of aromatase inhibitors include decreased rate of bone maturation and growth, infertility, aggressive behavior, adrenal insufficiency, kidney failure, hair loss, and liver dysfunction. Osteoporosis is common in post-menopausal women and patients in corticosteroid treatment where biphosphonates have been proven a valuable treatment and also used successfully against Paget's disease, myeloma, bone metastases and hypercalcemia. Steroid-induced osteoporosis  is osteoporosis arising from the use of glucocorticoids (a class of steroid hormones) analogous to Cushing's syndrome but involving mainly the axial skeleton. For premenopausal women and men <50 years  taking steroids for ≥3 months, osteoporosis therapy should be considered for those with a history of a fragility fracture. 
Could different follow-up modalities play a role in the diagnosis of asymptomatic endometrial cancer relapses? [SEP] Endometrial cancer is commonly diagnosed by endometrial biopsy or by taking samples during a procedure known as dilation and curettage. Pathophysiology
Endometrial cancer forms when there are errors in normal endometrial cell growth. Diagnosis
Diagnosis of endometrial cancer is made first by a physical examination, endometrial biopsy, or dilation and curettage (removal of endometrial tissue; D&C). Periodic MRIs or CT scans may be recommended in advanced disease and women with a history of endometrial cancer should receive more frequent pelvic examinations for the five years following treatment. Examinations conducted every three to four months are recommended for the first two years following treatment, and every six months for the next three years.Women with endometrial cancer should not have routine surveillance imaging to monitor the cancer unless new symptoms appear or tumor markers begin rising. Recurrence rates
Recurrence of early stage endometrial cancer ranges from 3 to 17%, depending on primary and adjuvant treatment. High-grade histological subtypes are also at elevated risk for recurrence.The most common site of recurrence is in the vagina; vaginal relapses of endometrial cancer have the best prognosis. Prognosis
Prognosis varies for the different types of endometrial cancer. 
Locoregional opening of the rodent blood-brain barrier for paclitaxel using Nd:YAG laser-induced thermo therapy: a new concept of adjuvant glioma therapy? [SEP] Background
The blood brain barrier (BBB) has historically proved to be a very difficult obstacle to overcome when aiming to deliver a drug to the brain. This new formulation significantly increases the ability of drugs to cross the blood brain barrier, which serves to protect the brain but also blocks many conventional cancer drugs from reaching brain tumors.This research suggests that Innovate Pharmaceutical's IP1867B could be highly effective against glioblastoma (GBM), one of the most aggressive forms of the disease, which kills thousands of patients within a year.As of June 2016 it has only been tested 'in-vitro' on adult and pediatric cancer and nerve cells. Administration Technique
Anatomy
The blood-brain barrier protects the brain by restricting the ability of large molecules to cross the barrier between the blood, CSF, and interstitial fluid of the brain. Paclitaxel trevatide has the potential to treat a variety of CNS diseases including glioma. Because of the blood brain barrier (BBB), many cancer therapy drugs are prevented from passing through the brain capillaries into the parenchyma. Paclitaxel trevatide will cross the capillary medium via receptor mediated transcytosis of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) which is upregulated in some cancers. "Cancer and the blood–brain barrier: 'Trojan horses' for courses?". "ANG1005 Crosses The Blood-Brain Barrier To Reduce Tumor Size And Is Effective In Resistant Tumors". 
Preoperative tracheobronchoscopy in newborns with esophageal atresia: does it matter? [SEP] Tracheal agenesis (also known as tracheal atresia) is a rare birth defect with a prevalence of less than 1 in 50,000 in which the trachea fails to develop, resulting in an impaired communication between the larynx and the alveoli of the lungs. At birth
More than half of the recorded cases of tracheal agenesis have led to premature deliveries and in almost all reported cases, infants die shortly after birth due to lack of oxygenation. Neonates with tracheal agenesis present with symptoms characteristic to congenital high airway obstruction syndrome with no audible cry after birth, respiratory insufficiency, respiratory distress and cyanosis. There are two ways to diagnose tracheal agenesis: early in utero, or later at birth. Management
In patients with tracheal agenesis, surgical correction is required to allow for a relatively temporary survival of the neonate. Transnasal esophagoscopy (TNE) is a safe and inexpensive way to examine the esophagus in patients at risk for esophageal cancer and other disorders. Experts in the field suggest that TNE may replace radiographic imaging of the esophagus in otolaryngology patients with reflux, globus, and dysphagia. Technique
Transnasal esophagoscopy is an office based procedure in which the patient is anesthetized locally in the nose and sometimes the oropharynx. 
Is horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex influenced by otolith organs input? [SEP] The ocular tilt reaction (OTR) comprises  skew deviation, head tilt and ocular torsion involving structures of the inner ear responsible for maintenance of balance of the body i.e. the semi-circular canals (SCC), utricle and saccule. A head tilt causes stimulation of both anterior semi-circular canals and the posterior semi-circular canals resulting in excitation of ipsilateral intorters (superior oblique and superior rectus) and contralateral extorters (inferior oblique and inferior rectus) while their antagonists are simultaneously inhibited. Though the semicircular canals cause most of the reflexes which are responsive to acceleration, the maintaining of balance is mediated by the stretch of neck muscles and the pull of gravity on the utricle (otolith organ) of the inner ear.The VOR has both rotational and translational aspects. The semicircular canals detect head rotation and provide the rotational component, whereas the otoliths detect head translation and drive the translational component. The semicircular canals encode head velocity signals, or angular acceleration, while the otoconia encode linear acceleration signals and gravitational signals. During the VOR, the semicircular canals send information to the brain and correct eye movements in the direction opposite head movement by sending excitatory signals to motor neurons on the side opposite to the head rotation. Labyrinthine activity responsible for the nystagmus induced by off-vertical axis rotation arises in the otolith organs and couples to the oculomotor system through the velocity storage mechanism. 
Is perforation of the appendix a risk factor for tubal infertility and ectopic pregnancy? [SEP] Tubal factors cause 25-30% of infertility cases. Tubal factor is one complication of Chlamydia trachomatis infection in women.Sexually transmitted Chlamydia and genital mycoplasma infections are preventable causes of infertility and negative pregnancy outcomes. Uterine perforation is a potential complication of any intrauterine procedure. Occult bleeding into the obstructed tubes causes tubal distention and cyclic pelvic pain. Risk factors for ectopic pregnancy include pelvic inflammatory disease, often due to chlamydia infection; tobacco smoking; prior tubal surgery; a history of infertility; and the use of assisted reproductive technology. Women with pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) have a high occurrence of ectopic pregnancy. Endometrial/pelvic/genital tuberculosis, another cause of Asherman's syndrome, can also lead to ectopic pregnancy as infection may lead to tubal adhesions in addition to intrauterine adhesions.Tubal ligation can predispose to ectopic pregnancy. See also
Indirect abortion

References
External links

CT of the abdomen showing abdominal ectopic pregnancy 
Serovar specific immunity to Neisseria gonorrhoeae: does it exist? [SEP] Neisseria gonorrhoeae, also known as gonococcus (singular), or gonococci (plural), is a species of Gram-negative diplococci bacteria isolated by Albert Neisser in 1879. Genome
The genomes of several strains of N. gonorrhoeae have been sequenced. History
Name origin
Neisseria gonorrhoeae is named for Albert Neisser, who isolated it as the causative agent of the disease gonorrhea in 1878. Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the bacterium that causes the sexually transmitted infection gonorrhea, has developed antibiotic resistance to many antibiotics. See also
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
Antibiotic resistance


== References == Cause
Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Development of a vaccine has been complicated by the ongoing evolution of resistant strains and antigenic variation (the ability of N. gonorrhoeae to disguise itself with different surface markers to evade the immune system).As N. gonorrhoeae is closely related to N. meningitidis and they have 80–90% homology in their genetic sequences some cross-protection by meningococcal vaccines is plausible. The genus includes:

N. gonorrhoeae (also called the gonococcus) causes gonorrhea. 
May student examiners be reasonable substitute examiners for faculty in an undergraduate OSCE on medical emergencies? [SEP] It is the responsibility of the Board to appoint and dismiss the Chief Medical Examiner. An objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) is an approach to the assessment of clinical competence in which the components are assessed in a planned or structured way with attention being paid to the objectivity of the examination which is basically an organization framework consisting of multiple stations around which students rotate and at which students perform and are assessed on specific tasks. OSCE is a modern type of examination often used for assessment in health care disciplines. OSCE is primarily used to assess focused clinical skills such as history taking, physical examination, diagnosis, communication, and counseling.In the last three decades the OSCE has seen a steady exponential growth and usage in both undergraduate and postgraduate examinations around the globe. Practicability: OSCE allows the use of simulated patients and clinical materials, thereby decreasing the need for real patients during the examination. OSCE marking
Marking in OSCEs is done by the examiner. Finally, it is not uncommon at certain institutions for members of teaching staff be known to students (and vice versa) as the examiner. Role of the College
The College sets standards of training and administers examinations for emergency physicians. 
Are endothelial cell patterns of astrocytomas indicative of grade? [SEP] Compared to AG, astroblastoma often has a discrete border in epithelioid cells and shows vascular sclerosis symptoms.For further confirmation, the clinicians require biopsy and immunohistochemical staining of the resected tumor after surgery. The World Health Organization (WHO) classifies tumors into different categories according to severity and recurrence.The first tumor classified as grade I is called pilocytic astrocytoma and it is most commonly observed in children rather than adults. The next tumor is never common in the Dns called diffuse astrocytoma and it is considered a grade II, they are benign, or noncancerous, but can become malignant, meaning cancerous, as the tumor progresses. Grades III and grade IV are considered malignant astrocytomas. Anaplastic astrocytomas are considered by the WHO to be a  grade III astrocytoma and Glioblastoma is a grade IV both are referred to high-grade glial tumors.Ependymal tumors are another glial tumor type of the central nervous system. Pathology
Anaplastic astrocytomas fall under the category of high grade gliomas (WHO grade III-IV), which are pathologically undifferentiated gliomas that carry a poor clinical prognosis. Unlike glioblastomas (WHO grade IV), anaplastic astrocytomas lack vascular proliferation and necrosis on pathologic evaluation. Compared to grade II tumors, anaplastic astrocytomas are more cellular, demonstrate more atypia, and mitoses are seen. 
Do healthier lifestyles lead to less utilization of healthcare resources? [SEP] Overall wellness and self-management are a crucial components of lifestyle medicine and enforce the idea of living healthier through behavioral change. The first level involves recognition by all healthcare professionals that lifestyle choices determine health status and are important modifiers of the response to pharmaceutical and/or surgical treatments. Lifestyle disease may soon have an impact on the workforce and the cost of health care. Substance use disorders, such as tobacco smoking, and excessive consumption of alcohol, and a lack of or too much exercise may also increase the risk of developing certain diseases, especially later in life.In many Western countries, people began to consume more meat, dairy products, vegetable oils, tobacco, sugary foods, sugary beverages, and alcoholic beverages during the latter half of the 20th century. The underutilization of preventative measures, rates of preventable illness and prevalence of chronic disease suggest that the US healthcare system does not sufficiently promote wellness. It dropped from 14th to 26th for healthy life expectancy.According to a 2009 study conducted at Harvard Medical School by cofounders of Physicians for a National Health Program, a pro-single payer lobbying group, and published by the American Journal of Public Health, lack of health coverage is associated with nearly 45,000 excess preventable deaths annually. Delays in seeking care and increased use of emergency care
Uninsured Americans are less likely to have regular healthcare and use preventive services. The experiment concluded that with less consumption of care there was generally no loss in societal welfare but, for the poorer and sicker groups of people there were definitely negative effects. 
Antral follicle assessment as a tool for predicting outcome in IVF--is it a better predictor than age and FSH? [SEP] The follicular antrum is the portion of an ovarian follicle filled with follicular fluid. Appearance of the follicular antrum during follicular maturation is the first sign that a follicle has reached the next stage of maturation. Several studies show that an AFC test is more accurate than basal FSH testing for older women (< 44 years of age) in predicting IVF outcome. It has been suggested that counting the antral follicles measuring 2–5 or 4–6 mm in diameter is preferable. On the other hand, the number of smaller antral follicles (2–5 mm) is highly correlated with the total number of antral follicles (2–10 mm), and therefore it is suggested that counting all identifiable antral follicles of 2–10 mm in diameter would provide the most practical method for assessment of AFC in clinical practice.Three-dimensional (3D) automated follicular tracking is a developing technique that can substantially decrease both
intra- and inter-observer variability in estimating the AFC. Follicular atresia refers to the process in which a follicle fails to develop, thus preventing it from ovulating and releasing an egg. Follicular atresia is inhibited by follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), which promotes follicle development. Growth of follicles can be seen in subsequent autografts, mature eggs can be retrieved and IVF carried out making it a good candidate for fertility preservation. 
Do all ethnic groups in New Zealand exhibit socio-economic mortality gradients? [SEP] Social class in New Zealand is a product of both Māori and Western social structures. Researchers have traditionally discussed New Zealand, a first-world country, as a "classless society", but this claim is problematic in a number of ways. It has also been argued that in New Zealand, race takes the place of class, with Māori and other Polynesians earning less, usually having lower living standards and levels of education, and usually working in lower earning jobs than New Zealanders of European descent. published New Zealand Socioeconomic Index of Occupational Status, known as NZSEI. New Zealand is a high income country, and this is reflected in the overall good health status of the population. Demographics
Population (in thousands): 4,460 (2012)
Total fertility rate (per woman): 2.07 (2012)
Adolescent fertility rate (%): 27 (2004)
Funding
Per capita government spending (PPP Int $): 1,905 (2006)
Per capita total spending (PPP Int $): 2,447 (2006)
Total expenditure (% of GDP): 9.4 (2006)
Life expectancy
Life expectancy at birth (years): 82 (2012)
Life expectancy for females (years): 84 (2012)
Life expectancy for males (years): 80 (2012)
Neonatal mortality (per 1,000 live births): 3 (2012)
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births): 5 (2012)
Years of life lost to communicable diseases (%): 5 (2002)
Years of life lost to injuries (%): 17 (2002)
Years of life lost to non-communicable diseases (%): 79 (2002)Life expectancy is lower for the Māori and Pacific populations by around six years. These results suggest that minority residential segregation may influence mortality risk and underscore the traditional emphasis on the social underpinnings of disease and death.Rates of heart disease among African Americans are associated with the segregation patterns in the neighborhoods where they live (Fang et al. They constitute one of New Zealand's most sizeable ethnic minorities. 
Can normal knee kinematics be restored with unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) is a surgical procedure used to relieve arthritis in one of the knee compartments in which the damaged parts of the knee are replaced. Finally, the surgeon will close the wound with sutures.The unicompartmental replacement is a minimally invasive option for people whose arthritis is isolated to either the medial or the lateral compartment. During the operation any deformities must be corrected, and the ligaments balanced so the knee has a good range of movement, and is stable and aligned. Partial knee replacement
Unicompartmental arthroplasty (UKA), also called partial knee replacement, is an option for some people. A minority of people with osteoarthritis have wear primarily in one compartment, usually the medial, and may be candidates for unicompartmental knee replacement. Loss of motion
The knee at times may not recover its normal range of motion (0–135 degrees usually) after total knee replacement. After about ten months, the patient should be able to return to normal daily activities, although the operated leg may be significantly weaker than the non-operated leg.For post-operative knee replacement patients, immobility is a factor precipitated by pain and other complications. Replacing the badly damaged or deficient meniscus with a meniscus transplant from a human donor restores normal knee structure and helps protect the remaining joint surfaces. 
Are serum leptin levels a prognostic factor in advanced lung cancer? [SEP] Manchester score is an indicator of prognosis in small cell lung cancer. Leptin, serum levels of, also known as LSL, is a human gene. Lung cancer screening refers to cancer screening strategies used to identify early lung cancers before they cause symptoms, at a point where they are more likely to be curable. Lung cancer screening is critically important because of the incidence and prevalence of lung cancer. Because there is a substantially higher probability of long-term survival following treatment of localized (60%) versus advanced stage (6%) lung cancer, lung cancer screening aims to diagnose the disease in the localized (stage I) stage.Results from large randomized studies have recently prompted a large number of professional organizations and governmental agencies in the U.S. to now recommend lung cancer screening in select populations. Traditional prognostic markers in oncology include tumor size, staging, lymph node spreading status, and metastasis. Large tumor, late staging, presence of cancer cells in multiple distant lymph nodes, and observation of metastasis often associate with poor prognosis. Lung cancer staging is the assessment of the extent to which a lung cancer has spread from its original source. 
Is fetal gender associated with emergency department visits for asthma during pregnancy? [SEP] Dosage
The incidence of fetal masculinization of female external genitalia varies with the drug and dosage. The black box warning recommends a sensitive hCGβ-subunit pregnancy test immediately prior to starting danazol therapy and use of a non-hormonal method of contraception during therapy.As of 2000, there had been published reports of fetal masculinization of female external genitalia in:
23 cases associated with danazol (all from inadvertent use from 1975 to 1990)
13 cases associated with methandriol (all from use in the 1950s and 1960s)
11 cases associated with methyltestosterone (all from use in the 1950s and 1960s)

Progestogens
Past use for prevention of miscarriage
In the 1940s, some studies suggested that progesterone could prevent threatened abortion and might prevent habitual abortion, but oral bioavailability of progesterone is low and injections of progesterone can be painful, so orally active progestins were tried beginning with ethisterone, followed by other progestins as they became available: noretynodrel (Enovid) and norethisterone (Norlutin) in 1957, medroxyprogesterone acetate (Provera) in 1959, norethisterone acetate (Norlutate) in 1961, and dydrogesterone (Duphaston) in 1962.The first case reports of fetal masculinization of external genitalia of female infants born to mothers treated in pregnancy with high-dose ethisterone and high-dose norethisterone (17α-ethinyl-19-nortestosterone) to prevent miscarriage were published in 1957 and 1958, respectively.In a March 1960 JAMA article, pediatric endocrinologist Lawson Wilkins at Johns Hopkins reported on 34 cases of fetal masculinization of external genitalia of female infants born from 1950 to 1959 to mothers treated with high-dose (20–250 mg/day) ethisterone to prevent miscarriage, and 35 cases of fetal masculinization of external genitalia of female infants born from 1957 to 1959 to mothers treated with high-dose (10–40 mg/day) norethisterone to prevent miscarriage.In 1961, Ciba and Parke-Davis added the reported association of ethisterone and norethisterone with masculinization of external genitalia of the female fetus to the precautions section of their advertisements to physicians and physician prescribing information.A clinical trial published in the October 1962 American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology reported fetal masculinization of external genitalia of 14 of 59 female infants (24%) born to mothers who began high-dose (10–40 mg/day) norethisterone treatment to prevent miscarriage in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy (11 infants had slight clitoral enlargement, 1 had marked clitoral enlargement, 2 infants had marked clitoral enlargement and partial fusion of the labioscrotal folds); fetal masculinization of external genitalia of 1 of 23 female infants born to mothers who began high-dose (10–40 mg/day) norethisterone treatment to prevent miscarriage after the 12th week of pregnancy (1 infant with slight clitoral enlargement was born to a mother who began norethisterone treatment in week 13).In 1964, Parke-Davis revised the physician prescribing information for Norlutin (norethisterone) and Norlutate (norethisterone acetate) to remove their indications for use in infertility, habitual abortion and threatened abortion, and add pregnancy as a contraindication to their use because of the possibility of masculinization of external genitalia of the female fetus.In 1977, the FDA determined that there was no adequate evidence that progestogens (including progesterone, dydrogesterone, and 17α-hydroxyprogesterone caproate) were effective in treating threatened abortion or preventing habitual abortion and withdrew approval for those indications.As of 2000, there had been published reports of fetal masculinization of female external genitalia in:
78 cases associated with ethisterone (all from use in the 1950s and early 1960s to prevent miscarriage)
81 cases associated with norethisterone (all from use in the late 1950s and early 1960s to prevent miscarriage)

Past FDA labeling requirements
On July 22, 1977, the FDA published a notice requiring a black box warning on all progestogen drugs (except contraceptives) to warn against their use during the first four months of pregnancy because of reports of non-genital birth defects.On January 12, 1989, after determining that progestogens did not cause non-genital birth defects, the FDA published a notice revising the black box warning on all progestogen drugs (except contraceptives) to warn against their use during the first four months of pregnancy because of past reports of genital birth defects (an increased risk of hypospadias in male fetuses and mild virilization of the external genitalia in female fetuses).On November 16, 1999, the FDA published a notice effective November 16, 2000 removing (after 22 years) the black box warning on all progestogen drugs because it was unwarranted based on scientific review of current data. This scan is an important and common component of routine prenatal care. Maternal pelvic organs are also evaluated. Components
A standard anatomy scan typically includes:
Fetal number, including number of amnionic sacs and chorionic sacs for multiple gestations
Fetal cardiac activity
Fetal position relative to the uterus and cervix
Location and appearance of the placenta, including site of umbilical cord insertion
Amnionic fluid volume
Gestational age assessment
Fetal weight estimation
Fetal anatomical survey
Evaluation of the maternal uterus, tubes, ovaries, and bladder when appropriate

Medical uses
Second-trimester ultrasound screening for aneuploidies, such as Edwards syndrome and Patau syndrome, is based on looking for soft markers and some predefined structural abnormalities. Sex determination
Fetal sex is often noted during the anomaly scan, but can also be detected during the quad scan. However, performing an ultrasound for the sole purpose of determining fetal sex without a medical indication is not recommended. Title 21, Part 201.57 (9)(i) of the Code of Federal Regulations lists specific requirements regarding the labeling of drugs with respect to their effects on pregnant populations, including a definition of a "pregnancy category". 
Stretch-sensitive KCNQ1 mutation A link between genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation? [SEP] Cause
It is associated with multiple genes:

Mutations in the KCNQ1 gene cause familial atrial fibrillation. The KCNE2 and KCNJ2 genes are associated with familial atrial fibrillation. A small percentage of all cases of familial atrial fibrillation are associated with changes in the KCNE2, KCNJ2, and KCNQ1 genes. This disruption in ion transport alters the way the heart beats, increasing the risk of syncope, stroke, and sudden death.Most cases of atrial fibrillation are not caused by mutations in a single gene. Researchers are working to determine which genetic changes may influence the risk of atrial fibrillation.Familial atrial fibrillation appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means the defective gene is located on an autosome, and only one copy of the defective gene - inherited from one parent - is sufficient to cause the disorder. Clinical significance
Mutations in the gene can lead to a defective protein and several forms of inherited arrhythmias as Long QT syndrome which is a prolongation of the QT interval of heart repolarization, Short QT syndrome, and Familial Atrial Fibrillation. General mutations in KvLQT1 have been known to cause a decrease in this slow delayed potassium rectifier current, longer cardiac action potentials, and a tendency to have tachyarrhythmias. Mutations in either the alpha subunit of this complex, KvLQT1 or the beta subunit, KCNE1, can lead to Long QT Syndrome or other cardiac rhythmic deformities. 
Are adult body circumferences associated with height? [SEP] A person's waist-to-height ratio (WHtR), occasionally written WtHR or  called waist-to-stature ratio (WSR), is defined as their waist circumference divided by their height, both measured in the same units. The height, weight, and head circumference of a child can be compared to the expected parameters of children of the same age and sex to determine whether the child is growing appropriately. Growth charts can also be used to predict the expected adult height and weight of a child because, in general, children maintain a fairly constant growth curve. Constitutional growth delay: Benign variant of normal height growth due to a delay in the onset of puberty. Generally speaking, self-reported height tends to be taller than measured height, although the overestimation of height depends on the reporting subject's height, age, gender and region. Different social groups can show different mean height. In 2015, Sultan Babar showed that CI does not need to be adjusted for height after adolescence. The corpulence index yields valid results even for very short and very tall persons, which is a problem with BMI —  for example, an ideal body weight for a person 152.4 cm tall (48 kg) will render BMI of 20.7 and CI of 13.6, while for a person 200 cm tall (99 kg), the BMI will be 24.8, very close to the "overweight" threshold of 25, while CI will be 12.4.Because of this property, it is most commonly used in pediatrics. 
Would corrected QT dispersion predict left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients? [SEP] QT prolongation is a measure of delayed ventricular repolarisation, which means the heart muscle takes longer than normal to recharge between beats. More specifically, it is one form of a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that presents with a long QT interval. Higher rates of prolonged QTc are seen in females, older patients, high systolic blood pressure or heart rate, and short stature. A shortened QT can be associated with hypercalcemia. Anti-hypertensive drugs increased the QTc interval, but were not an independent predictor of mortality. Type 2 diabetes
QT interval dispersion (QTd) is the maximum QT interval minus the minimum QT interval, and is linked with ventricular repolarization. Overall, every 10 ms increase in the corrected QT interval is associated with a 15% increase in arrhythmic risk.As the QT prolonging effects of both genetic variants and acquired causes of LQTS are additive, those with inherited LQTS are more likely to experience TdP if given QT prolonging drugs or if they experience electrolyte problems such as low blood levels of low potassium (hypokalaemia). Clinically, the patients are characterized by only modest QT prolongation, but an increased propensity for atrial arrhythmias. 
Traumatic aortic injury: does the anatomy of the aortic arch influence aortic trauma severity? [SEP] The tethering of the aorta by the ligamentum arteriosum makes the site prone to shearing forces during sudden deceleration.A study of people who died after traumatic aortic rupture found that in 55–65% of cases the damage was at the aortic isthmus and in 10–14% it was in the ascending aorta or aortic arch. However, if surgery is performed in time, it can offer a chance of survival.Though there is a concern that a small, stable tear in the aorta could enlarge and cause complete rupture of the aorta and heavy bleeding, this may be less common than previously believed as long as the blood pressure does not get too high.There have been five rare cases of a traumatic aortic rupture going undiagnosed of more than a year, and presenting with chest and back pain. There are clinical predictors of an aortic injury. Therefore, aortic injury is on a scale from injury to a part of the inner layer to a complete tear of all three layers.There are 4 grades of aortic injury. Imaging
The gold standard for diagnosis of thoracic aortic injury is aortography. Signs and symptoms
Patients with an interrupted aortic arch usually have symptoms from birth, with nearly all presenting symptoms within two weeks (when the ductus arteriosus is usually closed). As a result, the kidneys fail and the blood becomes acidic, resulting in death.With modern surgical techniques, 81% of children with an interrupted aortic arch survive to be 15 years-old. "Interrupted aortic arch in infancy". 
Inpatient versus outpatient management of neutropenic fever in gynecologic oncology patients: is risk stratification useful? [SEP] Febrile neutropenia is the development of fever, often with other signs of infection, in a patient with neutropenia, an abnormally low number of neutrophil granulocytes (a type of white blood cell) in the blood. The term neutropenic sepsis is also applied, although it tends to be reserved for patients who are less well. Signs and symptoms
Fever

Causes
Febrile neutropenia can develop in any form of neutropenia, but is most generally recognized as a complication of chemotherapy when it is myelosuppressive (suppresses the bone marrow from producing blood cells). Diagnosis
MASCC and CISNE risk indexes
The Multinational Association for Supportive Care in Cancer (MASCC) risk index can be used to identify low-risk patients (score ≥21 points) for serious complications of febrile neutropenia (including death, intensive care unit admission, confusion, cardiac complications, respiratory failure, kidney failure, low blood pressure, bleeding, and other serious medical complications). A prospective trial demonstrated that a modified MASCC score can identify patients with febrile neutropenia at low risk of complications, as well.In contrast, the Clinical Index of Stable Febrile Neutropenia (CISNE) score is specific of patients with solid tumors and seemingly stable episodes. Treatment
Generally, patients with febrile neutropenia are treated with empirical antibiotics until the neutrophil count has recovered (absolute neutrophil counts greater than 500/mm3) and the fever has abated; if the neutrophil count does not improve, treatment may need to continue for two weeks or occasionally more. Periodic monitoring should be done to see if the empiric treatment is working, or if a more target therapy should be initiated.In people with cancer who have febrile neutropenia (excluding patients with acute leukaemia), oral treatment is an acceptable alternative to intravenous antibiotic treatment if they are hemodynamically stable, without organ failure, without pneumonia and with no infection of a central line or severe soft-tissue infection. Furthermore, outpatient treatment for low‐risk febrile neutropenia in people with cancer probably makes little or no difference to treatment failure and mortality compared with the standard hospital (inpatient) treatment and may reduce time that patients need to be treated in hospital. 
Should chest wall irradiation be included after mastectomy and negative node breast cancer? [SEP] Nowadays, a combination of radiotherapy and breast conserving mastectomy are employed to optimize treatment. Aesthetic flat closure after mastectomy is contouring of the chest wall after mastectomy without traditional breast reconstruction. It is only recommended for breast cancer that has spread to the chest muscles. Lymph node removal was advocated for in managing breast cancer. William Roentgen discovered x-rays in 1895, which radically shifted breast cancer treatment from a solely surgical approach to the multi-pronged approach employed today, including imaging, hormonal therapy, radiation, chemotherapy and immunotherapy.During the 20th century, progress was made towards skin-sparing mastectomies for treatment of breast cancer. Radiation is usually used in conjunction with the lumpectomy to prevent recurrence. Radiation therapy may still be needed following breast-conservation surgery. A history of prior therapeutic irradiation to the breast that would require re-treatment to an excessively high total dose. 
Can bisphosphonate treatment be stopped in a growing child with skeletal fragility? [SEP] Bisphosphonates are a class of drugs that prevent the loss of bone density, used to treat osteoporosis and similar diseases. Bisphosphonates inhibit the digestion of bone by encouraging osteoclasts to undergo apoptosis, or cell death, thereby slowing bone loss.The uses of bisphosphonates include the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, Paget's disease of bone, bone metastasis (with or without hypercalcemia), multiple myeloma, primary hyperparathyroidism, osteogenesis imperfecta, fibrous dysplasia, and other conditions that exhibit bone fragility. Medical uses
Bisphosphonates are used to treat osteoporosis, osteitis deformans (Paget's disease of the bone), bone metastasis (with or without hypercalcemia), multiple myeloma, and other conditions involving fragile, breakable bone. Bisphosphonates are beneficial in reducing the risk of vertebral fracture in steroid induced osteoporosis. Risedronate has also been shown to reduce the risk of hip fractures.After five years of medications by mouth or three years of intravenous medication among those at low risk, bisphosphonate treatment can be stopped. "Bisphosphonates have been used to reduce fracture rates in children with the disease osteogenesis imperfecta and to treat otosclerosis by minimizing bone loss. There are concerns that long-term bisphosphonate use can result in over-suppression of bone turnover. History
Bisphosphonates were developed in the 19th century but were first investigated in the 1960s for use in disorders of bone metabolism. 
Regional anesthesia as compared with general anesthesia for surgery in geriatric patients with hip fracture: does it decrease morbidity, mortality, and health care costs? [SEP] Geriatric anesthesia (or geriatric anaesthesia) is the branch of medicine that studies anesthesia approach in elderly. Perioperative management of the geriatric patients requires knowledges about changes associated with aging physiology and its relation to surgery and anesthesia. Many differences can be seen in geriatric anesthesia. Each program must provide “appropriate didactic instruction and sufficient clinical experience in managing problems of the geriatric population.” The published joint ASA/American Board of Anesthesiology content outline for in-training examinations also includes a section on “Geriatric Anesthesia/Aging: The Pharmacological Implications, MAC Changes and the Physiological Implications on Major Organ Systems.” These mandates make geriatric education a requirement for any program in anesthesiology. References
External links
GERIATRIC ANESTHESIA by David J Cook
The Society for the Advancement of Geriatric Anesthesia (SAGA)
Age Anaesthesia Society in the UK
Geriatric Anesthesiology Curriculum
Useful Geriatric Anesthesiology Resources
Syllabus on Geriatric Anesthesiology, American Society of Anesthesiologists
Geriatric Education: ‘Start Low, Go Slow’, ASA NEWSLETTER Despite these possible complications, procedures done under regional anesthesia (nerve block with or without intravenous sedation) carry a lower anesthetic risk than general anesthesia. A review from 2018 examined perioperative anesthesia interventions and their impact on anesthesia-related mortality. Regional anesthesia is aimed at anesthetizing a larger part of the body such as a leg or arm. 
Does blood pressure change in treated hypertensive patients depending on whether it is measured by a physician or a nurse? [SEP] In the study, patients with hypertension (blood pressure above 140/90 mm Hg) measured their blood pressure twice a day, the blood pressure device transmitted the readings to an electronic medical record, and that data was used to adjust participants' medication at biweekly intervals. Improper measurement of blood pressure is common and can change the blood pressure reading by up to 10 mmHg, which can lead to misdiagnosis and misclassification of hypertension. Correct blood pressure measurement technique involves several steps. Ambulatory and home monitoring
Ambulatory blood pressure devices take readings regularly (e.g. Blood pressure readings outside of a clinical setting are usually slightly lower in the majority of people; however studies that quantified the risks from hypertension and the benefits of lowering blood pressure have mostly been based on readings in a clinical environment. Observer error
There are many factors that can play a role in the blood pressure reading by physician, such as hearing problem, auditory perception of the physician. White-coat hypertension
For some patients, blood pressure measurements taken in a doctor's office may not correctly characterize their typical blood pressure. In some cases a lower blood pressure reading occurs at the doctor's - this has been termed 'masked hypertension'.Alternative settings, such as pharmacies, have been proposed as alternatives to office blood pressure. 
Treadmill testing of children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory: does peak oxygen uptake reflect maximum oxygen uptake? [SEP] VO2 max (also maximal oxygen consumption, maximal oxygen uptake or maximal aerobic capacity) is the maximum rate of oxygen consumption attainable during physical exertion. Maximal oxygen consumption reflects cardiorespiratory fitness and endurance capacity in exercise performance. In general clinical and athletic testing, this usually involves a graded exercise test (either on a treadmill or on a cycle ergometer) in which exercise intensity is progressively increased while measuring: 

ventilation and
oxygen and carbon dioxide concentration of the inhaled and exhaled air.The classic V̇O2 max, in the sense of Hill and Lupton (1923), is reached when oxygen consumption remains at a steady state ("plateau") despite an increase in workload. Estimation using submaximal exercise testing
The necessity for a subject to exert maximum effort in order to accurately measure V̇O2 max can be dangerous in those with compromised respiratory or cardiovascular systems; thus, sub-maximal tests for estimating V̇O2 max have been developed. Rockport fitness walking test
Estimation of V̇O2 max from a timed one-mile track walk incorporating duration in minutes and seconds (t, e.g. VO2 max levels
Maximum oxygen intake, VO2, is one of the best measures of cardiovascular fitness and maximal aerobic power. See also
Anaerobic exercise
Lactate threshold
VO2 max

References
"Determination of Ventilatory Threshold Based on Subjective Rating of Perceived Exertion." “ VO2 Max Testing and Ventilatory Threshold: Endurance Testing for Runners.” Strength Running. 
Is the probability of prenatal diagnosis or termination of pregnancy different for fetuses with congenital anomalies conceived following assisted reproductive techniques? [SEP] By pregnancy stage
Pre-conception
Prior to conception, couples may elect to have genetic testing done to determine the odds of conceiving a child with a known genetic anomaly. Two alternative approaches have been developed for the detection of fetal aneuploidy. The uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries can be functional despite the presence of a defect of the vagina and external genitalia.A vaginal anomaly may not affect fertility. Anomalies associated with syndromes
Some congenital syndromes present with vaginal anomalies in association with other serious conditions. Though the presence of a vaginal anomaly does not necessarily prevent conception and a successful pregnancy when a functional uterus and ovaries are present, vaginal anomalies increase the risk of miscarriage. The study also found no significant difference in rates of pregnancy loss between twin pregnancies that underwent amniocentesis and those that did not before 24 weeks of gestation.Maternal factors that may further increase the risk of pregnancy loss following amniocentesis include:
Presence of uterine fibroids
Presence of Müllerian anomalies, which are a group of congenital defects affecting the development of the female reproductive tract
Active vaginal infection
Maternal body-mass index greater than 40 kg/m2
Multiparity, or 3 or more childbirths
History of 3 or more pregnancy losses
Carrying a fetus with structural malformationsUndergoing amniocentesis in the third trimester has been associated with an increased risk of preterm labor, as defined as the onset of labor between 20 and 37 weeks' gestation, and preterm delivery. When compared to cases of spontaneous PPROM, patients with amniocentesis-related PPROM experience better outcomes and lower rates of pregnancy loss. Normal live births of healthy offspring after transfers of embryos deemed aneuploid by PGP have been reported worldwide.Alternative methods to determine embryo quality for prediction of pregnancy rates include microscopy as well as profiling of RNA and protein expression. 
Is there a relationship between complex fractionated atrial electrograms recorded during atrial fibrillation and sinus rhythm fractionation? [SEP] Atrial fibrillation (AF or A-fib) is an abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia) characterized by rapid and irregular beating of the atrial chambers of the heart. Prolonged episodes of atrial fibrillation have been shown to correlate with prolongation of the sinus node recovery time; this suggests that dysfunction of the SA node is progressive with prolonged episodes of atrial fibrillation. Along with fibrosis, alterations in the atria that predispose to atrial fibrillation affect their electrical properties, as well as their responsiveness to the autonomic nervous system. Electrocardiogram
Atrial fibrillation is diagnosed on an electrocardiogram (ECG), an investigation performed routinely whenever an irregular heartbeat is suspected. At very fast heart rates, atrial fibrillation may look more regular, which may make it more difficult to separate from other supraventricular tachycardias or ventricular tachycardia.QRS complexes should be narrow, signifying that they are initiated by normal conduction of atrial electrical activity through the intraventricular conduction system. Atrial fibrillation has an atrial rate of 400+ and is distinguishable die to its irregular ventricular rate and wavy deflections. "[Wide QRS complex tachycardia: an old and new problem]". "An interesting cause of wide complex tachycardia: Ashman's phenomenon in atrial fibrillation". 
Does rural or urban residence make a difference to neonatal outcome in premature birth? [SEP] Childbirth in rural Appalachia has long been a subject of concern amongst the population because infant mortality rates are higher in Appalachia than in other parts of the United States. Rural communities tend to have a higher incidence of chronic diseases, infant and maternal morbidity, and occupational injuries. Population factors
Providers in rural areas face many disadvantages, including the fact that the United States population living in rural areas tend to be older, poorer, and uninsured in comparison to their urban counterparts. Lack of resources
Rural hospitals tend to have fewer resources than urban hospitals and usually have a fewer number of beds. Researchers note that the health of those living in rural areas is quantitatively and qualitatively different to those living in major metropolitan areas. Air pollution has been associated with increased risk of preterm birth. Late entry to prenatal care and inadequate prenatal care are associated with increased likelihood of preterm birth, increased risk of low birthweight infants, and increased infant mortality. Pregnancy behaviors and beliefs
Prenatal Care
Prenatal care access and utilization is largely affected by socioeconomic status, geographic location, and maternal education and autonomy. 
Is the use of cyanoacrylate in intestinal anastomosis a good and reliable alternative? [SEP] The use of 2-octyl cyanoacrylate was approved in 1998; offered as an alternative to stitches, sutures, and or adhesive strips. Uses
Medical and veterinary
Cyanoacrylate glue is widely used in human and veterinary medicine. n-Butyl cyanoacrylate has been used medically since the 1970s. A 1986 independent study suggests that cyanoacrylate can be safer and more functional for wound closure than traditional suturing (stitches). Although cyanoacrylates are widely used for sutureless wound repair, "existing adhesives still lack sufficient adhesion strength to completely replace sutures and staples." The United Kingdom's Health and Safety Executive and the United States National Toxicology Program have concluded that the use of ethyl cyanoacrylate is safe and that additional study is unnecessary. Due to the toxicity issues of ethyl cyanoacrylate, the use of 2-octyl cyanoacrylate for sutures is preferred. In medical and veterinary applications, NBCA, isobutyl cyanoacrylate, and octyl cyanoacrylate are commonly used. 
Is trabecular bone related to primary stability of miniscrews? [SEP] To understand the role of trabecular bone in age-related bone structure and in the design for bone-implant systems, it is important to study the mechanical properties of trabecular bone as a function of variables such as anatomic site, bone density, and age related issues. Thus, the micro structure of trabecular bone is typically oriented and ''grain'' of porosity is aligned in a direction at which mechanical stiffness and strength are greatest. To understand structure-anisotropy and material property relations, one must correlate the measured mechanical properties of anisotropic trabecular specimens with the stereological descriptions of their architecture.The compressive strength of trabecular bone is also very important because it is believed that the inside failure of trabecular bone arise from compressive stress. The effects of aging and small cracking of trabecular bone on its mechanical properties are a source of further study. Trabecular bone increases stiffness by increasing the amount of bone per unit volume or by altering the geometry and arrangement of individual trabeculae as body size and bone loading increases. Trabecular bone scales allometrically, reorganizing the bones’ internal structure to increase the ability of the skeleton to sustain loads experienced by the trabeculae. This shows that trabecular bone geometry is related to ‘prevailing mechanical conditions’, so the differences in trabecular geometry in the femoral head and condyle could be attributed to different loading environments of coxofemoral and femorotibial joints. The trabecular bone score is a measure of bone texture correlated with bone microarchitecture and a marker for the risk of osteoporosis. 
Is there any evidence of a "July effect" in patients undergoing major cancer surgery? [SEP] The July effect, sometimes referred to as the July phenomenon, is a perceived but scientifically unfounded increase in the risk of medical errors and surgical complications that occurs in association with the time of year in which United States medical school graduates begin residencies. A 2003 Obstetrics & Gynecology study found no July effect in obstetric procedures. A 2016 study in JAMA Surgery found no evidence of the July effect in patient-experience outcomes in surgical patients. References
External links
Laerdal Medical: The July Effect – Improving Patient Safety
Bakhtiari, Elyas "Preparing for the July Effect: Five Strategies for Integrating New Residents Archived 10 June 2015 at the Wayback Machine, HealthLeaders Media, 7 June 2010
Stout CL, Chapman JR, Scoglietti VC,  et al. "'July Effect': an evaluation of a level I teaching hospital's trauma service seasonal mortality rates". "The July effect: impact of the beginning of the academic cycle on cardiac surgical outcomes in a cohort of 70,616 patients". "Hip fracture outcome: is there a 'July effect'?". "The title is a reference to the July effect, a controversial observation that most hospital observe a spike in patient deaths when newly graduated physicians begin their residency. 
Is it necessary to insert a nasobiliary drainage tube routinely after endoscopic clearance of the common bile duct in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced cholangitis? [SEP] Treatments include choledocholithotomy and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Diagnosis
Choledocholithiasis (stones in common bile duct) is one of the complications of cholelithiasis (gallstones), so the initial step is to confirm the diagnosis of cholelithiasis. If the patient must have the gallbladder removed for gallstones, the surgeon may choose to proceed with the surgery, and obtain a cholangiogram during the surgery. If the cholangiogram shows a stone in the bile duct, the surgeon may attempt to treat the problem by flushing the stone into the intestine or retrieve the stone back through the cystic duct. In these procedures, a thin tube is introduced into the common bile duct to perform a cholangiogram. It has become a very common technique, useful for treatment of a wide variety of conditions of the biliary system such as the evacuation of gallstones within the bile duct (choledocholithiasis), biliary or papillary strictures, sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, bile leaks, and others. The purpose of biliary endoscopic sphincterotomy in the treatment of a bile leak is to reduce or eliminate the pressure gradient between the bile duct and the duodenum, encouraging transpapillary bile flow and allowing the leak to heal.Others:

Palliation of malignant biliary strictures
Gallbladder drainage
Biliary parasite removal
Sump syndrome
Choledochocele

Diagnostic
Biopsy
Cholangioscope

Contraindications
Bleeding/coagulopathy: platelet count and international normalized ratio (INR) should be checked before the procedure. A cholangiogram is then used to evaluate any biliary abnormalities requiring further intervention. 
Storage of vaccines in the community: weak link in the cold chain? [SEP] Vaccine storage relates to the proper vaccine storage and handling practices from their manufacture to the administration in people. The storage are necessary to improve vaccine shelf life and transport vaccine worldwide. Recommended storage temperature
The cold chain has been one of the most reliable supply chains for transporting vaccines around the globe. Cold boxes
Cold boxes are typically used to carry around vaccines around the area. See also
Vaccine
Medicine
Cold chain
Supply chain
Immunization
Refrigerators
Temperature
Thermometer
Vaccine cooler


== References == Many vaccines require refrigeration to remain active, and the lack of infrastructure to maintain the cool chain to reliably bring vaccines into more remote areas of developing countries poses a serious challenge to national immunization programs. According to the Immunization Action Coalition, all vaccines should be stored in a refrigerator or freezer that is designed specifically for the storage of biologics or, alternatively, in a separate dedicated unit. Vaccines
The cold chain is used in the supply of vaccines to distant clinics in hot climates served by poorly developed transport networks. 
Is the clinically positive axilla in breast cancer really a contraindication to sentinel lymph node biopsy? [SEP] This major randomized trial performed in several centres in the UK produced clear evidence that sentinel node biopsy (SNB), used to stage axillary spread of disease, can be used with low failed localization and false negative rates, provided both radioisotope and blue dye are used to locate the sentinel nodes. A positive axillary lymph node is a lymph node in the area of the armpit (axilla) to which cancer has spread. References
Positive axillary lymph node entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms This article incorporates public domain material from Dictionary of Cancer Terms. The lymph nodes located in the axilla area that are affected by breast cancer are called the guardian or sentinel lymph nodes. Failure to detect cancer cells in the sentinel node can lead to a false negative result—there may still be cancerous cells in the lymph node basin. Following validation of the sentinel node biopsy technique, a number of randomised controlled trials were initiated to establish whether the technique could safely be used to avoid unnecessary axillary dissection among women with early breast cancer. The first such trial, led by Umberto Veronesi at the European Institute of Oncology, showed that women with breast tumours of 2 cm or less could safely forgo axillary dissection if their sentinel lymph nodes were found to be cancer-free on biopsy. See also
ALMANAC, Axillary Lymphatic Mapping Against Nodal Axillary Clearance trial

References
Further reading
External links
"Sentinel node biopsy using radiocolloid blue dye". 
Convulsions and retinal haemorrhage: should we look further? [SEP] Retinal hemorrhage (UK English: retinal haemorrhage) is a disorder of the eye in which bleeding occurs in the retina, the light sensitive tissue, located on the back wall of the eye. Retinal hemorrhage is strongly associated with child abuse in infants and young children and often leaves such abused infants permanently blind. In older children and adults, retinal hemorrhage can be caused by several medical conditions such as hypertension, retinal vein occlusion (a blockage of a retinal vein), anemia, leukemia or diabetes. Some symptoms may include:

Seeing floaters in the vision
Seeing cobwebs in the vision
Seeing haze or shadows
Distorted vision
Rapid flashes of light in peripheral vision
Red tint to vision
Blurriness
Sudden blindness
Headache

Causes
In adults, retinal hemorrhages are largely spontaneous, secondary to chronic medical conditions such as hypertension. Any patient with a hyphema larger than grade II, elevated intraocular pressure, or sickle cell disease—or who is unable to comply with daily ophthalmology evaluations—should be admitted to the hospital.A vitreous hemorrhage is bleeding into the vitreous gel: the thick, clear fluid in the center of the eye that allows light to pass through to the retina, the nerve fiber layer that sends images to the brain.A subretinal hemorrhage is an accumulation of blood between the photoreceptor layer and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), arising from the choroidal or retinal circulation. Symptoms include bleeding in the front of the eye, sensitivity to light, pain in the eye, and blurry, clouded, or blocked vision.Vitreous hemorrhage may be diagnosed when symptoms such as floaters, haziness, perception of shadows, or cobwebs are present. One should suspect abusive head trauma if a child younger than three shows retinal hemorrhages with an intracranial injury.Submacular hemorrhage patients often present with decreased central vision, sometimes 20/200 or worse. Symptoms
Common symptoms of vitreous hemorrhage include:

Blurred vision
Floaters – faint cobweb-like apparitions floating through the field of vision
Reddish tint to vision
Photopsia – brief flashes of light in the peripheral visionSmall vitreous hemorrhage often manifests itself as "floaters." 
Are patients willing participants in the new wave of community-based medical education in regional and rural Australia? [SEP] External links
University of Western Australia
University of Notre Dame Australia (Fremantle)
Department of Health | Rural Clinical Training and Support The Rural Health Education Foundation was an Australian provider of television-based health education for doctors, pharmacists, nurses and allied health professionals. This can assist in reducing levels of professional isolation often experienced by doctors in rural and remote Australia.The Rural Health Education Foundation also provided community educational resources, paying particular attention to the health, medical and education needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People. Background
Founded in 1992, the Rural Health Education Foundation is a non-government, not-for-profit organisation that provides an education and information "lifeline to the bush", targeting Australia's rural and remote health professionals as well as the communities in which they serve. Foundation-produced programs are designed to address the unique education and information needs of medical practitioners, health workers and communities in rural and remote Australia. Target audience
The primary audience for Rural Health Education Foundation programs is doctors, pharmacists, nurses, administrators and other health workers operating in rural and remote Australia. Australians who live in rural and remote areas experience have poorer access to primary health care services than those living in metropolitan areas.Some challenges for delivering high quality primary health care services in rural and remote locations include the need for alternative models and approaches to delivering services. See also
National Rural Health Alliance
Health care in Australia


== References == 
Can Flexible Instruments Create Adequate Femoral Tunnel Lengths at 90° of Knee Flexion in Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction? [SEP] The surgeon drills a hole forming the tibial bone tunnel and femoral bone tunnel, allowing for the patient's new ACL graft to be guided through. In comparing operative and nonoperative approaches to ACL tears, few differences were noted between surgical and nonsurgical groups, with no significant differences in regard to knee function or muscle strength reported by the patients.The main goals to achieve during rehabilitation (rehab) of an ACL tear is to regain sufficient functional stability, maximize full muscle strength, and decrease risk of reinjury. Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL reconstruction) is a surgical tissue graft replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament, located in the knee, to restore its function after an injury. However, the observed difference in failure rates is small enough that both are still regarded as viable options for primary ACL reconstruction.Hamstring grafts historically had problems with fixation slippage and stretching out over time. After six months, the reconstructed ACL is generally at full strength (ligament tissue has fully regrown), and the patient may return to activities involving cutting and twisting if a brace is worn. If the patient used a patellar tendon graft for their reconstructed ACL, therapist will also work on mobilizing the patellar tendon to keep it from shortening.Some equipment that can be used and exercises that can be performed are:

Use of Cryo-cuff- provides cold compressionIsometric Contraction of Quads
Quad Sets- stand against wall, push extended knee against rolled towel
- progress to straight leg raised to 30deg.Wall Slides- To increase knee flexionAssisted Knee Flexion
Towel Squeeze- Sit in chair, squeeze rolled towel between knees for 5 seconds. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved an artificial ligament made of Gore-Tex for use in ACL reconstruction in 1986.The design of artificial ligaments in the 1980s consisted of two major parts: a relatively stiff cable or tape, and silicone rubber cylinders on one or both ends. ACL reconstruction is a commonly practiced technique for ACL injury, conducted on 30% of patients, which manages to restore stability to the knee structure. 
Quality of life in lung cancer patients: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] In medicine (oncology and other fields), performance status is an attempt to quantify cancer patients' general well-being and activities of daily life. It is also used in oncological randomized controlled trials as a measure of quality of life. Socioeconomic status has long been related to health, those higher in the social hierarchy typically enjoy better health than those below. Socioeconomic status is an important source of health inequity, as there is a very robust positive correlation between socioeconomic status and health. Lower socioeconomic status has been linked to chronic stress, heart disease, ulcers, type 2 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, certain types of cancer, and premature aging. Kaplan have found that socioeconomic status strongly affects health even when controlling for economic resources and access to health care. It was developed to assess the quality of life in cancer patients undergoing clinical trials for cancer therapy. Numerous studies around the world have found a relationship between socioeconomic status and mental health. 
Are Biochemical Markers of Bone Turnover Representative of Bone Histomorphometry in 370 Postmenopausal Women? [SEP] Bone density measurement is used in clinical medicine as an indirect indicator of osteoporosis and fracture risk. Bone density measurements are used to screen people for osteoporosis risk and to identify those who might benefit from measures to improve bone strength. Bone mineral density is an assessment of the quantity of bone. As bone mass declines with age, the risk of fractures increases. Secondary osteoporosis can be present in pre- and post-menopausal women and in men and have found to be factors contributing to osteoporosis in both sexes (50-80% of men and 30% of post-menopausal women). Bone biopsy is considered the gold standard to quantify bone turnover; however, it is invasive, complex and costly to perform and subject to significant measurement errors. Measurements of serum or urine biomarkers of bone turnover are simple, cheap, quick, and non-invasive in measuring changes in bone metabolism, but only provide information on the global skeleton. The functional imaging technique of dynamic  [18F]NaF PET scans can quantify regional bone turnover at specific sites of clinical importance such as the lumbar spine and hip and has been validated by comparison with the gold standard of bone biopsy. 
Should early extubation be the goal for children after congenital cardiac surgery? [SEP] In modern practice, this procedure is temporarily used to direct blood flow to the lungs and relieve cyanosis while the infant is waiting for corrective or definitive surgery when their heart is larger. The Glenn procedure is typically performed at 4 to 6 months of age for infants born with congenital single ventricle defects. Predictors of failed procedure include right ventricle dominance, prolonged pleural drainage, and prolonged stay in the ICU/hospital or need for use of ECMO to maintain oxygenation. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) may be used post-operatively as a temporary measure in cases of cardiac dysfunction or severe pulmonary hypertension. In cardiac surgery, goal-directed therapy has proved effective when commenced after surgery. The combination of GDT and Point-of-Care Testing has demonstrated a marked decrease in mortality for patients undergoing congenital heart surgery. This approach involves adjustments of cardiac preload, afterload, and contractility to balance oxygen delivery with an increased oxygen demand before surgery.Three trials published in 2014/2015 have shown that early goal directed therapy should be abandoned. Then the remainder of the C-section proceeds.The ex utero intrapartum treatment (EXIT) procedure was originally developed to reverse temporary tracheal occlusion in patients who had undergone fetal surgery for severe congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). 
Does delivery mode affect women's postpartum quality of life in rural China? [SEP] From this day onwards, Cantonese families with a new baby usually share their joy through giving away food gifts, while some families mark the occasion by paying tribute to their ancestors.In ancient China, women of certain ethnic groups in the South would resume work right after birth, and allow the men to practice postpartum confinement instead. By Heng Ou, 2016
Zuo Yuezi: An American Mother's Guide to Chinese Postpartum Recovery. Childbirth in China is influenced by traditional Chinese medicine, state control of reproductive health and birthing, and the adoption of modern biomedical practices. Cultural Practices
Despite the biomedicalization of birth and delivery, many Chinese women adhere to traditional restrictions and taboos during pregnancy. In some cases, family are allowed in early labor or postpartum recovery rooms, but the delivery room is reserved for medical staff and birthing women.For women in rural areas, especially in minority regions, childbirth and maternal care are less influenced by Western biomedical practices. A study in 2010 found that the most common reported reasons for the continued practice of home births in the rural Shanxi Province are economic struggles, low quality prenatal care, lack of transportation, fear of hospitals and the convenience of home birth. In early communist China under Mao, birthing practices were standardized while trained midwives took on a greater role in labor and delivery. Postpartum depression
Postpartum depression occurs in an estimated 30% of Chinese women 1-3 years postpartum. 
Menopausal hormone therapy and irregular endometrial bleeding: a potential role for uterine natural killer cells? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
Vaginal bleeding or spotting in women after menopause occurs in 90% of endometrial cancer. Abnormal menstrual cycles or extremely long, heavy, or frequent episodes of bleeding in women before menopause may also be a sign of endometrial cancer.Symptoms other than bleeding are not common. There are also integrin families present in the membrane of uterine natural killer cells (α5β1, α4β1 and α6β1), the binding of which (by ligands fibronectin, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, and laminin) induces certain uterine natural killer cell-specific effects (see ‘Functions of uNK cells’). As with circulating natural killer cells, uterine natural killer cells also express immunoglobulin-like transcripts and natural cytotoxicity receptors. Origin
In humans, the Uterine natural killer cell population is low during the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle. The origin of Uterine natural killer cells has been suggested to occur in two phases dependent on the stage of uterine tissue remodelling. Functions
Uterine natural killer cells have an important role during pregnancy in both, humans and in mice. Studies in mice have shown that uterine natural killer cells have a key role in this remodelling. 
Percutaneous ethanol injection for benign cystic thyroid nodules: is aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid advantageous? [SEP] Percutaneous ethanol injection is a possible treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma.Also used for thyroid and parathyroid disease.Instead of removing unwanted tissue surgically it is killed with alcohol.It is similar in mechanism to Alcohol septal ablation for heart problems. Laser ablation of thyroid nodules is a minimally invasive procedure indicated to treat benign thyroid lesions such as cold nodules or single nodules within a multinodular goiter. Colloid nodules, also known as adenomatous nodules or colloid nodular goiter are benign, noncancerous enlargement of thyroid tissue. Colloid nodules are the most common kind of thyroid nodule. Diagnosis
Colloid nodules may be initially identified as an unspecified kind of thyroid nodule. Once the presence of a nodule has been confirmed, the determination of the kind of thyroid nodule is done by fine needle aspiration biopsy.Colloid nodules are distinguished by an apparently gelatinous mass of colloid both surrounding and contained within follicular cells. Treatment may be indicated if follow up exams show significant change.Surgical management:
Hemithyroidectomy (if only one lobe is involved), Thyroidectomy (if both the lobes are involved)

See also
Cold nodule

References
External links
Ultrasound images of diseases of thyroid gland Management
Lobectomy or surgical removal of one half of the thyroid gland that contains the nodule is currently all that seems to be required. 
Can the growth rate of a gallbladder polyp predict a neoplastic polyp? [SEP] Gallbladder polyps are growths or lesions resembling growths (polypoid lesions) in the wall of the gallbladder. Gallbladder polyps are usually found incidentally when examining the abdomen by ultrasound for other conditions, usually abdominal pain. Larger polyps are more likely to develop into adenocarcinomas.Cholesterolosis is characterized by an outgrowth of the mucosal lining of the gallbladder into fingerlike projections due to the excessive accumulation of cholesterol and triglycerides within macrophages in the epithelial lining. These cholesterol polyps account for most benign gallbladder polyps. Upon histopathology of resected gallbladders, gallbladder polyps may be classified into the following main types:
Non-neoplastic polyps: Cholesterol, hyperplastic, and inflammatory polyps, adenomyomas, leiomyomas, fibromas, and lipomas
Neoplastic polyps: adenomas, adenocarcinomas, and squamous cell carcinomas

Treatment
Most polyps are benign and do not need to be removed. Surgical removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is recommended when a gallbladder polyp larger than 1 cm is found, even if the person has no symptoms clearly related to the polyp. Also, the shape of the polyps is related to the risk of progression into carcinoma. hyperplastic polyp), pre-malignant (e.g. 
Are performance measurement systems useful? [SEP] Performance measurement is the process of collecting, analyzing and/or reporting information regarding the performance of an individual, group, organization, system or component.Definitions of performance measurement tend to be predicated upon an assumption about why the performance is being measured. Defining performance measures or methods by which they can be chosen is also a popular activity for academics—for example a list of railway infrastructure indicators is offered by Stenström et al., a novel method for measure selection is proposed by Mendibil et al.Academic articles that provide critical reviews of performance measurement in specific domains are also common—e.g. 's observations about use of performance measurement in non-profit organisations, or Bühler et al. 's (2016) analysis of how external turbulence could be reflected in performance measurement systems.The use of performance measurement system in company is very important, but is rarely used by Small and Medium Enterprises. Setting performance goals
Performance testing can serve different purposes:

It can demonstrate that the system meets performance criteria. It can measure which parts of the system or workload cause the system to perform badly.Many performance tests are undertaken without setting sufficiently realistic, goal-oriented performance goals. Audio system measurements are a means of quantifying system performance. Performance is a measure of the results achieved. 
Does para-cervical block offer additional advantages in abortion induction with gemeprost in the 2nd trimester? [SEP] A paracervical block is an anesthetic procedure used in obstetrics and gynecology, in which a local anesthetic is injected into between two and six sites at a depth of 3–7 mm alongside the vaginal portion of the cervix in the vaginal fornices. In the United States, the paracervical block is underutilized during insertion of intrauterine devices (IUDs). It is also effective in the second trimester of pregnancy. It works in 90% after first attempt and, in case of failure, the attempt may be repeated after a minimum of 3 days.Misoprostol can also be used to dilate the cervix in preparation for a surgical abortion, particularly in the second trimester (either alone or in combination with laminaria stents). Vaginal misoprostol can also be used to facilitate intrauterine device insertion after previous insertion failure.Misoprostol by mouth is the least effective treatment for producing complete abortion in a period of 24 hours due to the liver's first-pass effect which reduces the bioavailability of the misoprostol. Vaginal and sublingual routes result in greater efficacy and extended duration of action because these routes of administration allow the drug to be directly absorbed into circulation by bypassing the liver first-pass effect.Hematocrit or Hb tests and Rh testing are recommended before use for abortion confirmation of pregnancy. It also can be used in combination with mifepristone, with a similar regimen to medical abortion.Misoprostol is regularly used in some Canadian hospitals for labour induction for fetal deaths early in pregnancy, and for termination of pregnancy for fetal anomalies. Insertion of intrauterine contraceptive device
In women with prior caesarean section or prior failure of insertion of an intrauterine contraceptive device, pre-procedure administration of misoprostol reduces the rate of failure of insertion of intrauterine contraceptive device. 
Does insulin resistance drive the association between hyperglycemia and cardiovascular risk? [SEP] Prolonged elevation of insulin resistance can also lead to dyslipidemia. The use of  fasting insulin to identify patients at risk has been proposed, but is currently not commonly used in clinical practice.The implications of hyperinsulinemia is the risk of comorbidities related to diabetes that may precede changes in blood glucose, including cardiovascular diseases. For example, people with high BMI are at higher risk for diabetes. Lack of physical activity, increased consumption of processed food and unmanaged portion sizes all contribute to the rise of diabetes – a major component of cardiometabolic risk. Individuals with prediabetes are also likely to have additional cardiovascular risk factors such as elevated cholesterol and high blood pressure.Diabetes and prediabetes are strongly linked to obesity and overweight. Two-thirds of adolescents have at least one metabolic abnormality.Preliminary prospective studies report that children and adolescents with the metabolic syndrome are at high risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes as adults. One 25-year prospective study found that, compared with children without the syndrome, those with the metabolic syndrome are 14 times more likely to have cardiovascular disease and 11 times more likely to develop diabetes when they reach adulthood. The higher CHD risk in this population may be related in part to a higher prevalence of insulin resistance, the metabolic syndrome, and diabetes. 
Are there risk factors that increase the rate of staple line leakage in patients undergoing primary sleeve gastrectomy for morbid obesity? [SEP] Sleeve gastrectomy or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is a surgical weight-loss procedure, typically performed laparoscopically, in which approximately 75 - 85% of the stomach is removed, along the greater curvature, which leaves a cylindrical, or "sleeve"-shaped stomach the size of a banana. Studies by Alqahtani and colleagues have found that sleeve gastrectomy causes large weight loss in children and adolescents aged 5 to 21 years. Complications
Sleeve gastrectomy may cause complications; some of them are listed below:
Sleeve leaking (occurs 1 in 200 patients)
Blood clots (happens 1% of the time)
Wound infections (occurs in about 10 to 15% of post-op patients)
Strictures (occurs in 3.5% of post-op patients)
Aversion to food, and nausea
Damage to the vagus nerve which will cause constant nausea
Gastroparesis, with a delay in moving food from the stomach to the small intestine
Vomiting
Internal bleeding
Esophageal spasm/pain
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)
Depression after surgery

References
Further reading

Micsorare stomac/ gastric sleeve - info related 

 Media related to Sleeve gastrectomy at Wikimedia Commons "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Sleeve gastrectomy also carries a small risk of stenosis, staple line leak, and gastro-esophageal reflux disease (also known as GERD, or heartburn).In addition to procedure-specific risks, patients also face risks to surgery in general. Increased risk of fracture has also been linked to bariatric surgery. Its market share has decreased, and since 2013, sleeve gastrectomy has overtaken RYGB as the most common bariatric procedure.A factor in the success of any bariatric surgery is strict post-surgical adherence to a healthy pattern of eating. Endoscopic sleeve gastroplasty for treatment of class 1 and 2 obesity (MERIT): a prospective, multicentre, randomised trial. 
Chronic functional somatic symptoms: a single syndrome? [SEP] The term functional somatic syndrome (FSS) refers to a group of chronic diagnoses with no identifiable organic cause. The currently identified class of functional somatic syndromes present as a complex enigma within the medical community; they are highly prevalent, but little is known about the etiology of these conditions. Signs and symptoms
Functional somatic syndromes are characterized by ambiguous, non-specific symptoms that appear in otherwise-healthy people. Treatment
Due to the underlying psychological component of functional somatic syndromes, therapeutic approaches such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) are common treatments. A common trend is to see functional symptoms and syndromes such as fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome and functional neurological symptoms such as functional weakness as symptoms in which both biological and psychological factors are relevant, without one necessarily being dominant. See also
Functional disorder
Functional neurological symptom disorder
Idiopathy

References
External links
Functional somatic symptoms and syndromes
Engagement in psychological treatment for functional neurological symptoms--Barriers and solutions
Chronic multiple functional somatic symptoms
Functional symptoms in inflammatory bowel disease and their potential influence in misclassification of clinical status Persistent somatoform pain disorder. Somatoform disorder, unspecified. 
Actinobaculum schaalii, a cause of urinary tract infections in children? [SEP] Actinotignum schaalii is a bacterium first isolated from human blood cultures. "Actinobaculum schaalii, a common uropathogen in elderly patients, Denmark." "Actinobaculum schaalii - invasive pathogen or innocent bystander? External links
LPSN
"Actinotignum schaalii" at the Encyclopedia of Life Known to live commensally on and within humans, A. israelii is an opportunistic pathogen and a cause of actinomycosis. Pathogenesis
Actinomycosis is most frequently caused by A. israelii. Actinomycosis is a rare infectious bacterial disease caused by Actinomyces species. "Actinomycosis: an often forgotten diagnosis". 
Prevalence of chronic conditions among Medicare Part A beneficiaries in 2008 and 2010: are Medicare beneficiaries getting sicker? [SEP] Dual-eligibles are often in poorer health and require more care compared with other Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Recently, Congress and CMS have placed greater emphasis on the coordination and integration of Medicare and Medicaid benefits for dual-eligible beneficiaries. Research
A study by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that the integration of Medicare and Medicaid benefits generally improves the care provided to dual-eligibles but does not lead to Medicare savings or a reduction in costly Medicare services (i.e., emergency room visits, hospital admissions, and 30-day risk-adjusted all-cause readmissions). Because the GAO study also found that the average number of costly Medicare services increases as the number of chronic and mental health conditions increase, it is possible that savings were not demonstrated because the population being served by FIDE-SNPs is too large to be cost-effective and major complications were averted for relatively few beneficiaries.A study looking at physician's views of Medicare Part D, and in particular how it pertains to dual-eligibles, found that many physicians expressed concern regarding access to prescription drugs, especially for dual-eligibles. Almost half of physicians responded that the access to prescription drugs for dual-eligibles was worse under Part D than relative to the previous Medicaid, and more than half (63%) reported higher administration burden. References
External links
Medicare & You handbook Order newest (printed) or download newest(PDF) version from Medicare website. Approximately 45% of cancer patients are Medicare beneficiaries, while also controlling costs. Section 299I of Public Law 92-603, passed on October 30, 1972, extended Medicare coverage to Americans if they had stage five chronic kidney disease (CKD) and were otherwise qualified under Medicare's work history requirements. 
Does successful completion of the Perinatal Education Programme result in improved obstetric practice? [SEP] Obstetrical nursing, also called perinatal nursing, is a nursing specialty that works with patients who are attempting to become pregnant, are currently pregnant, or have recently delivered. Education for obstetrical nurses
Obstetrical nurses typically start as registered nurses, so that is the first step. Research on audit, evaluation, and clinical care in maternal-fetal and perinatal medicine is also featured. Advances in research and technology allowed physicians to diagnose and treat fetal complications in utero, whereas previously, obstetricians could only rely on heart rate monitoring and maternal reports of fetal movement. Training
Maternal–fetal medicine specialists are obstetrician-gynecologists who undergo an additional 3 years of specialized training in the assessment and management of high-risk pregnancies. Maternal–fetal medicine specialists have training in obstetric ultrasound, invasive prenatal diagnosis using amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling, and the management of high-risk pregnancies. Obstetrical care and service has been improved to provide academic advancement for MFM in-patient directorships, improve skills in coding and reimbursement for maternal care, establish national, stratified system for levels of maternal care, develop specific, proscriptive guidelines on complications with highest maternal morbidity and mortality, and finally, increase departmental and divisional support for MFM subspecialists with maternal focus. As Maternal–fetal medicine subspecialists improve their work ethics and knowledge of this advancing field, they are capable of reducing the rate of maternal mortality and maternal morbidity. 
Do patients with localized prostate cancer treatment really want more aggressive treatment? [SEP] Extensive disease
Palliative care for advanced-stage prostate cancer focuses on extending life and relieving the symptoms of metastatic disease. The management of localized prostate cancer is controversial and men with localized disease diagnosed today often undergo treatments with significant side effects that will not improve overall health outcomes. Functional outcomes and quality of life after treatment for localized prostate cancer
At 15 years after treatment (radiotherapy or surgery) of localized prostate cancer diagnosed in 1994–1995, declines in urinary, sexual, and bowel function were common. These functional declines in quality of life occur to a significantly greater extent among those that undergo treatment for prostate cancer as compared to a normative aging population without a diagnosis of prostate cancer, and symptom distress is more common among men with prostate cancer that are treated compared to those not treated. An understanding of a patient's personal preferences should play a large part in shared decision making.Active surveillance as a management option for localized prostate cancer is offered to appropriate candidates that could also be offered aggressive local therapies (surgery and radiotherapy) with the intent to intervene if the disease progresses. Localized disease
Men diagnosed with low-risk cases of prostate cancer often defer treatment and are instead monitored regularly for cancer progression by active surveillance. Such therapies could provide an advantage; particularly in treating prostate cancers that are resistant to current therapies. Many high-risk patients are not cured by this treatment, and the search for better treatments in this group is a particularly pressing concern in prostate cancer research. 
Does music influence stress in mechanically ventilated patients? [SEP] Music assuages stress by either reducing or altering emotional response or alleviate some of the physiological effects of the stress response. In several studies using non-invasive methods, music has been documented as being effective in reducing the subject's perceived level of stress. Stress and music in the medical field
The use of music as a coping strategy also has applications in the medical field. For example, patients who listen to music during surgery or post-operative recovery have been shown to have less stress than their counterparts who do not listen to music. By and large, a collective review of these studies shows that music can be effective in reducing physiological effects that stress has on the human body. It has been suggested that music can be closely tied to re-experiencing the psychological aspects of past memories, so selecting music with positive connotations is one possible way that music can reduce stress.A  technique that is starting to be employed more often is vibroacoustic therapy. Conclusion
The use of music as a stress coping strategy has a demonstrated effect on the human response to stress. The use of music has been proven to lower the perceived levels of stress in patients, while greatly reducing the physical manifestations of stress as well– such as heart rate, blood pressure, or levels of stress hormones. 
Does reducing spasticity translate into functional benefit? [SEP] Some people with cerebral palsy use spasticity to compensate for muscle weakness, and so reducing spasticity can reduce function. Although the result of spasticity is problems with the muscles, spasticity is actually caused by an injury to a part of the central nervous system (the brain or spinal cord) that controls voluntary movements. Some studies have shown that medications have been effective in decreasing spasticity, but that this has not been accompanied by functional benefits. In spastic CP, selective dorsal rhizotomy has also been used to decrease muscle overactivity.Incorporating hydrotherapy in the treatment program may help decrease spasm severity, promote functional independence, improve motor recovery and decrease medication required for spasticity, which may help reduce the side effects that are possible with oral drug treatments. However, the term "spasticity" is still often used interchangeably with "upper motor neuron syndrome" in the clinical settings, and it is not unusual to see patients labeled as "spastic" who actually demonstrate not just spasticity alone, but also an array of upper motor neuron findings.Research has clearly shown that exercise is beneficial for spastic muscles, even though in the very early days of research it was assumed that strength exercise would increase spasticity. While splinting is not considered effective for decreasing spasticity, a range of different orthotics are effectively used for preventing muscle contractures on patients with spasticity. Improvements were found in gastrocnemius spasticity, community mobility and balance skills. The reviewers summarised the evidence as the treatment having the potential to improve a number of different areas including muscle mass and strength, spasticity, passive range of motion, upper extremity function, walking speed, positioning of the foot and ankle kinematics. 
Is the holmium:YAG laser the best intracorporeal lithotripter for the ureter? [SEP] The procedure is non-invasive and has a 90% success rate, which makes it a first-line treatment for smaller kidney stones.EHL was the first modern extracorporeal lithotripter invented in 1954 by an engineer from Kyiv, but because he was out of favor with the Stalinist government, he was banished and the use of his invention was delayed for around 10 years.This procedure is also used to treat gallstones in the bile or pancreatic ducts that are difficult to remove with other methods of lithotripsy. While being less expensive than laser lithotripsy, EHL does carry a greater risk of ureteral injury. Laser lithotripsy is a surgical procedure to remove stones from urinary tract, i.e., kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra. Comparison
Laser lithotripsy (LL) has been evaluated against Extracorporeal Shock Wave lithotripsy (ESWL), finding both to be safe and effective. A 2013 meta-analysis found LL can treat larger stones (> 2 cm) with good stone-free and complication rates.Holmium laser lithotripsy had superior initial success and re-treatment rate compared to extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) in a 2013 trial.The experimental thulium fiber laser (TFL) is being studied as a potential alternative to the holmium:YAG (Ho:YAG) laser for the treatment of kidney stones. The TFL has several potential advantages compared to Ho:YAG laser for lithotripsy, including a four times lower ablation threshold, a near single-mode beam profile, and higher pulse rates, resulting in up to four times as fast ablation rates and faster procedural times. Lasers
Pulsed dye lasers have been used with fiber diameters of 200–550 microns for lithotripsy of biliary and urinary stones.Ho:YAG lasers have wavelength of 2100 nm (infrared) and are used for medical procedures in urology and other areas. With laser prostate surgery a fiber optic cable pushed through the urethra is used to transmit lasers such as holmium-Nd:YAG high-powered "red" or potassium titanyl phosphate (KTP) "green" to vaporize the adenoma. 
Metered-dose inhalers. Do health care providers know what to teach? [SEP] A metered-dose inhaler (MDI) is a device that delivers a specific amount of medication to the lungs, in the form of a short burst of aerosolized medicine that is usually self-administered by the patient via inhalation. Description
A metered-dose inhaler consists of three major components; the canister which is produced in aluminium or stainless steel by means of deep drawing, where the formulation resides; the metering valve, which allows a metered quantity of the formulation to be dispensed with each actuation; and an actuator (or mouthpiece) which allows the patient to operate the device and directs the aerosol into the patient's lungs., The formulation itself is made up of the drug, a liquefied gas propellant and, in many cases, stabilising excipients. Uses
Metered-dose inhalers are only one type of inhaler, but they are the most commonly used type. Metered-dose inhalers can be used to treat COPD, both in stable state and during lung attacks. A metered dose inhaler contains enough medication for a certain number of actuations (or "puffs") which is printed on the canister. Numerous studies have demonstrated that between 50-100% of patients do not use their inhaler devices correctly, with patients often unaware that they are using their inhaled medication incorrectly. Incorrect maintenance and cleaning of metered dose inhalers is also an issue identified in many users, highlighting the need for clear guidance for patients prescribed MDIs. Numerous studies have demonstrated that between 50 and 100% of patients do not use their inhaler devices correctly, with patients often unaware that they are using their inhaled medication incorrectly. 
Does the bracket-ligature combination affect the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months? [SEP] This type of bracket replaces traditional elastic ligatures and typically cuts orthodontic appointment times drastically. This bracket was considered revolutionary in the field of orthodontics because it was an active type of self-ligating bracket. Proponents of self-ligating brackets say that patients with self-ligating brackets have better oral hygiene than patients with conventional brackets. in 2016  stated that self-ligating brackets do not outperform conventional brackets in reliving discomfort or promoting oral health in clinic. in 2016 stated that differences in the periodontal status of adolescents undergoing orthodontic treatment with either conventional or self-ligating brackets were detected were non-significant. Therefore, there is no difference between using self-ligating bracket and conventional bracket in patients with periodontal problems. stated that their analysis  showed treatment time being longer when self ligated orthodontic brackets are used compared to conventional orthodontic brackets. stated that self-ligating brackets had a markedly lower friction than conventional brackets at all angulations. 
Health habits and vaccination status of Lebanese residents: are future doctors applying the rules of prevention? [SEP] Founded on December 7, 1946, the Lebanese Order of Physicians in Beirut is the largest medical organization and physician group in Lebanon. Its membership of 12,000 aims to pursue and promote optimal healthcare system and policies in Lebanon thus the region. Role
The Lebanese Order of Physicians’ mission is a medical, healthy, scientific, administrative, and a guiding mission that aims to:

Unify the doctors’ word, defend their rights, maintain their legitimate moral and material interests, raise the level of their profession, and ensure the ethics and dignity of the medical care. Provide suggestions on the medical curriculum in colleges and institutes of medicine in Lebanon, and ensure the professional eligibility of physicians. Information for travellers
The information for travellers section recommends that travellers consult their physicians to determine appropriate vaccinations before international travel and inform their physician of international travel if they fall ill after their trip. It also gives physicians guidelines for documenting contraindications in cases where a traveller has a medical reason that prevents them from getting a particular vaccine. Exceptions
In the event that a traveller cannot be vaccinated for a particular disease for medical reasons, their physician can provide them with documentation indicating their condition. This is a demography of the population of Lebanon including population density, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. 
Does vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia have the same evolution as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia? [SEP] Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) refers to particular changes that can occur in the skin that covers the vulva. Vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (VAIN) is a condition that describes premalignant histological findings in the vagina characterized by dysplastic changes.The disorder is rare and generally has no symptoms. Endometrial intraepithelial neoplasia (EIN) is a premalignant lesion of the uterine lining that predisposes to endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinoma. Intraepithelial neoplasia (IEN) is the development of a benign neoplasia or high-grade dysplasia in an epithelium. Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), also known as cervical dysplasia, is the abnormal growth of cells on the surface of the cervix that could potentially lead to cervical cancer. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is necessary for the development of CIN, but not all with this infection develop cervical cancer. While infection with HPV is needed for development of CIN, most women with HPV infection do not develop high-grade intraepithelial lesions or cancer. The human papilloma virus (HPV) is strongly associated with vaginal cancer. 
Should general practitioners call patients by their first names? [SEP] In the medical profession, a general practitioner (GP) or family physician  is a physician who treats acute and chronic illnesses and provides preventive care and health education to patients of all ages. The term "primary care physician" is more usually used in the US. It was not until the 1970s that family medicine was recognized as a specialty in the US.Many licensed family medical practitioners in the United States after this change began to use the term "general practitioner" to refer to those practitioners who previously did not complete a family medicine residency. General practitioners would be the surgeons, the obstetricians, and the internists for their given communities. It is often referred to as general practice and a practitioner as a general practitioner. Such services are provided by general practitioners. In the past, the equivalent term was 'general practitioner' in the US; however in the United Kingdom and other countries the term general practitioner is still used. Role in health care system
A primary care physician is usually the first medical practitioner contacted by a patient because of factors such as ease of communication, accessible location, familiarity, and increasingly issues of cost and managed care requirements. 
Transesophageal echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular function in brain-dead patients: are marginally acceptable hearts suitable for transplantation? [SEP] A heart transplant, or a cardiac transplant, is a surgical transplant procedure performed on patients with end-stage heart failure or severe coronary artery disease when other medical or surgical treatments have failed. As of 2018, the most common procedure is to take a functioning heart, with or without both lungs, from a recently deceased organ donor (brain death is the standard) and implant it into the patient. Brain death is the current ethical standard for when a heart donation can be allowed. A beating heart cadaver is a body that is pronounced dead in all medical and legal definitions, connected to a medical ventilator, and retains cardio-pulmonary functions. The heart contains pacemaker cells that will cause it to continue beating even when a patient is brain-dead. A beating heart cadaver requires a ventilator to provide oxygen to its blood, but the heart will continue to beat on its own even in the absence of brain activity. This definition can create some cognitive dissonance because not responding to stimulation may show a problem with the central nervous system, yet when someone has a beating heart and lungs that will still function with the help of a ventilator it is difficult for some to accept as death. See also
Brain stem death
Clinical death
Heart transplantation
Legal death
Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers
Transplant surgery


== References == 
Attenuation of ischemia/reperfusion-induced ovarian damage in rats: does edaravone offer protection? [SEP] Mechanisms
Reperfusion of ischemic tissues is often associated with microvascular injury, particularly due to increased permeability of capillaries and arterioles that lead to an increase of diffusion and fluid filtration across the tissues. Recent researches have shown significant therapeutic effects on pre-clinical models of reperfusion injury after ischemic stroke. Metformin
A series of 2009 studies published in the Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology suggest that Metformin may prevent cardiac reperfusion injury by inhibition of Mitochondrial Complex I and the opening of MPT pore and  in rats. Riboflavin
In neonatal in vivo model of brain ischemia/reperfusion, tissue  injury can be alleviated by the administration of FMN precursor, riboflavin that prevents inactivation of mitochondrial complex I.

Cannabinoids
A study published in 2012 show that the synthetic analogue of the phytocannabinoid Tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV), Δ8-Tetrahydrocannabivarin (Δ8-THCV) and its metabolite 11-OH-Δ8-THCV, prevent hepatic ischaemia/reperfusion injury by decreasing oxidative stress and inflammatory responses through cannabinoid CB2 receptors and thereby decrease tissue injury and inflammation with a protective effect against liver damage. Pretreatment with a CB2 receptor antagonist attenuated the protective effects of Δ8-THCV, while a CB1 antagonist tended to enhance it.An earlier study published in 2011 found, that Cannabidiol (CBD) also protects against hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury by attenuating inflammatory signaling and response of oxidative and nitrative stress, and thereby cell death and tissue injury, but independent from classical CB1 and CB2 receptors. It is primarily used in assisted reproduction to control ovulation. Specifically, it is used to prevent premature ovulation in people with ovaries undergoing fertility treatment involving ovarian hyperstimulation that causes the ovaries to produce multiple eggs. This pathway allows ischaemic postconditioning that helps protect against reperfusion injury. 
Does the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale favor left hemisphere strokes? [SEP] The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, or NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS), is a tool used by healthcare providers to objectively quantify the impairment caused by a stroke and aid planning post-acute care disposition, though was intended to assess differences in interventions in clinical trials. CED is more common in right hemispheric strokes and typically in lesions affecting the basal ganglia and temporoparietal cortex. Accuracy
The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale has been repeatedly validated as a tool for assessing stroke severity and as an excellent predictor for patient outcomes. Due to this emphasis, the NIHSS is a better predictor of lesion volume in the strokes occurring within the left cerebral hemisphere. If one side doesn't move as well as the other so it seems to droop, that could be a sign of a stroke. "Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale: reproducibility and validity". It has become the most widely used clinical outcome measure for stroke clinical trials.The scale was originally introduced in 1957 by Dr. John Rankin of Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow, Scotland as a 5-level scale ranging from 1 to 5. See also
Barthel scale
Glasgow outcome scale
strokecenter.org list of stroke assessment scales (external link)


== References == 
Can a Novel Surgical Approach to the Temporomandibular Joint Improve Access and Reduce Complications? [SEP] Temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD, TMJD) is an umbrella term covering pain and dysfunction of the muscles of mastication (the muscles that move the jaw) and the temporomandibular joints (the joints which connect the mandible to the skull). pain, limitation of movement, clicking) dysfunction of the temporomandibular joint. In turn, the term temporomandibular disorder is defined as "musculoskeletal disorders affecting the temporomandibular joints and their associated musculature. The temporomandibular joint is susceptible to a huge range of diseases, some rarer than others, and there is no implication that all of these will cause any symptoms or limitation in function at all.The preferred terms in medical publications is to an extent influenced by geographic location. Pathophysiology
Anatomy and physiology
Temporomandibular joints
The temporomandibular joints are the dual articulation of the mandible with the skull. In anatomy, the temporomandibular joints (TMJ) are the two joints connecting the jawbone to the skull. The temporomandibular joints are one of the few synovial joints in the human body with an articular disc, another being the sternoclavicular joint. Although rare, other pathologic conditions may also affect the function of temporomandibular joints, causing pain and swelling. 
Young-Burgess classification of pelvic ring fractures: does it predict mortality, transfusion requirements, and non-orthopaedic injuries? [SEP] The Young–Burgess classification is a system of categorizing pelvic fractures based on fracture pattern, allowing judgment on the stability of the pelvic ring. The Tile classification is a system of categorizing pelvic fractures based on fracture pattern, allowing judgment on the stability of the pelvic ring. British orthopaedic surgeon Robert Symon Garden described a classification system for this type of fracture, referred to as the Garden classification and consisting of four grades:

Classification
Clinical relevance
The blood supply of the femoral head is much more likely to be disrupted in Garden types 3 or 4 fractures. Diagnosis
Duverney fractures can usually be seen on pelvic X-rays, but CT scans are required to fully delineate the fracture and to look for associated fractures involving the pelvic ring. Management
Since fractures that do not involve the weight bearing part of the pelvic ring tend to be stable fractures, they can often be managed without surgery. Coopernail sign is a medical sign that denotes fracture of pelvis. Preperitoneal packing, also known as preperitoneal pelvic packing, is a treatment option for those with a pelvic fracture who are bleeding and have a low blood pressure. The Gartland classification is a system of categorizing supracondylar humerus fractures, clinically useful as it predicts the likelihood of associated neurovascular injury, such as anterior interosseous nerve neurapraxia or brachial artery disruption. 
Is vitamin D deficiency a feature of pediatric celiac disease? [SEP] Coeliac disease (British English) or celiac disease (American English) is a long-term autoimmune disorder, primarily affecting the small intestine, where individuals develop intolerance to gluten, present in foods such as wheat, rye and barley. Copper and zinc deficiencies have also been associated with coeliac disease. Miscellaneous
Coeliac disease has been linked with many conditions. Malabsorption
Rates of vitamin D deficiency are higher among people with untreated celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency from cystic fibrosis, and short bowel syndrome, which can all produce problems of malabsorption. Coeliac disease
Coeliac disease (American English: celiac) (CD) is one of the most common chronic, immune-mediated disorders, triggered by the eating of gluten, a mixture of proteins found in wheat, barley, rye, and oats and derivatives. CD is associated with some autoimmune diseases, such as diabetes mellitus type 1, thyroiditis, gluten ataxia, psoriasis, vitiligo, autoimmune hepatitis, dermatitis herpetiformis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and more.CD with "classic symptoms", which include gastrointestinal manifestations such as chronic diarrhea and bloating, malabsorption of certain vitamins and minerals, loss of appetite, impaired growth and even bone pain, is currently the least common presentation form of the disease and affects predominantly to small children generally younger than two years of age.CD with "non-classic symptoms" is the most common clinical found type and occurs in older children (over two years old), adolescents and adults. Anti-α-gliadin antibodies are frequently found in celiac disease (CD), to a lesser degree subclinical CD, but are also found in a subset who do not have the disease. Without serological or HLA-DQ2/8 positivity, celiac disease is likely not present. 
Is unsafe sexual behaviour increasing among HIV-infected individuals? [SEP] Drug use is associated with risky sexual behaviors. "Condom Use and High-Risk Sexual Acts in Adult Films: A Comparison of Heterosexual and Homosexual Films". These communities are usually influenced by HIV and undertake risky behaviours that lead to a higher chance of HIV infection. Communities that are affected by HIV are usually doing risky behaviours, these behaviours include; sexual activities without the use of protection, and sharing of syringes and needles can contribute to HIV infection. In most bisexual and gay communities anal sex is one of the most common factors that contribute to increasing of HIV infections, with men not using condoms or taking medicines that will help treat HIV. This trend is on the rise due to the stigmatization of HIV/AIDS within adolescent communities and society. However, rates of new HIV infections have said otherwise. Nevertheless, KwaZulu-Natal still has the highest infection rate at 15.5%  In the province with the lowest infection rate, the Western Cape, the total number of people with HIV/AIDS doubled between 2005 and 2008.Condom use has increased twofold in all provinces between 2002 and 2008. 
Cholestasis associated with small bowel atresia: do we always need to investigate? [SEP] "Choledochal cyst associated with extrahepatic bile duct atresia". Diagnosis
Imaging
Antenatal
Antenatal ultrasonography allows for earlier detection and diagnosis of duodenal atresia. Epidemiology
Neonatal cholestasis can present in newborn infants within the first few months of life. While neonatal cholestasis can present from a number of pathologic causes, 35-40% of neonatal cholestasis cases are caused by biliary atresia. Some of the causes of neonatal cholestasis are listed below:

Anatomic and structural
Biliary atresia
Choledochal cyst
Cholelithiasis
Malignancy

Genetic and inborn errors of metabolism
Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency
Alagille syndrome
Cystic fibrosis
Galactosemia
Gaucher disease
Niemann–Pick disease, type C
Mitochondrial disorders
Peroxisomal disorders

Biliary
Biliary sludge
Neonatal sclerosing cholangitis

Infectious
TORCH infections
Viral (e.g. Most infants affected by neonatal cholestasis will present with jaundice, scleral icterus, failure to thrive after two weeks, acholic/pale stools, and dark urine. Imaging can provide structural information to indicate if neonatal cholestasis is caused by an anatomic variant. If imaging and lab results are not sufficient in determining a cause for neonatal cholestasis, genetic testing is available to determine if the cause is a genetic disease.Liver biopsy performed through the skin can be completed if initial evaluation does not indicate neonatal cholestasis but is clinically suspected. 
Are financial incentives cost-effective to support smoking cessation during pregnancy? [SEP] Smoking nearly doubles the risk of low birthweight babies. Recently the U.S. Public Health Service reported that if all pregnant women in the United States stopped smoking, there would be an estimated 11% reduction in stillbirths and a 5% reduction in newborn deaths. Quitting during pregnancy
According to a 2010 study published in the European Journal of Pediatrics, the cessation of maternal smoking during any point during pregnancy reduces the risk of negative pregnancy outcomes when compared to smoking throughout the entire nine months of pregnancy, especially if it is done within the first trimester. This, per the study, renders a more positive outcome for women who cease smoking for the remainder of their pregnancy relative to women who continue to smoke.There are many resources to help pregnant women quit smoking such as counseling and drug therapies. For some pregnant smokers, NRT might still be the most beneficial and helpful solution to quit smoking. Breastfeeding
If one does continue to smoke after giving birth, however, it is still more beneficial to breastfeed than to completely avoid this practice altogether. Furthermore, the survey found that the price to quit and prevalence of smoking were lower among those exposed to non-tax tobacco control policies compared with those who were not. Incentives for smoking cessation
People who have successfully quit smoking will receive 50,000 to 150,000 KRW as a financial incentive from the government. 
Can medical students contribute to quality assurance programmes in day surgery? [SEP] The International Association for Ambulatory Surgery
was formed in 1995 when clinicians from several countries who were interested in ambulatory surgery (otherwise known as day surgery) came together to form the organisation which is run as a charity registered in Belgium. Outpatient surgery, also known as ambulatory surgery, day surgery, day case surgery, or same-day surgery, is surgery that does not require an overnight hospital stay. See also
National Association for Ambulatory Urgent Care

Notes
References
External links

Canadian Association for Accreditation of Ambulatory Surgical Facilities
International Association for Ambulatory Surgery
Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program
Outpatient Surgery Magazine The degree awarded is "Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery". Obtaining this qualification allows a doctor to become a member of one of the four surgical colleges in the UK and Ireland, namely the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow and the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. The course covers the theoretical basis and practical skills required to manage critically ill surgical patients. It is managed by the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Successful participants receive a certificate from the Royal College of Surgeons of England.The main course elements include:
Presentation of the critically ill patient
Assessment and detection of illness
Formulation of a plan of action
Seeking assistance and support
Prevention of complications
Recognition of complications
Interaction with colleagues
Requirements of patients and relatives during critical illness
Legal, ethical, and communication issuesTheory stations include:
Cardiac disorders
Communication skills
Conducting a surgical ward round
Pain
Renal dysfunction
Respiratory failure
The multiply injured patientPractical skills stations include:
Advanced shock
Airway management
Arterial line insertion
Central venous pressure line insertion
Chest x-ray interpretation
Dysrhythmias
Pressure monitoring
Stoma care
Tracheostomy
Wound assessment

Assessment
CCrISP uses a mix of formative and summative assessment. 
Measurement of head and neck paragangliomas: is volumetric analysis worth the effort? [SEP] A paraganglioma is a rare neuroendocrine neoplasm that may develop at various body sites (including the head, neck, thorax and abdomen). There is no test that determines benign from malignant tumors; long-term follow-up is therefore recommended for all individuals with paraganglioma. Signs and symptoms
Most paragangliomas are asymptomatic, present as a painless mass, or create symptoms such as hypertension, tachycardia, headache, and palpitations. Pathology
The paragangliomas appear grossly as sharply circumscribed polypoid masses and they have a firm to rubbery consistency. Sites of origin
About 85% of paragangliomas develop in the abdomen; only 12% develop in the chest and 3% in the head and neck region (the latter are the most likely to be symptomatic). "Carotid Body and Vagal Paragangliomas: Epidemiology, Genetics, Clinicopathological Features, Imaging, and Surgical Management". Paraganglioma: A Multidisciplinary Approach. One of the first favorable imaging modalities was 18F-FDOPA, which demonstrated a high sensitivity in detecting head and neck paragangliomas as well as non-metastatic disease outside of the head and neck. 
Three-dimensional ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy: is it a reliable method for the histological assessment of breast lesions? [SEP] Uses
X-ray-guided stereotactic biopsy is used for impalpable lesions that are not visible on ultrasound.A stereotactic biopsy may be used, with x-ray guidance, for performing a fine needle aspiration for cytology and needle core biopsy to evaluate a breast lesion. Large-core needle biopsy of nonpalpable breast lesions. "Atypical Ductal Hyperplasia and Ductal Carcinoma in Situ as Revealed by Large-Core Needle Breast Biopsy". Several methods for a breast biopsy now exist. Breast biopsies can be done utilizing ultrasound, MRI or a stereotactic biopsy imaging guidance. Needle biopsies have largely replaced open surgical biopsies in the initial assessment of imaging as well as palpable abnormalities in the breast. See also
Breast ultrasound


== References == For biopsies in the breast, ultrasound-guided fine-needle biopsy is the most common. 
Can bone thickness and inter-radicular space affect miniscrew placement in posterior mandibular sites? [SEP] Clinical significance
The stylomandibular ligament is important for maintaining stability of the mandible after maxillofacial surgery. Nankali’s masticatory force systematization categorizes the locations of the forces on different part of mandible/maxilla, which are important in designing a prosthetic and implant treatment in dentistry. Sometimes mandibular fractures in the region of the angle of the mandible may cause an infection of the submasseteric space. The minimal bone height for a standard implant placement in the posterior region of the upper jaw should be about 10 mm to ensure acceptable implant survival. Study: "Fetal and infant growth patterns of the mandibular symphysis in modern humans and chimpanzees"
There is a study published by Michael Coquerelle, et al. As stated in the study, both, the human and chimpanzee, start out with a v-shaped mandible during the fetal stages, but the chimpanzee mandible remains in that v-shape leading to the development of the simian shelf. This position is clinically discernible when the mandible is directed superiorly and anteriorly. Because the dentist wants to be able to reproducibly relate the patient's maxilla and mandible, but the patient does not have teeth with which to establish his or her own vertical dimension of occlusion, another method has been devised to achieve this goal. 
Do general practice selection scores predict success at MRCGP? [SEP] Membership of the Royal College of General Practitioners (MRCGP) is a postgraduate medical qualification in the United Kingdom (UK) run by the Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP). On successful completion of the assessment, general practitioners are eligible to use the post-nominal letters MRCGP that indicate Membership of the RCGP (with continued payment of RCGP fees). In 2007 the MRCGP became an integrated training and assessment system to prepare doctors for working in general practice. Doctors are now required to succeed in the MRCGP assessments in order to be issued with a certificate of completion of their specialty training (CCT) in general practice. History of the MRCGP Qualification
The MRCGP exam was first offered to general practitioners in 1965 and from 1968 it has been a requirement for GPs to hold this in order to join the college. Recognition of general practice as a medical specialty
In modern Australia, general practice is listed by the AMC as a medical specialty and the RACGP as the specialist college responsible for assessment, as endorsed by the Medical Board of Australia inaugurated in 2010. MRCGP postgraduate qualification
Membership of the Royal College of General Practitioners (MRCGP) is a postgraduate medical qualification in the UK. Doctors with a licence to practise who successfully complete the MRCGP are eligible for inclusion on the General Medical Council's (GMC) GP Register as well use of the post nominals that indicate membership of the RCGP (MRCGP). 
The Deformity Angular Ratio: Does It Correlate With High-Risk Cases for Potential Spinal Cord Monitoring Alerts in Pediatric 3-Column Thoracic Spinal Deformity Corrective Surgery? [SEP] The Cobb angle is a measurement of bending disorders of the vertebral column such as scoliosis and traumatic deformities. Uses
It is a common measurement of scoliosis. It has subsequently been adapted to classify sagittal plane deformity, especially in the setting of traumatic thoracolumbar spine fractures. "PRISM III: An updated Pediatric Risk of Mortality score". Infantile idiopathic scoliosis that appear from the birth to 3 years old, account for 0.5% of idiopathic scoliosis. Physiology
Cobb angle is a common measure to classify scoliosis. One to three out of every hundred people have idiopathic scoliosis curves greater than 10° with an equal proportion of boys and girls. The step length is reduced and the stance phase duration is also reduced.Surgical treatment of thoracolumbar/lumbar adolescent idiopathic scoliosis, whether performed with anterior spinal fusion or posterior spinal fusion arthrodesis, results in overall positive changes that lead to partial normalization of some gait parameters. 
Does age moderate the effect of personality disorder on coping style in psychiatric inpatients? [SEP] Those diagnosed with a personality disorder may experience difficulties in cognition, emotiveness, interpersonal functioning, or impulse control. The behavior patterns of personality disorders are typically recognized by adolescence, the beginning of adulthood or sometimes even childhood and often have a pervasive negative impact on the quality of life.Treatment for personality disorders is primarily psychotherapeutic. DSM-5
The most recent fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders stresses that a personality disorder is an enduring and inflexible pattern of long duration leading to significant distress or impairment and is not due to use of substances or another medical condition. The classification of 68 personality disordered patients on the caseload of an assertive community team using a simple scale showed a 3 to 1 ratio between Type R and Type S personality disorders with Cluster C personality disorders being significantly more likely to be Type S, and paranoid and schizoid (Cluster A) personality disorders significantly more likely to be Type R than others.Psychoanalytic theory has been used to explain treatment-resistant tendencies as egosyntonic (i.e. Presentation
Comorbidity
There is a considerable personality disorder diagnostic co-occurrence. Issues
In the workplace
Depending on the diagnosis, severity and individual, and the job itself, personality disorders can be associated with difficulty coping with work or the workplace—potentially leading to problems with others by interfering with interpersonal relationships. See also
Geriatric psychiatry
Late life depression

References
Further reading
Moses R. Kaufmann, "Psychoanalysis in Late-Life Depression", Psychoanalytic Quarterly vi (1937) Personality and Mental Health: Multidisciplinary Studies from Personality Dysfunction to Criminal Behaviour is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Centre for Health and Justice. 
Autoxidation products of both carbohydrates and lipids are increased in uremic plasma: is there oxidative stress in uremia? [SEP] See also
Autoxidation
Rancidification

References
External links
Lipid+peroxidation at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Uremia is the term for high levels of urea in the blood. Both uremia and uremic syndrome have been used interchangeably to denote a very high plasma urea concentration that is the result of renal failure. Because uremia is mostly a consequence of kidney failure, its signs and symptoms often occur concomitantly with other signs and symptoms of kidney failure. Mechanism
Uremia results in many different compounds being retained by the body. This suggested that uremia was a form of blood poisoning. Uraemia can lead to alteration of platelet aggregation. Notes
References
External links
Uremia, WebMD.com 
Can 'high-risk' human papillomaviruses (HPVs) be detected in human breast milk? [SEP] High-risk human papilloma virus (hr-HPV) genital infection is the most common sexually transmitted infection among women. Research
There are high-risk HPV types, that are not affected by available vaccines. HIV can be transmitted to the infant through breastfeeding. The risk of transmission varies and depends on the viral load in the mother's milk. Molecular screening tests includes nucleic acid amplification tests (NAAT), which identify high risk human-papilomma virus (HPV) strains. Types of Screening
Molecular
Molecular testing identifies an infection called human papillomavirus, or HPV. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is a cause of nearly all cases of cervical cancer. Primary testing for oncogenic HPV can be used in a population-based programme for cervical cancer screening. 
Quaternary cytoreductive surgery in ovarian cancer: does surgical effort still matter? [SEP] Cytoreductive surgery (CRS) is a surgical procedure that aims to reduce the amount of cancer cells in the abdominal cavity for patients with tumors that have spread intraabdominally (peritoneal carcinomatosis). Ovarian cancer
Among patients with stage III epithelial ovarian cancer, the addition of HIPEC to interval cytoreductive surgery resulted in longer recurrence-free survival and overall survival than surgery alone and did not result in higher rates of side effects. Colorectal cancer
Among colorectal cancer patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis cytoreductive surgery, with the addition of HIPEC can be used to prolong overall survival in patients. A bilateral prophylactic salpingectomy with ovarian conservation was proposed as a “middle-ground" method of primary prevention, with the benefit of removing potential tissue of origin without the risks of surgical menopause. The proposed plan of the British Columbia Ovarian Cancer Research Group program, involved performing opportunistic salpingectomy with benign hysterectomy or in lieu of bilateral tubal ligation for permanent contraception. Each year over 225,000 women experience ovarian cancer, and as there are currently no effective screening tests, prophylactic salpingectomy reduces this risk effectively for those where it is appropriate, as the procedure is often only done to those with 50% or higher risk of ovarian cancer in their lifetime.However, some groups have found that unilateral salpingectomy seemed to impair ovarian function. See also
Salpingectomy
Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
Ovarian cancer
BRCA1


== References == Treatment
Cytoreductive "debulking" surgery may be performed prior to chemotherapy treatment in order to decrease the physical mass of the tumour and thus reduce the number of chemotherapy cycles needed. 
Chemotherapy and survival in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma: is pneumologists' skepticism justified? [SEP] NSCLC accounts for about 85% of all lung cancers. Early/nonmetastatic NSCLC
NSCLCs are usually not very sensitive to chemotherapy and/or radiation, so surgery (lung resection to remove the tumor) remains the treatment of choice if patients are diagnosed at an early stage.If the persons have a small, but inoperable tumor, they may undergo highly targeted, high-intensity radiation therapy. PD‐L1 inhibitors are more effective and lead to longer survival with fewer side effects compared to platinum-based chemotherapy.At present, two genetic markers are routinely profiled in NSCLC tumors to guide further treatment decision-making - mutations within epidermal growth factor (EGFR) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase. The prognosis of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer improved significantly with the introduction of immunotherapy. References
External links

MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lung cancer — non-small cell Study design
Name
The full name of the trial is "A Phase 3, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study of Maintenance Pemetrexed plus Best Supportive Care versus Best Supportive Care Immediately Following Induction Treatment with Pemetrexed + Cisplatin for Advanced Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer". Purpose
The PARAMOUNT trial investigated whether treatment with a maintenance dose of pemetrexed would inhibit the growth of non-small-cell lung carcinoma and improve survival rates after first-line therapy with pemetrexed plus cisplatin.For patients with advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC), maintenance therapy is sometimes used when the initial chemotherapy does not lead to improvement. The study was conducted at locations in Australia, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom.Among other inclusion and exclusion criteria, participants must in the trial must have stage IIIB or IV nonsquamous non-small-cell lung carcinoma and have at least one measurable tumor lesion by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guidelines or disease which can be examined by a CT scan, but must not have non-superficial squamous-cell carcinoma or a mixture of both small-cell carcinoma and non-small-cell lung carcinoma or have had another form of cancer other than superficial basal-cell carcinoma and superficial squamous-cell carcinoma, or carcinoma in situ of the cervix within the last 5 years. 
Does topical ropivacaine reduce the post-tonsillectomy morbidity in pediatric patients? [SEP] Tonsillectomy does not appear to affect long term immune function.Following the surgery ibuprofen and paracetamol (acetaminophen) may be used to treat postoperative pain. Medical uses
Tonsillectomy is mainly undertaken for sleep apnea and recurrent or chronic tonsillitis. In 2019, the American Academy of Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) recommended:Caregivers and patients who meet the appropriate criteria for tonsillectomy as described here should be advised of only modest anticipated benefits of tonsillectomy, as weighed against the natural history of resolution with watchful waiting, as well as the risk of surgical morbidity and complications and the unknown risk of general anesthesia exposure in children [younger than] four years of age. The role of tonsillectomy as an option in managing children with recurrent throat infection means that there is a substantial role for shared decision making with the child's caregiver and primary care clinician.Many cases of the sore throat have other causes than tonsillitis and tonsillectomy is therefore not indicated for those cases. Obstructive sleep apnea
Tonsillectomy improves obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in most children. More recent studies of coblation tonsillectomy indicate reduced pain and ostalgia; less intraoperative or postoperative complications; lesser incidence of delayed hemorrhage, more significantly in pediatric populations, less postoperative pain and early return to daily activities, fewer secondary infections of the tonsil bed and significantly lower rates of secondary hemorrhage. Many people are prescribed antibiotics following a tonsillectomy, however, the benefits and potential harms have not been well studied. Tonsillectomy appears to be more painful in adults than children. 
Is pain a clinically relevant problem in general adult psychiatry? [SEP] The pain model recognises that social problems such as homelessness, skill-lessness, meaninglessness, domestic violence, abuse, addiction or chemical or organic problems such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) cause psychological pain. Pain disorder is chronic pain experienced by a patient in one or more areas, and is thought to be caused by psychological stress. This pain can also be caused by psychological disorders such as anxiety and depression, which can affect the onset and severity of pain experienced. The IASP broadens this definition to include psychogenic pain with the following points: 

Pain is always a personal experience that is influenced to varying degrees by biological, psychological, and social factors. A person's report of an experience of pain should be respected.Furthermore, the ICD-11 removed the previous classification for psychogenic pain (persistent somatoform pain disorder) from the handbook in favor of understanding pain as a combination of physical and psychosocial factors. "Some specialists believe that psychogenic chronic pain exists as a protective distraction to keep dangerous repressed emotions such as anger or rage unconscious. Presence of pain
Intense pain or suffering
Impairment of everyday functions
Symptoms ruled as unintentional
Symptoms do not fit criteria for other potential somatic or mental disorders

Treatment
For many patients a combination of psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy can help to alleviate or treat the symptoms of psychogenic pain. Treatments can address underlying feelings and emotional conflicts that can lead to psychogenic pain, as well as other potential causes of dysfunction with behavior, affect, and coping that can be seen in patients. 
Does concomitant anterior/apical repair during midurethral sling improve the overactive bladder component of mixed incontinence? [SEP] It is used as a first line treatment of overactive bladder on mixed urinary incontinence. A urethral sling is a device that is surgically implanted to stabilize the pelvic tissues and organs of women. The surgery that implants this device can help treat urinary incontinence and uterine prolapse. An alternative treatment to the placement of the urethral sling is urethral bulking injections. The Burch colposuspension is a procedure to treat urinary incontinence due to pelvic floor relaxation. The purpose is to suspend the prolapsed urethra so that the urethrovesical junction and proximal urethra are replaced in the abdominal cavity. See also
Treatment of urinary incontinence


== References == This has two intended results:  increased bladder volume; and a reduced percentage of the bladder involved in contraction, that in turn results in lower internal pressures in the bladder during urination. 
Does the use of atypical antipsychotics as adjunctive therapy in depression result in cost savings? [SEP] Medical uses
Atypical antipsychotics are typically used to treat schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Overall there is no good evidence that atypical antipsychotics have any therapeutic benefit for treating the negative symptoms of schizophrenia.There is very little evidence on which to base a risk and benefit assessment of using antipsychotics for long-term treatment.The choice of which antipsychotic to use for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. While the atypical (second-generation) antipsychotics were marketed as offering greater efficacy in reducing psychotic symptoms while reducing side effects (and extrapyramidal symptoms in particular) than typical medications, the results showing these effects often lacked robustness, and the assumption was increasingly challenged even as atypical prescriptions were soaring. Generally speaking, atypical antipsychotics are widely believed to have a lower likelihood for the development of tardive dyskinesia than the typical antipsychotics. It is not clear if atypical antipsychotics, having been in use for a relatively short time, produce a lower incidence of tardive dyskinesia.Among the other side effects that have been suggested is that atypical antipsychotics increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. Data on treatment efficacies are strongest for atypical antipsychotics. The 5-HT2A receptor, however, is also believed to play a crucial role in the therapeutic advantages of atypical antipsychotics over their predecessors, the typical antipsychotics.The two atypical antipsychotics with trials showing that had a low incidence of weight gain in large meta-analysis were lurasidone and aripiprazole. The atypical antipsychotic paliperidone was approved by the FDA in late 2006.The atypical antipsychotics have found favor among clinicians and are now considered to be first-line treatments for schizophrenia and are gradually replacing the typical antipsychotics. 
Can patients be anticoagulated after intracerebral hemorrhage? [SEP] Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), also known as cerebral bleed, intraparenchymal bleed, and haemorrhagic stroke, is a sudden bleeding into the tissues of the brain, into its ventricles, or into both. The direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) such as the factor Xa inhibitors or direct thrombin inhibitors are thought to have a lower risk of intracerebral hemorrhage as compared to the vitamin K antagonists such as warfarin.Cigarette smoking may be a risk factor but the association is weak.Traumautic intracerebral hematomas are divided into acute and delayed. Medications
Rapid lowering of the blood pressure using antihypertensive therapy for those with hypertensive emergency can have higher functional recovery at 90 days post intracerebral haemorrhage, when compared to those who undergone other treatments such as mannitol administration, reversal of anticoagulation (those previously on anticoagulant treatment for other conditions), surgery to evacuate the haematoma, and standard rehabilitation care in hospital, while showing similar rate of death at 12%. Platelets however appear to worsen outcomes in those with spontaneous intracerebral bleeding on antiplatelet medication.The specific reversal agents idarucizumab and andexanet alfa may be used to stop continued intracerebral hemorrhage in people taking directly oral acting anticoagulants (such as factor Xa inhibitors or direct thrombin inhibitors). Of those who survive an intracerebral hemorrhage, 12–39% are independent with regard to self-care; others are disabled to varying degrees and require supportive care. Nonpenetrating and penetrating cranial trauma can also be common causes of intracerebral hemorrhage. Treatment
Intracerebral hemorrhages is a severe condition requiring prompt medical attention. Management
For those who is already on blood thinners such as aspirin or clopidogrel for prevention of myocardial infarction or stroke, traumatic intracranial hemorrhage should prompt the use of platelet function assays (PFA-100) to assess the effect of these antiplalelet agents. 
Diagnostic and therapeutic ureteroscopy: is dilatation of ureteral meatus always necessary? [SEP] Ureteroscopy  is an examination of the upper urinary tract, usually performed with a ureteroscope that is passed through the urethra and the bladder, and then directly into the ureter. The procedure is useful in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders such as kidney stones and urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. Ureteric stricture (ureteral stricture) is the pathological narrowing of the ureter which may lead to serious complications such as kidney failure. Diagnosis
Ureteric strictures can be diagnosed using both imaging modalities and under direct vision through endoscopic procedures such as Ureteroscopy. Having a Ureteric Stent - What to Expect and How to Manage. Ureterolysis is a surgical procedure aimed at exposing the ureter in order to free it from external pressure or adhesions or to avoid injury to it during pelvic surgery, most often hysterectomy. The cause is thought to be aperistalsis of the distal ureter, leading to dilatation.The cutoff value for megaureter is when it is wider than 6 or 7 mm.A functional obstruction at the lower end of the ureter leads to progressive dilatation and a tendency to infection. The ureteric orifice appears normal and a ureteric catheter passes easily.Definitive surgical treatment involves refashioning the lower end of the affected ureter so that a tunnelled reimplantation into the bladder can be done to prevent reflux. 
Does managed care enable more low income persons to identify a usual source of care? [SEP] The term managed care or managed healthcare is used in the United States to describe a group of activities intended to reduce the cost of providing health care and providing American health insurance while improving the quality of that care ("managed care techniques"). In a 2004 poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a majority of those polled said they believed that managed care decreased the time doctors spend with patients, made it harder for people who are sick to see specialists, and had failed to produce significant health care savings. Currently, managed care is the most common health care delivery system in Medicaid. Healthy children and families make up the majority of Medicaid managed care enrollees, but an increasing number of states are expanding managed care to previously excluded groups, such as people with disabilities, pregnant women, and children in foster care. Consequently, the patients who visit health centers are often from low-income backgrounds, uninsured or publicly insured, and from minority communities.During the autumn season of 2017, Medicaid accounted for 44% of the revenue generated by Community Health Centers (CHCs) and was regarded as the primary source of primary care for Medicaid patients. Nevertheless, those who use community health centers as a regular source of care are likely to have a positive patient experience and receive high-quality preventative services.Medicaid's shift to managed care has helped create more medical homes for patients, allowing for greater continuity of care within CHCs. The implementation of managed care in Medicaid was intended to curb costs while providing patients with greater freedom to choose where they access care. Since the initial shift to managed care, Medicaid has helped a wider group of patients access consistent medical care.The economic recession in the United States continues to pose significant challenges for community health centers. 
Knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and functional ambulation: are they related in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] Patients with PD demonstrate reduced stride length, walking speed during free ambulation and cadence rate, while double support duration is increased. Abnormal gait characteristics
Patients with Parkinson's disease exhibit gait characteristics that are markedly different from normal gait. In addition, PD patients have reduced foot lifting during the swing phase of gait, which produces smaller clearance between the toes and the ground.Patients with Parkinson's disease have reduced impact at heel strike and this mechanism has been found to be related to the disease severity with impact decreasing as the disease progresses. Postural sway
Postural instability in upright stance is common in end-stage PD and compromises the ability to maintain balance during everyday tasks such as walking, turning and standing up from sitting. Gait variabilities in Parkinson disease and related cortical changes
Biomechanical alterations and influence of dopaminergic treatment
Biomechanical and motor control alterations of gait in Parkinson's patients are due to the hypokinesia which reduces the movement speed and size. Since Parkinson’s disease is a progressive disease, patient’s symptoms continue to worsen with time and they often develop visible differences in their walking that greatly affects their quality of life. Exercises such as cycling or walking have been shown to enhance gait, mobility and quality of life in patients with Parkinson’s Disease. This small amount of knee flexion is controlled eccentrically by the knee extensor muscles which serve the purpose of cushioning the rate of loading on the lower limb and preventing excessive knee flexion. 
Is distance to provider a barrier to care for medicaid patients with breast, colorectal, or lung cancer? [SEP] Approximately 45% of cancer patients are Medicare beneficiaries, while also controlling costs. See also
Medicare Quality Cancer Care Demonstration Act


== References == Regions with higher rates of Medicaid and Medicare patients, as well patients who are uninsured are less likely to live within an hour's drive of a hospital emergency room.Since 1975, over 1,000 hospitals, many in rural regions, have closed their doors, unable to bear the cost of care of uninsured patients, resulting in some patients in every state needing to drive at least an hour to a hospital emergency room, a problem that poses an even greater danger during the COVID-19 pandemic, when patients in respiratory distress urgently need oxygen and can ill afford an hour-long ambulance ride to reach a hospital. Racial demographic disparities in healthcare access are also present in rural areas, with Native Americans living in rural areas in particular receiving inadequate medical care. Fewer than half of rural women live within a thirty-minute drive of the nearest hospital able to provide obstetric services, and 12% do not live within a sixty-minute drive of the nearest such hospital, resulting in babies sometimes being born on the side of the road and increased maternal and infant mortality rates.Rural residents may live on farms, ranches and Indian reservations far from a hospital, forcing residents to take several hours or an entire day off work to drive to a doctor's appointment or follow up care, making rural residents less likely to seek treatment. Additionally, the Health Affairs study noted large numbers of uninsured or Medicaid-reliant suburban dwellers either can't find doctors and hospitals who will serve them or must travel great distances to see specialists. Telehealth
To address the rural health care crisis, advocates of telehealth promote the use of digital information and communication technology—cell phones and computers—that can be accessed from home or work without encumbering the patient with long travel times to hospitals at least 60 miles from their residence. Medically indigent people with significant illnesses face several barriers to health insurance. 
Can folic acid protect against congenital heart defects in Down syndrome? [SEP] It also has a correlation with Down syndrome because 20% of children with Down syndrome have atrioventricular canal disease as well. It is strongly associated with Down's syndrome. He was known for discovering that vitamin B9 or folic acid prevents or reduces the formation of more serious developmental disorders, such as neural tube defects like spina bifida. Cardiovascular disease and cancer
Levomefolic acid (and folic acid in turn) has been proposed for treatment of cardiovascular disease and advanced cancers such as breast and colorectal cancers. As folate is vital in the first trimester of pregnancy for healthy fetal development, the use of antifolates is strongly contraindicated in pregnancy and carries significant teratogenic risk. Ferrous salt/folic acid is a supplement used to prevent iron deficiency and folic acid deficiency during pregnancy. Acyanotic heart defect

References


== External links == Faciocardiorenal syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by facial dysmorphisms, congenital heart defects, and the presence of a horseshoe kidney, alongside intellectual disabilities. 
Are there mental health differences between francophone and non-francophone populations in manitoba? [SEP] Franco-Manitobans (French: Franco-Manitobains) are French Canadians or Canadian francophones living in the province of Manitoba. Demographics
According to the 2016 Canadian Census, the number of people that reported French as a mother tongue in Manitoba was 46,055 (or 3.7 per cent of the population), making it the most common mother tongue in the province after English, German, and Tagalog. The majority of Franco-Manitobans are bilingual in English and French, with only 1,485 respondents (0.1 per cent of Manitobans) in the 2016 census reporting they only had proficiency in the French language. There were 108,455 Manitobans or 8.6 per cent of the population that reported to be bilingual in English and French, although the following figure includes Manitobans that speak French as a second language.Nearly three quarters of all Franco-Manitobans (74 per cent of the population) were born in the province. Approximately 15 per cent of francophones in Manitoba were born in Canada outside of Manitoba; while the remaining francophones that reside in the province were born outside the country. Among French-speaking Manitobans that were born abroad, approximately 57 per cent originated from Africa, and 28 per cent originated from Europe.In the 2016 census, 148,810 Manitobans reported having partial or full French ancestry. The Franco-Manitoban School Division (French: Division scolaire franco-manitobaine) is a school division in Manitoba, Canada offering French-language education to its students. If so, are those Manitoban laws not printed in both languages invalid under section 23 of the Manitoba Act? 
Does type 1 diabetes mellitus affect Achilles tendon response to a 10 km run? [SEP] Noninsertional Achilles tendinitis is the type that more commonly affects runners. Having tight calf muscles may also increase the risk of Achilles tendinitis. This article describes the influence of exercise on the persons who suffer from diabetes. Exercise and diabetes
One danger for diabetes patients is cardiovascular disease, including lipids and blood glucose levels. Exercise and diabetes studies
The New England Journal of Health performed a study on the effect of physical activity on men with diabetes mellitus. : 540  It can be a predictor for other diabetes-related complications and was one of the earliest known complications of diabetes, first documented in 1974.In the fingers, diabetic cheiroarthropathy can cause such extreme limited mobility that the patient is unable to fully extend the fingers in order to flatten the hand. Most times, just smaller, more fragile joints are affected by it, with larger joints usually only being affected in patients with more severe or more advanced cases of diabetes. This results in Type 1 Diabetes. 
Fragility of the esophageal mucosa: a pathognomonic endoscopic sign of primary eosinophilic esophagitis? [SEP] The mucosal lining of the esophagus may be inflamed, and this can be seen on endoscopy or on biopsy; the mucosa, however, may also be normal if esophagitis is not the cause of the pseudodiverticulosis. Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is an allergic inflammatory condition of the esophagus that involves eosinophils, a type of white blood cell. Symptoms include swallowing difficulty, food impaction, vomiting, and heartburn.Eosinophilic esophagitis was first described in children but also occurs in adults. Pathophysiology
Eosinophils are inflammatory cells that release a variety of chemical signals which inflame the surrounding esophageal tissue. Diagnostic criteria
The diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis requires all of the following:

Symptoms related to esophageal dysfunction. Eosinophil-predominant inflammation on esophageal biopsy, characteristically consisting of a peak value of ≥15 eosinophils per high power field (HPF). History
The first case of eosinophilic esophagitis was reported in 1978. See also
Esophagitis


== References == 
Does cup-cage reconstruction with oversized cups provide initial stability in THA for osteoporotic acetabular fractures? [SEP] The procedure consists of placing a cap (usually made of cobalt-chrome metal), which is hollow and shaped like a mushroom, over the head of the femur while a matching metal cup (similar to what is used with a THR) is placed in the acetabulum (pelvis socket), replacing the articulating surfaces of the person's hip joint and removing very little bone compared to a THR. Both hip resurfacing and hip replacement require that a cup is placed in the acetabulum of the hip socket. The main advantage of the hip resurfacing surgery is that when a revision is required, there is still an intact femur bone left for a THR stem. The large size cap and cup of the hip resurfacing devices are the same size as a person's original ball and socket and thus are less prone to dislocation. Similar designs appear to have begun in the 1940s, with the first prostheses and procedures (called double-cup arthroplasty) using congruent femoral and acetabular components emerging in the 1970s. See also
Femoral neck targeting
Minimally invasive hip resurfacing
Total Hip Replacement
Andy Murray


== References == This allows the new artificial acetabular cup (the caput, or hip socket) to bond properly to the pelvis (hip bone). Plates used for buttressing prevent collapse by supporting an area of thin cortex or cancellous bone graft.When plates are used, atrophy of the bone beneath the plate may predispose the bone to fracture. 
Pulmonary valve replacement in adults late after repair of tetralogy of fallot: are we operating too late? [SEP] Percutaneous pulmonary valve implantation (PPVI), also known as transcatheter pulmonary valve replacement (TPVR), is the replacement of the pulmonary valve via catheterization through a vein. "Mitral Valve Repair: Past, Present, and Future". "Replacement of aortic and mitral valves with a pulmonary autograft". "Replacement of the aortic valve with a pulmonary autograft: The "Switch" operation". Valve replacement surgery is the replacement of one or more of the heart valves with either an artificial heart valve or a bioprosthesis (homograft from human tissue or xenograft e.g. Catheter replacement of the aortic valve (called trans-aortic valve replacement or implementation [TAVR or TAVI]) is a minimally invasive option for those suffering from aortic valve stenosis. Furthermore, pulmonary insufficiency is generally treated by addressing the underlying condition, in certain cases, the pulmonary valve may be surgically replaced. External links
"Problem: Pulmonary Valve Regurgitation". 
Xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis: a premalignant condition? [SEP] Location
The xanthogranulomatous type of inflammation is most-commonly seen in pyelonephritis and cholecystitis, although it has more recently been described in an array of other locations including bronchi, lung, endometrium, vagina, fallopian tubes, ovary, testis, epididymis, stomach, colon, ileum, pancreas, bone, lymph nodes, bladder, adrenal gland, abdomen and muscle. Foreign body-type and Touton-type giant cells, calcospherites, cholesterol clefts and hemosiderin deposits are additional findings.Hemorrhage, suppuration and necrosis are therefore the initial conditions leading to the xanthogranulomatous response. in xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis). A delayed type hypersensitivity reaction of cell mediated immunity has been suggested in the pathogenesis of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis.Destructive tumor-like masses with variable extension into adjacent fat and connective tissue can occur in cases involving organs such as kidney and gallbladder. See also
Xanthogranulomatous osteomyelitis


== References == Xanthogranulomatous osteomyelitis  is a peculiar aspect of osteomyelitis characterized by prevalent histiocytic infiltrate and foamy macrophage clustering. Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, also called cerebral cholesterosis, is an autosomal recessive form of xanthomatosis. Xanthelasma is a sharply demarcated yellowish deposit of cholesterol underneath the skin. 
Does TDP-43 type confer a distinct pattern of atrophy in frontotemporal lobar degeneration? [SEP] Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a pathological process that occurs in frontotemporal dementia. This has been associated with behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia with a rapid clinical course.Two groups independently categorized the various forms of TDP-43 associated disorders. ; Hatanpaa, Kimmo J.; White, Charles L.; Schneider, Julie A.; Grinberg, Lea Tenenholz; Halliday, Glenda; Duyckaerts, Charles; Lowe, James S.; Holm, Ida E.; Tolnay, Markus; Okamoto, Koichi; Yokoo, Hideaki; Murayama, Shigeo; Woulfe, John; Munoz, David G.; Dickson, Dennis W.; Ince, Paul G.; Trojanowski, John Q.; Mann, David M. A.; Consortium for Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (2007). "Neuropathologic diagnostic and nosologic criteria for frontotemporal lobar degeneration: Consensus of the Consortium for Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration". "Ubiquitinated pathological lesions in frontotemporal lobar degeneration contain the TAR DNA-binding protein, TDP-43". "Frontotemporal lobar degeneration: a consensus on clinical diagnostic criteria". "The complex aetiology of frontotemporal lobar degeneration". Misfolded TDP-43 is found in the brains of older adults over age 85 with limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy, (LATE), a form of dementia. 
Is oncoplastic surgery a contraindication for accelerated partial breast radiation using the interstitial multicatheter brachytherapy method? [SEP] Adjuvant radiotherapy is necessary if  breast cancer is treated by removing only the cancerous lump with a rim of surrounding normal tissue,  as it reduces the chance of local recurrence. Radiation therapy may still be needed following breast-conservation surgery. Oncoplastic surgery
Oncoplastic surgery is an important consideration in breast-conserving surgery that integrates plastic surgery principles into breast cancer surgery in order to preserve aesthetic outcomes and quality of life, without compromising local control of the cancer. (IO)-brachytherapy with MammoSite is also used to treat breast cancer.Interest in this treatment technique is growing, due in part to the development of LINAC for IOERT by factories. Brachytherapy to treat breast cancer is usually performed with HDR temporary brachytherapy. More recently, brachytherapy alone is used to deliver APBI (accelerated partial breast irradiation), involving delivery of radiation to only the immediate region surrounding the original tumour.The main benefit of breast brachytherapy compared to whole breast irradiation is that a high dose of radiation can be precisely applied to the tumour while sparing radiation to healthy breast tissues and underlying structures such as the ribs and lungs. The option of brachytherapy may be particularly important in ensuring that working women, the elderly or women without easy access to a treatment centre, are able to benefit from breast-conserving therapy due to the short treatment course compared with WBI (which often requires more visits over the course of 1–2 months).There are five methods that can be used to deliver breast brachytherapy: Interstitial breast brachytherapy, Intracavitary breast brachytherapy, Intraoperative radiation therapy, Permanent Breast Seed Implantation and non-invasive breast brachytherapy using mammography for target localization and an HDR source. Interstitial breast brachytherapy
Interstitial breast brachytherapy involves the temporary placement of several flexible plastic catheters in the breast tissue. 
Diagnostic characteristics of child bipolar I disorder: does the "Treatment of Early Age Mania (team)" sample generalize? [SEP] There are several childhood precursors in children who later receive a diagnosis of bipolar disorder. Identifying bipolar disorder in youth is challenging. References
External links
International Society for Bipolar Disorders Task Force report on current knowledge in pediatric bipolar disorder and future directions EffectiveChildTherapy.Org information on bipolar disorders
Society of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology "Psychological Treatments: Bipolar Disorder". Children and youth
"Bipolar Disorder". "Practice parameter for the assessment and treatment of children and adolescents with bipolar disorder". EffectiveChildTherapy.Org information on Bipolar Disorder
Society of Clinical Child and Adolescent Psychology 
Estimation of basal metabolic rate in Chinese: are the current prediction equations applicable? [SEP] The equation that is recommended to estimate BMR by the US Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics is the Mifflin-St. Jeor equation.The equations for estimating BMR in kJ/day (kilojoules per day) from body mass (kg) are:Men:

Women:

The equations for estimating BMR in kcal/day (kilocalories per day) from body mass (kg) are:
Men:

Women:

Key:
W = Body weight in kilograms
SEE = Standard error of estimation
The raw figure obtained by the equation should be adjusted up or downwards, within the confidence limit suggested by the quoted estimation errors, and according to the following principles:
Subjects leaner and more muscular than usual require more energy than the average. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is the rate of energy expenditure per unit time by endothermic animals at rest. Basal metabolic rate is the amount of energy per unit of time that a person needs to keep the body functioning at rest. The basal metabolic rate accounts for about 60 to 75% of the daily calorie expenditure by individuals. One study of 150 adults representative of the population in Scotland reported basal metabolic rates from as low as 1,027 kilocalories (4,300 kJ) per day to as high as 2,499 kilocalories (10,460 kJ); with a mean BMR of 1,500 kilocalories (6,300 kJ) per day. Longevity
In 1926, Raymond Pearl proposed that longevity varies inversely with basal metabolic rate (the "rate of living hypothesis"). This theory has been bolstered by several new studies linking lower basal metabolic rate to increased life expectancy, across the animal kingdom—including humans. "A Biometric Study of Human Basal Metabolism". 
Does rugby headgear prevent concussion? [SEP] The headgear is designed to absorb the impact of blows to the head by external physical forces in order to reduce the chance of a concussion, a noteworthy example in international football being Czech goalkeeper Petr Čech from Chelsea. Because of this, the aim of wearing headgear turned to mitigating damage from accidental head on head collisions between players on the pitch. See also (other equipment)
Kit (association football)
Shin guards
Football boots

References
External links
Can the right gear protect soccer players from concussions? With rugby being such a contact and fast moving sport, it is no wonder why there is concussion and other head injuries occurring. Professionals and amateurs alike wear protective headgear (helmets) to reduce the chance of injury while playing American and Canadian football (also known as gridiron football). This is intended to protect from cuts and head injuries that can occur from incidental contact in tackles or at rucks. Whilst they may prevent some cuts and abrasions, such headgear has not been shown to reduce concussive injury. Although they are protective, players can and do still suffer head injuries such as concussions. 
Spinal subdural hematoma: a sequela of a ruptured intracranial aneurysm? [SEP] Subdural hematomas may cause an increase in the pressure inside the skull, which in turn can cause compression of and damage to delicate brain tissue. Acute subdural hematomas are often life-threatening. Chronic subdural hematomas have a better prognosis if properly managed. Symptoms of chronic subdural hematomas are usually delayed more than three weeks after Injury.If the bleeds are large enough to put pressure on the brain, signs of increased intracranial pressure or brain damage will be present. Other symptoms of subdural hematoma can include any combination of the following:

Causes
Subdural hematomas are most often caused by head injury, in which rapidly changing velocities within the skull may stretch and tear small bridging veins. The mortality rate is higher than that of epidural hematomas and diffuse brain injuries because the force required to cause subdural hematomas tends to cause other severe injuries as well.Chronic subdural bleeds develop over a period of days to weeks, often after minor head trauma, though a cause is not identifiable in 50% of patients. Differential diagnosis
Treatment
Treatment of a subdural hematoma depends on its size and rate of growth. Prognosis
Acute subdural hematomas have one of the highest mortality rates of all head injuries, with 50 to 90 percent of cases resulting in death, depending on the underlying brain injury. 
Can shape analysis differentiate free-floating internal carotid artery thrombus from atherosclerotic plaque in patients evaluated with CTA for stroke or transient ischemic attack? [SEP] Carotid ultrasound is used to diagnose carotid artery stenosis (CAS) and can assess atherosclerotic plaque morphology and characteristics. Carotid artery stenosis is a major risk factor for stroke, and risk assessment of atherosclerotic carotid plaques is a critical component of stroke prevention. Other plaque features that contribute to stroke risk and can be evaluated by imaging are: intraplaque hemorrhage, plaque ulceration and neovascularization, fibrous cap thickness, and presence of a lipid-rich necrotic core (LNRC). Besides, other features such as intima-media thickness, surface of the plaque and presence of ulceration are also useful in predicting the possibility of stroke or heart attack in the future. Studies of postmortem stroke cases have shown that intracranial atherosclerotic plaque build up occurred in over half of the individuals and over one third of the overall cases had stenotic build up. Thrombus perviousness can be measured using radiological imaging routinely performed in the clinical management of acute ischemic stroke: CT scans without intravenous contrast (also called non-contrast CT, in short NCCT) combined with CT scans after intravenously administered contrast fluid (CT-angiography, in short CTA). Brain and neck vessels
CTA can be used assess acute stroke patients by identifying clots in the arteries of the brain. While CTA can produce high quality images of the carotid arteries for grading the level of stenosis (narrowing of the vessel), calcium deposits (calcified plaques) in the area where the vessels split can lead to interference with accurate stenosis grading. 
Dementia and aphasia in motor neuron disease: an underrecognised association? [SEP] Primary progressive aphasias have a clinical and pathological overlap with the frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) spectrum of disorders and Alzheimer's disease. On the basis of diagnostic procedures, the disorder in question must be unequivocally attributed to a neurodegenerative process.Whether or not PPA and other aphasias are the only source of cognitive impairment in a patient is often difficult to assess because: 1) as with other neurologically degenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, there are currently no reliable non-invasive diagnostic tests for aphasias, and thus neuropsychological assessments are the only tool physicians have for diagnosing patients; and 2) aphasias often affect other, non-language portions of these neuropsychological tests, such as those specific for memory. "Primary progressive aphasia: clinical, imaging, and neuropathological findings". "Word-finding difficulty: a clinical analysis of the progressive aphasias". As aphasia's and other language disorders are frequently due to stroke, their symptoms can change and evolve over time, or simply disappear. Semantic dementia (SD), also known as semantic variant primary progressive aphasia (svPPA), is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of semantic memory in both the verbal and non-verbal domains. "Primary progressive aphasia: clinical, imaging, and neuropathological findings". "Word-finding difficulty: a clinical analysis of the progressive aphasias". 
Does solid culture for tuberculosis influence clinical decision making in India? [SEP] Tuberculosis in India is a major health problem, causing about 220,000 deaths every year. India bears a disproportionately large burden of the world's tuberculosis rates, with World Health Organization (WHO) statistics for 2011 giving an estimated incidence figure of 2.2 million cases for India out of a global incidence of 9.6 million cases.Tuberculosis is one of India's biggest health issues, but what makes this problem even worse is the recent discovery of Totally Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis, TDR-TB. Epidemiology
Tuberculosis is one of India's major public health problems. History
India's response to TB has changed with time and with the increasing sophistication of technology. "A Brief History of Tuberculosis Control in India". External links

Central Tuberculosis Division of the Government of India Facts and figures on tuberculosis and National Tuberculosis Programme. Guidelines for laboratory procedures in tuberculosis – a chart. 
Diffusion-weighted echo-planar MR imaging of primary parotid gland tumors: is a prediction of different histologic subtypes possible? [SEP] It is the most common type of salivary gland tumor and the most common tumor of the parotid gland. Diagnosis
The diagnosis of salivary gland tumors utilize both tissue sampling and radiographic studies. Diagnostic imaging techniques for salivary gland tumors include ultrasound, computer tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). FNA can also distinguish primary salivary tumor from metastatic disease. In terms of imaging studies, ultrasound can determine and characterize superficial parotid tumors. Certain types of salivary gland tumors have certain sonographic characteristics on ultrasound. Thus, detection of early stages of a tumor of the parotid gland is extremely important in terms of prognosis after surgery.There have been several approaches for surgery of parotid pleomorphic adenoma in the course of time. Findings that suggest a malignant salivary gland tumour include rapid growth, facial weakness (due to facial nerve compression), pain, skin ulceration, fixation of the mastoid tip
and parasthesias. 
Is there a role for endothelin-1 in the hemodynamic changes during hemodialysis? [SEP] Endothelin constricts blood vessels and raises blood pressure. The endothelins are normally kept in balance by other mechanisms, but when overexpressed, they contribute to high blood pressure (hypertension), heart disease, and potentially other diseases.Endothelins are 21-amino acid vasoconstricting peptides produced primarily in the endothelium having a key role in vascular homeostasis. Endothelins are implicated in vascular diseases of several organ systems, including the heart, lungs, kidneys, and brain. Secretion of endothelin-1 from the vascular endothelium signals vasoconstriction and influences local cellular growth and survival. Among numerous diseases potentially occurring from endothelin dysregulation are:

several types of cancer
cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage
arterial hypertension, pulmonary hypertension, and other cardiovascular disorders
pain mediation
cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure
Dengue haemorrhagic fever
Type II diabetes
some cases of Hirschsprung diseaseIn insulin resistance the high levels of blood insulin results in increased production and activity of ET-1, which promotes vasoconstriction and elevates blood pressure.ET-1 impairs glucose uptake in the skeletal muscles of insulin resistant subjects, thereby worsening insulin resistance.In preliminary research, injection of endothelin-1 into a lateral cerebral ventricle was shown to potently stimulate glucose metabolism in specified interconnected circuits of the brain, and to induce convulsions, indicating its potential for diverse neural effects in conditions such as epilepsy. References
External links
Endothelins at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) References
External links
Endothelin-converting+enzyme+1 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Endothelin+receptor at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Do risk factors for suicidal behavior differ by affective disorder polarity? [SEP] Risk factors
Factors that affect the risk of suicide include mental disorders, drug misuse, psychological states, cultural, family and social situations, genetics, experiences of trauma or loss, and nihilism. Genetics appears to account for between 38% and 55% of suicidal behaviors. They are considered to have a higher risk for suicidal behavior as depressive emotions such as hopelessness are often paired with mood swings or difficulties with impulse control. Suicide
Bipolar disorder can cause suicidal ideation that leads to suicide attempts. Individuals whose bipolar disorder begins with a depressive or mixed affective episode seem to have a poorer prognosis and an increased risk of suicide. The lifetime risk of suicide has been estimated to be as high as 20% in those with bipolar disorder.Risk factors for suicide attempts and death from suicide in people with bipolar disorder include older age, prior suicide attempts, a depressive or mixed index episode (first episode), a manic index episode with psychotic symptoms, hopelessness or psychomotor agitation present during the episodes, co-existing anxiety disorder, a first degree relative with a mood disorder or suicide, interpersonal conflicts, occupational problems, bereavement or social isolation. Research has reported that while adolescents share common risk factors such as interpersonal violence, existing mental disorders and substance abuse, gender specific risk factors for suicide attempts can include eating disorders, dating violence, and interpersonal problems for females and disruptive behavior/conduct problems, homelessness, and access to means. Suicide and Life-Threatening Behavior. 
Multidisciplinary breast cancer clinics. Do they work? [SEP] The Manchester-based charity aims to promote early diagnosis of breast cancer, improve cancer screenings, and change the habits and lifestyles of high-risk patients. They are not intended as a replacement for conventional cancer therapy, but as a caring environment that can provide support, information and practical advice. Breast Cancer Care is the only specialist UK-wide charity in the UK providing care, support and information to anyone affected by breast cancer. Services
Breast Cancer Care provides a range of information and support services for anyone affected by breast cancer, including friends and family of the person diagnosed and breast care health professionals. These services include:

a free telephone support and information Helpline
Ask Our Nurses email service
a number of specialist face-to-face services that include expert information, the chance to ask questions and to meet other people also facing breast cancer
a wide range of free patient information, both on and offline, including voice services on Amazon Alexa 
an online peer support Forum

Nursing Network
Breast Cancer Care's Nursing Network was launched as a service for healthcare professionals in 2010. Members of the Nursing Network work together to help ensure people affected by breast cancer get the best treatment and care available. Breast Cancer Care’s support for healthcare professionals through the Nursing Network includes training sessions on specific aspects of breast cancer treatment and care, and ways to share best practice. The Breast Cancer Care Helpline is open to healthcare professionals in need of support or guidance. 
Is the international normalised ratio (INR) reliable? [SEP] INR self-monitoring is used by patients on long-term and on lifetime anti-coagulation therapy to measure their INR (International Normalized Ratio) levels themselves, rather than at a clinic. International Normalized Ratio (INR)
International normalized ratio (INR) which is a derivative of prothrombin time is a measurement of blood coagulation in the circulatory system. From the conclusions of a review of studies of self-monitoring in oral anti-coagulation therapy.The results of the study Effect of Home Testing of International Normalized Ratio on Clinical Events (2010), comparing whether weekly home-testing of the INR-level offers any advantage over monthly testing in a clinic, reduces the risk of a major hemorrhage event (i.e. There are a range of INR testing monitors on the market, such as the CoaguChek XS, MicroINR., INRatio2, and QLabs

See also
International Normalized Ratio
Warfarin

References
External links
The Cochrane Library The INR was devised to standardize the results. The ISI is usually between 0.94 and 1.4 for more sensitive and 2.0–3.0 for less sensitive thromboplastins.The INR is the ratio of a patient's prothrombin time to a normal (control) sample, raised to the power of the ISI value for the analytical system being used. The INR was invented in the early 1980s by Tom Kirkwood working at the UK National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (and subsequently at the UK National Institute for Medical Research) to provide a consistent way of expressing the prothrombin time ratio, which had previously suffered from a large degree of variation between centres using different reagents. The INR was coupled to Dr Kirkwood's simultaneous invention of the International Sensitivity Index (ISI), which provided the means to calibrate different batches of thromboplastins to an international standard. 
Are there associations of health status, disease activity and damage in SLE patients? [SEP] Life expectancy is lower among people with SLE, but with modern treatment, 80-90% of patients can survive for 10 years or more, although men have higher mortality. SLE significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease with this being the most common cause of death. People with SLE are at particular risk of developing osteoarticular tuberculosis.A possible association between rheumatoid arthritis and SLE has been suggested, and SLE may be associated with an increased risk of bone fractures in relatively young women. Systemic
Fatigue in SLE is probably multifactorial and has been related to not only disease activity or complications such as anemia or hypothyroidism, but also to pain, depression, poor sleep quality, poor physical fitness and lack of social support. One of the factors associated with SLE is vitamin D deficiency. Women with SLE and of lower socioeconomic status have been shown to have higher depression scores, higher body mass index, and more restricted access to medical care than women of higher socioeconomic statuses with the illness. Studies that report different rates of disease progression in late-stage SLE are most likely reflecting differences in socioeconomic status and the corresponding access to care. The advances made by medical science in the diagnosis and treatment of SLE have dramatically improved the life expectancy of a person diagnosed with SLE. 
PSA repeatedly fluctuating levels are reassuring enough to avoid biopsy? [SEP] It is typically performed when the result from a  PSA blood test is high. PSA screening is controversial as PSA may become elevated due to non-cancerous conditions such as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), by infection, or by manipulation of the prostate during surgery or catheterization. Up to 2013, indications for targeted biopsy have included mainly patients for whom traditional TRUS biopsies have been negative despite concern for rising PSA, as well as for patients enrolling in a program of active surveillance who may benefit from a confirmatory biopsy and/or the added confidence of more accurate non-invasive monitoring. Biochemical recurrence is a rise in the blood level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in prostate cancer patients after treatment with surgery or radiation. Also called PSA failure and biochemical relapse.It is used to detect metastatic progression of the prostate cancer. Use in prostatic cancer prognosis
Serum marker
PSAP was used to monitor and assess progression of prostate cancer until the introduction of prostate specific antigen (PSA), which has now largely displaced it. Immunohistochemistry
PSAP immunohistochemical staining is often used with PSA (staining), by pathologists, to help distinguish poorly differentiated carcinomas. Since signs of asymptomatic prostatic inflammation may sometimes be associated with prostate cancer, this can be addressed by tests that assess the ratio of free-to-total PSA. 
Is zero central line-associated bloodstream infection rate sustainable? [SEP] The group's primary goal is to increase vaccine uptake in order to meet immunization targets, working to coordinate messaging among health care workers across Canada.19 to Zero and the University of Toronto conducted a survey in the fall of 2020 to gauge routine vaccination rates following the COVID-19 pandemic. The Alberta Federation of Regulated Health Professionals lists 19 to Zero as one of its COVID-19 resource providers. Outbreaks of community-associated (CA)-MRSA infections have been reported in correctional facilities, among athletic teams, among military recruits, in newborn nurseries, and among sexually active men who have sex with men, CA-MRSA infections now appear to be endemic in many urban regions and cause most MRSA infections. The patient area is provided with continuous negative air pressure and air filtration to keep pathogens from entering the rest of the cabin. A microbiological evaluation of the patient (a 41-year-old male) revealed that M. catarrhalis was the cause of the disease rather than Neisseria as was previously believed. Bacteremia infections caused by M. catarrhalis have a 21% mortality rate among patients. Treatment
Treatment options include antibiotic therapy or a so-called "watchful waiting" approach. A functioning TAT pathway is necessary for the optimal growth of M. catarrhalis even in conditions without antibiotics. 
Is gastric electrical stimulation superior to standard pharmacologic therapy in improving GI symptoms, healthcare resources, and long-term health care benefits? [SEP] Gastric electrical stimulation, also known as implantable gastric stimulation, is the use of specific devices to provide electrical stimulation to the stomach to try to bring about weight loss in those who are overweight or improve gastroparesis.Gastric electrical stimulation is a pacemaker-like device with electrical connections to the surface of the stomach. EndoStim Electrical Stimulation Therapy is a form of anti-reflux surgery, intended to assist in correcting a problem with the muscles at the bottom of the esophagus (the tube from the mouth to the stomach). EndoStim's proprietary technology uses functional electrical stimulation (a type of neuromodulation) to restore esophageal function, thereby reducing GERD symptoms. Tiny pulses of electric current are delivered to the LES without causing any sensation.The implantable pulse generator (IPG) and bipolar lead deliver therapy to the lower esophageal sphincter. Minimally-invasive procedures have been shown to dramatically reduce healing time as well as reduce procedure risk.The first clinical study using EndoStim technology was published in 2010, showing that in patients with GERD, electrical stimulation therapy significantly and consistently increased LES pressure. An open-label trial conducted in Chile showed the procedure showed “significant and sustained improvement in GERD symptoms, esophageal pH, and reduction in proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) usage without any side effects” in patients. The most clinical experience has been with electrical stimulation. : 13–16

Relationship to electroceuticals
In 2012, the global pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline announced an initiative in bioelectric medicine in which the autonomic nervous system's impact on the immune system and inflammatory disease might be treated through electrical stimulation rather than pharmaceutical agents. 
Should pulp chamber pulpotomy be seen as a permanent treatment? [SEP] During pulpotomy, the inflamed/diseased pulp tissue is removed from the coronal pulp chamber of the tooth leaving healthy pulp tissue which is dressed with a long-term clinically-successful medicament that maintains the survival of the pulp and promotes repair. It is also recommended to be the preferred pulpotomy agent in the future. The medium- to long-term treatment outcomes of pulpotomy in symptomatic permanent teeth with caries, especially in young people, indicate that pulpotomy can be a potential alternative to root canal therapy (RCT). This clinical procedure is essentially a deep pulpotomy, aimed to preserve the pulp in immature teeth that have deep pulpal inflammation. that future infection is considered very likely or inevitable, a pulpectomy (removal of the pulp tissue) is advisable to prevent such infection. This is called a pulpectomy. See also
Pulpotomy


== References == Conventional root canal therapy cleans and fills the pulp chamber with biologically inert material after destruction of the pulp due to dental caries, congenital deformity or trauma. 
Does transverse apex coincide with coronal apex levels (regional or global) in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? [SEP] Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is a rather common disorder in which the spine starts abnormally curving sideways (scoliosis) at the age of 10–18 years old. Diagnosis
This condition can be diagnosed through the use of the following diagnostic methods:
Physical examination
Asymmetric shoulders
Asymmetric leg length
Cavovarus
Prominent ribs
Physical tests such as Adams test
MRIs
RadiographsFor adolescent idiopathic scoliosis to be considered as a diagnostic option in the patient, said patient must be between the ages of 10 and 18 years old. Age
Idiopathic scoliosis can appear at different ages. Infantile idiopathic scoliosis that appear from the birth to 3 years old, account for 0.5% of idiopathic scoliosis. Juvenile idiopathic scoliosis that appear from the 4 to 10 years old, account for 10.5% of idiopathic scoliosis. Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis that appear after the age of 10 years, account for 89% of idiopathic scoliosis. Physiology
Cobb angle is a common measure to classify scoliosis. Muscle
Scoliotic adolescents, at the apex vertebra, have a higher muscle activity (as measured by surface electromyography) on the convex side than on the concave side in sitting or standing conditions. 
Does the Child Health Computing System adequately identify children with cerebral palsy? [SEP] The Communication Function Classification System (CFCS) for individuals with cerebral palsy (CP) is a five-level classification system which began development at  Michigan State University and currently under further refinement at the University of Kentucky. Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of movement disorders that appear in early childhood. Babies born with cerebral palsy do not immediately present with symptoms. Chronic pain is under-recognized in children with cerebral palsy, even though three out of four children with cerebral palsy experience pain. Early diagnosis and intervention are seen as being a key part of managing cerebral palsy. It is a developmental disability.Once a person is diagnosed with cerebral palsy, further diagnostic tests are optional. Cerebral Palsy Alliance (formerly The Spastic Centre) is an Australian nonprofit organisation helping babies, children, teenagers and adults living with cerebral palsy and other neurological and physical disabilities. "Development and reliability of a system to classify gross motor function in children with cerebral palsy". 
Are we seeing the effects of public awareness campaigns? [SEP] The UNESCO report on Journalism Education says, "Well researched television content can create public awareness about HIV prevention, treatment, care and support can potentially influence the development and implementation of relevant policies. Campaign in order to bring information literacy awareness to the general public. "Identifying Like-Minded Audiences for Global Warming Public Engagement Campaigns: An Audience Segmentation Analysis and Tool Development". Since informing the populace of a public concern is often regarded as the first step to changing how the institutions handle it, raising awareness is often the first activity in which any advocacy group engages. However, in practice, raising awareness is often combined with other activities, such as fundraising, membership drives or advocacy, in order to harness and/or sustain the motivation of new supporters which may be at its highest just after they have learned and digested the new information. Public awareness of science (PAwS) is everything relating to the awareness, attitudes, behaviors, opinions, and activities that comprise the relations between the general public or lay society as a whole to scientific knowledge and organization. Science social movementsImportant lines of research are how to raise public awareness and public understanding of science and technology. Project examples
Government and private-led campaigns and events, such as Dana Foundation's "Brain Awareness Week", are becoming a strong focus of programmes which try to promote public awareness of science. 
Is breast cancer prognosis inherited? [SEP] The hereditary factors may be proven or suspected to cause the pattern of breast and ovarian cancer occurrences in the family. Most hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndromes are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Breast cancer, like other forms of cancer, can result from multiple environmental and hereditary risk factors. Approximately 5% of new breast cancers are attributable to hereditary syndromes, and well-established risk factors accounts for approximately 30% of cases. BRCA1 and BRCA2
In 5% of breast cancer cases, there is a strong inherited familial risk.Two autosomal dominant genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, account for most of the cases of familial breast cancer. If a mother or a sister was diagnosed breast cancer, the risk of a hereditary BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation is about 2-fold higher than those women without a familial history. She was the first to show that breast cancer can be inherited due to mutations in the gene she called BRCA1. As many as 5–10% of all cases of breast cancer may be hereditary. 
Does nuchal translucency thickness in the first trimester predict GDM onset during pregnancy? [SEP] A nuchal scan or nuchal translucency (NT) scan/procedure is a sonographic prenatal screening scan (ultrasound) to detect chromosomal abnormalities in a fetus, though altered extracellular matrix composition and limited lymphatic drainage can also be detected.Since chromosomal abnormalities can result in impaired cardiovascular development, a nuchal translucency scan is used as a screening, rather than diagnostic, tool for conditions such as Down syndrome, Patau syndrome, Edwards Syndrome, and non-genetic body-stalk anomaly.There are two distinct measurements: the size of the nuchal translucency and the thickness of the nuchal fold. Nuchal translucency size is typically assessed at the end of the first trimester, between 11 weeks 3 days and 13 weeks 6 days of pregnancy. Accuracy
An increased nuchal translucency increases the probability that the fetus will be affected by a chromosomal abnormality, congenital cardiac defects, or intrauterine fetal demise. The use of a single millimeter cutoff (such as 2.5 or 3.0 mm) is inappropriate because nuchal translucency measurements normally increases with gestational age (by approximately 15% to 20% per gestational week from 10 to 13 weeks). At 12 weeks of gestational age, an "average" nuchal thickness of 2.18mm has been observed; however, up to 13% of chromosomally normal fetuses present with a nuchal translucency of greater than 2.5mm. Development of nuchal translucency
The actual anatomic structure whose fluid is seen as translucency is likely the normal skin at the back of the neck, which either may become edematous or in some cases filled with fluid by dilated lymphatic sacs due to altered normal embryological connections.The translucent area measured (the nuchal translucency) is only useful to measure between 11 and 14 weeks of gestation, when the fetal lymphatic system is developing and the peripheral resistance of the placenta is high. At the end of the first trimester (14 weeks), the nuchal translucency can no longer be seen and instead the nuchal fold thickness is measured between 16 and 24 weeks gestation. Details of prenatal screening and testing options may be provided.Around weeks 11–13, nuchal translucency scan (NT) may be offered which can be combined with blood tests for PAPP-A and beta-hCG, two serum markers that correlate with chromosomal abnormalities, in what is called the First Trimester Combined Test. 
Are the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor microsatellites related to hypersexuality in children with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype? [SEP] V1BR acts as a receptor for vasopressin. Arginine vasopressin influences several symptoms related to affective disorders including significant memory processes, pain sensitivity, synchronization of biological rhythms and the timing and quality of REM sleep. AVPR1B has also been associated with higher cortisol responses to psychosocial stress in children with psychiatric disorders compared with carriers of glucocorticoid receptor gene. References
External links
Receptors,+Vasopressin at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
"Symbol Report: AVPR1B". Vasopressin receptor 1A (V1AR), or arginine vasopressin receptor 1A (officially called AVPR1A) is one of the three major receptor types for vasopressin (AVPR1B and AVPR2 being the others), and is present throughout the brain, as well as in the periphery in the liver, kidney, and vasculature.V1AR is also known as:

V1a vasopressin receptor
antidiuretic hormone receptor 1A
SCCL vasopressin subtype 1a receptor
V1-vascular vasopressin receptor AVPR1A
vascular/hepatic-type arginine vasopressin receptor

Structure and function
Human AVPR1A cDNA is 1472 bp long and encodes a 418 amino-acid long polypeptide which shares 72%, 36%, 37%, and 45% sequence identity with rat Avpr1a, human AVPR2, rat Avpr2, and human oxytocin receptor (OXTR), respectively. Humans
Although vasopressin cell and fibre distribution patterns are highly conserved across species (with centrally projecting systems being sexually dimorphic), the vasopressin receptor AVPR1A distribution differs both between and within species; vasopressin production occurs in the hypothalamus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the medial amygdala (projecting to the lateral septum and ventral pallidum), while vasopressin binding sites in humans are in the lateral septum, thalamus, basal amygdaloid nucleus, and brainstem, but not cortex.Human AVPR1A is situated on chromosome 12q14-15, and the promoter region does not have repeat sequences homologous to those found in prairie voles. Arginine vasopressin-induced protein 1 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the AVPI1 gene. Vasopressin+Receptors at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Stage I non-small cell lung carcinoma: really an early stage? [SEP] Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), or non-small-cell lung carcinoma, is any type of epithelial lung cancer other than small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). References
External links

MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lung cancer — non-small cell Diagnosis
Early squamous-cell carcinoma of the lung (generally as squamous-cell carcinoma in situ) is asymptomatic and may only appear as an incidental imaging finding on CT scan or magnetic resonance imaging as a lung nodule. Lung cancers that are discovered early may cause symptoms localized to the respiratory system. Adenocarcinoma of the lung develops in a step-wise progression as type II pneumocytes undergo consecutive molecular changes that disrupt normal cell regulation and turnover. Lung adenocarcinoma is one of the three major subtypes of NSCLC, which also include squamous carcinoma and large cell carcinoma.Historically, there has been much debate in the most accurate method of describing adenocarcinoma of the lung and several revisions of classification systems have been published. When malignant cells are identified in the pleural aspirate of patients highly suspect for lung cancer, a definitive diagnosis and staging (stage IV adenocarcinoma of the lung) is established.Adenocarcinoma of the lung tends to stain mucin positive as it is derived from the mucus-producing glands of the lungs. Prognosis
Giant-cell lung cancers have long been considered to be exceptionally aggressive malignancies that grow very rapidly and have a very poor prognosis.Many small series have suggested that the prognosis of lung tumors with giant cells is worse than that of most other forms of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), including squamous cell carcinoma, and spindle cell carcinoma.The overall five-year survival rate in GCCL varies between studies but is generally considered to be very low. 
Does Residency Selection Criteria Predict Performance in Orthopaedic Surgery Residency? [SEP] This term comes from the fact that resident physicians traditionally spend the majority of their training "in house" (i.e., the hospital).Duration of residencies can range from three years to seven years, depending upon the program and specialty. Some residency programs are direct entry (family medicine, dermatology, neurology, general surgery, etc. In regard to options, specialty residency programs can range nationally from over 700 (family medicine) and over 580 (internal medicine) to 33 programs for integrated thoracic surgery and 28 programs for Osteopathic neuromusculoskeletal medicine. The second largest specialty is family medicine with 5,088 positions in 2022.Residents choose the teaching hospital where they want to perform their residency based upon many factors, including the medical specialties offered by the hospital and reputation and credentials of the hospital. According to a survey of residency program directors by the NRMP in 2020, the following five factors were mentioned by directors over 75% of the time as having the most impact:
Between 60% and 75% also mentioned other factors such as core clerkship grades, perceived commitment to specialty, Audition elective/rotation within your department, any failed attempt in USMLE, class ranking/quartile, personal prior knowledge of the applicant, perceived interest in program and passing USMLE Step 2 CS.These factors often come as a surprise to many students in the preclinical years, who often work very hard to get great grades, but do not realize that only 45% of directors cite basic science performance as an important measure. At this point, students choose specific residency programs to apply for that often specify both specialty and hospital system, sometimes even subtracks (e.g., Internal Medicine Residency Categorical Program at Mass General or San Francisco General Primary Care Track).After they apply to programs, programs review applications and invite selected candidates for interviews held between October and February. Although it varies from specialty to specialty, Alpha Omega Alpha membership, clinical clerkship grades, letters of recommendation, class rank, research experience, and school of graduation are all considered when selecting future residents. For many years, the principal traditional residencies included internal medicine, pediatrics, general surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, neurology, ophthalmology, orthopaedics, neurosurgery, otolaryngology, urology, physical medicine and rehabilitation, and psychiatry. 
Optimism and survival: does an optimistic outlook predict better survival at advanced ages? [SEP] Optimism may also be linked to health. Optimists appear to live longer. Optimism has been shown to explain between 5–10% of the variation in the likelihood of developing some health conditions (correlation coefficients between .20 and .30), notably including cardiovascular disease, stroke, and depression.The relationship between optimism and health has also been studied with regard to physical symptoms, coping strategies and negative affect for those suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, and fibromyalgia. (2019) assessed the overall optimism and longevity of cohorts of men from the Veterans Affairs Normative Aging Study and women from the Nurses’ Health Study. The study found a positive correlation between higher levels of optimism and exceptional longevity, which the study defined as a lifespan exceeding 85 years. In addition low optimism may help explain the association between caregivers' anger and reduced sense of vitality.A recent meta-analysis of optimism supported past findings that optimism is positively correlated with life satisfaction, happiness, psychological and physical well-being and negatively correlated with depression and anxiety.Seeking to explain the correlation, researchers find that optimists choose healthier lifestyles. The benefits of an optimistic outlook are many: Optimists are higher achievers and have better overall health. Learned Optimism Yields Health Benefits. 
Is it better to be big? [SEP] Big, Bigger, Biggest is a British documentary television series which began airing in 2008. Bigger (styled as Bigger: The Joe Weider Story) is a 2018 American comedy-drama film by director George Gallo about the life of real life bodybuilders Joe and Ben Weider. Being overweight or fat is having more body fat than is optimally healthy. Reports are surfacing, however, that being mildly overweight to slightly obese – BMI being between 24 and 31.9 – may be actually beneficial and that people with a BMI between 24 and 31.9 could actually live longer than normal weight or underweight persons. Obesity in children is growing at a faster rate than obesity in adults. Get Big is a 2017 American comedy-drama film directed by Dylan Anthony Moran, starring Moran and Tanner Stine. Big is a 1988 American fantasy comedy-drama film directed by Penny Marshall and stars Tom Hanks as Josh Baskin, a pre-adolescent boy whose wish to be "big" transforms him physically into an adult. The website's critical consensus reads, "Refreshingly sweet and undeniably funny, Big is a showcase for Tom Hanks, who dives into his role and infuses it with charm and surprising poignancy." 
Is arch form influenced by sagittal molar relationship or Bolton tooth-size discrepancy? [SEP] Bolton Analysis is a tooth analysis developed by Wayne A. Bolton to determine the discrepancy between size of maxillary and mandibular teeth. The dental arches are the two arches (crescent arrangements) of teeth, one on each jaw, that together constitute the dentition. In humans and many other species; the superior (maxillary or upper) dental arch is a little larger than the inferior (mandibular or lower) arch, so that in the normal condition the teeth in the maxilla (upper jaw) slightly overlap those of the mandible  (lower jaw) both in front and at the sides. The two series, however, end at nearly the same point behind; this is mainly because the molars in the upper arch are the smaller. Since there are a standard number of teeth in humans, the size of the dental arch is of vital importance in determining how the teeth are positioned when they appear. While the arch can expand as a child grows, a small arch will force the teeth to grow close together. Tooth size discrepancy
Identifying the presence of tooth size discrepancies between the maxillary and mandibular arches is an important component of correct orthodontic diagnosis and treatment planning. Bolton developed a method to calculate the ratio between the mesiodistal width of maxillary and mandibular teeth and stated that a correct and harmonious occlusion is possible only with adequate proportionality of tooth sizes. 
Cold knife conization vs. LEEP. Are they the same procedure? [SEP] Cervical conization (CPT codes 57520 (Cold Knife) and 57522 (Loop Excision)) refers to an excision of a cone-shaped sample of tissue from the mucous membrane of the cervix. Conization may be used for either diagnostic purposes as part of a biopsy or therapeutic purposes to remove pre-cancerous cells.Types include:
Cold knife conization (CKC): usually outpatient, occasionally inpatient
Loop electrical excision procedure (LEEP): usually outpatient.Conization of the cervix is a common treatment for dysplasia following abnormal results from a pap smear. The loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) is one of the most commonly used approaches to treat high grade cervical dysplasia (CIN II/III, HGSIL) discovered on colposcopic examination. LEEP has many advantages including low cost and a high success rate. Process
When performing a LEEP, the physician uses a wire loop through which an electric current is passed at variable power settings. A second pass with a more narrow loop can also be done to obtain an endocervical specimen for further histologic evaluation.The LEEP technique results in some thermal artifact in all specimens obtained due to the use of electricity which simultaneously cuts and cauterizes the lesion, but this does not generally interfere with pathological interpretation. Complications
Complications are less frequent in comparison to a cold-knife conization but can include infection and hemorrhage. The technical name for this procedure is cryosection. 
Are pectins involved in cold acclimation and de-acclimation of winter oil-seed rape plants? [SEP] Pectin (Ancient Greek: πηκτικός pēktikós: "congealed" and "curdled") is a heteropolysaccharide, a structural acid contained in the primary lamella, in the middle lamella, and in the cell walls of terrestrial plants. A similar process of cell separation caused by the breakdown of pectin occurs in the abscission zone of the petioles of deciduous plants at leaf fall.Pectin is a natural part of the human diet, but does not contribute significantly to nutrition. In non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice pectin has been shown to increase the incidence of diabetes.A study found that after consumption of fruit the concentration of methanol in the human body increased by as much as an order of magnitude due to the degradation of natural pectin (which is esterified with methanol) in the colon.Pectin has been observed to have some function in repairing the DNA of some types of plant seeds, usually desert plants. Chemistry
Pectins, also known as pectic polysaccharides, are rich in galacturonic acid. The salts of partially esterified pectins are called pectinates, if the degree of esterification is below 5 percent the salts are called pectates, the insoluble acid form, pectic acid.Some plants, such as sugar beet, potatoes and pears, contain pectins with acetylated galacturonic acid in addition to methyl esters. "Application of mass spectrometry to determine the activity and specificity of pectin lyase A". In the early stage of development of fruits, the pectic substance is a water-insoluble protopectin which is converted into pectin by the enzyme protopectinase during ripening of fruit. "Eliminative Cleavage of Pectin and of Oligogalacturonide Methyl Esters by Pectin trans-Eliminase". 
Updating emotional content in working memory: a depression-specific deficit? [SEP] For instance, studies have also shown a relationship between depression and its cognitive effects on everyday functioning and distortions of memory.Investigations such as PET and SPECT imaging of the brain show reduced blood flow in areas of the brain in people with Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared with a more normal blood flow in those with pseudodementia, and the MRI shows medial temporal lobe atrophy in people with AD. MRI studies showed that vortioxetine modulates a circuit subserving working memory, in a direction opposite to changes observed in major depression. This is further supported by evidence which shows that individuals with depression, a maladaptive disorder, experience interference with FAB by retaining negative emotions from unpleasant memories. Initial studies displayed an association between depression and a failure to remember positive events, with the explanation being that the depressed individual had an excess of negative memories. Patients with damaged frontal lobes show lower working memory and, therefore, a lessened ability to retrieve information from their secondary memory. Working memory is a central intellectual faculty, linked to IQ, ageing, and mental health. Working memory
Working memory (WM) is the system which holds multiple pieces of transitory information in the mind – information that is needed for different tasks right now. While improvements in WM were observed in both groups, there were many limitations and further research is still needed to produce training that will create long term effects in those who suffer from mental health disorders such as anxiety and depression.Although some studies published have argued that working memory training has the ability to improve overall intelligence, more recent literature suggests that working memory training does not transfer to other cognitive ability tests. 
Does ultrasound imaging before puncture facilitate internal jugular vein cannulation? [SEP] In contrast to standard lumbar puncture by palpation, the use of ultrasound imaging may reduce the number of failed punctures, needle insertions, and needle redirections. The jugular venous pressure (JVP, sometimes referred to as jugular venous pulse) is the indirectly observed pressure over the venous system via visualization of the internal jugular vein. The internal jugular vein is visualised when looking for the pulsation. The exact physiologic mechanism of jugular venous distention with a positive test is much more complex and the commonly accepted term is now "abdominojugular test".In a prospective randomized study involving 86 patients who underwent right and left cardiac catheterization, the abdominojugular test was shown to correlate best with the pulmonary arterial wedge pressure. A 1996 systematic review concluded that a high jugular venous pressure makes a high central venous pressure more likely, but does not significantly help confirm a low central venous pressure. Following successful puncture of subclavian vein with a cannula/needle, same side of IJV is compressed externally by placing a sterile finger in supraclavicular fossa. Such a line may be inserted for several reasons, such as to accurately measure the central venous pressure or to administer fluids when a line in a peripheral vein would be unsuitable (such as during resuscitation when peripheral veins are hard to locate).Because the internal jugular rarely varies in its location, it is easier to find than other veins. Additional images
See also
Jugular vein

References
 This article incorporates text in the public domain from page 648 of the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy (1918) 
Should prostate specific antigen be adjusted for body mass index? [SEP] In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the PSA test for annual screening of prostate cancer in men of age 50 and older. This means that PSA screening may reduce mortality from prostate cancer by up to 25%. In 1979, Wang purified a tissue-specific antigen from the prostate ('prostate antigen').PSA was first measured quantitatively in the blood by Papsidero in 1980, and Stamey carried out the initial work on the clinical use of PSA as a marker of prostate cancer. Delayed early detection may partially explain worse outcomes in obese men with early prostate cancer. After treatment, higher BMI also correlates to higher risk of recurrence.PSA levels can be also increased by prostatitis, irritation, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), and recent ejaculation, producing a false positive result. Use as biomarker
The most frequently used biomarker for prostate cancer today is the serum level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA), or derived measurements. It is independent of prostate volume, whereas PSA is not. References
Further reading
External links
prostate+cancer+antigen+3,+human at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) 
Does obstructive sleep apnea affect aerobic fitness? [SEP] Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the most common sleep-related breathing disorder and is characterized by recurrent episodes of complete or partial obstruction of the upper airway leading to reduced or absent breathing during sleep. excessive daytime sleepiness, decreased cognitive function).Most individuals with obstructive sleep apnea are unaware of disturbances in breathing while sleeping, even after awakening. Obstructive sleep apnea has been associated with neurocognitive morbidity and there is a link between snoring and neurocognitive disorders. The respiratory effort must then be assessed in order to correctly classify the apnea as obstructive given the specificity of the diaphragmatic activity in this condition: the inspiratory effort is continued or increased through the entire episode of absent airflow.When hypopneas are present alongside apneas, the term obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea is used and when it is associated with daytime sleepiness and other daytime symptoms, it is called obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome. In OSA, recurrent interruptions of respiration during sleep are associated with temporary airway obstruction. Children with obstructive sleep-disordered breathing also show a faster heart rate during wakefulness and during sleep.In adult patients, OSA has been shown to be associated with insulin resistance. Physical training, even without weight loss, improves sleep apnea. Testosterone rises in late hours of sleep after anaerobic exercise. 
The effect of an intracerebroventricular injection of metformin or AICAR on the plasma concentrations of melatonin in the ewe: potential involvement of AMPK? [SEP] References
Further reading
See also
Melatonin receptor High-affinity melatonin binding sites were pharmacologically characterized in the bovine brain in 1979. The binding of melatonin to MT2 receptors inhibits adenylyl cyclase which decreases the formation of cAMP. Melatonin receptors have been identified in the cardiovascular system. Evidence from animal studies points to a dual role of melatonin in the vasculature. Melatonin is involved in regulating immune responses in both human and animals through activation of both MT1 and MT2 receptors. Other ring systems have also showed melatonin agonist activity. The binding space for melatonin and analogues on the MT1 receptor is smaller than on the MT2. 
Literacy after cerebral hemispherectomy: Can the isolated right hemisphere read? [SEP] Hemispherectomy is a neurosurgical procedure in which a cerebral hemisphere (half of the upper brain, or cerebrum) is removed or disconnected. This patient eventually developed "superior language and intellectual abilities" despite the removal of the left hemisphere, which contains the classical language zones.When resecting the left hemisphere, evidence indicates that some advanced language functions (e.g., higher order grammar) cannot be entirely assumed by the right side. Signs and symptoms
Visual processing
Individuals with right hemisphere damage exhibit deficits in visual processing. As a result of their difficulties understanding alternate meanings and making situational inferences, people with right hemisphere damage face significant challenges in terms of discourse.Difficulties with communication are likely to be linked to a patient's cognitive deficits. Research has also shown that treatment given by speech-language pathologists to persons with right hemisphere damage results in improvement in the areas of problem solving, attention, memory, and pragmatics.Different treatment approaches can be used to treat the different symptoms of right hemisphere damage including neglect, visuospatial awareness, prosody, and pragmatics. Outcome
It appears as though individuals with right hemisphere damage maintain their real world knowledge and their mental scripts of what the world is like and what to expect from common scenarios, they just can’t translate it when they see it. Despite this, right hemisphere damage can lead to deficits in discourse abilities, including difficulty with interpretation of abstract language, making inferences, and understanding nonverbal cues. Indeed, about half of patients with right hemisphere damage have intact communication abilities (Brookshire, 2007). 
Characterization of the gender dimorphism after injury and hemorrhagic shock: are hormonal differences responsible? [SEP] Sexual dimorphism is a term for the phenotypic difference between males and females of the same species. The male amygdala is proportionally larger than that in females, causing sex to be a determining factor in reactions to stress. Sex hormones may influence female hippocampal cells to tolerate brain damage better than the same cells in males. Males and Females have different levels of certain hormones. Gender differences following a traumatic event
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is among the most common reactions in response to a traumatic event. Post-traumatic stress disorder
Biological differences is a proposed mechanism contributing to observed gender differences in PTSD. Sexual dimorphism describes the morphological, physiological, and behavioral differences between males and females of the same species. This leads to them reacting to strain differently than males do. 
Can communication with terminally ill patients be taught? [SEP] The project provides an undergraduate and graduate nursing faculty, CE providers, staff development educators, specialty nurses in pediatrics, oncology, critical care, and geriatrics, and other nurses with training in palliative care so they can teach this information to nursing students and practicing nurses. Patient education is a planned interactive learning process designed to support and enable expert patients to manage their life with a disease and/or optimise their health and well-being. Overview
Education may be provided by any healthcare professional who has undertaken appropriate training education, education on patient communication and education is usually included in the healthcare professional's training. It can also help the patients by a better lifestyle, it gives them the ability to learn new information. Increased adherence – Effective communication and patient education increases patient motivation to adhere to treatments. Outcomes
There are many areas where patient education can improve the outcomes of treatment. Patient Education in Health and Illness (5th ed.). During intermittent palliative sedation, the person is still able to communicate with their family members. 
Delays in time to primary treatment after a diagnosis of breast cancer: does it impact survival? [SEP] Breast cancer diagnosis and treatment is influenced by different cultural backgrounds. Even with the high incidence, there has been a lack of emphasis on diagnosis and detection of breast cancer in its early stages. The result is that many cases of breast cancer are presented to medical professionals at a late, and usually critical, stage. Advances in the understanding of the natural course of breast cancer as well as the development of systemic therapies allowed for the use of breast-conserving surgeries, however, the nomenclature of viewing non-surgical management from the viewpoint of the definitive surgery lends to two adjectives connected with treatment timelines: adjuvant (after surgery) and neoadjuvant (before surgery). The mainstay of breast cancer management is surgery for the local and regional tumor, followed (or preceded) by a combination of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, endocrine (hormone) therapy, and targeted therapy. Staging
Staging breast cancer is the initial step to help physicians determine the most appropriate course of treatment. Surgery
Surgery is the primary management for breast cancer. "A prospective evaluation of a breast cancer prognosis signature in the observational RASTER study". 
Are increased carotid artery pulsatility and resistance indexes early signs of vascular abnormalities in young obese males? [SEP] Carotid ultrasonography is an ultrasound-based diagnostic imaging technique to evaluate structural details of the carotid arteries. Carotid ultrasound is used to diagnose carotid artery stenosis (CAS) and can assess atherosclerotic plaque morphology and characteristics. Carotid artery stenosis is a major risk factor for stroke, and risk assessment of atherosclerotic carotid plaques is a critical component of stroke prevention. Other plaque features that contribute to stroke risk and can be evaluated by imaging are: intraplaque hemorrhage, plaque ulceration and neovascularization, fibrous cap thickness, and presence of a lipid-rich necrotic core (LNRC). Carotid ultrasound is the preferred initial diagnostic test to evaluate carotid artery stenosis, and can also be used to monitor response to lipid-lowering therapy. Plaque enhancement on ultrasound has been proven to correlate with neovascularization, inflammation, and inflammation, and these features are associated with symptomatic carotid plaques. When diagnosing carotid artery stenosis, carotid ultrasound has a lower sensitivity than MRA but is more sensitive than CTA. Increased arterial stiffness is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction, hypertension, heart failure and stroke, the two leading causes of death in the developed world. 
Are acceptance rates of a national preventive home visit programme for older people socially imbalanced? [SEP] In fact, patients were less likely to be institutionalized when compared to those who waived 1915(c) home- and community-based services.Similarly, it has been noted that patients remain in contact with primary care longer; have greater survival rates, better health, better functional status, and better quality of life as reflected by increased social interaction; and experience less depression and fewer concerns after enrollment.There are, however, some drawbacks that patients have come to perceive with certain aspects of the PACE experience. The programme invites adults aged between 40 and 74 in England for a health check-up every five years to screen for key conditions including heart disease, diabetes, kidney disease, and stroke. However, the head of health and wellbeing at Public Health England Kevin Fenton defended the programme, claiming it was evidence-based.A study published in 2014 in the British Journal of General Practice found no significant differences in the change to the prevalence of diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, chronic kidney disease or atrial fibrillation in general practices providing NHS Health Checks compared with control practices. Costs and take-up
Peter Walsh, deputy director of the Strategy Group at NHS England admitted that take-up of the checks was poor in January 2016, after a study showed that  20% of those eligible aged 60–74 attended and 9.0% of those between 40 and 59.In May 2016 researchers from Imperial College London concluded that the checkup reduced the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease by 0.21%, equivalent to one stroke or heart attack avoided every year for 4,762 people who attend. The programme cost £165 million a year.A retrospective observational study by the Centre for Primary Care and Public Health, Queen Mary University of London found that take up in an ethnically diverse and socially deprived area of East London had increased from 7.3% of eligible patients in 2009 to 85.0% in 2013–2014. New diagnoses of diabetes were 30% more likely in attendees than nonattendees, hypertension 50%, and Chronic Kidney Disease 80%.In August 2019, Matt Hancock announced that the checks would be more tailored to individuals’ risks.In the five years from 2016 to 2021, the average uptake of an NHS Health Check following an invite was 46.5%. A disproportionate number of seniors receiving services (27%) are below the poverty line (compared to 9.7% of the general population over age 60). Recipients are also almost twice as likely to be rural, more likely to live alone, and on average have less income, less education, and are less healthy than those persons in the general population aged 60 and over. 
Does open access publishing increase the impact of scientific articles? [SEP] As in other countries in general, open access publishing is less expensive than traditional, paper-based, pre-Internet publishing. John Houghton (2009), Open Access - What are the economic benefits? Open access citation advantage may increase the impact factor of open access journals relative to journals without open access.One study concluded that authors in medical fields "concentrate on research published in journals that are available as full text on the internet, and ignore relevant studies that are not available in full text, thus introducing an element of bias into their search result". Authors of another study conclude that "the OA advantage is a quality advantage, rather than a quality bias", that authors make a "self-selection toward using and citing the more citable articles—once OA self-archiving has made them accessible", and that open access "itself will not make an unusable (hence uncitable) paper more used and cited".A similar phenomenon, termed the "no abstract available bias" or NAA bias, is a scholar's tendency to cite journal articles that have an abstract available online more readily than articles that do not—this affects articles' citation count similarly to open access citation advantage. Also, the average number of articles that were published per open access journal per year increased from approximately 20 to 40 during the same period, resulting in that the number of open access articles increased by 900% during that decade.In 2000, BioMed Central, a for-profit open access publisher with now dozens of open access journals, was launched by what was then the Current Science Group (the founder of the Current Opinion series, and now known as the Science Navigation Group). These findings support the notion that open access journals have increased both in numbers and in average annual output over time. The development of the number of active open access journals and the number of research articles published in them during the period 1993–2009 is shown in the figure above. "Determinants of Open Access Publishing: Survey Evidence from Germany". 
In vivo visualization of pyloric mucosal hypertrophy in infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: is there an etiologic role? [SEP] In April, 1788, he reported a case of "scirrhus in the pylorus of an infant," which was the first case on record of congenital hypertrophy of the pylorus in an infant. Pyloric stenosis is a narrowing of the opening from the stomach to the first part of the small intestine (the pylorus). The typical age that symptoms become obvious is two to twelve weeks old.The cause of pyloric stenosis is unclear. Pyloric stenosis should be suspected in any young infant with severe vomiting. The procedure is typically performed in cases of "hypertrophic pyloric stenosis" in young children. In either case, the once the pylorus is accessed, the surgeon will visualize the hypertrophied pyloric muscle. Indication
The pyloromyotomy is primarily indicated by the presence of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. Hypertrophic Pyloric stenosis is a gastrointestinal tract defect, most commonly seen in young children, typically in the first few months of life, caused by enlargement of the tissue in the pyloric muscle. 
Does the early adopter of drugs exist? [SEP] Evolutionary models of drug use seek to explain human drug usage from the perspective of evolutionary fitness. Proponents of this model of drug use suggest that the consumption of pharmacological substances for medicinal purposes evolved in the backdrop of human-plant coevolution as a means of self-medication. The paradox of drug reward
Why do humans seek out and consume drugs that harm them? Archeological evidence indicates the presence of psychoactive plants and drug use in early hominid species about 200 million years ago. Sexual selection hypothesis
Some evolutionary psychological theories concerning drug use suggest individuals consume drugs to increase reproductive opportunities. Application of evolutionary theory to patterns of drug use suggest patterns can be explained in terms of the fundamental trade-offs that occur during different developmental periods  as well as gender differences arising from reproductive asymmetry. The average age at drug initiation occurs in adolescence (ages 15–25) and supports this shift. Everett M. "Ev" Rogers (March 6, 1931 – October 21, 2004) was an American communication theorist and sociologist, who originated the diffusion of innovations theory and introduced the term early adopter. 
Does high blood pressure reduce the risk of chronic low back pain? [SEP] High blood pressure, however, is a major risk factor for stroke, coronary artery disease, heart failure, atrial fibrillation, peripheral arterial disease, vision loss, chronic kidney disease, and dementia. Low back pain is the greatest contributor to lost productivity, absenteeism, disability and early retirement worldwide. Low back pain is more common among people aged between 40 and 80 years, with the overall number of individuals affected expected to increase as the population ages. Chronic low back pain is associated with sleep problems, including a greater amount of time needed to fall asleep, disturbances during sleep, a shorter duration of sleep, and less satisfaction with sleep. Obesity, smoking, weight gain during pregnancy, stress, poor physical condition, and poor sleeping position may also contribute to low back pain. While most low back pain is caused by muscle and joint problems, this cause must be separated from neurological problems, spinal tumors, fracture of the spine, and infections, among others. Opioid treatment for chronic low back pain increases the risk for lifetime illicit drug use and the effect of long-term use of opioids for lower back pain is unknown. Through the Medieval period, folk medicine practitioners provided treatments for back pain based on the belief that it was caused by spirits.At the start of the 20th century, physicians thought low back pain was caused by inflammation of or damage to the nerves, with neuralgia and neuritis frequently mentioned by them in the medical literature of the time. 
Does responsibility affect the public's valuation of health care interventions? [SEP] Survey USA estimated that the majority of Americans (77%) feel that it is either "quite important" or "extremely important" to "give people a choice of both a public plan administered by the federal government and a private plan for their health insurance" in August 2009. The group set out to answer this question (among others): "Does free medical care lead to better health than insurance plans that require the patient to shoulder part of the cost? Findings
An early paper with interim results from the RAND HIE concluded that health insurance without coinsurance "leads to more people using services and to more services per user," referring to both outpatient and inpatient services. Lessons from the RAND Health Insurance Experiment. "Effects of Cost Sharing on Use of Medical Services and Health" (PDF). "Views and reviews – Free for All: Lessons from the RAND Health Insurance Experiment". Moore, 1995 According to a recent systematic review of empirical public value research, public value has four key dimensions: outcome achievement (i.e. Barry Bozeman (2002), "Public-Value Failure: When Efficient Markets May Not Do", Public Administration Review 62(2), March/April 2002
Mark Moore's Harvard profile
DEMOS – The Public Value of Science (2005) [1]
DEMOS – Capturing Cultural Value (2005) [2]
Prime Minister's Strategy Unit (2002) – Creating Public Value [3]
The Center for Technology in Government [4]
SAP [5]
Bibliography on Public Value (English and German Literature) [6]
Website of the Center for Leadership and Values in Society at the University St. Gallen [7]
Public Value: Common Good and the Society. 
Nasal fractures:  is closed reduction satisfying? [SEP] References
"Closed reduction of a fractured bone". A nasal fracture, commonly referred to as a broken nose, is a fracture of one of the bones of the nose. Depending on the type of fracture reduction may be closed or open. Cause
Nasal fractures are caused by physical trauma to the face. A priority is to distinguish simple fractures limited to the nasal bones (Type 1) from fractures that also involve other facial bones and/or the nasal septum (Types 2 and 3). However, diagnosis may be confirmed with X-rays or CT scans, and these are required if other facial injuries are suspected.A fracture that runs horizontally across the septum is sometimes called a "Jarjavay fracture", and a vertical one, a "Chevallet fracture".Although treatment of an uncomplicated fracture of nasal bones is not urgent—a referral for specific treatment in five to seven days usually suffices—an associated injury, nasal septal hematoma, occurs in about 5% of cases and does require urgent treatment and should be looked for during the assessment of nasal injuries. Treatment
Minor nasal fractures may be allowed to heal on their own provided there is not significant cosmetic deformity. For nasal fractures where the nose has been deformed, manual alignment may be attempted, usually with good results. 
Do improvements in outreach, clinical, and family and community-based services predict improvements in child survival? [SEP] Achievements
Program reports and small-scale studies showed it improved: service utilization, financial hardship, health care quality and Women’s decision-making capacity in health care. A range of programs have been implemented, with evaluation of their effectiveness in terms of health, social and educational outcomes. The review of home visiting programs reports that intensive and frequent visits from trained professionals to families from the prenatal stage up to the second or third years of the child's life produces a positive and improved outcome in maternal and child's health. Evidence
Quality practices offered by well-trained home visitors in Home Visiting Programs have been shown to be effective in these areas: lower number of low birth weight babies, 50% decrease in child abuse or neglect, 25% increase in reading and math test grades in 1-3 grades, 60% increase in high school graduation rate. The outcomes measured include whether children under the care of the State are protected from abuse and neglect; whether children have permanency and stability in their living conditions; whether the continuity of family relationships and connections is preserved for children; whether families have enhanced capacity to provide for their children's needs; and whether children receive adequate services to meet their physical and mental health needs. The systemic factors measured by the CFSRs include the effectiveness of the State's systems for child welfare information, case review, and quality assurance; training of child welfare staff, parents, and other stakeholders; the services that support children and families; the agency's responsiveness to the community; and foster and adoptive parent licensing, recruitment, and retention. Outcomes
Safety
Children are, first and foremost, protected from abuse and neglect
Timeliness of initiating investigations of reports of child maltreatment
Repeat maltreatment
Children are safely maintained in their homes whenever possible and appropriate
Services to family to protect children in home and prevent removal
Risk of harm to child
Permanency
Children have permanency and stability in their living situations
Foster care re-entries
Stability of foster care placement
Permanency goal for child
Reunification, Guardianship or Permanent Placement with Relatives
Adoption
Permanency goal of other planned permanent living arrangement
The continuity of family relationships and connections is preserved for children
Proximity of foster care placement
Placement with siblings
Visiting with parents and siblings in foster care
Preserving connections
Relative placement
Relationship of child in care with parents
Well-being
Families have enhanced capacity to provide for their children's needs
Needs and services of child, parents, foster parents
Child and family involvement in case planning
Worker visits with child
Worker visits with parent
Children receive appropriate services to meet their educational needs
Educational needs of the child
Children receive adequate services to meet their physical and mental health needs
Physical health of the child
Mental health of the child

Systemic Factors
Statewide information system
The State is operating a statewide information system that, at a minimum, can readily identify the status, demographic characteristics, location and goals for the placement of every child who is in foster care
Case Review System
Provides a process that ensures that each child has a written case plan to be developed jointly with the child's parent(s) that includes the required provisions
Provides a process for the periodic review of the status of each child, no less frequently than once every 6 months, either by a court or by an administrative review
Provides a process for termination of parental rights proceedings in accordance with the provisions of the Adoption and Safe Families Act
Provides a process for foster parents, pre-adoptive parents, and relative caregivers of children in foster care to be notified of, and have an opportunity to be heard in, any review or hearing held with respect to the child
Quality Assurance System
The State has developed and implemented standards that ensure that children in foster care are provided quality services that protect the safety and health of the children
The State is operating an identifiable quality assurance system that is in place in the jurisdictions where the services included in the CFSP are provided, evaluates the quality of services, identifies strengths and needs of the service delivery system, provides relevant reports, and evaluates program improvement measures implemented
Training
The State is operating a staff development and training program that supports the goals and objectives in the CFSP, addresses services provided under titles IV-B and IV-E, and provides initial training for all staff who deliver these services
The State provides for ongoing training for staff that addresses the skills and knowledge base needed to carry out their duties with regard to the services included in the CFSP
The State provides training for current or prospective foster parents, adoptive parents, and staff of State licensed or approved facilities that care for children receiving foster care or adoption assistance under title IV-E that addresses the skills and knowledge base needed to carry out their duties with regard to foster and adopted children
Service Array
The State has in place an array of services that assess the strengths and needs of children and families and determine other service needs, address the needs of families in addition to individual children in order to create a safe home environment, enable children to remain safely with their parents when reasonable, and help children in foster and adoptive placements achieve permanency
The services in the previous item are accessible to families and children in all political jurisdictions covered in the State's CFSPThe services in the first item can be individualized to meet the unique needs of children and families served by the agencyAgency Responsiveness to the Community
In implementing the provisions of the CFSP, the State engages in ongoing consultation with tribal representatives, consumers, service providers, foster care providers, the juvenile court, and other public and private child- and family-serving agencies and includes the major concerns of these representatives in the goals and objectives of the CFSP
The agency develops, in consultation with these representatives, annual reports of progress and services delivered
The State's services under the CFSP are coordinated with services or benefits of other Federal or federally assisted programs serving the same population
Foster and Adoptive Parent Licensing, Recruitment and Retention
The State has implemented standards for foster family homes and childcare institutions, which are reasonably in accord with recommended national standards
The standards are applied to all licensed or approved foster family homes or child care institutions receiving title IV-E or IV-B funds
The State complies with Federal requirements for criminal background clearances as related to licensing or approving foster care and adoptive placements and has in place a case planning process that includes provisions for addressing the safety of foster care and adoptive placements for children
The State has in place a process for ensuring the diligent recruitment of potential foster and adoptive families that reflect the ethnic and racial diversity of the children in the State for whom foster and adoptive homes are needed
The State has in place a process for the effective use of cross-jurisdictional resources to facilitate timely adoptive or permanent placements for waiting children


== References == The bill would expand eligible grantees to include a health professional organization and an early childhood health system.The bill would extend a grant program to evaluate the effectiveness of screening, counseling, or health care services in reducing the morbidity and mortality caused by heritable disorders in newborns and children. 
Does spontaneous remission occur in polyarteritis nodosa? [SEP] Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a systemic necrotizing inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis) affecting medium-sized muscular arteries, typically involving the arteries of the kidneys and other internal organs but generally sparing the lungs' circulation. Mononeuritis multiplex develops in more than 70% of patients with polyarteritis nodosa because of damage to arteries supplying large peripheral nerves. Diagnosis
No specific lab tests exist for diagnosing polyarteritis nodosa. Polyarteritis nodosa is more common in people with hepatitis B infection. Spontaneous remission, also called spontaneous healing or spontaneous regression, is an unexpected improvement or cure from a disease that usually progresses. Discover Magazine, September 2007

External links
Spontaneous remissions and an immunological explanation See also
ANCA-associated vasculitides
Polyarteritis nodosa
List of cutaneous conditions
Granulomatosis with polyangitis

References


== External links == Some examples of this group include granulomatosis with polyangiitis, polyarteritis nodosa, Behçet's disease, and HSP. 
Gluten tolerance in adult patients with celiac disease 20 years after diagnosis? [SEP] Indeed, after starting a gluten-free diet and subsequent improvement becomes evident, such individuals are often able to retrospectively recall and recognise prior symptoms of their untreated disease that they had mistakenly ignored. Roughly 20 percent of individuals with coeliac disease are diagnosed after 60 years of age. The frequency of GSE is typically around 0.3 to 1% and lifelong risk of this form of gluten sensitivity increases in age, possibly as high as 2% for people over 60 years of age. Coeliac disease
Age at CD/GSE diagnosis – most people are over the age of 50 when first diagnosed at RCD
Dietary noncompliance – Some EATL appears years after diagnosis with non-GF diets. The results of a 2017 study suggest that non-celiac gluten sensitivity may be a chronic disorder, as is the case with celiac disease.For people with wheat allergy, the individual average is six years of gluten-free diet, excepting persons with anaphylaxis, for whom the diet is to be wheat-free for life.Preferably, newly diagnosed celiacs seek the help of a dietician to receive support for identifying hidden sources of gluten, planning balanced meals, reading labels, food shopping, dining out, and dining during travel. European guidelines suggest that in children and adolescents with symptoms which are compatible with coeliac disease, the diagnosis can be made without the need for an intestinal biopsy if anti-tTG antibodies titres are very high (10 times the upper limit of normal).A recently proposed criterion to non-coeliac gluten sensitivity diagnosis concludes that an improvement of gastrointestinal symptoms and extra-intestinal manifestations higher than 50% with a gluten-free diet, assessed through a rating scale, may confirm the clinical diagnosis of non-coeliac gluten sensitivity. Catassi and Fasano proposed in 2010 that in patients without celiac disease antibodies, either lymphocytic infiltration associated with IgA subepithelial deposits or a histological response to a gluten-free diet, could support a diagnosis of celiac disease. The spectrum of gluten related disorders includes celiac disease in 1–2% of the general population, non-celiac gluten sensitivity in 0.5–13% of the general population, as well as dermatitis herpetiformis, gluten ataxia and other neurological disorders. 
Do symptoms predict COPD in smokers? [SEP] The main symptoms of COPD include shortness of breath and a cough, which may or may not produce mucus. Chronic bronchitis does not always result in airflow limitation but in young adults who smoke the risk of developing COPD is high. COPD is associated with low-grade systemic inflammation.The most common cause of COPD is tobacco smoking. Some people with COPD attribute the symptoms to the consequences of smoking. However, less than 50 percent of heavy smokers develop COPD, so other factors need to be considered, including exposure to indoor and outdoor pollutants, allergens, occupational exposure, and host factors. Smoking
The primary risk factor for COPD globally is tobacco smoking with an increased rate of developing COPD shown in smokers and ex-smokers. Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Smoking is found to be the most important causative factor leading to COPD. Symptoms of COPD include persistent coughing, wheezing, chest infections and breathlessness. 
Search engine as a diagnostic tool in difficult immunological and allergologic cases: is Google useful? [SEP] An intelligent medical search engine is a vertical search engine that uses expert system technology to provide personalized medical information. Description
Searching for medical information on the Web is a challenging task for ordinary Internet users. Often, users are uncertain about their exact medical situations, are unfamiliar with medical terminology, and hence have difficulty in coming up with the right search keywords. An intelligent medical search engine is specifically designed to address this challenge. Allergy. References
External links
www.ga2len.net Global Allergy and Asthma European Network
European Centre for Allergy Research Foundation - Partner of GA²LEN SearchMedica was a series of free medical search engines built by doctors for doctors and other medical professionals, with localized versions for the United Kingdom, the United States, France and Spain. Description
SearchMedica was a specialist medical search engine for medical professionals. 
Uniformity of evidence-based treatments in practice? [SEP] Evidence-based practices have been gaining ground since the formal introduction of evidence-based medicine in 1992 and have spread to the allied health professions, education, management, law, public policy, architecture, and other fields. The goal of evidence-based practice is to eliminate unsound or outdated practices in favor of more-effective ones by shifting the basis for decision making from tradition, intuition, and unsystematic experience to firmly grounded scientific research. As the scientific method has become increasingly recognized as a sound means to evaluate practices, evidence-based practices have become increasingly adopted. Cochrane maintained that the most reliable evidence was that which came from randomised controlled trials.The term "evidence-based medicine" was introduced by Gordon Guyatt in 1990 in an unpublished program description, and the term was later first published in 1992. Since the widespread adoption of evidence-based practices in medicine, the use of evidence-based practices has rapidly spread to other fields.More recently, there has been a push for evidence-based education. Use of the term rapidly expanded to include a previously described approach that emphasized the use of evidence in the design of guidelines and policies that apply to groups of patients and populations ("evidence-based practice policies").Whether applied to medical education, decisions about individuals, guidelines and policies applied to populations, or administration of health services in general, evidence-based medicine advocates that to the greatest extent possible, decisions and policies should be based on evidence, not just the beliefs of practitioners, experts, or administrators. An evidence-based practice consensus statement was developed at a summit on mental healthcare in 2018. In addition, the current evidence-based practice (EBP) movement in healthcare emphasizes that clinical decision making should be based on the "best evidence" available, preferably the findings of randomized clinical trials. 
Do approved doctors and medical referees in the UK agree when assessing a seafarer's fitness? [SEP] A Fitness Report (FITREP) is an evaluation form used by the United States Navy and United States Marine Corps. Navy officers are given Fitness Reports, while Navy chief petty officers (E-7 to E-9) are given "Chief EVALs" and Navy sailors E-6 and below are issued Evaluation Reports (EVALs). Medical Examination (Seafarers) Convention, 1946 is  an International Labour Organization Convention (Number 73). It was established in 1946, with the preamble stating:

Having decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the medical examination of seafarers,... Health Protection and Medical Care (Seafarers) Convention, 1987 is  an International Labour Organization Convention. International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW) sets minimum qualification standards for masters, officers and watch personnel on seagoing merchant ships and large yachts. The Convention prescribes minimum standards relating to training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers which countries are obliged to meet or exceed.The Convention did not deal with manning levels: IMO provisions in this area are covered by regulation 14 of Chapter V of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974, whose requirements are backed up by resolution A.890(21) Principles of safe manning, adopted by the IMO Assembly in 1999, which replaced an earlier resolution A.481(XII) adopted in 1981 and has since been itself replaced by resolution A.1047(27) Principles of Minimum Safe Manning, adopted by the IMO Assembly in 2011. There is a transition period until 2017 when all seafarers must be certified and trained according to the new standards. 
Hepatorenal syndrome: are we missing some prognostic factors? [SEP] Hepatorenal syndrome (often abbreviated HRS) is a life-threatening medical condition that consists of rapid deterioration in kidney function in individuals with cirrhosis or fulminant liver failure. The risk of death in hepatorenal syndrome is very high; the mortality of individuals with type 1 HRS is over 50% over the short term, as determined by historical case series. Classification
Hepatorenal syndrome is a particular and common type of kidney failure that affects individuals with liver cirrhosis or, less commonly, with fulminant liver failure. Causes
Hepatorenal syndrome usually affects individuals with cirrhosis and elevated pressures in the portal vein system (termed portal hypertension). Prevention
The risk of death in hepatorenal syndrome is very high; consequently, there is a significant emphasis on the identification of patients who are at risk for HRS, and prevention of triggers for onset of HRS. Treatment
Transplantation
The definitive treatment for hepatorenal syndrome is liver transplantation, and all other therapies can best be described as bridges to transplantation. Diagnosis
The hepatopulmonary syndrome is suspected in any patient with known liver disease who reports dyspnea (particularly platypnea). Hepatopulmonary syndrome (HPS) consists of the triad of liver dysfunction, otherwise unexplained hypoxemia, and intrapulmonary vascular dilation (IPVD).A useful diagnostic test is contrast echocardiography. 
Vaginal dose assessment in image-guided brachytherapy for cervical cancer: Can we really rely on dose-point evaluation? [SEP] Brachytherapy is commonly used as an effective treatment for cervical, prostate, breast, esophageal and skin cancer and can also be used to treat tumours in many other body sites. Medical uses
Brachytherapy is commonly used to treat cancers of the cervix, prostate, breast, and skin.Brachytherapy can also be used in the treatment of tumours of the brain, eye, head and neck region (lip, floor of mouth, tongue, nasopharynx and oropharynx), respiratory tract (trachea and bronchi), digestive tract (oesophagus, gall bladder, bile-ducts, rectum, anus), urinary tract (bladder, urethra, penis), female reproductive tract (uterus, vagina, vulva), and soft tissues.As the radiation sources can be precisely positioned at the tumour treatment site, brachytherapy enables a high dose of radiation to be applied to a small area. Cervical cancer
Brachytherapy is commonly used in the treatment of early or locally confined cervical cancer and is a standard of care in many countries. 14 
Cervical cancer can be treated with either LDR, PDR or HDR brachytherapy. The precision of brachytherapy enables a high dose of targeted radiation to be delivered to the cervix, while minimising radiation exposure to adjacent tissues and organs.The chances of staying free of disease (disease-free survival) and of staying alive (overall survival) are similar for LDR, PDR and HDR treatments. Research shows locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix must be treated with a combination of external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and intracavity brachytherapy (ICBT). This, together with more recent advancements in three-dimensional imaging modalities, computerised treatment planning systems and delivery equipment has made brachytherapy a safe and effective treatment for many types of cancer today. See also
Brachytherapy planning
Image-guided radiation therapy


== References == 
Prescriptions as a proxy for asthma in children: a good choice? [SEP] GINA publishes resources such as evidence-based guidelines for asthma management, and runs special events such as World Asthma Day. Indacaterol/mometasone, sold under the brand name Atectura Breezhaler among others, is a fixed-dose combination medication for the treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents twelve years of age and older not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and inhaled short acting beta2 agonists.The most common side effects include worsening of asthma and nasopharyngitis (inflammation in the nose and throat). It is not useful for acute asthma attacks. The medication in a metered dose inhaler is most commonly a bronchodilator, corticosteroid or a combination of both for the treatment of asthma and COPD. Asthma inhalers contain a medication that treats the symptoms of asthma. It is also available as an inhaled corticosteroid to help prevent and control symptoms of asthma. They are also approved for the treatment of asthma. A systematic review published in 2013 found no significant adverse effect on the function of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis, growth, and bone mineral density in asthmatic children when inhaled fluticasone is used for up to three months. 
Does the familial transmission of drinking patterns persist into young adulthood? [SEP] There is a large body of twin-studies and adoption-studies that show that the risk for alcoholism has a genetic component. Alcoholism in family systems refers to the conditions in families that enable alcoholism and the effects of alcoholic behavior by one or more family members on the rest of the family. Mental health professionals are increasingly considering alcoholism and addiction as diseases that flourish in and are enabled by family systems.Family members react to the alcoholic with particular behavioral patterns. Familiarity
Children of alcoholics (COAs) are more susceptible to alcoholism and other drug abuse than children of non-alcoholics. Both genetic and environmental factors influence the development of alcoholism in COAs.COAs' perceptions of their parents' drinking habits influence their own future drinking patterns and are developed at an early age. Alcohol-related expectancies are correlated with parental alcoholism and alcohol abuse among their offspring. Impaired parental monitoring and negative affect correlate with COAs associating with peers that support drug use.After drinking alcohol, sons of alcoholics experience more of the physiological changes associated with pleasurable effects compared with sons of non-alcoholics, although only immediately after drinking.Compared with non-alcoholic families, alcoholic families demonstrate poorer problem-solving abilities, both between the parents and within the family as a whole. A Drinking Life: A Memoir. 
Proof of concept study: does fenofibrate have a role in sleep apnoea syndrome? [SEP] Fenofibrate (sold under the brand names Tricor, Fenobrat etc. While statins have strong evidence for reducing heart disease and death, there is evidence to suggest that fenofibrate also reduces to the risk of heart disease and death. Medical uses
Fenofibrate is mainly used for primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia. Further studies looking at the role of fenofibrate in the progression of diabetic retinopathy as the primary outcome is warranted to understand its role in this condition. "Fenofibrate is a fibrate derivative, a prodrug comprising fenofibric acid linked to an isopropyl ester. References
External links
"Fenofibrate". External links
"Fenofibrate". It is taken by mouth.The most common side effects are abdominal distension (bloating), abdominal pain (stomach ache), constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia (heartburn), eructation (belching), flatulence (gas), nausea (feeling sick), abdominal discomfort, vomiting and raised blood levels of liver enzymes.Fenofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonist. 
Can mental imagery functional magnetic resonance imaging predict recovery in patients with disorders of consciousness? [SEP] Neuroscience with imagery has been used to communicate with seemingly unconscious individuals through fMRI activation of different neural correlates of imagery, demanding further study into low quality consciousness. Both brain imaging (fMRI and ERP) and studies of neuropsychological patients have been used to test the hypothesis that a mental image is the reactivation, from memory, of brain representations normally activated during the perception of an external stimulus. Studies of brain function in normal human brains support this same conclusion, showing activity in the brain’s visual areas while subjects imagined visual objects and scenes.The previously mentioned and numerous related studies have led to a relative consensus within cognitive science, psychology, neuroscience, and philosophy on the neural status of mental images. Classification
Patients in such a dramatically altered state of consciousness present unique problems for diagnosis, prognosis and treatment. Ethical issues
Disorders of consciousness present a variety of ethical concerns. Some studies demonstrated that some patients with disorders of consciousness may be aware despite clinical unresponsiveness. Functional connectivity MRI (fcMRI), which can include resting state fMRI and task-based MRI, might someday help provide more definitive diagnoses for mental health disorders such as bipolar disorder and may also aid in understanding the development and progression of post-traumatic stress disorder as well as evaluate the effect of treatment. Current and future applications
Research using resting state fMRI has the potential to be applied in clinical context, including use in the assessment of many different diseases and mental disorders. 
The nurse cystoscopist: a feasible option? [SEP] Cystoscopy is endoscopy of the urinary bladder via the urethra. It is carried out with a cystoscope. Many cystoscopes have extra tubes to guide other instruments for surgical procedures to treat urinary problems. Flexible cystoscopy is carried out with local anaesthesia on both sexes. Medical uses
Cystoscopy may be recommended for any of the following conditions:
urinary tract infections;
blood in the urine (hematuria);
loss of bladder control (incontinence) or overactive bladder; (Although, the American Urogynecologic Society does not recommend that cystoscopy, urodynamics, or diagnostic renal and bladder ultrasound are part of initial diagnosis for uncomplicated overactive bladder.) This is particularly true when undergoing a Rigid Cystoscopy examination. The physician will gently insert the tip of the cystoscope into the urethra and slowly glide it up into the bladder. Further reading
Cystoscopy and Ureteroscopy on the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases website 
Is cardiovascular evaluation necessary prior to and during beta-blocker therapy for infantile hemangiomas? [SEP] Oral beta blockers such as propranolol or atenolol have been used since 2008 and are the first-line treatment of hemangiomas. Beta blockers have repeatedly been shown to be effective and safe in treating hemangiomas that cause complications. One retrospective review followed 26 infants between 1996–2007 to evaluate the management of hepatic hemangiomas and whether the infants required more complex treatment methods. Propranolol
Propranolol, a beta-blocker medication, has undoubtedly replaced corticosteroids as the preferred first line treatment of therapy for infantile hemangiomas after a dramatic shift in the management of IH since 2008. Blocking the beta-receptors can also initiate apoptosis of the endothelial cells to decrease the symptoms of the hemangioma and decrease the movement of EPCs to sites that are predisposed to the formation of the hemangiomas.One study looked at the use of propranolol, a beta-blocker medication, for treating infantile hepatic hemangiomas. Multidisciplinary clinical practice guidelines for the management of infantile hemangiomas were recently published. Following the serendipitous observation that propranolol, a nonselective beta blocker, is well tolerated and effective for treatment of hemangiomas, the agent was studied in a large, randomized, controlled trial and was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for this indication in 2014. For these reasons, infants with infantile hemangiomas should be evaluated by an appropriate clinician during the early proliferative phase so that risk monitoring and treatment be individualized and outcomes can be optimized. 
Is specialty care associated with improved survival of patients with congestive heart failure? [SEP] Angiotensin-modulating agents
Unless contraindicated or not tolerated, ACE inhibitor (ACE) therapy is recommended for all patients with systolic heart failure, irrespective of symptomatic severity or blood pressure. Signs and symptoms
Congestive heart failure is a pathophysiological condition in which the heart's output is insufficient to meet the needs of the body and lungs. Home visits and regular monitoring at heart-failure clinics reduce the need for hospitalization and improve life expectancy. Palliative care
People with heart failure often have significant symptoms, such as shortness of breath and chest pain. Heart failure is associated with significantly reduced physical and mental health, resulting in a markedly decreased quality of life. The study focused  on the need of hospitalization and on the incidence of life-threatening arrhythmias, pulmonary edema, and cardiac asthma.The number of patients in the Morisco study who required hospitalization for worsening heart failure was significantly smaller (p < 0.001) in the Q10 treatment arm (n = 73, 22.8%) than in the control arm (n = 118, 36.6%), a relative reduction of 37.7% in required hospitalizations.Moreover, in the Morisco study, the number of the episodes of pulmonary edema (20/319, 6.3% versus 51/322, 15.8%) and cardiac asthma (97/319, 30.4% versus 198/322, 61.5%) was significantly reduced (p < 0.001) in the Q10 arm as compared to the control arm.The Morisco study authors concluded that their results demonstrated that adjuvant treatment with CoQ10 in addition to conventional therapy significantly reduced the number of hospitalizations for worsening of heart failure and the incidence of serious complications in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. Biological Mechanisms Explaining the Improvement of Heart Failure Symptoms
Mortensen et al. Furthermore, preliminary long-term survival data shows that cardiac contractility modulation is associated with lower long-term mortality in heart failure patients when compared with expected rates among similar patients not treated with cardiac contractility modulation. 
Can the prognosis of polymyalgia rheumatica be predicted at disease onset? [SEP] Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a syndrome experienced as pain or stiffness, usually in the neck, shoulders, upper arms, and hips, but which may occur all over the body. Signs and symptoms
A wide range of symptoms can indicate if a person has polymyalgia rheumatica. In most people, it is characterized by constant fatigue, weakness and sometimes exhaustion.About 15% of people who are diagnosed with polymyalgia rheumatica also have temporal arteritis, and about 50% of people with temporal arteritis have polymyalgia rheumatica. Diagnosis
No specific test exists to diagnose polymyalgia rheumatica; many other diseases can cause inflammation and pain in muscles, but a few tests can help narrow down the cause of the pain. Many conditions can cause an elevated ESR, so this test alone is not proof that a person has polymyalgia rheumatica.Another test that checks the level of C-reactive protein (CRP) in the blood may also be conducted. However, like the ESR, this test is also not very specific.Polymyalgia rheumatica is sometimes associated with temporal arteritis, a condition requiring more aggressive therapy. Research in the UK has also suggested that people with polymyalgia rheumatica would benefit from a falls assessment when first diagnosed, and regular treatment reviews. Epidemiology
No circumstances are certain as to which an individual will get polymyalgia rheumatica, but a few factors show a relationship with the disorder:

Usually, PMR only affects adults over the age of 50. 
Should ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements be estimated in hospitalized alcoholic cirrotics? [SEP] A Body Shape Index (ABSI) or simply body shape index (BSI) is a metric for assessing the health implications of a given human body height, mass and waist circumference (WC). The Addiction Severity Index (ASI) is used to assess the severity of patient's addiction and analyse the need of treatment which has been in use for more than 2 decades since its publication in 1992. The ASI offers a more complete assessment of patients' conditions than other tools as the authors believed that the detrimental effects in health and social aspects are not merely the results of addictions and these issues could not be simply resolved by reducing the use of substances. History
Before the development of the ASI, it was assumed that the addiction could be characterized by measuring the nature, amount, and duration of their substance use and would directly lead to health and social problems or even criminal behaviors. Coupled with findings depicting that variation in the substance abuse treatment showed little effect on outcomes while the addition of health and/ or social services showed improved outcomes, the development of ASI funded by the Veterans Administration (VA) began in 1977 with an emphasis on analyzing patients' health and social background. Application
The original purpose of ASI was to serve as a standardized data collection instrument for clinical staff for the determination of the severity of the addiction of patients through objective and subjective information. The corpulence index yields valid results even for very short and very tall persons, which is a problem with BMI —  for example, an ideal body weight for a person 152.4 cm tall (48 kg) will render BMI of 20.7 and CI of 13.6, while for a person 200 cm tall (99 kg), the BMI will be 24.8, very close to the "overweight" threshold of 25, while CI will be 12.4.Because of this property, it is most commonly used in pediatrics. Studies have shown that use of the scale in management of alcohol withdrawal leads to decreased frequency of over-sedation with benzodiazepines in patients with milder alcohol withdrawal than would otherwise be detected without use of the scale, and decreased frequency of under-treatment in patients with greater severity of withdrawal than would otherwise be determined without the scale. 
The use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? [SEP] Background
The death of a woman during or shortly after a pregnancy is an important medical problem in developing countries. Estimating maternal deaths
Although maternal deaths are a major problem in developing countries, seen globally, the numbers are not very large, and there is an absence of high quality data. Different countries and cultures have different rates and causes for maternal death. Statistics showed that up until 2010, more than half a million women—most of them living in developing countries—dies from pregnancy- or childbirth-related complications every year, and about a quarter of these “maternal” deaths occurred in India.India showed a steady decline in maternal mortality, from 254 in every 100 000 live births in 2004-06 to 178 in every 100 000 live births in 2010-12.As per Sample Registration System (SRS), 2011-13 reports published by Registrar General of India, Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) was 167 per 1,00,000 live births in the country. Reasons for this vary, but part of the explanation is that many of these women could go to the hospital for care but choose to avoid doing so.Social factors which influence maternal mortality in India are income inequality in India; level of access to Prenatal care and care in the postpartum period; level of woman's education; the position of the mother's community in the regional rural-urban divide; the mother's access to nutrition during pregnancy; the degree of local sanitation; and the caste position of the mother.The same health monitoring systems which track maternal mortality could also ask women to report other problems, such as lack of good treatment from hospital staff. Healthcare in India measures and reports maternal mortality. Background
Maternal mortality is a sentinel event to assess the quality of a health care system. Retrieved 10 Feb 2009.Say L, Souza JP, Pattinson RC; WHO working group on Maternal Mortality and Morbidity classifications. 
Could the extent of lymphadenectomy be modified by neoadjuvant chemotherapy in cervical cancer? [SEP] Neoadjuvant therapy aims to reduce the size or extent of the cancer before using radical treatment intervention, thus both making procedures easier and more likely to succeed and reducing the consequences of a more extensive treatment technique, which would be required if the tumor were not reduced in size or extent. Cervical cancer staging is the assessment of cervical cancer to determine the extent of the disease. The stage of cervical cancer cannot be altered at recurrence. All cancers must be confirmed by microscopic examination.There are 10 histopathologic types of cervical cancers:
Squamous cell carcinoma (keratinizing; non-keratinizing; papillary, basaloid, warty, verrucous, squamotransitional, lymphoepithelioma-like)
Adenocarcinoma (endocervical; mucinous, villoglandular, endometrioid)
Clear cell adenocarcinoma
Serous carcinoma
Adenosquamous carcinoma
Glassy cell carcinoma
Adenoid cystic carcinoma
Adenoid basal carcinoma
Small cell carcinoma
Undifferentiated carcinomaCancers can be histopathologically graded as follows:

GX: Grade cannot be assessed
G1: Well differentiated
G2: Moderately differentiated
G3: Poorly or undifferentiated

Sample collection
For microinvasive disease, clinicians should collect a specimen using a loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) or a cone biopsy. IB1: Invasive carcinoma ≥5 mm depth of invasion and <2 cm in greatest dimension
IB2: Invasive carcinoma ≥2 cm and <4 cm in greatest dimension
IB3: Invasive carcinoma ≥4.0 cm in greatest dimension

Stage II
Cervical carcinoma invades beyond the uterus, but not to the pelvic wall or to the lower third of the vaginaIIA: Without parametrial invasion
IIA1: Tumor <4.0 cm in greatest dimension
IIA2: Tumor ≥4.0 cm in greatest dimension
IIB: With parametrial invasion

Stage III
The carcinoma involves the lower third of the vagina and/or extends to the pelvic wall and/or causes hydronephrosis or non‐functioning kidney and/or involves pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph nodes.IIIA: Carcinoma involves the lower third of the vagina, with no extension to the pelvic wall.IIIB: Extension to the pelvic wall and/or hydronephrosis or non‐functioning kidney. Lymphadenectomy,  or lymph node dissection, is the surgical removal of one or more groups of lymph nodes. "The better-known examples of lymphadenectomy are axillary lymph node dissection for breast cancer; radical neck dissection for head and neck cancer and thyroid cancer; D2 lymphadenectomy for gastric cancer; and total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer. It is usually done with a lymphadenectomy, to assess for tumour spread to the lymph nodes. 
Do Wound Cultures Give Information About the Microbiology of Blood Cultures in Severe Burn Patients? [SEP] A blood culture is a medical laboratory test used to detect bacteria or fungi in a person's blood. Blood cultures are used to detect bloodstream infections in febrile neutropenia, a common complication of chemotherapy in which fever occurs alongside a severely low count of neutrophils (white blood cells that defend against bacterial and fungal pathogens). Bacteremia is common in some types of infections, such as meningitis, septic arthritis and epidural abscesses, so blood cultures are indicated in these conditions. In infections less strongly associated with bacteremia, blood culture may still be indicated if the individual is at high risk of acquiring an intravascular infection or if cultures cannot be promptly obtained from the main site of infection (for example, a urine culture in pyelonephritis or a sputum culture in severe community-acquired pneumonia). Blood culture can identify an underlying microbial cause in cases of endocarditis and fever of unknown origin.The pathogens most frequently identified in blood cultures include Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli and other members of the family Enterobacteriaceae, Enterococcus species, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Candida albicans. Because antimicrobial therapy can cause false negative results by inhibiting the growth of microbes, it is recommended that blood cultures are drawn before antimicrobial drugs are given, although this may be impractical in people who are critically ill.A typical blood culture collection involves drawing blood into two bottles, which together form one "culture" or "set". Contamination of blood cultures can lead to unnecessary antibiotic treatment and longer hospital stays. Diagnosis
Bacteremia is most commonly diagnosed by blood culture, in which a sample of blood drawn from the vein by needle puncture is allowed to incubate with a medium that promotes bacterial growth. 
Are behavioural risk factors to be blamed for the conversion from optimal blood pressure to hypertensive status in Black South Africans? [SEP] The slavery hypertension hypothesis proposes that disproportionately high rates of hypertension among black people in the New World are due to selection bias preferring individuals who retain more sodium among black slaves during the Middle Passage. Besides diabetes, other factors that may also increase high blood pressure include obesity, insulin resistance and high cholesterol levels. Coloured South Africans also have a disproportionate levels of hypertension, arthritis, strokes, and vision compared to other racial groups. Asian and White South Africans self-reported higher levels of health status and diabetes. There are many genetic and environmental factors involved with the development of hypertension including genetics, diet, and stress. Persistent hypertension is a major risk factor for hypertensive heart disease, coronary artery disease, stroke, aortic aneurysm, peripheral artery disease, and chronic kidney disease.Cardiac output and peripheral resistance are the two determinants of arterial pressure. So elevated renin levels in the blood (normally 1.98-2.46 ng/ml in the upright position) leads to hypertension.Recent studies claim that obesity is a risk factor for hypertension because of activation of the renin–angiotensin system (RAS) in adipose tissue, and also linked renin–angiotensin system with insulin resistance, and claims that anyone can cause the other. Task force 4: Treatment strategies for hypertension on African continent (guidelines, clinical trials - Cost effectiveness- Access to medicines-EBM, etc.) 
Systematic use of patient-rated depression severity monitoring: is it helpful and feasible in clinical psychiatry? [SEP] A depression rating scale is a psychometric instrument (tool), usually a questionnaire whose wording has been validated with experimental evidence, having descriptive words and phrases that indicate the severity of depression for a time period. Rather than being used to diagnose depression, a depression rating scale may be used to assign a score to a person's behaviour where that score may be used to determine whether that person should be evaluated more thoroughly for a depressive disorder diagnosis. Scales completed by patients
Some depression rating scales are completed by patients. Usefulness
Screening programs using rating scales to search for candidates for a more in-depth evaluation have been advocated to improve detection of depression, but there is evidence that they do not improve detection rates, treatment, or outcome. Eight decades of measurement in depression. It rates depression based on the self-administered Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ). Applications
The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence endorsed the PHQ-9 for measuring depression severity and responsiveness to treatment in adults in a primary care setting. It is the most commonly used measure of quality of life in clinical trials and studies of depression. 
Treadmill training post stroke: are there any secondary benefits? [SEP] Train To End Stroke is an endurance training and fund-raising program, benefiting the American Stroke Association, a division of the American Heart Association, in which participants train to run or walk a full or half marathon. The target group consists of people who have had a stroke and have impaired motor control. In addition to providing more practice with the affected limb than "traditional" CI therapy over the 10-week period, the regimen is in greater accord with outpatient therapy regimens around the world, is less costly, and the efficacy has been shown to be comparable to a more intensive CI therapy schedule.Practitioners say that stroke survivors disabled for many years have recovered the use of their limbs using CIMT. However, it has been shown that receiving CIMT early on (3–9 months post-stroke) will result in greater functional gains than receiving delayed treatment (15–21 months post-stroke), with no benefits associated with its administration acutely (< 3 months post stroke). The American Stroke Association has written that Taub's therapy is "at the forefront of a revolution" in what is regarded possible in terms of recovery for stroke survivors.As a result of the patient engaging in repetitive exercises with the affected limb, the brain grows new neural pathways. Both CIMT and modified CI therapy has been shown to be an effective means of stroke rehabilitation regardless of the level of initial motor ability, amount of chronicity, amount of prior therapy, side of hemiparesis, or infarct location. Also like CIMT, CIAT has been shown to not be feasible in most clinical environments due to its parameters and distributed protocols are now being investigated.Both constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT) and modified CI therapy coupled with intensive and varied exercise training has proven to be effective in reducing spasticity and increasing function of the hemiplegic upper extremity in chronic stroke patients.The effects of constraint-induced movement therapy and its modified versions have been found to improve movements that not only remain stable for months after the completion of therapy, but translate well to improvements of everyday functional task. It found that the conditioning reduced the incidence of recurrent stroke from 23.3% to 5% at 90 days, and from 26.7% to 7.9% at 300 days; it also improved the rate of recovery (measured with the modified Rankin scale) and cerebral perfusion. 
Does lunar position influence the time of delivery? [SEP] In cases such as the approximately monthly cycle of menstruation in humans (but not other mammals), the coincidence in timing reflects no known lunar influence. Analysis of 564,039 births (1997 to 2001) in North Carolina showed no predictable influence of the lunar cycle on deliveries or complications. This well understood reproductive strategy is related to tides, which are highest when the Sun, Earth, and Moon are aligned, i.e., at new Moon or full Moon.In insects, the lunar cycle may affect hormonal changes. Natality and the Moon Revisited: Do Birth Rates Depend on the Phase of the Moon?, Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, Vol 33, No. In fish the lunar clock influences reproduction and involves the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis. Due to precession of the earth's axis, the northernmost and southernmost locations of the moon in the sky move westward, and in about 13,000 years the northern lunistice will occur in Sagittarius and Ophiuchus and the southern lunistice in the area of Gemini. 2006 standstill
Note that all dates and times in this section, and in the table, are in UTC, all celestial positions are in topocentric apparent coordinates, including the effects of parallax and refraction, and the lunar phase is shown as the fraction of the Moon's disc which is illuminated. Thus, one week to either side of the full moon the moondial will read 5 hours and 36 minutes before or after the proper time.More advanced moondials can include charts showing the exact calculations to get the correct time, as well as dials designed with latitude and longitude in mind. 
Is oral endotracheal intubation efficacy impaired in the helicopter environment? [SEP] If there is a positive history of difficulties intubating 2 points is given. However, it increases oral secretions during intubation. Phenylephrine – This drug is administered to those with hypotension post intubation as a result of lidocaine, midazolam, fentanyl, Propofol, and ketamine. Opioids such as fentanyl may be given to attenuate the responses to the intubation process (accelerated heart rate and increased intracranial pressure). Postintubation management
Mispositioning of the endotracheal tube (in a bronchus, above the glottis, or in the esophagus) should be excluded by confirmation of end tidal CO2, auscultation, fogging of the endotracheal tube, and observation of bilateral chest rise. References
External links
Rapid Sequence Intubation at eMedicine In 1880, the Scottish surgeon William Macewen (1848–1924) reported on his use of orotracheal intubation as an alternative to tracheotomy to allow a patient with glottic edema to breathe, as well as in the setting of general anesthesia with chloroform. In 1949, Macintosh published a case report describing the novel use of a gum elastic urinary catheter as an endotracheal tube introducer to facilitate difficult tracheal intubation. 
Prostatic syndrome and pleural effusion: are they different diseases? [SEP] A pleural pseudotumor is also associated with the presence of dependent pleural effusions. A pleural effusion is accumulation of excessive fluid in the pleural space, the potential space that surrounds each lung. A pleural effusion can also be compounded by a pneumothorax (accumulation of air in the pleural space), leading to a hydropneumothorax. Nephrotic syndrome, leading to the loss of large amounts of albumin in urine and resultant low albumin levels in the blood and reduced colloid osmotic pressure, is another less common cause of pleural effusion. Exudative pleural effusions, by contrast, are caused by alterations in local factors that influence the formation and absorption of pleural fluid (e.g., bacterial pneumonia, cancer, pulmonary embolism, and viral infection).An accurate diagnosis of the cause of the effusion, transudate versus exudate, relies on a comparison of the chemistries in the pleural fluid to those in the blood, using Light's criteria. Treatment
Treatment depends on the underlying cause of the pleural effusion. Pleural effusion: a fluid accumulation within the pleural space. Abnormal collections of pleural fluid may be due to excessive fluid volume (i.e. 
Telemedicine and type 1 diabetes: is technology per se sufficient to improve glycaemic control? [SEP] As broadband infrastructure has improved, telehealth usage has become more widely feasible.Healthcare providers often begin telehealth with a needs assessment which assesses hardships which can be improved by telehealth such as travel time, costs or time off work. Telehealth eliminates this barrier as health professionals are able to conduct medical consultations through the use of wireless communication technologies. Health care quality and barriers to adoption
A scientific review indicates that, in general, outcomes of telemedicine are or can be as good as in-person care with health care use staying similar. Although it is predicted that telehealth will replace many consultations and other health interactions, it cannot yet fully replace a physical examination, this is particularly so in diagnostics, rehabilitation or mental health.The benefits posed by telehealth challenge the normative means of healthcare delivery set in both legislation and practice. Early forms of telemedicine achieved with telephone and radio have been supplemented with videotelephony, advanced diagnostic methods supported by distributed client/server applications, and additionally with telemedical devices to support in-home care.In the 21st century, with the advent of the internet, portable devices and other such digital devices are taking a transformative role in healthcare and its delivery. Millions of patients and providers have now used telehealth to fulfill part of their healthcare needs, and some evidence suggests telehealth contributes to similar outcomes and patient satisfaction. Future opportunities
Lower cost to patients and healthcare facilities
Telehealth can result in significantly lower costs and time commitments than traditional in-person meetings. A 440-patient study of type I diabetes ran in 2020 and 2021 using a device configuration that delivered only insulin in comparison to standard of care; device use led to better circulating glucose control (measured by continuous monitoring) and a reduction in glycated hemoglobin (versus no change for the standard of care group). 
Is controlled ovarian stimulation in intrauterine insemination an acceptable therapy in couples with unexplained non-conception in the perspective of multiple pregnancies? [SEP] Suppression of spontaneous ovulation
When used in conjunction with in vitro fertilization (IVF), controlled ovarian hyperstimulation confers a need to avoid spontaneous ovulation, since oocyte retrieval of the mature egg from the fallopian tube or uterus is much harder than from the ovarian follicle. Alternatives
Ovulation induction is ovarian stimulation without subsequent IVF, with the aim of developing one or two ovulatory follicles (the maximum number before recommending sexual abstinence in such treatments). It can be offered to women with infertility problems, combined with In Vitro Fertilization (IVF), offering women pregnancy without ovarian stimulation. The FP strategy of cryopreservation of oocytes after IVM should only be considered should ovarian stimulation is unfeasible.In norma-ovulatory women, the success rate of IVM is lower than conventional ovarian stimulation regimens with poorer implantation and pregnancy rates. According to UK's National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines, IVF treatment is appropriate in cases of unexplained infertility for women who have not conceived after 2 years of regular unprotected sexual intercourse.In women with anovulation, it may be an alternative after 7–12 attempted cycles of ovulation induction, since the latter is expensive and more easy to control. One of the prominent private clinic in Europe has published a data A multiple logistic regression model showed that sperm origin, maternal age, follicle count at hCG administration day, follicle rupture, and the number of uterine contractions observed after the second insemination procedure were associated with the live-birth rate
The steps to follow in order to perform an intrauterine insemination are:

Mild Controlled Ovarian Stimulation (COS): there is no control of how many oocytes are at the same time when stimulating ovulation. Medical experts therefore recommend considering in vitro fertilization after one failed COH/IUI cycle for women aged over 40 years.A double intrauterine insemination theoretically increases pregnancy rates by decreasing the risk of missing the fertile window during ovulation. For couples with unexplained infertility, unstimulated IUI is no more effective than natural means of conception.The pregnancy rate also depends on the total sperm count, or, more specifically, the total motile sperm count (TMSC), used in a cycle. 
Is half-dose contrast-enhanced three-dimensional MR angiography sufficient for the abdominal aorta and pelvis? [SEP] Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography uses injection of MRI contrast agents and is currently the most common method of performing MRA. An article from the heart center in Leipzig suggests that intraoperative 3D imaging with rotational angiography is much more precise and can be performed with low contrast and low radiation dose if combined with diluted contrast injection and rapid ventricular pacing. MRI angiography provides the highest resolution of the current angiographic methods and can often be performed without the use of contrast agents by modifying the pulse sequence to visualize aspects of the vessels such as blood flow. Contrast administration
Abdominal imaging is associated with many potential uses for the different phases of contrast CT. The majority of abdominal and pelvic CT’s can be performed using a single-phase, but the evaluation of some tumor types (hepatic/pancreatic/renal), the urinary collecting system, and trauma patients among others, may be best performed with multiple phases.In discussing the numerous phases and indications for CT, best patient care requires individualized CT protocols based upon each patient’s specific symptoms, pathology, and underlying co-morbidities. Early arterial phase (CT angiography)
CT angiography (CTA) is highly effective for evaluation of the arterial system, and has largely replaced conventional angiography due to the lower risk profile and ability to survey the entire abdomen. For example, an abdominal aortic angiography is taken in the arterial phase in the abdominal level, and is useful to detect for example aortic dissection. See also
Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis#Contrast administration

Notes
References
External links
"CT with IV contrast in low renal function". 
Digital Tomosynthesis: A Viable Alternative to Noncontrast Computed Tomography for the Follow-Up of Nephrolithiasis? [SEP] Tomosynthesis, also digital tomosynthesis (DTS), is a method for performing high-resolution limited-angle tomography at radiation dose levels comparable with projectional radiography. Differences from other imaging modalities
Digital tomosynthesis combines digital image capture and processing with simple tube/detector motion as used in conventional computed tomography (CT). The radiation dose of digital tomosynthesis was very close to that of digital radiography. However, tomosynthesis showed sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of 80%, 75%, 78%, 76%, and 80%, compared to digital radiography were 66%, 81%, 74%, 77%, and 71%. The slight benefit digital tomosynthesis in this application may or may not justify the slightly increased cost of the modality compared to digital radiography. Lithotomy from Greek for "lithos" (stone) and "tomos" (cut), is a surgical method for removal of calculi, stones formed inside certain organs, such as the urinary tract (kidney stones), bladder (bladder stones), and gallbladder (gallstones), that cannot exit naturally through the urinary system or biliary tract. Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) is a minimally-invasive procedure to remove stones from the kidney by a small puncture wound (up to about 1 cm) through the skin. Computed tomography provides an overall better surgical strategy planning, and possibly less unnecessary laparotomies. 
High cumulative insulin exposure: a risk factor of atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes? [SEP] Prolonged elevation of insulin resistance can also lead to dyslipidemia. Complications of diabetes are a strong risk factor for severe COVID-19 illness. So far as macrovascular disease in type 1 diabetes is concerned, the same group reported improved outcomes for cardiovascular events in the group who had been managed by strict blood glucose control: in this group the incidence of any cardiovascular disease was reduced by 30% (95% CI 7, 48; P = 0.016) compared to the group with less intensive control and the incidence of major cardiovascular events (nonfatal myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death) was reduced by 32% (95% CI −3, 56; P = 0.07).The situation regarding glycaemic control and complications in type 2 diabetes is less clear cut than for type 1, though there is evidence from the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study Group that strict blood glucose control is beneficial for both microvascular and macrovascular complications. The internal mechanism of Insulin resistance and other metabolic risk factors such as hyperglycaemia, caused by oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation are common processes thought to be contributors to the development of Alzheimer's disease in diabetics.Diagnosis for this disease is different between patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Cholesterol is also a causative risk factor for diabetes. Some degree of insulin resistance may also be present in a person with type 1 diabetes. Much evidence suggests that many of the long-term complications of diabetes, especially the microvascular complications, result from many years of hyperglycemia (elevated levels of glucose in the blood). A further danger of insulin treatment is that while diabetic microangiopathy is usually explained as the result of hyperglycemia, studies in rats indicate that the higher than normal level of insulin diabetics inject to control their hyperglycemia may itself promote small blood vessel disease. 
Are hepatitis G virus and TT virus involved in cryptogenic chronic liver disease? [SEP] GB virus C (GBV-C), formerly known as hepatitis G virus (HGV) and also known as human pegivirus – HPgV is a virus in the family Flaviviridae and a member of the Pegivirus, is known to infect humans, but is not known to cause human disease. History
Hepatitis G virus and GB virus C (GBV-C) are RNA viruses that were independently identified in 1995, and were subsequently found to be two isolates of the same virus. Although GBV-C was initially thought to be associated with chronic hepatitis, extensive investigation failed to identify any association between this virus and any clinical illness. Ground squirrel hepatitis virus, abbreviated GSHV, is a partially double-stranded DNA virus that is closely related to human Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and Woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV). Tropism
Ground squirrel hepatitis virus infects liver cells and is considered highly hepatotropic. The same association has not been observed with GSHV, but it is possible that persistent infection over a time period longer than required of the other two viruses may contribute to the development of HCC. It is caused by the Hepatitis C virus, a small, enveloped RNA virus. Hepatitis C virus genotype is considered more common than the Hepatitis B virus infection contributing to more than a million cases annually and is considered one of the major reason for liver transplantation in United States. 
Do older patients who refuse to participate in a self-management intervention in the Netherlands differ from older patients who agree to participate? [SEP] Health care satisfaction
In a study conducted in 1992, Louis Harris interviewed 948 elderly people over the age of 65 from Germany in order to have a better understanding of their health care access satisfaction and quality of life. 6% of German elderly viewed out-of-pocket medical expenses as a serious issue, 15% viewed Germany's system of paying for medical care as “inadequate”. However, when comparing medical treatment expenses of the same diseases in young and elderly people in Germany, it was discovered that elderly people are still receiving less expensive health care, which suggests that health care is being rationed in Germany based on age, rationing being illegal and potentially responsible for the elderly not receiving the best treatment possible, ultimately, decreasing their potential for survival. Healthcare decisions are being made in a dialogue between the patients and healthcare professionals.In November 2007 the leading peer-reviewed journal of health policy thought and research published the results of a survey of adults' health care experiences in the Netherlands, Germany and five English-speaking countries. Opting out
Specific minority groups in Dutch society, most notably certain branches of orthodox Calvinism and Evangelical Christian groups, refuse to have insurance for religious reasons. The Netherlands makes aging and long-term care a priority. There is much discussion   about people with early dementia who have previously stated in a written will that if they ever got dementia, they would want to get euthanasia.In February 2010 a citizens' initiative called Out of Free Will further demanded that all Dutch people over 70 who feel tired of life should have the right to professional help in ending it. References
Further reading
External links
"The Patient Self-Determination Act (PSDA)". 
Preoperative locoregional staging of gastric cancer: is there a place for magnetic resonance imaging? [SEP] Equipment and operating suite configuration
Compared to other imaging types, high-field iMRI requires the additional cost of specialized operating suites, instrumentation and longer anesthesia and operating room time; however, published studies show use of iMRI increases physicians’ ability to detect residual tumor leading toward an improved rate of procedural success.iMRI is available in a range of strengths. References
External links
An updated history of intraoperative MRI and outcomes External links
The Cancer Imaging Archive


== References == Because of its high resolution, micro-MRI can also detect early small-sized tumors. A PET-MR system provides superior soft tissue contrast and molecular imaging capability for great visualisation, quantification and translational studies. A PET-MR preclinical system can be used for simultaneous multi-modality imaging. Cancer research: The combination of MR and PET imaging is far more time efficient than using one technique at a time. Cancer research: The combination of MRI, which is used as a non-invasive imaging technique, and SPECT provide results far more quickly when compared to using one technique at a time. 
Do familiar teammates request and accept more backup? [SEP] A back-up partner, standby lover, or spare-tyre lover is a person anticipated as a potential future romantic/sexual partner in the event of the failure or unforeseen end of a current relationship. The main purpose of maintaining a back-up partner is to avoid ending up alone and heartbroken after breaking up with another lover. Social context
An unstable current relationship may lead people to seek back-up lovers, particularly long-distance relationships. Some people gain personal confidence from having a back-up lover, appreciating the fact that they are being admired by more than one person. Backup is a British television police procedural crime drama series, devised by Nigel McCrery and Roy Mitchell, that ran for a total of fourteen episodes across two series on BBC One between September 7, 1995, and July 2, 1997. BackupAssist is a suite of backup software for physical and virtual Windows servers that targets small and medium-sized businesses. Backup
BackupAssist can perform several kinds of backup, each offering a different level of redundancy against data loss. The BackupAssist 365 product allows users to make local backups of cloud data. 
Transsphenoidal pituitary surgery in Cushing's disease: can we predict outcome? [SEP] Techniques such as pituitary radiation therapy, ACTH assay, transsphenoidal pituitary surgery, higher resolution MRIs, and sampling of the inferior petrosal sinus have allowed physicians to pursue routes for Cushing's syndrome therapy prior to consideration of bilateral adrenalectomy.Nelson's syndrome is also referred to as post adrenalectomy syndrome, a possible result of adrenalectomy performed for Cushing's disease. Transsphenoidal surgery is used to remove tumors of the pituitary gland. Endoscopic transsphenoidal pituitary adenoma resection (IPG32) – National Institute for Clinical Excellence, United Kingdom. Pituitary adenomas are responsible for 80% of endogenous Cushing's syndrome, when excluding Cushing's syndrome from exogenously administered corticosteroids. Although uncommon, some patients with Cushing's disease have large pituitary tumors (macroadenomas). Treatment
The first-line treatment of Cushing's disease is surgical resection of ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma; this surgery involves removal of the tumor via transsphenoidal surgery (TSS). Patients with persistent disease after initial surgery are treated with repeated pituitary surgery as soon as the active persistent disease is evident; however, reoperation has a lower success rate and increases the risk of pituitary insufficiency.Pituitary radiation therapy is another option for treatment of postoperative persisting hypercortisolemia following unsuccessful transsphenoidal surgery. Hypopituitarism specifically growth hormone deficiency has been reported as the only most common late morbidity of this treatment; GHD has been reported in 36% and 68% of the patients undergoing post-pituitary RT for Cushing's disease.Bilateral adrenalectomy is another treatment that provides immediate reduction of cortisol level and control of hypercortisolism. 
Can bedside assessment reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke? [SEP] "Barnes Jewish Hospital Stroke Dysphagia Screen". Screening criteria
No history of seizures or epilepsy
Age 45 years or older
At baseline, patient is not bedridden and does not use a wheelchair
Blood glucose between 60 and 400 mg/dL
Obvious asymmetry-unilateral weakness with any of the following motor exams:
Facial Smile/Grimace
Grip
Arm StrengthIf all of the above criteria are met (or not ascertainable) the LAPSS is positive for stroke. Patients may still be experiencing a stroke even if LAPSS criteria are not met. If any one of the three tests shows abnormal findings, the patient may be having a stroke and should be transported to a hospital as soon as possible. "Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale: reproducibility and validity". A silent stroke (or asymptomatic cerebral infarction) is a stroke that does not have any outward symptoms associated with stroke, and the patient is typically unaware they have suffered a stroke. Sleep apnea is a common finding in stroke patients but recent research suggests that it is even more prevalent in silent stroke and  chronic microvascular changes in the brain. In children
Children who have suffered silent strokes often have a variety of neuropsychological deficits. 
Are UK radiologists satisfied with the training and support received in suspected child abuse? [SEP] The Royal College of Radiologists (RCR) is the professional body responsible for the specialties of clinical oncology and clinical radiology throughout the United Kingdom. The Radiology-Integrated Training Initiative (R-ITI) is a public-sector UK programme to provide an increased number of high-quality radiologists by 2008. The Norwich Radiology Academy, opened in November 2005, is part of the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital NHS Trust and is one of only three training centres in England specially created for training consultant radiologists. The Department of Health and Royal College of Radiologists jointly developed the Radiology-Integrated Training Initiative. Notes
External links
Norwich Radiology Academy
Radiology-Integrated Training Initiative
Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital NHS Trust website
Royal College of Radiologists The Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, often referred to as the RCPCH, is the professional body for paediatricians (doctors specialising in child health) in the United Kingdom. In 1997 a controversial TV documentary suggested that the majority of the diagnoses were in fact correct, and that a number of the children had again been determined to be at risk of abuse. According to the documentary, two years after the scandal a number of children were again referred to social services and determined to be at risk for child abuse.In February 2007, Sir Liam Donaldson, the Chief Medical Officer, who was the regional medical officer at the time of the scandal, said of the original diagnoses: "The techniques that have been used have not been reliable and it does look as if some mistakes have been made." 
Artefacts in 24-h pharyngeal and oesophageal pH monitoring: is simplification of pH data analysis feasible? [SEP] Esophageal pH monitoring is the current gold standard for diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Four years later, Miller used an indwelling esophageal pH electrode to continuously measure esophageal and gastric pH for a period up to 12 hours. Using this technique to monitor esophageal acid exposure patients for periods up to 24 hours, DeMeester and Johnson were able to identify the most important parameters of esophageal acid exposure, and they developed a composite pH score to quantify gastroesophageal reflux. The initial 24-hour pH studies required hospitalization until the introduction of microcircuits in the 1980s that allowed portable esophageal pH monitoring in an outpatient setting. Techniques
Esophageal pH monitoring is currently performed using one of the following three techniques:

Single sensor pH monitoring using a pH catheter
Dual sensor pH monitoring using a pH catheter
Wireless pH monitoring using Bravo pH capsule or OMOM pH monitoring capsuleThe duration of the test is 24 hours in the first and second techniques and 48 hours for the Bravo capsule or more (96 hours) for OMOM capsule. Esophageal pH monitoring is performed for 24 or 48 hours and at the end of recording, a patient's tracing is analyzed and the results are expressed using six standard components. In an effort to improve diagnostic accuracy of testing, a catheter with two pH sensors has been used to measure the degree of esophageal acid exposure in both distal and proximal esophagus. The ideal location for pH measurement to confirm the diagnosis of the laryngopharyngeal reflux is the pharynx and new studies have focused on the development of a new pH sensor which can function in the challenging environment of the oropharynx. 
Can the condition of the cell microenvironment of mediastinal lymph nodes help predict the risk of metastases in non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] Tumors can influence the microenvironment by releasing extracellular signals, promoting tumor angiogenesis and inducing peripheral immune tolerance, while the immune cells in the microenvironment can affect the growth and evolution of cancerous cells. Lymph node metastasis is the spread (metastasis) of cancer cells into a lymph node. Lymph node metastasis is different from malignant lymphoma. Pathology
Generally, metastases form first in the lymph nodes that are closest to the primary tumor. Frequency
The probability of metastasis to lymph nodes depends on the nature of the primary tumor. In many carcinomas, the first metastases are found in the lymph nodes. In some cases, lymph node metastases are the first symptom of cancer. Lymph node staging depends on the extent of local spread: with the cancer metastasized to no lymph nodes (N0), pulmonary or hilar nodes (along the bronchi) on the same side as the tumor (N1), mediastinal or subcarinal lymph nodes (in the middle of the lungs, N2), or lymph nodes on the opposite side of the lung from the tumor (N3). 
Are wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation equivalent? [SEP] Agitation in dementia overlaps with psychomotor agitation but is not always equal to it, depending on whose definition is used. Although some authorities consider them synonymous, psychomotor agitation by definition ("-motor") involves maladaptive movements, whereas agitation in predementia and dementia often involves distress, fear, and aggression even when repetitive purposeless movements (such as pacing) are absent. Often people experiencing psychomotor agitation feel as if their movements are not deliberate. Sometimes, however, psychomotor agitation does not relate to mental tension and anxiety. Wandering occurs when a person with dementia roams around and becomes lost or confused about their location. Although it occurs in several types of dementia, wandering is especially common in people with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Those who were not thinking about what was given to them were considered "wandering". Fidgeting
Paul Seli and colleagues have shown that spontaneous mind-wandering is associated with increased fidgeting; by contrast, interest, attention and visual engagement lead to Non-Instrumental Movement Inhibition. 
Is size-reducing ascending aortoplasty with external reinforcement an option in modern aortic surgery? [SEP] Open aortic surgery (OAS), also known as open aortic repair (OAR), describes a technique whereby an abdominal, thoracic or retroperitoneal surgical incision is used to visualize and control the aorta for purposes of treatment, usually by the replacement of the affected segment with a prosthetic graft. In 2003, OAS was surpassed by endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) as the most common technique for repairing abdominal aortic aneurysms in the United States.Depending on the extent of the aorta repaired, an open aortic operation may be called an Infrarenal aortic repair, a Thoracic aortic repair, or a Thoracoabdominal aortic repair. Medical uses
Open aortic surgery (OAS) is used to treat patients with aortic aneurysms greater than 5.5 cm in diameter, to treat aortic rupture of an aneurysm any size, to treat aortic dissections, and to treat acute aortic syndrome. The main drawback of open repair is the larger physiologic demand of the operation, which is associated with increased rates of short term mortality in most studies.Patients younger than 50 years with descending and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm have low surgical risks, and open repairs can be performed with excellent short-term and durable long-term results. Alternatively, the anastomosis can be carried out with expandable devices, a simpler and quicker procedure The aorta and its branching arteries are cross-clamped during open surgery. The options for repair include traditional open aortic surgery or endovascular repair.Endovascular procedures aim to reduce the morbidity and mortality of treating arterial disease in a patient population that is increasingly older and less fit than when major open repairs were developed and popularized. Studies have reported successful use of hybrid techniques for treating Kommerell diverticulum and descending aneurysms in patients with previous coarctation repairs.In addition, hybrid techniques combining both open and endovascular repair are also used in managing emergency complications in the aortic arch, such as retrograde ascending dissection and endoleaks from previous stent grafting of descending aorta. The benefits of this procedure have been established in open aortic repair and suggested in endovascular aortic repair. 
Does depression diagnosis and antidepressant prescribing vary by location? [SEP] SSRIs are the most widely prescribed antidepressants in many countries. These sources also suggest that aside from the recession, other factors that may influence changes in prescribing rates may include: improvements in diagnosis, a reduction of the stigma surrounding mental health, broader prescribing trends, GP characteristics, geographical location, and housing status. United States
In the United States, antidepressants were the most commonly prescribed medication in 2013. As of 2017, about 16.5% of white people in the United States took antidepressants compared with 5.6% of black people in the United States. United States: The most commonly prescribed antidepressants in the US retail market in 2010 were:
Netherlands: In the Netherlands, paroxetine is the most prescribed antidepressant, followed by amitriptyline, citalopram and venlafaxine. Social science perspective
Some academics have highlighted the need to examine the use of antidepressants and other medical treatments in cross-cultural terms, because various cultures prescribe and observe different manifestations, symptoms, meanings, and associations of depression and other medical conditions within their populations. These cross-cultural discrepancies, it has been argued, then have implications on the perceived efficacy and use of antidepressants and other strategies in the treatment of depression in these different cultures. "It is risky to draw conclusions from limited ecologic analyses of isolated year-to-year fluctuations in antidepressant prescriptions and suicides.One promising epidemiological approach involves examining the associations between trends in psychotropic medication use and suicide over time across a large number of small geographic regions. 
Can routinely collected ambulance data about assaults contribute to reduction in community violence? [SEP] The Scottish Violence Reduction Unit is a Police Scotland initiative established in January 2005 (by Strathclyde Police) which uses a public health approach to target all forms of violent behaviour including street/gang violence, domestic abuse, school bullying and workplace bullying. Medics Against Violence
The unit collaborates closely with the Medics Against Violence charity, which sees NHS staff and healthcare students educate secondary pupils on the risks and consequences of engaging in violence. Cure Violence is a public health approach to violence prevention and reduction. It aims to stop the spread of violence in communities by using the methods and strategies associated with epidemic disease control: detecting and interrupting conflicts, identifying and treating the highest risk individuals, and changing social norms. Additionally, the study found a 14% reduction in attitudes supporting violence (with no change in controls) and an increased confidence in police and increased willingness to contact police. A Path Appears: Transforming Lives, Creating Opportunity; Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn
Violence as a Public Health Problem:  A Most Violent Year by Dr. Lloyd Sederer, Huffington Post, 12/9/2014
Out of the Mountains: The Coming Age of the Urban Guerrilla; David Kilcullen
Beyond Suppression: Global Perspectives on Youth Violence; Joan Serra Hoffman, Lyndee Knox, and Robert Cohen
Epidemiological Criminology: Theory to Practice; edited by Eve Waltermaurer, Timothy A. Akers
"Contagion of Violence" – 2012 Institute of Medicine report
"Cure Violence: A Disease Control Approach to Reduce Violence and Change Behavior" – by Charles Ransford, Candice Kane, and Gary Slutkin

Notes


== References == The Assaults on Emergency Workers (Offences) Act 2018 (c. 23) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. References
External links
 The full text of Assaults on Emergency Workers (Offences) Act 2018 at Wikisource 
Volume change of uterine myomas during pregnancy: do myomas really grow? [SEP] The abdomen can grow larger mimicking the appearance of pregnancy. With further growth, some lesions may develop towards the outside of the uterus or towards the internal cavity. Expression of transforming growth interacting factor (TGIF) is increased in leiomyoma compared with myometrium. In addition, MRI can identify benign uterine fibroids with atypical imaging features and fibroids with variant growth patterns. Findings suggestive of a malignant uterine tumor rather than a benign fibroid include, fast or unexpected growth (particularly after menopause), interruption/effacement of the endometrial stripe, lymph node enlargement, invasion of adjacent organs and metastases to distant organs (e.g. In very rare cases, malignant (cancerous) growths, leiomyosarcoma, of the myometrium can develop. The size of the tumor can range from 1 to 25 cm in diameter, but is usually 6 to 10 cm in diameter and can grow throughout the duration of the pregnancy. They are rare tumors, occur in childhood and often become malignant.Whether or not angiomyomas are a type of leiomyoma or a separate entity is disputed as of 2014.Myomas are benign tumors of the uterus that can affect the fertility of a woman depending mainly on three factors:

Size (cut off value 4-5 cm)
Number
Location (they can be intramural, subserous or submucous). 
Is laparoscopic adrenalectomy safe and effective for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm? [SEP] It is usually done to remove tumors of the adrenal glands that are producing excess hormones or is large in size (more than 2 inches or 4 to 5 centimeters). These hormone-producing tumors may need adrenalectomy. Additionally, adrenal tumors that are larger than 4 centimeters in size, regardless of whether they produce hormones, also require adrenalectomy due to increased risk of adrenal cancer. If the metastasis is isolated to the adrenal gland, it may be a candidate for adrenalectomy. In addition, American Association Of Clinical Endocrinologists and American Association Of Endocrine Surgeons guidelines state minimally-invasive techniques should be avoided when there is a large tumor size (larger than 6 cm) due to difficulties in maneuvering around a large mass, and in adrenocortical carcinoma where there is a risk of not fully removing the cancerous tissue. No siginficant differences were found between laparoscopic and robot-assisted adrenalectomy in two meta-analyses for complications, blood loss, or mortality, however robotic adrenalectomy had shorter hospital stays at the cost of longer operating time and higher cost of surgery. Functional adrenocortical adenomas are surgically curable.Most of the adrenocortical adenomas are less than 2 cm in greatest dimension and less than 50 gram in weight. A 2018 Cochrane Systematic review compared two different types of surgery: laparoscopic retroperotenial adrenalectomy and laporoscopic transperitoenal adrenelectomy in different types of adrenal tumors. 
Upstream solutions: does the supplemental security income program reduce disability in the elderly? [SEP] Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is a means-tested program that provides cash payments to disabled children, disabled adults, and individuals aged 65 or older who are citizens or nationals of the United States. "Supplemental Security Income (SSI)". History
To target the increasing number of people that reached retirement age without social security coverage (i.e. It reduces the Primary Insurance Amount (PIA) of a person's Retirement Insurance Benefits (RIB) or Disability Insurance Benefits (DIB) when that person is eligible or entitled to a pension based on a job which did not contribute to the Social Security Trust Fund. Social Security is a social insurance program officially called "Old-age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance" (OASDI), in reference to its three components. 51% support reducing Social Security payments to high-income seniors. Seeking Middle Ground on Social Security Reform. The State Supplement Program (SSP or SSI/SSP), not to be confused with SNAP, is the state supplement to the U.S. federal Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program and provides state funded supplement benefits to SSI recipients.This program aims at providing a complementary financial support to individuals and couples who are elderly (usually 65 years of age and older), legally blind, or partially or fully disabled. 
Profiling quality of care: Is there a role for peer review? [SEP] Clinical peer review, also known as medical peer review is the process by which health care professionals, including those in nursing and pharmacy, evaluate each other's clinical performance. The primary purpose of peer review is to improve the quality and safety of care. Peer review is an organized effort whereby practicing professionals review the quality and appropriateness of services ordered or performed by their professional peers. Peer review in nursing is the process by which practicing registered nurses systematically access, monitor, and make judgments about the quality of nursing care provided by peers as measured against professional standards of practice. Peer review plays a role in affecting the quality of outcomes, fostering practice development, and maintaining professional autonomy. American Nurses Association guidelines define peer review as the process by which practitioners of the same rank, profession, or setting critically appraise each other's work performance against established standards. as additional multivariate predictors of the impact of clinical peer review on quality and safety, medical staff perceptions of the program, and clinician engagement in quality and safety initiatives. "The Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 and Physician Peer Reviews: Success or Failure?" 
Eyelid-parotid metastasis: do we screen for coexisting masses? [SEP] Bilateral progressive enophthalmos may be the presenting sign of metastatic breast carcinoma, even when local symptoms in the breast are absent. "Bilateral progressive enophthalmos as the presenting sign of metastatic breast carcinoma". However, as has been well documented in multiple publications including the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study (COMS), in nearly 50% of patients the melanoma has likely already metastasized by the time the primary eye tumor has been diagnosed and treated. Unfortunately, many of the current diagnostic techniques (including imaging and liver function tests) are not able to accurately detect micrometastases until tumor nodules have grown considerably, and likely become resistant to therapy.The lack of accurate prognostic tests to identify which patients are at risk of developing clinically overt metastatic disease has been a significant issue in the management of individual patients with uveal melanoma. Eye cancers can be primary (starts within the eye) or metastatic cancer (spread to the eye from another organ). Malignant
The most common eyelid tumor is called basal cell carcinoma. Other types of common eyelid cancers include squamous carcinoma, sebaceous carcinoma and malignant melanoma. Sometimes the tumor can be visible through the pupil. 
Will CT ordering practices change if we educate residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure? [SEP] Patients are exposed to ionizing radiation when they undergo diagnostic examinations using x-rays or radiopharmaceuticals. There has been a tremendous increase in the use of ionizing radiation in medicine during recent decades and health professionals and patients are concerned about the harmful effects of radiation. The recent emphasis on radiation protection of patients is helping in developing strategies to reduce radiation doses to patients without compromising on diagnostic or therapeutic purpose. "Education: Radiation Exposure from Diagnostic X-Rays Could Be Reduced" (PDF). Infections caused by exposure to ionizing radiation can be extremely dangerous, and are of public and government concern. However, there are no absolute contraindications to iodinated contrast, so the benefits needs to be weighted against the risks.As with CT scans in general, the radiation dose can potentially increase the risk of radiation-induced cancer. CT scans expose the person getting them to ionizing radiation which has a risk of eventually causing cancer; some people have allergic reactions to contrast agents that are used in some CT procedures. However, coronal images require the person to  hyperextend their neck, which must be avoided if any possibility of neck injury exists.CT scans of the head increase the risk of brain cancer, especially for children. 
Does context matter for the relationship between deprivation and all-cause mortality? [SEP] Another contributing factor to the mortality rate was food insecurity and shortages as well as unemployment, both of which varied per region. This is shown through the differences in mortality rates between the lower and upper class, with poor infants being up to two times more likely to die than their wealthier counterparts. This theory seeks to outline why the association between socioeconomic status (SES) and health disparities has persisted over time, particularly when diseases and conditions previously thought to cause morbidity and mortality among low SES individuals have resolved. Health has been linked to social class dating back to the early 19th century, when the French tracked mortality in connection with areas of poverty. A study conducted in North America demonstrates that in areas of lower socioeconomic status, people perceive themselves to be more susceptible to extrinsic mortality factors rather than intrinsic mortality factors. Ultimately, Chaturvedi argued that healthcare inequality, and the close relationship between socio-economic status and clinical outcome in the UK, was contributing to the increased mortality rates for people from black and minority ethnic backgrounds. Numerous studies around the world have found a relationship between socioeconomic status and mental health. This hypothesis states that one's socioeconomic status (SES) is the cause of weakening mental functions. 
Does stress increase imitation of drinking behavior? [SEP] Recent research has looked into the effects of alcohol on the amount of cortisol that is produced in the human body. Continuous consumption of alcohol over an extended period of time has been shown to raise cortisol levels in the body. They found heightened cortisol levels in both alcoholics and non-alcoholics while actively drinking. People who drank more alcohol had higher blood pressure and difficulty sleeping, indicative of heightened cortisol levels.Recent technology has allowed researchers to measure cortisol levels in human hair (showing cumulative cortisol exposure over extended periods of time). Specifically, alcohol activates the HPA axis, causing glucocorticoid secretion and thus elevating levels of stress hormones in the body. "Enduring effects of chronic ethanol in the CNS: basis for alcoholism." "Behavioral mechanisms underlying the link between smoking and drinking." For this reason a stressful event may cause some changes in their behavior. 
School food policy at Dutch primary schools: room for improvement? [SEP] Criticism
Since the post-World War II decline of the pillarization of Dutch society along ideological lines, and the rapid secularization of Dutch society, government funding of particular schools has in recent years become a topic of debate once again, with several political parties calling for an amendment or revoking of article 23 of the constitution.In July 2015, Sander Dekker, the State Secretary for the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science, proposed to the parliament to change the law on two aspects:
Not to demand that new schools are representing an ideological direction, such as a religion. School feeding programs have been defined by the World Bank as "targeted social safety nets that provide both educational and health benefits to the most vulnerable children, thereby increasing enrollment rates, reducing absenteeism, and improving food security at the household level". Need for school feeding programs
According to the United Nations World Food Programme, 66 million primary school age children go hungry every day, with 23 million hungry children in Africa alone. Benefits of school feeding
Nutrition and food security
School meals have been shown to increase the nutritional status of school-age children in a variety of ways. However, criticisms of school meals' impacts on nutrition stem from the idea that increased nutrition through school meals is only a temporary fix and does not target the underlying causes of malnutrition, such as high food prices and poor food distribution systems that threaten food security. A successful program requires that countries:

Determine if school feeding is the most effective program to target needy children
Define program goals and outcomes
Select the type of food to serve
Determine a food procurement method
Plan for management, implementation, and monitoring within schools—and a variety of other concernsBecause school feeding programs are community-specific and require a great deal of planning, the sustainability of school feeding programs is a main point of concern for many countries. Thus, McEwan's study suggested that Chilean policy, to produce significant positive results, should focus more on the nutritional composition of school meals, rather than caloric content alone. See also
National School Lunch Program 
Is the atopy patch test with house dust mites specific for atopic dermatitis? [SEP] Dust mite allergy, also known as house dust allergy, is a sensitization and allergic reaction to the droppings of house dust mites. Severe dust mite infestation in the home has been linked to atopic dermatitis, and epidermal barrier damage has been documented. Positive tests for dust mite allergies are extremely common among people with asthma. It significantly treats house dust mite (HDM)-induced allergic rhinitis, with or without conjunctivitis. A patch test is a diagnostic method used to determine which specific substances cause allergic inflammation of a patient's skin. The patch test is just induction of contact dermatitis in a small area. "HOME core outcomes for eczema". Health issues
Asthma
House dust mite antigens are strongly associated with asthma development and severity; they are estimated to contribute to 60-90% of cases. 
Juvenile osteochondritis dissecans: is it a growth disturbance of the secondary physis of the epiphysis? [SEP] The epiphyseal plate (or epiphysial plate, physis, or growth plate)  is a hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at each end of a long bone. Structure
Development
Endochondral ossification is responsible for the initial bone development from cartilage in utero and infants and the longitudinal growth of long bones in the epiphyseal plate. Histology
The growth plate has a very specific morphology in having a zonal arrangement as follows:

Clinical significance
Defects in the development and continued division of epiphyseal plates can lead to growth disorders collectively known as osteochondrodysplasia. It is diagnosed as osteochondritis dissecans. See also
Osteochondritis
Osteochondritis dissecans
Osteochondropathy

References


== External links == Epiphysiodesis is a pediatric orthopedic surgery procedure that aims at altering or stopping the bone growth naturally occurring through the growth plate also known as the physeal plate. An epiphysis (from Ancient Greek  ἐπί (epí) 'on top of', and  φύσις (phúsis) 'growth') is one of the rounded ends or tips of a long bone that ossify from a secondary center of ossification. Clinical significance
Pathologies of the epiphysis include avascular necrosis and osteochondritis dissecans (OCD). 
Do preoperative statins reduce atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting? [SEP] The participants enrolled at 349 sites across Australia, Europe, and North America between November 2000 and December 2001, and the study concluded that statin treatment for secondary prevention reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) events and that atorvastatin had a more marked effect than pravastatin. The management of atrial fibrillation (AF) is focused on preventing temporary circulatory instability, stroke and other ischemic events. Chronic anticoagulation
Among patients with nonvalvular AF, anticoagulation with warfarin can reduce stroke by 60% while antiplatelet agents can reduce stroke by 20%. Rate control with anticoagulation is as effective a treatment as rhythm control in long term mortality studies, the AFFIRM Trial.The AFFIRM study showed no difference in risk of stroke in patients who have converted to a normal rhythm with antiarrhythmic treatment, compared to those who have only rate control. Although this procedure results in a regular (paced) heart rhythm it does not prevent the atria from fibrillating and therefore long-term warfarin anticoagulation may still be required. The study concluded that statin treatment for primary prevention reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) events by 31% after nearly five years of treatment. See also
Heart Protection Study
Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study


== References == However, in a subsequent 2006 study by the same authors, it was found that RAP patients had improved post-operative outcomes and significantly fewer post-operative cardiac arrests. 
Is there a uniform basal endometrial gene expression profile during the implantation window in women who became pregnant in a subsequent ICSI cycle? [SEP] All other times of the cycle, these uterine epithelial cells are refractory to blastocyst implantation. Just over 100 of these genes are more specifically expressed in the endometrium with only a handful genes being highly endometrium specific. The endometrium itself produces certain hormones at different stages of the cycle and this affects other parts of the reproductive system. A triple-line endometrium reflects the separation of the basal layer and the functional layer, and is also observed in the periovulatory period secondary to rising estradiol levels, and disappears after ovulation.Endometrial thickness is also associated with live births in IVF. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine expressed in the endometrium during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, with the highest expression seen during the window of implantation. MUC1 is a transmembrane glycoprotein expressed at the apical surface of endometrial epithelial cells during the window of implantation in humans and has been shown to be differentially expressed between fertile and infertile subjects during this time. The rest of the endometrium, in addition, expresses differences between the luminal and the basal sides. See also
Endometrium


== References == 
Can decisional algorithms replace global introspection in the individual causality assessment of spontaneously reported ADRs? [SEP] Many recent causal discovery algorithms follow the Spirtes-Glymour approach to verification. Techniques
There are many surveys of causal discovery techniques. Bivariate (or "pairwise")
Granger causality (there is also the Scholarpedia entry [1])
transfer entropy
convergent cross mapping

Multivariate
causation entropy
PC algorithm
FCI algorithm
LiNGAM [2]Many of these techniques are discussed in the tutorials provided by the Center for Causal Discovery (CCD) [3]. Granger causality has been applied to fMRI data. [1,2]
Empirical methods to assess the likelihood that an ADR has taken place have been lacking. [5]
Several investigators, among them researchers at the FDA, have developed such logical evaluation methods, or algorithms, for evaluating the probability of an ADR. MDR was designed specifically to identify nonadditive interactions among discrete variables that influence a binary outcome and is considered a nonparametric and model-free alternative to traditional statistical methods such as logistic regression. The use of autocorrelation tests in exploratory data analysis is illustrated, showing how all variables in a given study can be evaluated for nonindependence of cases in terms of distance, language, and cultural complexity. 
Can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery? [SEP] Apart from detecting abnormalities in blood clotting, partial thromboplastin time is also used to monitor the treatment effect of heparin, a widely prescribed drug that reduces blood's tendency to clot. The blood is mixed, then centrifuged to separate blood cells from plasma (as partial thromboplastin time is most commonly measured using blood plasma). A single, modified TEG assay with exogenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) demonstrated remarkable efficiency in unmasking patients' impending risk for massive transfusion in trauma patients.Clinical studies of thromboelastography during elective surgery (cardiac and liver surgery) and emergency resuscitation have shown improvements in clinical outcomes. thoroughly reviewed the literature on the arterial input function used for brain PET imaging and suggested the possibility of population-based arterial input functions as a potential alternative to invasive arterial sampling.However, Blake et al. It is also generally considered a blood conservation method used in most patients during the cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Background
Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB)
The requirement of blood transfusion during open-heart surgical operations is almost inevitable because the metabolism must be continuously kept working through the peripheral blood flow. Some reports suggest that if autologous blood cell salvage is routinely used in open heart surgeries, the requirements for blood transfusions can be effectively reduced. Moreover, the Society of Thoracic Surgeons and the Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists guidelines argued that the routine use of intraoperative blood salvage is beneficial to blood conservation during CPB. 
Does timing of initial surfactant treatment make a difference in rates of chronic lung disease or mortality in premature infants? [SEP] When a baby comes out of the womb and the lungs are not developed yet, they require administration of surfactant in order to process oxygen and survive. Respiratory distress syndrome
Exogenous surfactant replacement therapy is effective in reducing IRDS mortality and morbidity in preterm infants. Pulmonary surfactant is used as a medication to treat and prevent respiratory distress syndrome in newborn babies.Prevention is generally done in babies born at a gestational age of less than 32 weeks. Medical uses
Pulmonary surfactant is used to treat and prevent respiratory distress syndrome in newborn babies. Pathophysiology
The lungs of infants with respiratory distress syndrome are developmentally deficient in a material called surfactant, which helps prevent the collapse of the terminal air spaces (the future site of alveolar development) throughout the normal cycle of inhalation and exhalation. Point-of-care lung maturity test
To improve clinical outcomes very early treatment with surfactant is necessary. However, only about half of infants with a gestational age (GA) below 30 weeks need surfactant treatment and prophylactic surfactant treatment increases the combined mortality and incidence of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia (BPD) contrary to selective rescue surfactant treatment. Since infants born preterm often have immature or incompletely developed lungs, the surfactant coating of the alveoli is similarly insufficient, resulting in poor respiratory outcomes or the development of respiratory distress syndrome. 
Clinician assessment for acute chest syndrome in febrile patients with sickle cell disease: is it accurate enough? [SEP] The acute chest syndrome is a vaso-occlusive crisis of the pulmonary vasculature commonly seen in people with sickle cell anemia. Signs and symptoms
The crisis is a common complication in sickle-cell patients and can be associated with one or more symptoms including fever, cough, excruciating pain, sputum production, shortness of breath, or low oxygen levels. Cause
Acute chest syndrome is often precipitated by a lung infection, and the resulting inflammation and loss of oxygen saturation leads to further sickling of red cells, thus exacerbating pulmonary and systemic hypoxemia, sickling, and vaso-occlusion. Diagnosis
The diagnosis of acute chest syndrome is made difficult by its similarity in presentation with pneumonia. The presence of fevers, low oxygen levels in the blood, increased respiratory rate, chest pain, and cough are also common in acute chest syndrome. Diagnostic workup includes chest x-ray, complete cell count, reticulocyte count, ECG, and blood and sputum cultures. Prognosis
It may result in death, and it is one of the most common causes of death for people with sickle cell anemia. After publishing reports of the man's illness in 1910, Herrick was credited with the first report of sickle cell disease. 
Outcome Feedback within Emergency Medicine Training Programs: An Opportunity to Apply the Theory of Deliberate Practice? [SEP] The objective of it is to encourage trainees to make errors and encourage them in reflection to understand the causes of those errors and to identify suitable strategies to avoid making them in future. Subsequently, practitioners reflect on ways in which they can personally improve and the consequences of their response to the experience. In using reflective practice, nurses are able to plan their actions and consciously monitor the action to ensure it is beneficial to their patient.The act of reflection is seen as a way of promoting the development of autonomous, qualified and self-directed professionals, as well as a way of developing more effective healthcare teams. Medical practitioners can combine reflective practice with checklists (when appropriate) to reduce diagnostic error.Activities to promote reflection are now being incorporated into undergraduate, postgraduate and continuing medical education across a variety of health professions. They noted that the evidence to support curricular interventions and innovations promoting reflective practice remains largely theoretical.Samantha Davies identified benefits as well as limitations to reflective practice:Benefits to reflective practice include:

Increased learning from an experience or situation
Promotion of deep learning
Identification of personal and professional strengths and areas for improvement
Identification of educational needs
Acquisition of new knowledge and skills
Further understanding of own beliefs, attitudes and values
Encouragement of self-motivation and self-directed learning
Could act as a source of feedback
Possible improvements of personal and clinical confidenceLimitations to reflective practice include:

Not all practitioners may understand the reflective process
May feel uncomfortable challenging and evaluating own practice
Could be time-consuming
May have confusion as to which situations/experiences to reflect upon
May not be adequate to resolve clinical problems

Environmental management and sustainability
The use of reflective practice in environmental management, combined with system monitoring, is often called adaptive management. David Somerville and June Keeling suggested eight simple ways that professionals can practice more reflectively:
Seek feedback: Ask "Can you give me some feedback on what I did?" Given the Medical Tactical Training Program was the first of its kind to address all of these leading causes of death and harm in a single, integrated program, the founders were awarded the 2018 Pete Conrad Patient Safety Award for their work in life-saving training. The instruction is based upon the principles of Emergency Management and instructional systems design. 
Can multiple SNP testing in BRCA2 and BRCA1 female carriers be used to improve risk prediction models in conjunction with clinical assessment? [SEP] This classifier can be applied to assess the implementation of PARP inhibitors in patients with BRCA1/BRCA2 deficiency. The mutations of BRCA1 and BRCA2 can lead to a reduced capacity of HR machinery, increased genomic instability, and elicit a predisposition to malignancies. Germline defects in BRCA1/BRCA2 genes account for up to 5% of breast cancer cases. BRCA1/BRCA2- deficiency mutational signatures were found in more breast cancer patients than previously known. This model was able to identify 124 (22%) breast cancer patients showing BRCA1/2 mutational signatures in this cohort of 560 samples. Ovarian Cancer
In a cohort of 73 patients with ovarian cancer, 30 patients were known to carry BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations and 46 (63%) patients were assessed by HRDetect to have HRDetect score over 0.7. Mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 are strongly implicated in some hematological malignancies. An increasing number women who test positive for faulty BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes choose to have risk-reducing surgery. 
Does a special interest in laparoscopy affect the treatment of acute cholecystitis? [SEP] Several studies have demonstrated the superiority of laparoscopic cholecystectomy when compared to open cholecystectomy (using a large incision in the right upper abdomen under the rib cage). Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy (within 7 days of visiting a doctor with symptoms) as compared to delayed treatment (more than 6 weeks) may result in shorter hospital stays and a decreased risk of requiring an emergency procedure. A cholecystectomy may then be warranted if the person's condition improves.Homeopathic approaches to treating cholecystitis have not been validated by evidence and should not be used in place of surgery. If the surgeon has problems identifying anatomical structures, they might need to convert from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy.Peroperative Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio-Pancreaticography (ERCP)/ Laparo-endoscopic rendezvous (LERV) technique
CBDS are found in 10-15% of patients during cholecystectomy when intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) is routinely performed. Laparoscopic surgery is thought to have fewer complications, shorter hospital stay, and quicker recovery than open cholecystectomy. Open cholecystectomy is often done if difficulties arise during a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, for example, the patient has unusual anatomy, the surgeon cannot see well enough through the camera, or the patient is found to have cancer. Driven by popularity among patients, the laparoscopic technique became preferred over open surgery and noninvasive treatments for gallstones.By 2013, laparoscopic cholecystectomy had replaced open cholecystectomy as the first-choice of treatment for people with uncomplicated gallstones and acute cholecystitis.By 2014 laparoscopic cholecystectomy had become the gold standard for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones.Laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be a challenging procedure and surgeons must be trained with advanced laparoscopic skills to complete the operation with safety and effectiveness. The risk of biliary injury is higher during laparoscopic cholecystectomy than during open cholecystectomy. 
Can progression of valvar aortic stenosis be predicted accurately? [SEP] A decreased valvular area causes increased pressure gradient, and these parameters are used to classify and grade the aortic stenosis as mild, moderate or severe. According to the 2021 ESC/EACTS Guidelines for the management of valvular heart disease the recommended thresholds indicating severe aortic stenosis are > 1200 AU in women and > 2000 AU in men. Prognosis
If untreated, severe symptomatic aortic stenosis carries a poor prognosis, with a 2-year mortality rate of 50-60% and a 3-year survival rate of less than 30%. References
External links
Aortic stenosis at Curlie
Bonow, Robert O.; Brown, Alan S.; Gillam, Linda D.; Kapadia, Samir R.; Kavinsky, Clifford J.; Lindman, Brian R.; Mack, Michael J.; Thourani, Vinod H. (October 2017). Treatment
Prognosis of canines with aortic stenosis depends on the severity of the disease. Mild stenosis usually does not affect longevity; however, the possibility of aortic endocarditis exists. Severe symptomatic aortic stenosis carries a poor prognosis. Overview
Patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis have a mortality rate of approximately 50% at 2 years without intervention. 
Does automatic transmission improve driving behavior in older drivers? [SEP] An automatic transmission (sometimes abbreviated AT) is a multi-speed transmission used in motor vehicles that does not require any input from the driver to change forward gears under normal driving conditions. The growing prevalence of automatic transmission is attributed to the increasing number of electric and hybrid cars, and the ease of integrating it with safety systems like Autonomous Emergency Braking. The correlation between old age and driving has been a notable topic for many years . Driving is said to help older adults stay mobile and independent, but as their age increases the risk of potentially injuring themselves or others significantly increases as well. Additionally, older drivers with hearing loss demonstrate worse driving performance in the presence of distractors than those with good hearing and restricted driving mobility.Physical abilities such as motor skills are important for driving ability:

Motor skills: Aging causes decreased physical abilities, such as gross and fine motor skills and reflexes, thereby rendering the driver physically unable to perform at a safe level. These partly explain why an elderly motorist may drive more slowly.Cognition is reduced with age and affects driving ability. Becoming a Safer Driver
There are some changes that older drivers can adopt to help some conditions that come with old aging. Physical therapy can help improve strength and flexibility to help elderly individuals who have trouble turning their heads while driving. 
Birth characteristics and risk of low intellectual performance in early adulthood: are the associations confounded by socioeconomic factors in adolescence or familial effects? [SEP] According to this hypothesis, lower socioeconomic status and greater exposure to social disadvantage during childhood leads to a decrease in the heritability of IQ, as compared to children raised in more advantaged environments. It was found that verbal IQ was highly heritable among children whose parents had a higher level of education, by being similar to the earlier studies of Fischbein and Scarr-Salapatek, this adds support to the hypothesis of variance in IQ heritability at different levels of socioeconomic status. Thus it is difficult to unravel the interconnected relationship of IQ and education where both seem to affect one another.Those who do better on childhood intelligence tests tend to have a lower drop out rate, and complete more years of school and are predictive of school success. Socioeconomic position in adulthood
Although childhood economic status may be seen as a confounder in the relationship between intelligence and mortality, as it is likely to affect intelligence, it is likely that adult SES mediates the relationship. This study also found that “the greater the number of children in the family the lower their height and the less their scores in mental tests”, and attributes the effect “to co-advancement [of height and cognitive ability] and disappears when maturity is reached.” The correlation between number of children and intelligence was found to be stronger in poor families than in rich ones, which contributed to the conclusion that there is a strong correlation between height and mental ability between children in different socio-economic groups that persists in adulthood.A study was done by the Newcastle Thousands Families in 1947 to see if there was a correlation between birth weights and IQ at ages 9 and 13. The most notable contributing environmental influences associated with the correlation of height and IQ include “diet, disease, psychosocial stress and inadequate cognitive stimulation” Populations that live under stable conditions tend to have higher values of genetic influence, while populations susceptible to events of poor nutrition and illness show greater determination from their environment.An auxological approach that emphasizes multiple influences from all aspects of life, with special attention paid to prenatal and very early child development, seem to offer the most robust and accurate portrayal of overall growth and development. Lower socioeconomic status environments yield lower cognitive and intellectual development in children. Low socioeconomic status due to poverty is a leading cause in hindered cognitive development in growing children. 
Is scintigraphy a guideline method in determining amputation levels in diabetic foot? [SEP] Other scintigraphic tests are done similarly. Bone scintigraphy has higher sensitivity but lower specificity than CT or MRI for diagnosis of scaphoid fractures following negative plain radiography. References
External links
"Bone scans". Blood pressure in toes can be measured using special equipment, and is often valuable in assessment of severe peripheral artery disease, in particular in patients with diabetes where measurement of ankle pressure / ABPI is often unreliable (because of local stiffening of arterial wall). Measurement
Feet are often cold and to make sure measurement is not affected by local vasoconstriction, the patient's feet may be pre-warmed in water or by warm air to a skin temperature of around 30 °C. by optical means (photocell), by expansion of the toe as measured with strain gauge plethysmography, or by visual assessment of color change by an experienced examiner, and the pressure at which this occurs is recorded. Toe pressures below 30 mmHg (in diabetics 50mmHg) are pathological and associated with reduced viability of the tissue and risk of amputation. PMID 12593494 Kröger K, Stewen C, Santosa F, Rudofsky G. Toe pressure measurements compared to ankle artery pressure measurements. 
Is determination between complete and incomplete traumatic spinal cord injury clinically relevant? [SEP] Management of Spinal Cord Injuries: A Guide for Physiotherapists. "Spinal Cord Injury Classification". Essentials of Spinal Cord Injury: Basic Research to Clinical Practice. Complete and incomplete injuries
In a "complete" spinal injury, all functions below the injured area are lost, whether or not the spinal cord is severed. An "incomplete" spinal cord injury involves preservation of motor or sensory function below the level of injury in the spinal cord. Diagnosis
A person's presentation in context of trauma or non-traumatic background determines suspicion for a spinal cord injury. The relative incidence of incomplete compared to complete injuries has improved since the mid-20th century, due mainly to the emphasis on faster and better initial care and stabilization of spinal cord injury patients. Signs and symptoms
SCIWORA may present as a complete spinal cord injury (total loss of sensation and function below the lesion) or incomplete spinal cord injury (some sensation and/or function is preserved). 
Improvements in survival of gynaecological cancer in the Anglia region of England: are these an effect of centralisation of care and use of multidisciplinary management? [SEP] The Calman–Hine report of 1995 examined cancer services in the United Kingdom, and proposed a restructuring of cancer services to achieve a more equitable level of access to high levels of expertise throughout the country. The Core Cities Health Improvement Collaborative is a network established to improve public health in England’s eight biggest regional cities: Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne, Nottingham and Sheffield. Polyclinics in England were intended to offer a greater range of services than were offered by current general practitioner (GP) practices and local health centres. A variety of models were proposed, ranging from networks of existing clinics to larger premises with several colocated general practitioner (GP) practices, more extensive facilities and additional services provided by allied healthcare professionals. Some primary care trusts in England attempted to bring together even more services into such centres, most notably by co-locating GPs, health laboratories, pharmacies and other services under one roof. Rationale
The Department of Health and the government claimed that polyclinics offer:

A way of providing more services in the community closer to home and at more convenient times (including antenatal and postnatal care, healthy living information, community mental health services, community care, and social care and specialist advice)
An improved structure within which GPs and other health and social care professionals can work together
Improved care for patients with chronic or complex conditions
A shift in the focus of urgent care out of hospitals and into polyclinics.A report by the King's Fund has questioned many of these, observing that:

Access to services was likely to be harder in rural areas and in urban areas where new buildings were not situated close to transport hubs
Simply putting healthcare professionals in the same location is in practice often not sufficient to generate co-working or integration of care
While the co-location of multiple services presents opportunities for delivering more integrated care, particularly for people with chronic diseases, the evidence suggests that in practice these opportunities are often lost, and accessibility of primary care is likely to be reduced for most patients if their GPs move into polyclinics, particularly in rural settings (a point emphasised in The Times)
There is limited evidence that quality of care for services shifted out of hospitals is comparable, and there is evidence that quality may be decreased in certain cases; the limited inspection and accreditation of out-of-hospital care is also a serious deficit in quality assuranceThe report also observed that the proposals were likely to increase professional isolation, and threaten both professional development and motivation, and continuity of care, and that pre-existing problems in healthcare to do with the lack of an overall governance structure, and unclear lines of accountability had not been addressed. Of course this is not something that will work in every circumstance, but delivering better organised care focused on the patient is surely a good thing. Maggie's centres are a network of drop-in centres across the United Kingdom and Hong Kong, which aim to help anyone who has been affected by cancer. 
Do symptoms matter when considering patients for phase I clinical trials? [SEP] Phase I trials are not randomized, and thus are vulnerable to selection bias.Normally, a small group of 20–100 healthy volunteers will be recruited. In addition to the previously mentioned unhealthy individuals, "patients who have typically already tried and failed to improve on the existing standard therapies" may also participate in phase I trials. The aim is to more quickly identify drugs that have a therapeutic effect and to zero in on patient populations for whom the drug is appropriate.Clinical trials are conducted typically in four phases, with each phase using different numbers of subjects and having a different purpose to construct focus on identifying a specific effect. Researchers who treat these particular patients must participate in the trial. Not all of these will prove to be useful, but those that are may be delayed in getting approved because the number of participants is so low .For clinical trials involving potential for seasonal influences (such as airborne allergies, seasonal affective disorder, influenza, and skin diseases), the study may be done during a limited part of the year (such as spring for pollen allergies), when the drug can be tested.Clinical trials that do not involve a new drug usually have a much shorter duration. Phase I clinical trials of new medicines are often conducted in a specialist clinical trial clinic, with dedicated pharmacologists, where the subjects can be observed by full-time staff. Subjects
Participants in Phase I drug trials do not gain any direct health benefit from taking part. Most other clinical trials seek patients who have a specific disease or medical condition. 
Is vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency related to the development of osteochondritis dissecans? [SEP] Women with vitamin D deficiency who have been through multiple pregnancies are at elevated risk of osteomalacia. Maternal vitamin D deficiency may affect the baby, causing overt bone disease from before birth and impairment of bone quality after birth. In addition, a vitamin D deficiency may lead to decreased absorption of calcium by the intestines, resulting in increased production of osteoclasts that may break down a person's bone matrix. Osteochondritis dissecans (OCD or OD) is a joint disorder primarily of the subchondral bone in which cracks form in the articular cartilage and the underlying subchondral bone. Some symptoms of late stages of osteochondritis dissecans are found with other diseases like rheumatoid disease of children and meniscal ruptures. Franz König coined the term osteochondritis dissecans in 1887, describing it as an inflammation of the bone–cartilage interface. Pathophysiology
Osteochondritis dissecans differs from "wear and tear" degenerative arthritis, which is primarily an articular surface problem. The health impacts commonly caused by deficiency of Vitamin D are rickets in children and osteoporosis in the elderly populations. 
Do episodic migraineurs selectively attend to headache-related visual stimuli? [SEP] "Migraine and Epilepsy: Epidemiologic connections" - Epilepsy.com
Barre, M; Hamelin, S; Minotti, L; Kahane, P; Vercueil, L (2008). "Aura visuelle migraineuse et crise épileptique : La migralepsie revisitée" [Epileptic seizure and migraine visual aura: revisiting migralepsy]. "Migraine and epilepsy: Clinical and pathophysiological relations". Most people with migraines report experiencing triggers. Brain imagery reveals that the electrophysiological changes seen during an attack become permanent in people with chronic migraine; "thus, from an electrophysiological point of view, chronic migraine indeed resembles a never-ending migraine attack." "Migraine". The visual field data suggests that there is a higher incidence of end arteriolar distribution infraction and a higher incidence of permanent visual field defects in retinal migraine than in clinically manifest cerebral infarctions in migraine with aura. The presence of comorbidities such as migraine and tinnitus is associated with a more severe presentation of the visual symptoms. 
Mitral replacement or repair for functional mitral regurgitation in dilated and ischemic cardiomyopathy: is it really the same? [SEP] Mitral valve repair is a cardiac surgery procedure performed by cardiac surgeons to treat stenosis (narrowing) or regurgitation (leakage) of the mitral valve. Mitral regurgitation may also occur as a result of ischemic heart disease (coronary artery disease) or non-ischemic heart disease (dilated cardiomyopathy). "Mitral Valve Repair: Past, Present, and Future". Mitral regurgitation (MR), also known as mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence, is a form of valvular heart disease in which the mitral valve is insufficient and does not close properly when the heart pumps out blood. Surgery
Surgery is curative of mitral valve regurgitation. There are two surgical options for the treatment of MR: mitral valve replacement and mitral valve repair. Need
Mitral regurgitation is the most common form of mitral valve dysfunction. Open-heart surgery remains the preferred treatment option when possible for primary mitral regurgitation, due to the effectiveness and long-term record of the procedure in reducing mitral valve regurgitation. 
Do nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles exist? [SEP] Pathophysiology
A hydatidiform mole is a pregnancy/conceptus in which the placenta contains grapelike vesicles (small sacs) that are usually visible to the naked eye. Based on morphology, hydatidiform moles can be divided into two types: in complete moles, all the chorionic villi are vesicular, and no sign of embryonic or fetal development is present. In rare cases a hydatidiform mole co-exists in the uterus with a normal, viable fetus. The mechanism is usually the reduplication of the paternal haploid set from a single sperm, but may also be the consequence of dispermic (two sperm) fertilization of the egg.In rare cases, hydatidiform moles are tetraploid (four chromosome sets) or have other chromosome abnormalities. A small percentage of hydatidiform moles have biparental diploid genomes, as in normal living persons; they have two sets of chromosomes, one inherited from each biological parent. These rare variants of hydatidiform mole may be complete or partial. In 2 to 3% of cases, hydatidiform moles may develop into choriocarcinoma, which is a malignant, rapidly growing, and metastatic (spreading) form of cancer. Epidemiology
Hydatidiform moles are a rare complication of pregnancy, occurring once in every 1,000 pregnancies in the US, with much higher rates in Asia (e.g. 
Is cholecystectomy really an indication for concomitant splenectomy in mild hereditary spherocytosis? [SEP] Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is a congenital hemolytic disorder, wherein a genetic mutation coding for a structural membrane protein phenotype leads to a spherical shaping of erythrocytic cellular morphology. Epidemiology
Hereditary spherocytosis is the heritable hemolytic disorder, affecting 1 in 2,000 people of Northern European ancestry. Paradoxical endurance-based athleticism associated with hereditary spherocytosis. Increased ability to defend against viral infections in hereditary spherocytosis patients. Treatment options for this type of spherocytosis include:

Splenectomy: As in non-hereditary spherocytosis, acute symptoms of anemia and hyperbilirubinemia indicate treatment with blood transfusions or exchanges and chronic symptoms of anemia and an enlarged spleen indicate dietary supplementation of folic acid and splenectomy, the surgical removal of the spleen. Splenectomy is indicated for moderate to severe cases, but not mild cases. Splenectomy is curative when this occurs. Patients with severe haemolytic anemia may require splenectomy. 
Does surgery or radiation therapy impact survival for patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancers? [SEP] Treatment
The standard treatments of limited-stage small cell lung cancer are surgery, platinum-based combination chemotherapy, thoracic irradiation, and prophylactic cranial irradiation. The time between the start and the end of chemoradiotherapy is a predicator of survival in limited stage small cell lung cancer, prolongation leads to a decrease in overall survival of 1.9% per week.Early concurrent radiochemotherapy may not be suitable for all patients. In limited small cell lung cancer, the median overall survival time is approximately 12–16 months, with five year survival rate of approximately 26% and long-term survival rate of approximately 4–5%.According to multiple studies, common prognostic factors of limited stage small cell lung cancer lies in performance status, age, life expectancy, comorbidities, extent of disease and smoking. Extrapulmonary small-cell carcinoma
Very rarely, the primary site for small-cell carcinoma is outside of the lungs and pleural space; in these cases, it is referred to as extrapulmonary small-cell carcinoma (EPSCC). Treatment is similar to small cell lung cancer, but survival rates are much higher than other small-cell carcinomas. Radiation therapy
Chest radiation helps SCLC patients live longer by killing cancer cells and helping prevention of cancer recurrence. Prognosis
5-year survival rates for small cell lung cancer (extensive and limited) range between 3.6% and 32.2% for women, and between 2.2% and 24.5% for men. Relative 5-year survival rate for both sexes has increased from 3.6% in 1975 to 6.7% in 2014.Small-cell carcinoma is very responsive to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and in particular, regimens based on platinum-containing agents. 
MR Diagnosis of Bone Metastases at 1.5 T and 3 T: Can STIR Imaging Be Omitted? [SEP] In prostate cancer, bone metastases tend to be the only site of metastasis. A combination of X-ray, CT and MRI scans may be most sensitive in the diagnosis of cancerous bone metastasis. Radionuclide Bone Scan
A radionuclide bone scan or scintigraphy can identify bone metastasis. CT Scan
A CT scan can detect bone metastases before they present with symptoms in patients diagnosed with tumors that are high-risk for spread to the bone. Even sclerotic bone metastases are generally less radiodense than enostoses, and it has been suggested that bone metastasis should be the favored diagnosis between the two for bone lesions lower than a cutoff of 1060 Hounsfield units (HU). MRI
MRIs can be used to detect bone metastasis with a sensitivity of 82-100% and a specificity of 73-100%. PET Scan
Positron emission tomography (PET) with fluorine 18–labeled fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18 F-FDG) is a powerful diagnostic tool to visualize the activity of bone metastasis. Bone metastases on PET scan are usually multiple, irregularly distributed foci of increased tracer uptake without relationship to a single anatomic structure. 
Histologic evaluation of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome: is surgical management necessary? [SEP] Testicular dysgenesis syndrome is a male reproduction-related condition characterized by the presence of symptoms and disorders such as hypospadias, cryptorchidism, poor semen quality, and testicular cancer. Though the condition may occur on one or both sides, it more commonly affects the right testis.A testis absent from the normal scrotal position may be:

Anywhere along the "path of descent" from high in the posterior (retroperitoneal) abdomen, just below the kidney, to the inguinal ring
In the inguinal canal
Ectopic, having "wandered" from the path of descent, usually outside the inguinal canal and sometimes even under the skin of the thigh, the perineum, the opposite scrotum, or the femoral canal
Undeveloped (hypoplastic) or severely abnormal (dysgenetic)
Missing (also see anorchia).About two-thirds of cases without other abnormalities are unilateral; most of the other third involve both testes. In a small minority of cases, missing testes may be found in the abdomen or appear to be nonexistent (truly "hidden"). Most normal-appearing undescended testes are also normal by microscopic examination, but reduced spermatogonia can be found. Scrotal ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging performed and interpreted by a radiologist can often locate the testes while confirming absence of a uterus. Just as often, intra-abdominal exploration discovers that the testis is nonexistent ("vanished"), or dysplastic and not salvageable. An inguinal orchiectomy is the primary treatment for any cancerous tumor that is found in the testicles; however, in cases where tumors are small, testis- or testes-sparing surgery may be performed instead.Partial orchiectomy, also known as testis-sparing surgery, is another treatment option for smaller testicular masses which is becoming widely popular in recent years. Testicular atrophy is a medical condition in which one or both testicles (or "testes") diminish in size and may be accompanied by reduced testicular function. 
Does pain intensity predict a poor opioid response in cancer patients? [SEP] Identifying the development of hyperalgesia is of great clinical importance since patients receiving opioids to relieve pain may paradoxically experience more pain as a result of treatment. Whereas increasing the dose of opioid can be an effective way to overcome tolerance, doing so to compensate for opioid-induced hyperalgesia may worsen the patient's condition by increasing sensitivity to pain while escalating physical dependence.This “uncommon but important phenomenon [can be] seen with high-dose opioid therapy.”  However, the conclusion of a report published in the Journal of Pain & Palliative Care Pharmacotherapy suggests that “[h]yperalgesia shares a common mechanism with tolerance and it may be that hyperalgesia is a manifestation of tolerance itself.”

Pharmacology
The pharmacology of opioids involves the substance binding to opioid receptors in the nervous system and other tissues. Cancer pain: Assessment, diagnosis and management. At any given time, about half of all people diagnosed with malignant cancer are experiencing pain, and two-thirds of those with advanced cancer experience pain of such intensity that it adversely affects their sleep, mood, social relations and activities of daily living.With competent management, cancer pain can be eliminated or well controlled in 80% to 90% of cases, but nearly 50% of cancer patients in the developed world receive less than optimal care. Though 80–90 percent of cancer pain can be eliminated or well controlled, nearly half of all people with cancer pain in the developed world and more than 80 percent of people with cancer worldwide receive less than optimal care.Cancer changes over time, and pain management needs to reflect this. However, a 2017 Cochrane Review found that there is no high-quality evidence to support or refute the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) alone or in combination with opioids for the three steps of the three-step WHO cancer pain ladder and that there is very low-quality evidence that some people with moderate or severe cancer pain can obtain substantial levels of benefit within one or two weeks.Some authors challenge the validity of the second step (mild opioids) and, pointing to their higher toxicity and low efficacy, argue that mild opioids could be replaced by small doses of strong opioids (with the possible exception of tramadol due to its demonstrated efficacy in cancer pain, its specificity for neuropathic pain, and its low sedative properties and reduced potential for respiratory depression in comparison to conventional opioids).More than half of people with advanced cancer and pain will need strong opioids, and these in combination with non-opioid pain medicine can produce acceptable analgesia in 70–90 percent of cases. Evidence for prevalence of pain in newly diagnosed cancer is scarce. Effect of opioid
Opioids are commonly used for patients who are undergoing cancer treatment, chronic pain and postoperative pain. 
Do prerecorded lecture VODcasts affect lecture attendance of first-yearpre-clinical Graduate Entry to Medicine students? [SEP] Lecture recording refers to the process of recording and archiving the content of a lecture, conference, or seminar. Students are able to self-study by playing back and interacting with recorded lectures.Some educational institutions use lecture recording as a means to replace the traditional classroom with an online classroom. Lecture recording is not always welcomed by university faculty. Student research has found that more students than staff expect lecture recording to be beneficial to learning. Students do not view recorded lectures as a replacement for attending live lectures, and often continue to attend face to face sessions. Students who use recorded lectures as a supplement sometimes score significantly higher in subsequent assessment.Some firms may also use lecture recordings as advertising, collaboration, or training materials.In addition, lecture capture technology may offer compliance, for example with United States legislation such as Section 508 for students with disabilities. Research
Lecture captures are becoming increasingly popular. Many institutions including University of Manchester, University of Glasgow, University of Bristol and Loughborough University provide guidelines for recording and presentation of lectures which would be useful for learning and there is a growing literature that considers the benefits of lecture capture to students and tutors, as well as the extent of student usage of lecture recordings. 
Is there an intrauterine influence on obesity? [SEP] Conditions such as obesity, nutritional deficiencies, infections, chronic inflammations, and stress can also affect the maternal oxygen supply and fetal uptake.The most preventable cause is maternal smoking. "In another study done by Richardson and her colleagues, "a sample of low-income women with children, we found that perceived stress was directly and positively associated with severe obesity, independent of eating behaviors and diet quality. A woman's risk of obesity increases by 7% per child, while a man's risk increases by 4% per child. References
External links
Official website
International Association for the Study of Obesity As a result, if a mother is hyperglycaemic the foetus is likely to be hyperinsulinaemic which leads to it having increased levels of growth and adiposity. Studies based around restricting animals food intake throughout gestation have discovered that a reduction of just 30% of normal intake can cause low birth weight and increase sensitivity to high-fat-diet induced obesity.In animal models, intrauterine undernutrition has been shown to be associated with hypertension later in life. Upon investigation it was found that a mother who was obese before conception was likely to have a higher level of placental LEP than the placenta of a mother of a healthy weight. One strategy for overcoming obesity is the use of gastric bypass and other such surgeries, while this does not entirely alleviate the risk of altered metabolic imprinting it has been found that siblings born post maternal surgery are less likely to have as high body fat percentages than over nutrition as siblings born before the surgery.Paternal overnutrition can also have a detrimental effect and new-borns have shown changes in methylation of DNA generally, with substantial hypomethylation at the gene Insulin-like Growth factor 2 (IGF2). 
Assessing Patient Reported Outcomes Measures via Phone Interviews Versus Patient Self-Survey in the Clinic: Are We Measuring the Same Thing? [SEP] In drug licensing and label claims
Patient-reported outcomes are important in a regulatory context. Prospects and challenges in using patient-reported outcomes in clinical practice. Doward LC, McKenna SP, Defining Patient-Reported Outcomes. Patient reported outcome measures: a model-based classification system for research and clinical practice. Wiklund I., Assessment of patient-reported outcomes in clinical trials: the example of health-related quality of life, Fundam Clin Pharmacol. External links
EuroQol Group (EQ-5D)
Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System
Medical Outcomes Trust
Health Surveys
SF-36.org
Mapi
Mapi Research Trust (non-profit organization involved in Patient-Centered Outcomes)
ProQolid (Patient-Reported Outcome & Quality of Life Instruments Database)
PROLabels(Database on Patient-Reported Outcome claims in marketing authorizations)
University of Oxford's Clinical Outcomes Assessment (Oxford Hip Score, Oxford Knee Score)
Information for members of Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) regarding Oxford Hip & Knee Scores
FREE Oxford Hip and Knee Scores for NHS and Medicare/Medicaid patients
Vector Psychometric Group, LLC: PRO consulting, development, and delivery systems
Open Research Exchange: PatientsLikeMe Self-rated health (also called Self-reported health, Self-assessed health, or perceived health) refers to both a single question such as "in general, would you say that your health is excellent, very good, good, fair, or poor?" in an Indian population: ώ-hierarchical = 0.72).The test-retest reliability was assessed by the correlation between PHQ-9 scores obtained from in-person and phone interviews with the same patients. 
Is cytokeratin immunoreactivity useful in the diagnosis of short-segment Barrett's oesophagus in Korea? [SEP] Barrett's esophagus is diagnosed by endoscopy: observing the characteristic appearance of this condition by direct inspection of the lower esophagus; followed by microscopic examination of tissue from the affected area obtained from biopsy. Pathophysiology
Barrett's esophagus occurs due to chronic inflammation. Intestinal metaplasia
The presence of goblet cells, called intestinal metaplasia, is necessary to make a diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus. Medical societies recommend that if a patient has Barrett's esophagus, and if the past two endoscopy and biopsy examinations have confirmed the absence of dysplasia, then the patient should not have another endoscopy within three years.Endoscopic surveillance of people with Barrett's esophagus is often recommended, although little direct evidence supports this practice. A recent five-year random-controlled trial has shown that photodynamic therapy using photofrin is statistically more effective in eliminating dysplastic growth areas than sole use of a proton pump inhibitor.There is presently no reliable way to determine which patients with Barrett's esophagus will go on to develop esophageal cancer, although a recent study found the detection of three different genetic abnormalities was associated with as much as a 79% chance of developing cancer in six years.Endoscopic mucosal resection has also been evaluated as a management technique. Thus the study of cytokeratin expression by immunohistochemistry techniques is a tool of immense value widely used for tumor diagnosis and characterization in surgical pathology. This disease is often linked to Barrett's oesophagus. In the esophagus, this is called Barrett's esophagus. 
Is routine dissection of the station 9 lymph nodes really necessary for primary lung cancer? [SEP] Lymphadenectomy,  or lymph node dissection, is the surgical removal of one or more groups of lymph nodes. In a regional lymph node dissection, some of the lymph nodes in the tumor area are removed; in a radical lymph node dissection, most or all of the lymph nodes in the tumor area are removed. Indications
It is usually done because many types of cancer have a marked tendency to produce lymph node metastasis early in their natural histories. With sentinel node biopsy
For clinical stages I and II breast cancer, axillary lymph node dissection should only be performed  after first attempting a sentinel node biopsy. If cancer is not present in the sentinel lymph nodes, then the axillary lymph node dissection should not be performed.If one or two sentinel nodes have cancer that is not extensive, then no axillary dissection should be performed, but the person with cancer should have breast-conserving surgery and chemotherapy appropriate for their stage of cancer. Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) is a surgical procedure to remove abdominal lymph nodes. Mediastinoscopy is often used for staging of lymph nodes of lung cancer or for diagnosing other conditions affecting structures in the mediastinum such as sarcoidosis or lymphoma. If there are only one or two affected guardian lymph nodes, then it may not be necessary for the patient to undergo the axillary dissection procedure. 
Cutaneous melanoma in a multiethnic population: is this a different disease? [SEP] Superficial spreading melanoma (SSM) is usually characterized as the most common form of cutaneous melanoma in Caucasians. Melanoma is a group of serious skin cancers that arise from pigment cells (melanocytes); acral lentiginous melanoma is a kind of lentiginous skin melanoma. However, because rates of other melanomas are low in non-white populations, ALM is the most common form of melanoma diagnosed amongst Asian and sub-Saharan African ethnic groups. "Melanoma of the hand and foot: epidemiological, prognostic and genetic features. Melanoma, also redundantly known as malignant melanoma, is a type of skin cancer that develops from the pigment-producing cells known as melanocytes. Melanoma has become more common since the 1960s in areas mostly populated by people of European descent. A family history could indicate a genetic predisposition to melanoma. Australia
Australia has a very high – and increasing – rate of melanoma. 
Marital status, living arrangement and mortality: does the association vary by gender? [SEP] Gender differences
The health-protective effect of marriage is stronger for men than women. Marital status — the simple fact of being married — confers more health benefits to men than women. Since the 1970s, the life expectancy gap between females and males has been on the decline in the United States and Western Europe.Although more research needs to be completed, it is postulated that there is a "biopsychosocial" component which causes this paradox. These diseases are the main cause of the gender gap in life expectancy.Despite men having more fatal conditions such as ischemic heart disease, lung cancer, liver cirrhosis, traffic accidents, and suicide, women have more non-fatal acute and chronic conditions. Females spend more years in good health than males; however, females spend more years in poor health than males as a proportion of their life expectancy. Social factors play a large role in gender disparities in health.One of the main factors that contributes to the decreased life expectancy of males is their propensity to engage in risk-taking behaviors. In general, women have a higher likelihood of experiencing sexual and intimate partner violence, while men are twice as likely to die from suicide or homicide.Markedly, the impact of gender on health becomes especially salient in different socioeconomic contexts. This gendered economic inequality is partly responsible for the gender-health paradox: the general trend that women live longer than men, but experience a greater degree of non-life-threatening chronic illnesses over the course of a lifetime. 
Does somatostatin confer insulinostatic effects of neuromedin u in the rat pancreas? [SEP] Increased levels of somatostatin inhibit pancreatic hormones and gastrointestinal hormones. Thus, somatostatinomas are associated with mild diabetes mellitus (due to inhibition of insulin release), steatorrhoea and gallstones (due to inhibition of cholecystokinin release), and achlorhydria (due to inhibition of gastrin release). Pathophysiology
In a normal subject, actions of somatostatin include:
In the anterior pituitary gland, the effects of somatostatin are:Inhibit the release of growth hormone, thus opposing the effects of growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)
Inhibit the release of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)Somatostatin suppresses the release of gastrointestinal hormonesGastrin
Cholecystokinin (CCK)
Secretin
Motilin
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)
Gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP)
EnteroglucagonLowers the rate of gastric emptying, and reduces smooth muscle contractions and blood flow within the intestine
Suppresses the release of pancreatic hormonesInhibits the release of insulin
Inhibits the release of glucagonSuppresses the exocrine secretory action of pancreas.This explains how abnormally elevated somatostatin can cause diabetes mellitus, by inhibiting insulin secretion, steatorrhoea by inhibiting cholecystokinin and secretin, gall stones by inhibiting cholecystokinin which normally induce gallbladder myocytes to contract, and hypochlorhydria caused by inhibiting gastrin, which normally stimulate acid secretion.Somatostatinomas are associated with calcium deposits called psammoma bodies. The somatostatin family is a protein family with somatostatin as titular member, a hormone which inhibits the release of the pituitary somatotropin (growth hormone) and inhibits the release of glucagon and insulin from the pancreas of fasted animals. It has also been suggested that somatostatin may be implicated in insulin-induced hypoglycaemia through a mechanism involving SGLT-2 receptors. Ghrelin can also strongly stimulate somatostatin secretion, thus indirectly inhibiting insulin release. Somatostatin release is inhibited by the Vagus nerve. Anterior pituitary
In the anterior pituitary gland, the effects of somatostatin are:

Inhibiting the release of growth hormone (GH) (thus opposing the effects of growth hormone–releasing hormone (GHRH))
Inhibiting the release of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)
Inhibiting adenylyl cyclase in parietal cells
Inhibiting the release of prolactin (PRL)

Gastrointestinal system
Somatostatin is homologous with cortistatin (see somatostatin family) and suppresses the release of gastrointestinal hormones
Decreases the rate of gastric emptying, and reduces smooth muscle contractions and blood flow within the intestine
Suppresses the release of pancreatic hormones
Somatostatin release is triggered by the beta cell peptide urocortin3 (Ucn3) to inhibit insulin release. 
Kell alloimmunization in pregnancy: associated with fetal thrombocytopenia? [SEP] Therefore, ITP is a significant cause of fetal and neonatal immune thrombocytopenia. Hemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Kell1) is caused by a mismatch between the Kell antigens of the mother and fetus. Over half of the cases of hemolytic disease of the newborn owing the anti-Kell antibodies are caused by multiple blood transfusions, with the remainder due to a previous pregnancy with a Kell1 positive baby. "Female alloimmunization with antibodies known to cause hemolytic disease". "Decreased fetal erythropoiesis and hemolysis in Kell hemolytic anemia". Anti-K can also occur following transplacental hemorrhage (TPH) associated with childbirth making Kell an important concern for hemolytic disease of the newborn. It is possible for a newborn with this disease to have neutropenia and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia as well. Anti-Kell hemolytic disease of the newborn is most commonly caused by anti-K1 antibodies, the second most common form of severe HDN. 
Application of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) in MR-mammography (MRM): do we really need whole lesion time curve distribution analysis? [SEP] The following facts have a strong influence:

Retrospective or prospective design
Quality of the used images
Condition of the x-ray examination
Radiologist's experience and education
Type of lesion
Size of the considered lesion

Challenges that CAD in Medicine Faces Today
Despite the many developments that CAD has achieved since the dawn of computers, there are still certain challenges that CAD systems face today.Some challenges are related to various algorithmic limitations in the procedures of a CAD system including input data collection, preprocessing, processing and system assessments. Breast cancer
CAD is used in screening mammography (X-ray examination of the female breast). CAD systems are often utilized to help classify a tumor as malignant or benign. The first CAD system for mammography was developed in a research project at the University of Chicago. A 2008 systematic review on computer-aided detection in screening mammography concluded that CAD does not have a significant effect on cancer detection rate, but does undesirably increase recall rate (i.e. However, it noted considerable heterogeneity in the impact on recall rate across studies.Recent advances in machine learning, deep-learning and artificial intelligence technology have enabled the development of CAD systems that are clinically proven to assist radiologists in addressing the challenges of reading mammographic images by improving cancer detection rates and reducing false positives and unnecessary patient recalls, while significantly decreasing reading times.Procedures to evaluate mammography based on magnetic resonance imaging exist too. These combine echogenicity, texture, and motion characteristics to assist clinical decision towards improved prediction, assessment and management of cardiovascular risk.CAD is available for the automatic detection of significant (causing more than 50% stenosis) coronary artery disease in coronary CT angiography (CCTA) studies. Commercial CADx systems for the diagnosis of bone metastases in whole-body bone scans and coronary artery disease in myocardial perfusion images exist.With a high sensitivity and an acceptable false lesions detection rate, computer-aided automatic lesion detection system is demonstrated as useful and will probably in the future be able to help nuclear medicine physicians to identify possible bone lesions. 
Vaccine protection in the elderly: are Austrian seniors adequately protected by vaccinations? [SEP] Vaccine effectiveness in those over 65 years old remains uncertain due to a lack of high-quality research.Vaccines are an effective means to control outbreaks of many diseases. Available evidence indicates that vaccinating the elderly with the high-dose vaccine leads to a stronger immune response against influenza than the regular-dose vaccine.A flu vaccine containing an adjuvant was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2015, for use by adults aged 65 years of age and older. Beliefs in the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine are also important.A number of measures have been found to be useful to increase rates of vaccination in those over sixty including: patient reminders using leaflets and letters, postcard reminders, client outreach programs, vaccine home visits, group vaccinations, free vaccinations, physician payment, physician reminders and encouraging physician competition. In the elderly (over 65), the majority of published studies have found that vaccination is cost saving, with the cost savings associated with influenza vaccination (e.g. In older adults (aged 50–64 years), several published studies have found that influenza vaccination is likely to be cost-effective, however the results of these studies were often found to be dependent on key assumptions used in the economic evaluations. "Summary of the NACI literature review on the comparative effectiveness of subunit and split virus inactivated influenza vaccines in older adults". Elderly individuals living in care homes, healthcare workers working with risk groups and adults living with someone in the risk group will be offered vaccination during the first phase. Other individuals aged 70 or older, adults who live with functional impairments as well as medical care professionals will be vaccinated in the second phase. 
Vitamin D supplementation and regulatory T cells in apparently healthy subjects: vitamin D treatment for autoimmune diseases? [SEP] For example genes can be upregulated or downregulated when the highly active form of vitamin D, 1, 25-alpha dihydroxyvitamin D3 binds to the VDR on chromosomal regions of gene expression that manage the balance or ratio between differentiating immune cells into Th1 and Th2 T cell proteins
 The upregulation of Th 2 T cell proteins, like IL-4 and TGF-Beta, are the main focus of some research which aims to minimize the effects seen in the model organism disease EAE (experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis), studied for its similarities to Multiple Sclerosis.Though this study of gene regulation is observed within murine models, it focuses on MS orthologs to humans and research has shown that it may also help to manage: Rheumatoid Arthritis, Diabetes mellitus type 1, Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), cardiovascular disease (CVD), and other chronic inflammatory diseases

Epilepsy and seizures
Seizures are disturbances in brain activities where neurons fire abnormally. Although this route to autoimmune disease may underlie various degenerative disease states, no diagnostics for this disease mechanism exist at present, and thus its role in human autoimmunity is currently unknown.The roles of specialized immunoregulatory cell types, such as regulatory T cells, NKT cells, γδ T-cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease are under investigation. Nutrition and autoimmunity
Vitamin D/Sunlight

Because most human cells and tissues have receptors for vitamin D, including T and B cells, adequate levels of vitamin D can aid in the regulation of the immune system. Vitamin D plays a role in immune function by acting on T cells and natural killer cells. Research has demonstrated an association between low serum vitamin D and autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (commonly referred to simply as lupus). Polymorphisms in the vitamin D receptor gene are commonly found in people with autoimmune diseases, giving one potential mechanism for vitamin D's role in autoimmunity. There is mixed evidence on the effect of vitamin D supplementation in type 1 diabetes, lupus, and multiple sclerosis. Vitamin D supplements do not alter the outcomes for myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebrovascular disease, cancer, bone fractures or knee osteoarthritis.A US Institute of Medicine (IOM) report states: "Outcomes related to cancer, cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and diabetes and metabolic syndrome, falls and physical performance, immune functioning and autoimmune disorders, infections, neuropsychological functioning, and preeclampsia could not be linked reliably with calcium or vitamin D intake and were often conflicting. 
Gynecological cancer alarm symptoms: is contact with specialist care associated with lifestyle and socioeconomic status? [SEP] For patients with these and other gynecologic malignancies within the United States, disparities across the care continuum by socioeconomic status and racial/ethnic background have been previously identified and studied. Socioeconomic and institutional barriers
Receiving a recommendation by one's physician is strongly correlated with patients seeking out to be screened by a Pap smear. Endometrial cancer disparities
Endometrial cancer incidence is rising in the U.S across all racial/ethnic groups. Differences in screening
Patients who are uninsured or with Medicaid are more likely to be diagnosed with advanced stage vaginal cancer than those with private insurance. In 2013, an estimated 91,730 were diagnosed.There is low quality evidence which demonstrates women with gynaecological cancer receiving treatment from specialized centres benefit from longer survival than those managed in standard care. The most common symptoms across all gynecological cancers are abnormal vaginal bleeding, vaginal discharge, pelvic pain and urination difficulties. Partners may also be affected by these changes in the relationship, especially with regards to intimacy and sexuality, which may in turn affect gynecological cancer patients by creating a perception of adverse relationship outcomes such as emotional distance or lack of interest. L. 109–475 (text) (PDF)) promotes the education of women to increase awareness of gynecologic cancer, which include ovarian, uterine/endometrial, cervical, vaginal, and vulvar cancers and the risk factors and symptoms. 
Does elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae decrease peripheral thrombophlebitis? [SEP] Use
The catheter is introduced into the vein by a needle (similar to blood drawing), which is subsequently removed while the small plastic cannula remains in place. In children, a topical anaesthetic gel (such as lidocaine) may be applied to the insertion site to facilitate placement.Blood sampling can be carried out at the time of insertion of a peripheral venous catheter or at a later time.Peripheral venous catheters may also be used in the emergency treatment of a tension pneumothorax- they can be placed in the second intercostal space along the mid clavicular line in order to relieve tension before definitive management with a chest drain. When removing a peripheral IV cannula, the tip should be inspected to ensure it's intact.Because of the risk of insertion-site infection the CDC advises in their guideline that the catheter needs to be replaced every 96 hours. In the 1970s and 1980s, the use of plastic cannulas became routine, and their insertion was more frequently delegated to nursing staff.Newer catheters have been equipped with additional safety features to avoid needlestick injuries. It is not useful to evaluate a dural or pelvic vein thrombophlebitis because of its poor penetration abilities.Once the scan confirms the presence of a clot in addition to inflammation indicating thrombosis, it can be inferred looking at the blood cultures and symptoms that SPT is present. Treatment
Invasive procedures
Before pharmacological therapy was introduced, surgical procedures such as surgical excision of the thrombosed vein and venous ligation (tying off the vein in order to prevent blood from collecting in the vein) were the mainstays of treatment for septic pelvic thrombophlebitis. If the phlebitis is associated with local bacterial infection, antibiotics may be used.For acute infusion superficial thrombophlebitis, not enough evidence exists as of 2015 to determine treatment. Causes
Thrombophlebitis causes include disorders related to increased tendency for blood clotting and reduced speed of blood in the veins such as prolonged immobility; prolonged traveling (sitting) may promote a blood clot leading to thrombophlebitis but this occurs relatively less. 
Can third trimester ultrasound predict the presentation of the first twin at delivery? [SEP] Performing an ultrasound at this early stage of pregnancy can more accurately confirm the timing of the pregnancy, and can also assess for multiple fetuses and major congenital abnormalities at an earlier stage. Research shows that routine obstetric ultrasound before 24 weeks' gestational age can significantly reduce the risk of failing to recognize multiple gestations and can improve pregnancy dating to reduce the risk of labor induction for post-dates pregnancy. 3D ultrasound
Modern 3D ultrasound images provide greater detail for prenatal diagnosis than the older 2D ultrasound technology. The following 3D ultrasound images were taken at different stages of pregnancy:

Medical uses
Early pregnancy
A gestational sac can be reliably seen on transvaginal ultrasound by 5 weeks' gestational age (approximately 3 weeks after ovulation). First trimester
In the first trimester, a standard ultrasound examination typically includes:
Gestational sac size, location, and number
Identification of the embryo and/or yolk sac
Measurement of fetal length (known as the crown-rump length)
Fetal number, including number of amnionic sacs and chorionic sacs for multiple gestations
Embryonic/fetal cardiac activity
Assessment of embryonic/fetal anatomy appropriate for the first trimester
Evaluation of the maternal uterus, tubes, ovaries, and surrounding structures
Evaluation of the fetal nuchal fold, with consideration of fetal nuchal translucency assessment

Second and third trimester
In the second trimester, a standard ultrasound exam typically includes:
Fetal number, including number of amnionic sacs and chorionic sacs for multiple gestations
Fetal cardiac activity
Fetal position relative to the uterus and cervix
Location and appearance of the placenta, including site of umbilical cord insertion when possible
Amniotic fluid volume
Gestational age assessment
Fetal weight estimation
Fetal anatomical survey
Evaluation of the maternal uterus, tubes, ovaries, and surrounding structures when appropriate

Dating and growth monitoring
Gestational age is usually determined by the date of the woman's last menstrual period, and assuming ovulation occurred on day fourteen of the menstrual cycle. Ultrasound may also detect fetal organ anomaly. Diagnosis
By performing an obstetric ultrasound at a gestational age of 10–14 weeks, monochorionic-diamniotic twins are discerned from dichorionic twins. Diagnosis
Ultrasound is the only way to detect monoamniotic-monochorionic twins before birth. 
Risk factors for major depression during midlife among a community sample of women with and without prior major depression: are they the same or different? [SEP] Depression in women is more likely to be comorbid with anxiety disorders, substance abuse disorders, and eating disorders. These risk factors include negative social life events, conflict, and low levels of social support, all of which have been found affect the likelihood of someone experiencing major depression, the length of the depression, or the severity of the symptoms. Risk factors within the family
Multiple risk factors for adolescent depression have been identified within the family. major depression). Late-life depression refers to depression occurring in older adults and has diverse presentations, including as a recurrence of early-onset depression, a new diagnosis of late-onset depression, and a mood disorder resulting from a separate medical condition, substance use, or medication regimen. Risk factors for depression in older persons include a history of depression, social isolation, lower socioeconomic status, uncontrolled pain, co-morbid chronic medical illness, insomnia, female sex, being single or divorced, cognitive or functional impairment, brain disease, alcohol use disorder, use of certain medications, and stressful life events.Research suggests that individuals with late life depression are more likely to develop Alzheimer's Disease, vascular dementia, and all-cause dementia. Severe or chronic diseases associated with high rates of depression include stroke (30–60%), coronary heart disease (8–44%), cancer (1–40%), Parkinson's disease (40%), Alzheimer's disease (20–40%), and dementia (17–31%).Minor depression is a clinically significant depressive disorder that does not fulfill the duration criterion or the number of symptoms necessary for the diagnosis of major depression. Minor depression, which is more common than major depression in elderly patients, may follow a major depressive episode. 
Totally implantable venous access device placement by interventional radiologists: are prophylactic antibiotics necessary? [SEP] A vascular access procedure involves insertion of a sterile plastic tube called a catheter into a blood vessel. Risk of infection is mitigated during insertion through use of sterile technique and proper catheter care after insertion which includes keeping the area of the catheter clean, washing of hands prior to use, and application of clean dressings. Evidence suggests that there may not be any benefit associated with giving antibiotics before a long-term central venous catherter is inserted in cancer patients and this practice may not prevent gram positive catheter-related infections. However, for people who require long-term central venous catheters who are at a higher risk of infection, for example, people with cancer who at are risk of neutropenia due to their chemotherapy treatment or due to the disease, flushing the catheter with a solution containing an antibiotic and heparin may reduce catheter-related infections.In a clinical practice guideline, the American Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends against routine culturing of central venous lines upon their removal. Sterile gloves are required for CVC
Full body sterile drapes, cap, mask, gloves are required for placement of CVCs
The catheter site should be monitored visually and with palpation (through dressing) on a regular basis to assess for infection. These CVCs have a low infection rate due to a Dacron cuff, an antimicrobial cuff surrounding the catheter near the entry site, which is coated in antimicrobial solution and holds the catheter in place after two to three weeks of insertion. Complications
Most common complications with venous access are catheter related infections, thrombophlebitis and venous thrombosis. References
External links
Venous access, Society for Vascular Surgery 
Starting insulin in type 2 diabetes: continue oral hypoglycemic agents? [SEP] The therapeutic combination in type 2 may include insulin, not necessarily because oral agents have failed completely, but in search of a desired combination of effects. The great advantage of injected insulin in type 2 is that a well-educated patient can adjust the dose, or even take additional doses, when blood glucose levels are measured by the patient, usually with a simple meter, as needed by the measured amount of sugar in the blood. The same review did not find any differences in effects of using these insulin analogues between adults and children.Most oral anti-diabetic agents are contraindicated in pregnancy, in which insulin is preferred.Insulin is not administered by other routes, although this has been studied. Sensitizers
Insulin sensitizers address the core problem in type 2 diabetes – insulin resistance. It is also available in combination with other oral diabetic medications. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE), which provides clinical practice guidelines for management of diabetes, retains thiazolidinediones as recommended first, second, or third line agents for type 2 diabetes mellitus, as of their 2019 executive summary, over sulfonylureas and α-glucosidase inhibitors. These agents are effective by themselves only in the earliest stages of impaired glucose tolerance, but can be helpful in combination with other agents in type 2 diabetes. Along with GLP-1 agonists, they are considered preferred second or third agents for type 2 diabetics sub-optimally controlled with metformin alone, according to most recent clinical practice guidelines. 
Clinical identifiers for early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis: are we seeing the real picture? [SEP] Causes
The causes of adhesive capsulitis are incompletely understood; however, there are several factors associated with higher risk. Risk factors for secondary adhesive capsulitis include injury or surgery leading to prolonged immobility. Risk factors for primary, or idiopathic adhesive capsulitis include many systemic diseases, such as COVID-19, diabetes mellitus, stroke, lung disease, connective tissue diseases, thyroid disease, heart disease, autoimmune disease, and Dupuytren's contracture. Primary
Primary adhesive capsulitis, also known as idiopathic adhesive capsulitis, occurs with no known trigger. Diagnosis
Adhesive capsulitis can be diagnosed by history and physical exam. On physical exam, adhesive capsulitis can be diagnosed if limits of the active range of motion are the same or similar to the limits to the passive range of motion. Radiographs will often be normal, but imaging features of adhesive capsulitis can be seen on ultrasound or non-contrast MRI. Prognosis
Most cases of adhesive capsulitis are self limiting, but may take 1 to 3 years to fully resolve. 
Does delaying surgery in immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients with progressive curve, lead to addition of fusion levels? [SEP] Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is a rather common disorder in which the spine starts abnormally curving sideways (scoliosis) at the age of 10–18 years old. Minimally invasive thoracic spinal fusion is one of the newest approaches to scoliosis surgery. Scoliosis: Ascending the Curve. The earlier the scoliosis appears, the more likely it will progress. Age
Idiopathic scoliosis can appear at different ages. Juvenile idiopathic scoliosis that appear from the 4 to 10 years old, account for 10.5% of idiopathic scoliosis. Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis that appear after the age of 10 years, account for 89% of idiopathic scoliosis. The step length is reduced and the stance phase duration is also reduced.Surgical treatment of thoracolumbar/lumbar adolescent idiopathic scoliosis, whether performed with anterior spinal fusion or posterior spinal fusion arthrodesis, results in overall positive changes that lead to partial normalization of some gait parameters. 
Bactericidal activity of 3 cutaneous/mucosal antiseptic solutions in the presence of interfering substances: Improvement of the NF EN 13727 European Standard? [SEP] Euflavine is an antiseptic and disinfectant. ISO 14698-1, Cleanrooms and associated controlled environments—Biocontamination control, Part 1: General principles and methods
ISO 14698-2, Cleanrooms and associated controlled environments—Biocontamination control, Part 2: Evaluation and interpretation of biocontamination data

ISO 14698-1
ISO 14698-1 was first written in 2003. Surgery
The widespread introduction of antiseptic surgical methods was initiated by the publishing of the paper Antiseptic Principle of the Practice of Surgery in 1867 by Joseph Lister, which was inspired by Louis Pasteur's germ theory of putrefaction. Diguanides including chlorhexidine gluconate, a bacteriocidal antiseptic which (with an alcoholic solvent) is the most safe & effective antiseptic for reducing the risk of infection after clean surgery, including tourniquet-controlled upper limb surgery. The latter is used for skin disinfection and cleaning surgical instruments. It is also used within a number of household disinfectants and wound cleaners. See also
Actinonin
Henry Jacques Garrigues, introduced antiseptic obstetrics to North America
NASLA (Nanostructured Anti-septical Coatings) Project

References
External links
"Antiseptic" . Journal of Clinical Microbiology. 
Empiric treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection with fluoroquinolones in older women in Israel: another lost treatment option? [SEP] Enoxacin is an oral broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibacterial agent used in the treatment of urinary tract infections and gonorrhea. High concentrations of the fluoroquinolone are reached in the urinary tract and this fact ensures an antibacterial effect continued over time, particularly in this district. "Enoxacin: a reappraisal of its clinical efficacy in the treatment of genitourinary tract infections". Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections. It also features prominently in treatment guidelines for acute pyelonephritis, complicated or hospital-acquired urinary tract infection, acute or chronic prostatitis, certain types of endocarditis, certain skin infections, and prosthetic joint infections.In other cases, treatment guidelines are more restrictive, recommending in most cases that older, narrower-spectrum drugs be used as first-line therapy for less severe infections to minimize fluoroquinolone-resistance development. For example, the Infectious Diseases Society of America recommends the use of ciprofloxacin and other fluoroquinolones in urinary tract infections be reserved to cases of proven or expected resistance to narrower-spectrum drugs such as nitrofurantoin or trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. A U.S. Centers for Disease Control study found patients treated with fluoroquinolones experienced adverse events severe enough to lead to an emergency department visit more frequently than those treated with cephalosporins or macrolides, but less frequently than those treated with penicillins, clindamycin, sulfonamides, or vancomycin.Postmarketing surveillance has revealed a variety of relatively rare but serious adverse effects associated with all members of the fluoroquinolone antibacterial class. In November 2019, the FDA granted approval of cefiderocol to Shionogi & Co. as an antibacterial drug for treatment of adults 18 years of age or older with complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI), including kidney infections caused by susceptible Gram-negative microorganisms, who have limited or no alternative treatment options.The safety and effectiveness of cefiderocol was demonstrated in a study (NCT02321800) of 448 participants with cUTIs. 
Do risk calculators accurately predict surgical site occurrences? [SEP] Predictions of surgery duration (SD) are used to schedule planned/elective surgeries so that utilization rate of operating theatres be optimized (maximized subject to policy constraints). The more accurate the predictions, the better the scheduling of surgeries (in terms of the required OR utilization optimization). Incorporating expert estimates (like those of surgeons) in the predictive model may also contribute to diminish the uncertainty of data-based SD prediction. By calculating the expected risk of death for a population of patients having heart operations, this can be compared with the number of actual deaths. European system for cardiac operative risk evaluation (EuroSCORE). Nilsson J MD, Ohlsson M, Thulin L, Höglund P, Nashef SAM, Brandt J Risk factor identification and mortality prediction in cardiac surgery using artificial neural networks. Impact
The Safe Surgery Saves Lives group held a study across eight hospitals worldwide, comparing their surgical safety measures and complication rates both before and after each local study team introduced the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist. An independent international study at 357 hospitals located in 58 countries has demonstrated that the use of a surgical safety checklist has been associated with a 38% lower odds of 30-day death after emergency abdominal surgery compared with the same operations performed at hospitals that didn't have a checklist. 
Can EMS Providers Provide Appropriate Tidal Volumes in a Simulated Adult-sized Patient with a Pediatric-sized Bag-Valve-Mask? [SEP] Underscoring the frequency and prominence of BVM use in the United States, the American Heart Association (AHA) Guidelines for Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiac Care recommend that "all healthcare providers should be familiar with the use of the bag-mask device." However, manual resuscitator devices also can be connected to a separate bag reservoir, which can be filled with pure oxygen from a compressed oxygen source, thus increasing the amount of oxygen delivered to the patient to nearly 100%.Bag valve masks come in different sizes to fit infants, children, and adults. In order to be effective, a bag valve mask must deliver between 500 and 600 milliliters of air to a normal male adult patient's lungs, but if supplemental oxygen is provided 400 ml may still be adequate. Squeezing the bag once every 5 to 6 seconds for an adult or once every 3 seconds for an infant or child provides an adequate respiratory rate (10–12 respirations per minute in an adult and 20 per minute in a child or infant).Professional rescuers are taught to ensure that the mask portion of the BVM is properly sealed around the patient's face (that is, to ensure proper "mask seal"); otherwise, pressure needed to force-inflate the lungs is released to the environment. Inability of professional providers to use manual resuscitators within established safety guidelines
Manual resuscitators have no built-in tidal volume control — the amount of air used to force-inflate the lungs during each breath depends entirely on how much the operator squeezes the bag. In response to the dangers associated with the use of manual resuscitators, specific guidelines from the American Heart Association and European Resuscitation Council were issued that specify recommended maximal tidal volumes (or breath sizes) and ventilation rates safe for patients. Another clinical study found "the tidal volume delivered by a manual resuscitator shows large variations", concluding that "the manual resuscitator is not a suitable device for accurate ventilation." A further examination has recently been made to assess whether a solution to the over-ventilation problem may lie with the use of pediatric-sized manual resuscitators in adults or use of more advanced flow-inflation (or "Mapleson C") versions of manual resuscitators: while "the paediatric self-inflating bag delivered the most guideline-consistent ventilation", it did not lead to full guideline compliance as "participants hyperventilated patients' lungs in simulated cardiac arrest with all three devices." 
Can students' scores on preclerkship clinical performance examinations predict that they will fail a senior clinical performance examination? [SEP] Prelim exams may pre-date the qualifying exam at some institutions, although some universities combine both concepts into one exam. Whilst they do not count towards a student's final degree classification, a very poor performance in prelims can result in disciplinary measures. Results from these prelims are used for provisional admission to a Singapore junior college, while those from the 'A' Level prelims are used to predict grades for the actual examination, which are often asked for by overseas university admission officers. It is generally accepted that the Prelim exams are set slightly above the standard of the final year exams in order to provide the students with a 'wake up call' whilst not having a serious impact on their long-term prospects. As a postgraduate high stakes assessment tool in Royal College examinations. As a formative assessment tool in undergraduate medical education. As a tool for the assessment of graduates seeking highstakes licensure and certification to practise medicine. As an educational tool to provide immediate feedback.Objective structured clinical examinations evaluate learners “showing how” to perform complex clinical tasks including those infrequently observed and those core to practice. 
Recovery Outcome Measures: Is There a Place for Culture, Attitudes, and Faith? [SEP] Journal of Ministry in Addiction & Recovery. "Experiences of addiction and recovery: The case for subjective accounts". Celebrate Recovery is an American Christian twelve-step program designed to facilitate recovery from a wide variety of troubling behavior patterns. Programs
Celebrate Recovery is a recovery program aimed at all "hurts, habits, and hang-ups", including but not exclusive to: high anxiety; co-dependency; compulsive behaviors; sex addiction; financial dysfunction; drug and alcohol addictions; and eating disorders. A study of Celebrate Recovery participants published in 2011 by the Journal of Religion and Health, found that levels of spirituality were associated with greater confidence to resist substance use. In a population of patients undergoing rehabilitation, it appears that "the BMMRS assesses distinct positive and negative aspects of religiousness and spirituality that may be best conceptualized... as... (a) Spiritual Experiences... (b) Religious Practices... (c) Congregational Support; and (d) Forgiveness" (p. 146). Multidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research: A Report of the Fetzer Institute / National Institute on Aging Working Group (1st ed.). Multidimensional Measurement of Religiousness/Spirituality for Use in Health Research: A Report of the Fetzer Institute / National Institute on Aging Working Group (2nd ed.). 
Can surgeon familiarization with current evidence lead to a change in practice? [SEP] Evidence-based practices have been gaining ground since the formal introduction of evidence-based medicine in 1992 and have spread to the allied health professions, education, management, law, public policy, architecture, and other fields. The movement towards evidence-based practices attempts to encourage and, in some instances, require professionals and other decision-makers to pay more attention to evidence to inform their decision-making. It is now expected by most clients that medical professionals should make decisions based on evidence, and stay informed about the most up-to-date information. Since the widespread adoption of evidence-based practices in medicine, the use of evidence-based practices has rapidly spread to other fields.More recently, there has been a push for evidence-based education. Use of the term rapidly expanded to include a previously described approach that emphasized the use of evidence in the design of guidelines and policies that apply to groups of patients and populations ("evidence-based practice policies").Whether applied to medical education, decisions about individuals, guidelines and policies applied to populations, or administration of health services in general, evidence-based medicine advocates that to the greatest extent possible, decisions and policies should be based on evidence, not just the beliefs of practitioners, experts, or administrators. But, instead of clinical trials producing a different result, it is about changes in theory or the current understanding of a disease. Surgical Innovation is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers in the field of surgery. It aims to help surgeons learn new techniques, understand and adapt to new technologies, maintain surgical competencies, and apply surgical outcomes data to their practices. 
Advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma in Thai women: should we continue to offer second-look laparotomy? [SEP] Surface epithelial-stromal tumors are a class of ovarian neoplasms that may be benign or malignant. Tumors of this type are also called ovarian adenocarcinoma. This group of tumors accounts for 90% to 95% of all cases of ovarian cancer; however is mainly only found in postmenopausal women with the exception of the United States where 7% of cases occur in women under the age of 40. 75% of women with epithelial ovarian cancer are found within the advanced-stages; however younger patients are more likely to have better prognoses than older patients. Screening
As ovarian cancer is rarely symptomatic until an advanced stage, regular pre-emptive screening is a particularly important tool for avoiding the late stage at which most patients present. Clinical Ovarian Cancer & Other Gynecologic Malignancies was a peer-reviewed medical journal published by Elsevier. Prognosis
These tumours do better than other types of epithelial tumours of the ovary. Papillary serous cystadenocarcinomas are the most common form of malignant ovarian cancer making up 26 percent of ovarian tumours in women aged over 20 in the United States.As with most ovarian tumours, due to the lack of early signs of disease these tumours can be large when discovered and have often metastasized, often by spreading along the peritoneum. 
Is high-sensitivity C-reactive protein associated with carotid atherosclerosis in healthy Koreans? [SEP] Cardiovascular disease
Recent research suggests that patients with elevated basal levels of CRP are at an increased risk of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Although one group of researchers indicated that CRP may be only a moderate risk factor for cardiovascular disease, this study (known as the Reykjavik Study) was found to have some problems for this type of analysis related to the characteristics of the population studied, and there was an extremely long follow-up time, which may have attenuated the association between CRP and future outcomes. CRP is a general marker for inflammation and infection, so it can be used as a very rough proxy for heart disease risk. Nevertheless, a level above 2.4 mg/L has been associated with a doubled risk of a coronary event compared to levels below 1 mg/L; however, the study group in this case consisted of patients who had been diagnosed with unstable angina pectoris; whether elevated CRP has any predictive value of acute coronary events in the general population of all age ranges remains unclear. Currently, C-reactive protein is not recommended as a cardiovascular disease screening test for average-risk adults without symptoms.The American Heart Association and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have defined risk groups as follows:
Low Risk: less than 1.0 mg/L
Average risk: 1.0 to 3.0 mg/L
High risk: above 3.0 mg/LBut hs-CRP is not to be used alone and should be combined with elevated levels of cholesterol, LDL-C, triglycerides, and glucose level. CRP level is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic disease. Elevated levels of CRP appear to be associated with common comorbidities including cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and interstitial lung (pulmonary) disease. Additional images
References
External links
MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: C-reactive protein
Inflammation, Heart Disease and Stroke: The Role of C-Reactive Protein (American Heart Association)
C-Reactive+Protein at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
CRP: analyte monograph - The Association for Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory Medicine
George Vrousgos, N.D. - Southern Cross University Archived 2020-02-18 at the Wayback Machine
Human CRP genome location and CRP gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. 
Validation of the 2009 TNM version in a large multi-institutional cohort of patients treated for renal cell carcinoma: are further improvements needed? [SEP] The TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors (TNM) is a globally recognised standard for classifying the anatomical extent of the spread of malignant tumours (cancer). Most common tumors have their own TNM classification. TNM was developed and is maintained by the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC). TNM is a notation system that describes the stage of a cancer, which originates from a solid tumor, using alphanumeric codes:

T describes the size of the original (primary) tumor and whether it has invaded nearby tissue,
N describes nearby (regional) lymph nodes that are involved,
M describes distant metastasis (spread of cancer from one part of the body to another).The TNM staging system for all solid tumors was devised by Pierre Denoix between 1943 and 1952, using the size and extension of the primary tumor, its lymphatic involvement, and the presence of metastases to classify the progression of cancer. General outline
The TNM classification comprises staging algorithms for almost all cancers, with the primary exception of pediatric cancers. Essential TNM
Essential TNM is a simplified form of TNM designed specifically to enable cancer registries in low and middle income countries to collect stage information when complete details of the extent of disease are not available for collection by the registry. Schwartz; D. Sargent; R. Ford; J. Dancey; S. Arbuck; S. Gwyther; M. Mooney; L. Rubinstein; L. Shankar; L. Dodd; R. Kaplan; D. Lacombe; J. Verweij (2009), "New response evaluation criteria in solid tumours: Revised RECIST guideline (version 1.1)", European Journal of Cancer, 45 (2): 228–247, doi:10.1016/j.ejca.2008.10.026, PMID 19097774

Citation / External links
RECIST article published in JNCI
Guidelines and information from European Organization for Research and Treatment in Cancer
Eur J Cancer. New response evaluation criteria in solid tumours: revised RECIST guideline (version 1.1).Guidelines (version 1.1)
Full presentation of newer guideline (14.7 MB; .pdf) 
Are interstitial fluid concentrations of meropenem equivalent to plasma concentrations in critically ill patients receiving continuous renal replacement therapy? [SEP] In pharmacology, augmented renal clearance (ARC) is a phenomenon where certain critically ill patients may display increased clearance of a medication through the kidneys. Augmented renal clearance can be caused by increased fluid administration, certain medications, and critical illnesses. Activation of this "reserve" or extra-renal function has been suggested as a potential mechanism for ARC in severe illness.The administration of medications which increase blood flow to the kidneys has also been considered a potential cause of ARC, including administration of fluids. While medications may increase renal clearance, many patients with severe illness have higher clearance prior to the initiation of these medications. People taking a stable dose of levetiracetam at home may require an increased dose when critically ill in a hospital to maintain efficacy. Epidemiology
Augmented renal clearance can occur in many critical care instances, but is common when patients are administered large quantities of fluid replacement, as is common in an intensive care unit. In prerenal injury, urea increases disproportionately to creatinine due to enhanced proximal tubular reabsorption that follows the enhanced transport of sodium and water. Consistent with the principle that higher antibody content in convalescent plasma results in improved efficacy, a subsequent study demonstrated that transfusion of convalescent plasma containing a high MERS-CoV neutralizing antibody titer resulted in detectable concentrations of antibodies in the blood of the recipient (seroconversion). 
Does Sensation Return to the Nasal Tip After Microfat Grafting? [SEP] Septoplasty [ˈsɛp.toˌplæ.sti]
(Etymology: L, saeptum, septum; Gk, πλάσσειν plassein – to shape), or alternatively submucous septal resection and septal reconstruction, is a corrective surgical procedure done to straighten a deviated nasal septum – the nasal septum being the partition between the two nasal cavities. Post-operation
Unless there are unusual complications, there is no swelling or discoloration of the external nose or face with septoplasty alone. The nasal tissues should mostly stabilize within 3-6 months post-surgery, although shifting is still possible for up to and over a year afterwards. Adhesions and synechiae between septal mucosa and lateral nasal wall. Saddle nose due to over-resection of the dorsal wall of the septal cartilage. Dropped nasal tip due to resection of the caudal margin. When properly applied, they lift and widen the space in the nasal passage. The nasal mucosa lines the nasal cavity. 
Do older men benefit from curative therapy of localized prostate cancer? [SEP] However, a recent retrospective study suggests that men under 60 with high grade prostate cancer have higher survival rates with surgery than with beam radiation. The management of localized prostate cancer is controversial and men with localized disease diagnosed today often undergo treatments with significant side effects that will not improve overall health outcomes. Thus, older men with a limited life expectancy, particularly if detected through screening, may not live long enough to be harmed by the cancer.The outcomes of men with moderately differentiated (Gleason scores 5–7) and poorly differentiated (Gleason scores 8–10) cancers managed without treatment (watchful waiting), was compared in the prostate cancer screening era (1992–2002) and pre prostate cancer screening era (prior to 1992). These functional declines in quality of life occur to a significantly greater extent among those that undergo treatment for prostate cancer as compared to a normative aging population without a diagnosis of prostate cancer, and symptom distress is more common among men with prostate cancer that are treated compared to those not treated. Even among the elderly, treatment rates for low risk prostate cancer are high; 59%, 36.6%, and 15.8% of patients age 75 and 79 years, 80 and 84 years, and more than or equal to 85 years were initially treated with radiation therapy in one study using Medicare data. These data highlight an important aspect of prostate cancer management; the unlikely probability that treatment will improve health outcomes for older men with low risk disease (stage T1c/T2a, and PSA below 10 ng/ml, and Gleason score 6).The PSA era Prostate Cancer Intervention versus Observation Trial (PIVOT), compared radical prostatectomy to watchful waiting among 731 men (mean age 67 years) with localized prostate cancer. Rates of prostate cancer rise with age. Such therapies could provide an advantage; particularly in treating prostate cancers that are resistant to current therapies. 
Pituitary apoplexy: do histological features influence the clinical presentation and outcome? [SEP] Pituitary apoplexy is bleeding into or impaired blood supply of the pituitary gland. Signs and symptoms
Acute symptoms
The initial symptoms of pituitary apoplexy are related to the increased pressure in and around the pituitary gland. Causes
Almost all cases of pituitary apoplexy arise from a pituitary adenoma, a benign tumor of the pituitary gland. It was previously thought that particular types of pituitary tumors were more prone to apoplexy than others, but this has not been confirmed. Diagnosis
It is recommended that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the pituitary gland is performed if the diagnosis is suspected; this has a sensitivity of over 90% for detecting pituitary apoplexy; it may demonstrate infarction (tissue damage due to a decreased blood supply) or hemorrhage. In pituitary apoplexy the results are typically normal, although abnormalities may be detected if blood from the pituitary has entered the subarachnoid space. Even in people with a known pituitary tumor, only 0.6–10% experience apoplexy; the risk is higher in larger tumors. Pituitary apoplexy, bleeding into or impaired blood supply of the pituitary gland. 
Do African American women require fewer calories to maintain weight? [SEP] A scientific panel for the Endocrine Society stated that "when calorie intake is held constant [...] body-fat accumulation does not appear to be affected by even very pronounced changes in the amount of fat vs carbohydrate in the diet." Contrary to the book's basic premise, weight reduction requires the reduction of caloric intake. Unfortunately, calories do count. By Any Greens Necessary: A Revolutionary Guide for Black Women Who Want to Eat Great, Get Healthy, Lose Weight, and Look Phat. The view of lighter skin tones as the ideal beauty standard are linked to colorism, which affects African Americans perceptions of themselves, with African women being disproportionately affected. Effects of beauty standards
Similar to other minority groups, African Americans have been subject to Western beauty ideals which portray slim body types as the standard to aspire to. There have been limited studies that show the effects of Western beauty ideals and the resulting eating disorders amongst African Americans. References
External links
Black Women's Health Study, Boston University 
Emergency double-balloon enteroscopy combined with real-time viewing of capsule endoscopy: a feasible combined approach in acute overt-obscure gastrointestinal bleeding? [SEP] Double-balloon enteroscopy, also known as push-and-pull enteroscopy, is an endoscopic technique for visualization of the small bowel. Indications
Double-balloon enteroscopy has found a niche application in the following settings:

Bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract of obscure cause
Iron deficiency anemia with normal colonoscopy and gastroscopy
Visualization and therapeutic intervention on abnormalities seen on traditional small bowel imaging
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in post-surgical patients with long afferent limbs

Advantages
Double-balloon enteroscopy offers a number of advantages to other small bowel image techniques, including barium imaging, wireless capsule endoscopy and push enteroscopy:

It allows for visualization of the entire small bowel to the terminal ileum. Disadvantages
The key disadvantage of double-balloon enteroscopy is the time required to visualize the small bowel; this can exceed three hours, and may require that patients be admitted to hospital for the procedure. With the advent of the newer forms of enteroscopy, such as the double-balloon type, visualizing the entire tract is finally a practical reality in at least some cases, although it is still technically demanding. The role of anoscopy and flexible sigmoidoscopy in inpatients with acute lower GI bleeding is limited, as most patients should undergo colonoscopy. Colonoscopy
Colonoscopy is the test of choice in the majority of patients with acute Lower GI bleeding as it can be both diagnostic and therapeutic. The diagnostic accuracy of colonoscopy in lower GI bleeding ranges from 48% to 90%, and urgent colonoscopy appears to increase diagnostic yield. "Diagnosis and management of acute lower gastrointestinal bleeding: guidelines from the British Society of Gastroenterology". 
Cardiopulmonary bypass temperature does not affect postoperative euthyroid sick syndrome? [SEP] It occurs when overactive thyroid activity leads to hypermetabolism, the end result being death from cardiac arrest or multiple organ failure.It is characterized by a high fever (temperatures often above 40 °C / 104 °F), fast and often irregular heart beat, elevated blood pressure, vomiting, diarrhea, and agitation. This endocrine pattern is referred to as euthyroid sick syndrome (ESS), non-thyroidal illness syndrome (NTIS) or thyroid allostasis in critical illness, tumours, uraemia and starvation (TACITUS). Postoperative fever refers to an elevated body temperature (≥ 38.5 °C) occurring after a recent surgical procedure. Cooling more than a few degrees was no longer needed for heart surgery. Cardiopulmonary bypass machines allow blood circulation and cooling to continue below the temperature at which the heart stops working. By cooling blood directly, cardiopulmonary bypass also cools people faster than surface cooling, even if the heart is not functioning. Temperatures used
Mild hypothermia (32 °C to 34 °C) and moderate hypothermia (26 °C to  31 °C) are contraindicated for hypothermic circulatory arrest because 100% and 75% of people respectively will not achieve electrocerebral silence in these temperature ranges. Post-operative hyperthermia is associated with adverse outcomes. 
Body dysmorphic disorder: does it have a psychotic subtype? [SEP] Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), occasionally still called dysmorphia, is a mental disorder characterized by the obsessive idea that some aspect of one's own body part or appearance is severely flawed and therefore warrants exceptional measures to hide or fix it. A subtype of body dysmorphic disorder is bigorexia (anorexia reverse or muscle dysphoria). On close observation of contemporary Western societies, there has been an increase in disorders such as Body dysmorphic disorder, arising from ideals around the aesthetic of the human body. Both eating and body dysmorphic disorders are concerned with physical appearance, but eating disorders tend to focus more on weight rather than one's general appearance.BDD is classified as an obsessive-compulsive disorder in DSM-5. Classifying it as a distinct somatoform disorder, the DSM-III's 1987 revision switched the term to body dysmorphic disorder.Published in 1994, DSM-IV defines BDD as a preoccupation with an imagined or trivial defect in appearance, a preoccupation causing social or occupational dysfunction, and not better explained as another disorder, such as anorexia nervosa. Muscle dysmorphia is a subtype of the obsessive mental disorder body dysmorphic disorder, but is often also grouped with eating disorders. In 2016, 50% of peer-reviewed articles on it had been published in the prior five years.Although muscle dysmorphia was initially viewed as anorexia nervosa's inverse—questing to be large and muscular instead of small and thin—later researchers fit the subjective experience to body dysmorphic disorder.The American Psychiatric Association recognized muscle dysmorphia with the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. This DSM-5, published in 2013, classifies it under body dysmorphic disorder. 
Does receipt of hospice care in nursing homes improve the management of pain at the end of life? [SEP] Hospice care is a type of health care that focuses on the palliation of a terminally ill patient's pain and symptoms and attending to their emotional and spiritual needs at the end of life. Hospice care prioritizes comfort and quality of life by reducing pain and suffering. In the United States, hospice care is a type and philosophy of end-of-life care which focuses on the palliation of a terminally ill patient's symptoms. Although an important part of end-of-life care, palliative care is not limited to individuals near the end of life.Evidence supports the efficacy of a palliative care approach in improvement of a person's quality of life. Evidence that palliative care services increase the likelihood of dying at home and reduce symptom burden without impacting on caregiver grief among the vast majority of Americans who prefer to die at home. Medications are often managed at home by family or nursing support.Palliative care interventions in care homes may contribute to lower discomfort for residents with dementia and to improve family members' views of the quality of care. However, higher quality research is needed to support the benefits of these interventions for older people dying in these facilities.High-certainty evidence supports the finding that implementation of home-based end-of-life care programs may increase the number of adults who will die at home and slightly improve patient satisfaction at a one-month follow-up. As aging populations put increasing pressure on existing resources, long-term palliative care for patients’ non-communicable, chronic conditions has emerged as a necessary approach to increase these patient’s quality of life, through prevention and relief by identifying, assessing, and treating the source of pain and other psychosocial and spiritual problems. 
Fulfilling human resources development goal in West Africa: can the training of ophthalmologist diplomates be improved? [SEP] Dr Dominique Négrel, Executive Director of the OPC, expert in ophthalmological public health and in the implementation of eye care structures, contributed greatly to the OPC's involvement in training health workers in ophthalmology. This is why the OPC works with its various partners in the creation, implementation, the follow-up and evaluation of sustainable programs that address the greatest number possible and allow:

The training of qualified and autonomous ophthalmological human resources at all levels: doctor, nurse, senior technician and community agent;
The dispensing/distribution of comprehensive eye care of excellent quality;
The administering of medical treatments to those in need;
The performing of early screening for eye diseases. The ophthalmologist currently working in this establishment has received a grant from IOTA (Institut d’Ophtalmologie Tropicale de l’Afrique -  African Institute of Tropical Ophthalmology) in order to undertake training to perfect his surgical capacities. Continuing Medical Training
Union of the Comoros
Two ophthalmologists have finished their training in Senegal and in Mali and have been placed in public health ophthalmic structures equipped by the OPC at the end of 2011. Diabetic retinopathy control: training health personnel, information media

Central African Republic
The OPC has been present in Central African Republic since 1994
2013 Results: 

25,000 consultations. Senegal
The OPC has been present in Senegal since 1980
2013 Results: 

Pursuing the efforts made to integrate primary eye healthcare in the Tambacounda region with an almost total independence from the national programme of blindness control (2013). The World Bank, the International Labour Organization (ILO), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the European Training Foundation (ETF), the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the G20, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have undertaken efforts to better understand and improve the skills of key populations, countries, and regions – prominently including people affected by poverty in lower-income countries. Azerbaijan

Converting Black Gold into Human Gold InitiativeBhutan

Ministry of Labour and Human ResourcesBotswana

National Human Resource Development Strategy - 2009Germany

Federal Institute for Vocational Education and TrainingGrenada

Ministry of Education and Human Resource DevelopmentIndia

Ministry of Human Resource DevelopmentJapan

Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare – Human Resources Development Measures OverviewKiribati 

Ministry of Labour and Human Resource DevelopmentMalaysia

Ministry of Human ResourcesMauritius

Human Resource Development Council of South AfricaPakistan

Ministry of Overseas Pakistanis & Human Resource DevelopmentSaint Lucia

Ministry of Education, Human Resource Development and LabourSouth Africa

Human Resource Development CouncilUnited States

State of Hawaii – Department of Human Resources Development
State of Montana – Human Resource Development Councils
National Science Foundation - Division of Human Resources Development

Further reading
Summary of major human resources development reports and resolutions at the United Nations

References
See also
Human resource management
International development
Human capital
Economic development
Industrial and organizational psychology 
Does binge drinking during early pregnancy increase the risk of psychomotor deficits? [SEP] Alcohol use at some point during pregnancy is common and appears to be rising in prevalence.Alcohol use during pregnancy has been associated with spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, low birthweight, and prematurity, along with a variety of birth defects and developmental abnormalities with ranging severity. Though these body systems complete their development later in the pregnancy, the effects of alcohol consumption early in the pregnancy can result in defects to these systems and organs. A large range of other developmental abnormalities are also associated with alcohol consumption during pregnancy, including an abnormal appearance, short height, low body weight, small head size, poor coordination, low intelligence, behavioral problems, hearing loss, and vision problems. Alcohol consumption in the first trimester of pregnancy, which is a crucial developmental stage of fetal growth, can have serious consequences. During the twelfth week, frequent alcohol exposure can negatively impact the brain development which affects cognitive, learning and behavioral skills before birth. Consumption of excessive alcohol can lead to Fetal Alcohol Syndrome which can produce irreversible lifetime changes in physical, mental and neurobehavioral development of the fetus. In addition, the developing fetal brain is also vulnerable, and fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) may result if pregnant mothers consume alcohol. Alcohol consumption during pregnancy is associated with brain insulin and insulin-like growth factor resistance. 
Does tranexamic acid reduce desmopressin-induced hyperfibrinolysis? [SEP] Tranexamic acid has roughly eight times the antifibrinolytic activity of an older analogue, ε-aminocaproic acid. Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic medication.Tranexamic acid was first made in 1962 by Japanese researchers Shosuke and Utako Okamoto. Tranexamic acid is used to prevent and treat blood loss in a variety of situations, such as dental procedures, heavy menstrual bleeding, and surgeries with high risk of blood loss. Trauma
Tranexamic acid has been found to decrease the risk of death due to any cause in people who have significant bleeding due to trauma. Death due to postpartum bleeding is reduced in women receiving tranexamic acid. Dentistry
In the United States, tranexamic acid is FDA approved for short-term use in people with severe bleeding disorders who are about to have dental surgery. Experimental uses
Tranexamic acid might alleviate neuroinflammation in some experimental settings.Tranexamic acid can be used in case of postpartum hemorrhage; it can decrease the risk of death due to bleeding by one third according to the WHO. Despite this, and the inhibitory effect of tranexamic acid on blood clot breakdown, large studies of the use of tranexamic acid have not shown an increase in the risk of venous or arterial thrombosis, even in people who had previously experienced thrombosis under other circumstances. 
Does ultrasound-scored synovitis depend on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous anti-TNF agents in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] Psoriatic arthritis
In psoriatic arthritis (PsA), inhibitors of TNF, such as infliximab, improve the signs and symptoms. The anti-TNF agents (infliximab and etanercept; level 1b, grade A) are more effective for the treatment of enthesitis than traditional agents. These differences may account for the differential actions of these drugs in both efficacy and side effects.Infliximab has high specificity for TNF-α, and does not neutralize TNF beta (TNFβ, also called lymphotoxin α), an unrelated cytokine that uses different receptors from TNF-α. Medical uses
Rheumatoid arthritis
The role of TNF as a key player in the development of rheumatoid arthritis was originally demonstrated by Kollias and colleagues in proof of principle studies in transgenic animal models.TNF levels have been shown to be raised in both the synovial fluid and synovium of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. This leads to local inflammation through the signalling of synovial cells to produce metalloproteinases and collagenase.Clinical application of anti-TNF drugs in rheumatoid arthritis was demonstrated by Marc Feldmann and Ravinder N. Maini, who won the 2003 Lasker Award for their work. There is some evidence that ultrasound is more effective than placebo treatment for treating patients with arthritis pain, a range of musculoskeletal injuries and for promoting tissue healing. They are absorbed primarily by connective tissue: ligaments, tendons, and fascia (and also by scar tissue).Conditions for which ultrasound may be used for treatment include the following examples: ligament sprains, muscle strains, tendonitis, joint inflammation, plantar fasciitis, metatarsalgia, facet irritation, impingement syndrome, bursitis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and scar tissue adhesion. The evidence demonstrated that therapeutic ultrasound significantly relieved pain, increases range of motion, and reduced WOMAC functional scores in patients with knee osteoarthritis when compared to the placebo group. 
Counter sampling combined with medical provider education: do they alter prescribing behavior? [SEP] The goal of academic detailing is to improve prescribing of targeted drugs to be consistent with medical evidence from randomized controlled trials, which ultimately improves patient care and can reduce health care costs. Though it is primarily used to affect prescribing, it is also used to educate providers regarding other non-drug interventions, such as screening guidelines. It can be difficult to decide if a clinical syndrome or a particular drug should be targeted for interventions and education.How to best  modify prescriber behavior has been the subject of controversy and research. PMPs are meant to help prevent adverse drug-related events such as opioid overdoses, drug diversion, and substance abuse by decreasing the amount and/or frequency of opioid prescribing, and by identifying those patients who are obtaining prescriptions from multiple providers (i.e., "doctor shopping") or those physicians overprescribing opioids.Most US health care workers support the idea of PMPs, which intend to assist physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, dentists and other prescribers, the pharmacists, chemists and support staff of dispensing establishments. “doctor shopping”) and reducing diversion of controlled substances. Physicians who undergo continuing medical education courses can oftentimes be subject to bias due to pharmaceutical companies and healthcare corporations promoting products throughout the course. This can create poor outcomes for patients, who are oftentimes subject to physician bias and potentially detrimental effects. He founded one of the largest programs using health care utilization data to track medication use and outcomes, and invented the practice of "academic detailing" in which pharmacists, nurses, and physicians educate doctors about cost-effective prescribing practices using the same tactics that drug companies employ to market their products. 
Global Longitudinal Pathway: has medical education curriculum influenced medical students' skills and attitudes toward culturally diverse populations? [SEP] In 2002, cultural competence in health care emerged as a field and has been increasingly embedded into medical education curricula and taught in health settings around the world since then. It is utterly important to educate physicians to be culturally competent so that they can effectively treat patients of different cultural and ethnic backgrounds. Studies stress culturally sensitive training and education programs in healthcare settings that will impart to physicians how culture can affect healthcare treatment. Additionally, when interacting with patients of different cultures, specifically East Asian culture, it is important to “bridge the health care system with more traditional Eastern medical care… entail[ing] education for health professionals as part of a broader curriculum on providing culturally competent care.”  Within western healthcare, there are also large amounts of inaccuracies and misperceptions of health risks for different minority groups, which could be addressed through further linguistically and culturally appropriate health education.Implicit bias aimed towards certain races or ethnicities is frequent in the healthcare field, specifically in the United States, commonly with Black Americans, Hispanic Americans, and American Indians. Medical education
The critical importance of training medical students to be future culturally competent physicians has been recognized by accrediting bodies such as the Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) and the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) and other medical organizations such as American Medical Association (AMA) and the Institute of Medicine (IOM). The cultural competence curriculum is intended to improve the interaction between patients and physicians and to assure that students will possess the knowledge, skills, and attitudes that enable them to provide high quality and culturally competent care to patients and their families as well as the general medical community.A "visual intervention" was completed to educate healthcare professionals on the dangers of subconscious discrimination toward minority groups in order to lessen the common discrimination certain races or ethnicities face in a healthcare setting. Cultural Competence and Global Health: Perspectives for Medical Education – Position paper of the GMA Committee on Cultural Competence and Global Health 2018

See also
Community-based participatory research
Culturally relevant teaching
Ethnocentrism
Global health
Health status of Asian Americans
Health system
Intercultural competence
Medical ethics
Purnell Model for Cultural Competence

References
49. [3]
Cultural Competence Education for Students in Medicine and Public Health - Report of an AAMC and AAPH Expert Panel
[4]

External links
www.structuralcompetency.org
Nashville Post - The Case For Structural Competency 
Failed IUD insertions in community practice: an under-recognized problem? [SEP] The use of intrauterine lidocaine (paracervical block) is underutilized in the United States as an effective method to reduce pain associated with insertion.IUD insertion can occur at multiple timepoints in a woman's reproductive lifespan:

interval insertion, the most common, occurs remote from pregnancy;
post-abortion or post-miscarriage insertion occurs following an abortion or miscarriage when the uterus is known to be empty;
postpartum insertion occurs after a woman gives birth either immediately, while the woman is still in the hospital, or delayed, up to 6-weeks following delivery, following either vaginal delivery or cesarean delivery. Insertion timing changes the risk of IUD expulsion. Procedure
During the insertion procedure, health care providers use a speculum to find the cervix (the opening to the uterus), pinch the cervix to stabilize it open with a tenaculum, and then use an insertion device to place the IUD in the uterus. It is recommended to consult an obstetrician/gynecologist, who has the equipment to properly insert the IUD and check that it does not move during the months following insertion. The same is likely the case for virgin women, unless there is a microperforate hymen that obstructs any insertion of the IUD. Insertion
The copper IUD must be inserted by a qualified medical practitioner. It is recommended to consult an obstetrician/gynecologist, who has the equipment to properly insert the IUD and check that it does not move during the months following insertion. The typical use failure rates of IUDs and implants, less than 1% per year, are about the same as perfect use failure rates.LARCS are convenient, enjoyable and cost effective. 
Type II supracondylar humerus fractures: can some be treated nonoperatively? [SEP] A supracondylar humerus fracture is a fracture of the distal humerus just above the elbow joint. Mechanism
Extension type of supracondylar humerus fractures typically result from a fall on to an outstretched hand, usually leading to a forced hyperextension of the elbow. Classification
Management
Treatment options for supracondyl humerus fractures vary depending if the bone is displaced (out of position) or not displaced (see classification section above). All Type IV fractures of supracondylar humerus are unstable; therefore, requires percutaneous pinning. Epidemiology
Supracondylar humerus fractures is commonly found in children between 5 and 7 years (90% of the cases), after the clavicle and forearm fractures. "Advantages and disadvantages of the prone position in the surgical treatment of supracondylar humerus fractures in children. "Supracondylar Fractures of the Humerus in Children". Distal humeral fractures are a group of humerus fracture which includes supracondylar fractures, single condyle fractures, bi-column fractures and coronal shear fractures. 
The promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: are they worth the price? [SEP] Specialty drugs or specialty pharmaceuticals are a recent designation of pharmaceuticals that are classified as high-cost, high complexity and/or high touch. By 2015 "specialty medications accounted for one-third of all spending on drugs in the United States, up from 19 percent in 2004 and heading toward 50 percent in the next 10 years", according to IMS Health, which tracks prescriptions. Specialty pharmaceuticals are defined as "high-cost oral or injectable medications used to treat complex chronic conditions". The price of specialty drugs compared to non-specialty drugs is very high, "more than $1,000 per 30-day supply".Specialty drugs cover over forty therapeutic categories and special disease states with over 500 drugs.Vogenberg claims that there is no standard definition of a specialty drug which is one of the reasons they are difficult to manage. While specialty medications represent only 1% of all U.S. prescriptions, these medications represented 31.8% of all 2014 drug spend – an increase from 27.7% in 2013." By 2015 "specialty medications account for one-third of all spending on drugs in the United States, up from 19 percent in 2004 and heading toward 50 percent in the next 10 years, according to IMS Health, which tracks prescriptions". Specialty pharmacy refers to distribution channels designed to handle specialty drugs — pharmaceutical therapies that are either high cost, high complexity and/or high touch. By 2008 there were more than 200 specialty pharmaceuticals on the market.By 2014 CVS Caremark, Express Scripts and Walgreens represented more than 50% of the specialty drug market in the United States. 
Does invasive diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia during off-hours delay treatment? [SEP] Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) or nosocomial pneumonia refers to any pneumonia contracted by a patient in a hospital at least 48–72 hours after being admitted. It is usually caused by a bacterial infection, rather than a virus.Hospital acquired pneumonia is the second most common nosocomial infection (after urinary tract infections) and accounts for 15–20% of the total. Definition
Healthcare-associated pneumonia can be defined as pneumonia in a patient with at least one of the following risk factors:

hospitalization in an acute care hospital for two or more days in the last 90 days;
residence in a nursing home or long-term care facility in the last 30 days
receiving outpatient intravenous therapy (like antibiotics or chemotherapy) within the past 30 days
receiving home wound care within the past 30 days
attending a hospital clinic or dialysis center in the last 30 days
having a family member with known multi-drug resistant pathogens

Causes
In some studies, the bacteria found in patients with HCAP were more similar to HAP than to CAP; compared to CAP, they could have higher rates of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and less Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae. In patients with an early onset pneumonia (within 5 days of hospitalization), they are usually due to anti microbial-sensitive bacteria such as Enterobacter spp, E. coli, Klebsiella spp, Proteus spp, Serratia mare scans, community pathogens such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and methicillin-sensitive S. aureus should also be considered. Morrow L. Critical Decisions for the Treatment of Health-care-Associated Pneumonia in the ICU. External links
Hospital-Acquired, Health Care Associated, and Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia from the Cleveland Clinic
Cecil Textbook of Medicine External links
Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society Consensus Guidelines on the Management of Community-Acquired Pneumonia in Adults PDF Management of Community-Acquired Pneumonia. 
Undescended testes: does age at orchiopexy affect survival of the testis? [SEP] Undescended testes are associated with reduced fertility, increased risk of testicular germ-cell tumors, and psychological problems when fully-grown. Without intervention, an undescended testicle will usually descend during the first year of life, but to reduce these risks, undescended testes can be brought into the scrotum in infancy by a surgical procedure called an orchiopexy.Although cryptorchidism nearly always refers to congenital absence or maldescent, a testis observed in the scrotum in early infancy can occasionally "reascend" (move back up) into the inguinal canal. Signs and symptoms
Infertility
Many men who were born with undescended testes have reduced fertility, even after orchiopexy in infancy. Cancer risk
One of the strongest arguments for early orchiopexy is reducing the risk of testicular cancer. Even after orchiopexy, these may also affect sperm maturation and motility at an older age. While orchiopexy typically describes the operation to surgically correct an undescended testicle, it is also used to resolve testicular torsion. The cause is unknown, with a small percentage associated with developmental abnormalities or chromosomal aberrations.Early orchiopexy reduces the risks for cancer and sterility in males with cryptorchidism, or undescended testes.Cryptorchidism is definitively diagnosed after 1 year of age, as testicular descent may occur after birth. There are multiple different orchiopexy techniques used to correct an undescended testicle due to the large variation in location where the testes may present. 
Do lipids, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking confer equal risk of myocardial infarction in women as in men? [SEP] Cardiovascular disease in women is an integral area of research in the ongoing studies of women's health. Moreover, although certain factors traditionally associated with developing CVD include age, hypertension, smoking, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia and are similarly influential on women as on men, recent research has found additional risks that should be added to this list as non-traditional or emerging factors. Women generally develop angina and are less likely to present with myocardial infarction at the onset of cardiovascular diseases. Women who smoke face up to a 25% increased risk of developing CAD compared to their male counterparts, with studies showing that reduction in smoking decreased the incidence of CAD in women by 13%. Women with type I diabetes were found to be twice as likely to experience adverse cardiovascular events when compared to men with the same disease, but were less likely to receive aggressive treatment to control modifiable risk factors. Women with Type II diabetes are also at greater risk than men with the same condition despite similar glycemic control. Studies have also shown that women with SLE are at least nine times more likely to experience a myocardial infarction when compared to the general population, with some estimates showing a 50-fold increase in risk. Final follow-up experience of 8 1/2 years
Sex/Gender Differences in Cardiovascular Disease Prevention What a Difference a Decade Makes
Women & Cardiovascular Diseases 
Does family practice at residency teaching sites reflect community practice? [SEP] Community practice also known as macro practice or community work is a branch of social work in the United States that focuses on larger social systems and social change, and is tied to the historical roots of United States social work. However, community practice may also utilize alternative spaces. In 1985, it contracted with Bronx-Lebanon Hospital to re-organize its outpatient department into a family practice center, and initiated its first residency training program in family medicine. In 1994, the Institute developed a relationship with Beth Israel Medical Center, and began the Beth Israel Residency in Urban Family Practice,  opening the Phillips Family Practice to serve as the ambulatory care training site for those residents. Physicians who specialize in family medicine must successfully complete an accredited three or four year long family medicine residency in the United States in addition to their medical degree. The National Board of Examinations conducts family medicine residency programmes at the teaching hospitals that it accredits. They also receive field training at community health centres and clinics.The Medical Council of India permits accredited medical colleges (medical schools) to conduct a similar residency programme in family medicine. Family Practice is a peer-reviewed medical journal published by Oxford University Press dealing with matters of interest to general practitioners. 
Midwives' competence: is it affected by working in a rural location? [SEP] As of 2017, 15% of women live in rural areas, with many of them facing challenges such as having to travel far distances for healthcare as well as the potential to not have access to the necessary resources needed. This was probably dependent on the proximity of the midwife to the woman's house. Throughout the United States, many rural communities are faced with severe 
healthcare workforce shortage issues. Auxiliary Nurse Midwife/female Health Worker Students in India: Self-efficacy in Role Function Relative to Child Survival and Beliefs about Grassroot Development. Australians who live in rural and remote areas experience have poorer access to primary health care services than those living in metropolitan areas.Some challenges for delivering high quality primary health care services in rural and remote locations include the need for alternative models and approaches to delivering services. In medicine, rural health or rural medicine is the interdisciplinary study of health and health care delivery in rural environments. The concept of rural health incorporates many fields, including Wilderness medicine, geography, midwifery, nursing, sociology, economics, and telehealth or telemedicine.Research shows that the healthcare needs of individuals living in rural areas are different from those in urban areas, and rural areas often suffer from a lack of access to healthcare. "Health in rural and remote Australia: The first report of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare on rural health". 
The effective orifice area/patient aortic annulus area ratio: a better way to compare different bioprostheses? [SEP] Aortic valve area calculation is an indirect method of determining the area of the aortic valve (aortic valve area). The calculated aortic valve orifice area is currently one of the measures for evaluating the severity of aortic stenosis. A valve area of less than 1.0 cm2 is considered to be severe aortic stenosis.There are many ways to calculate the valve area of aortic stenosis. For interpretation of these values, the area is generally divided by the body surface area, to arrive at the patient's optimal aortic valve orifice area. In echocardiography the aortic valve area is calculated using the velocity time integral (VTI) which is the most accurate method and preferred. From these, it is easy to calculate the area (in cm2) of the aortic valve by simply dividing the LV stroke volume (in cm3) by the AV VTI (in cm) measured on the spectral Doppler display using continuous-wave Doppler.Stroke volume = 0.785(π/4) x Diameter2 x VTI of LVOT
Cross sectional area of LVOT = 0.785(π/4) x LVOT Diameter2
  
    
      
        
          
            Aortic Valve Area (in cm
          
          
            2
          
        
        
          )
        
        =
        
          
            
              
                
                  LVOT diameter
                
                
                  2
                
              
              ⋅
              0.78540
              ⋅
              
                LVOT VTI
              
            
            
              Aortic Valve VTI
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Aortic Valve Area (in cm}}^{2}{\text{)}}={{\text{LVOT diameter}}^{2}\cdot 0.78540\cdot {\text{LVOT VTI}} \over {\text{Aortic Valve VTI}}}}
  

The weakest aspect of this calculation is the variability in measurement of LVOT area, because it involves squaring the LVOT dimension. The resulting simplified formula is:

  
    
      
        
          
            Aortic Valve area (in cm
          
          
            2
          
        
        
          )
        
        ≈
        
          
            
              
                Cardiac Output
              
              (
              
                
                  litre
                  min
                
              
              )
            
            
              Peak to Peak Gradient (mmHg)
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Aortic Valve area (in cm}}^{2}{\text{)}}\approx {\frac {{\text{Cardiac Output}}({\frac {\text{litre}}{\text{min}}})}{\sqrt {\text{Peak to Peak Gradient (mmHg)}}}}}

The Agarwal-Okpara-Bao equation
The Agarwal-Okpara-Bao equation is a new form of AVA evaluation equation named after Ramesh K. Agarwal, Emmanuel c Okpara, and Guangyu Bao. "Mitral valve annuloplasty - A quantitative clinical and mechanical comparison of different annuloplasty devices". 
Evaluation of pediatric VCUG at an academic children's hospital: is the radiographic scout image necessary? [SEP] In urology, voiding cystourethrography (VCUG) is a frequently performed technique for visualizing a person's urethra and urinary bladder while the person urinates (voids). Uses
Some uses of this procedure are: to study the presence of vesicoureteric reflux, study of urethra during micturition, presence of bladder leak post surgery or trauma, and is used in urodynamic testing to assess urinary incontinence.Indications for performing VCUG:

All males with recurrent UTIs (urinary tract infections) or abnormality on ultrasound if first UTI. External links
Official website
European Society of Paediatric Radiology
Society for Pediatric Radiology
Asian and Oceanic Society for Pediatric Radiology
Latin American Society of Pediatric Radiology (SLARP) This is one of the most essential elements to paediatric radiology. Challenges
Paediatric radiology comes with many challenges. Pediatric Emergency Care, Vol 26, No 4, 2010: 312-315, 2010 Children's Hospital of Richmond at VCU (CHoR) is a nationally ranked pediatric acute care children's hospital located within VCU Medical Center in Richmond, Virginia. Children's Hospital of Richmond features the only pediatric Level 1 Trauma Center in the region and the state.The hospital is rated as the second best children's hospital in Virginia on the 2020-21 U.S. News & World Report. 
Are endometrial polyps from pre-menopausal women similar to post-menopausal women? [SEP] Prognosis
Endometrial polyps are usually benign although some may be precancerous or cancerous. Although treatments such as hysteroscopy usually cure the polyp concerned, recurrence of endometrial polyps is frequent. Epidemiology
Endometrial polyps usually occur in women in their 40s and 50s. Endometrial polyps occur in up to 10% of women. Epidemiology
Cervical polyps are most common in women who have had children and perimenopausal women. See also
Endometrial polyp

References


== External links == This form of endometrial cancer is more common in postmenopausal women. In the UK, approximately 7,400 cases are diagnosed annually, and in the EU, approximately 88,000.Endometrial cancer appears most frequently during perimenopause (the period just before, just after, and during menopause), between the ages of 50 and 65; overall, 75% of endometrial cancer occurs after menopause. 
Does accompanying metabolic syndrome contribute to heart dimensions in hypertensive patients? [SEP] Metabolic syndrome (also known as the cardiometabolic syndrome) refers to a cluster of related risk factors for cardiovascular disease that includes abdominal obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and elevated cholesterol.Data from the World Health Organization suggests 65% of the world's population live in countries where being overweight or obese kills more people than being underweight. Background
Different definitions of the cardiometabolic syndrome have been proposed by different public health organizations, but recently the International Diabetes Federation (IDF), the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), the American Heart Association (AHA), and others proposed a definition for diagnosing the cardiometabolic syndrome that includes the presence of three out of the following five risk factors:
Fasting plasma glucose greater than or equal to 100 mg/dL, or undergoing drug treatment for elevated glucose
HDL cholesterol less than 40 mg/dL in men or less than 50 mg/dL in women, or undergoing drug treatment for reduced HDL cholesterol
Triglycerides greater than or equal to 150 mg/dL, or undergoing drug treatment for elevated triglycerides
Waist circumference greater than or equal to 102 cm (40 in) in men or 88 cm (35 in) in women (in the United States)
Blood pressure greater than or equal to 130 mm Hg systolic or 85 mm Hg diastolic, or undergoing drug treatment for hypertensionApproximately 40–46 percent of the world's adult population has the cluster of risk factors that is metabolic syndrome. In more recent years that figure has climbed to 34%.People with the cardiometabolic syndrome have twice the likelihood of developing and dying from cardiovascular disease, and more than seven times the risk of developing diabetes, compared to those with no cardiometabolic risk factors. One 25-year prospective study found that, compared with children without the syndrome, those with the metabolic syndrome are 14 times more likely to have cardiovascular disease and 11 times more likely to develop diabetes when they reach adulthood. Metabolic syndrome is associated with the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. Complications affecting the heart
Hypertensive heart disease is the result of structural and functional adaptations leading to left ventricular hypertrophy, diastolic dysfunction, CHF (Congestive Heart Failure), abnormalities of blood flow due to atherosclerotic coronary artery disease and microvascular disease, and cardiac arrhythmias. Hypertensive heart disease includes a number of complications of high blood pressure that affect the heart. Hypertension increases the risk of heart failure by two or three-fold  and probably accounts for about 25% of all cases of heart failure. 
The Prevalence of Incidentally Detected Idiopathic Misty Mesentery on Multidetector Computed Tomography: Can Obesity Be the Triggering Cause? [SEP] Examination of the mesentery may indicate a solitary mass, but diffuse mesentery thickening is common.It often mimics other abdominal diseases such as pancreatic or disseminated cancer. Diagnosis
In regards to the diagnosis of idiopathic sclerosing mesenteritis, a CT scan which creates cross-section pictures of the affected individuals body, can help in the assessment of the disease. “Misty mesentery” is often used to describe increase in mesenteric fat density in sclerosing mesenteritis. Epidemiology
The epidemiology of Idiopathic sclerosing mesenteritis disease is extremely rare and has only been diagnosed in about an estimated 300 patients worldwide to date (as of 2014), it is probably under diagnosed. While some coincidental findings may lead to beneficial diagnoses, others may lead to overdiagnosis that results in unnecessary testing and treatment, sometimes called the "cascade effect".Incidental findings are common in imaging. Adrenal
Incidental adrenal masses on imaging are common (0.6 to 1.3% of all abdominal CT). This rare, potentially life-threatening syndrome is typically caused by an angle of 6–25° between the AA and the SMA, in comparison to the normal range of 38–56°, due to a lack of retroperitoneal and visceral fat (mesenteric fat). CT scans) frequently find enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes (i.e. 
Are pediatric concussion patients compliant with discharge instructions? [SEP] 10-30% of children and adolescents have a higher risk of a delayed recovery or of experiencing concussion symptoms that persist.A medical assessment by a physician or nurse practitioner is required if a concussion is suspected in an infant, child, or adolescent to rule our a more serious head injury and diagnose the concussion. Diagnosis of pediatric concussion
All children and adolescents with suspected concussion require a medical assessment from a physician or nurse practitioner to accurately diagnose concussion and ensure that the child or adolescent does not have a more severe form of brain injury (TBI), an injury to their cervical spine, or other mental health or neurological conditions that may have similar symptoms to concussion. Treatment
Infants, adolescents and children suspected of having a concussion are recommended to seek immediate medical attention. Medication
Pharmacologic treatment at the present stage has been shown to be unable to speed the recovery of pediatric concussion; nevertheless, the medication can be prescribed to alleviate signs and symptoms of sleep disturbances, headaches, cognitive and emotional inflictions, of the injury. Prognosis
The majority of pediatric patients recover completely from concussion; some may experience prolonged recuperation. See also
Concussion
Pediatrics
Prevention of concussions


== References == Treatment
Adults and children with a suspected concussion require a medical assessment with a doctor or nurse practitioner to confirm the diagnosis of concussion and rule out more serious head injuries. Students with a suspected concussion are required to see a doctor for an initial medical assessment and for suggestions on recovery, however, medical clearance is not required for a student to return to school. 
Is the zeolite hemostatic agent beneficial in reducing blood loss during arterial injury? [SEP] In biology, hemostasis or haemostasis is a process to prevent and stop bleeding, meaning to keep blood within a damaged blood vessel (the opposite of hemostasis is hemorrhage). The damaged vessels will constrict (vasoconstrict) which reduces the amount of blood flow through the area and limits the amount of blood loss. If an individual acquires a large injury resulting in extreme blood loss, then a hemostatic agent alone would not be very effective. Medical professionals continue to debate on what the best ways are to assist a patient in a chronic state; however, it is universally accepted that hemostatic agents are the primary tool for smaller bleeding injuries.Some main types of hemostasis used in emergency medicine include:

Chemical/topical - This is a topical agent often used in surgery settings to stop bleeding. Soldiers use this skill during combat when someone has been injured because this process allows for blood loss to be decreased, giving the system time to start coagulation. History of artificial hemostasis
The process of preventing blood loss from a vessel or organ of the body is referred to as hemostasis. Applied during endoscopy to bleeding lesions, TC-325 is derived from bentonite, and is used to achieve hemostasis (control of bleeding) by absorbing water and creating a barrier that leads to mechanical tamponade (pressure) and concentration of clotting factors, resulting in enhanced coagulation (clotting of blood). It has been shown to reduce bleeding time and blood loss from wounds. 
Treatment as prevention in resource-limited settings: is it feasible to maintain HIV viral load suppression over time? [SEP] HIV Prevention Trials Network clinical trial 052
Early work by Quinn in Uganda demonstrated that transmission was reduced by over 90% when people living with HIV were on treatment and virally suppressed. The study's purpose was to reveal that HIV-1 viral transmission can be prevented through treatment, leading many regions to incorporate a treatment as prevention plan into their public health policy for responding to HIV. Implementation
Treatment as prevention has been used as a form of controlling the spread of HIV since the mid-1990s, initially in the context of preventing the transmission of the virus from mothers to their children. Moving forward
Treatment as prevention has the ability to shift the paradigm of how HIV is received and treated. Others believe that this might be considered a long-term strategy in order to reduce the amount of HIV, and in some instances have proven to be successful. This has been shown to lead to dramatically reduced transmission of HIV when one partner with a suppressed viral load (<50 copies/ml) has sex with a partner who is HIV negative. By treating acutely infected patients, it is presumed that it could have a significant impact on decreasing overall HIV transmission rates since lower viral loads are associated with lower risk of transmission (See section on treatment as prevention). The study suggests that maintenance of HIV and AIDS should go beyond the suppression of viral load and the prevention of opportunistic infection. 
Are octogenarians at high risk for carotid endarterectomy? [SEP] Carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure used to reduce the risk of stroke from carotid artery stenosis (narrowing the internal carotid artery). Carotid endartectomy itself can cause strokes, so to be of benefit in preventing strokes over time, the risks for combined 30-day mortality and stroke risk following surgery should be < 3% for asymptomatic people and ≤ 6% for symptomatic people. It is controversial if carotid endarterectomy can improve cognitive function in some patients. Complications
The most feared complication of carotid endarterectomy is stroke. People deemed unfit for the operation by the surgeon or anesthesiologist due to comorbidities.High risk criteria for carotid endarterectomy include the following:

Age ≥80 years
Class III/IV congestive heart failure
Class III/IV angina pectoris
Left main or multi vessel coronary artery disease
Need for open heart surgery within 30 days
Left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤30%
Recent (≤30 days) heart attack
Severe lung disease or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Severe renal disease
High cervical (C2) or intrathoracic lesion
Prior radical neck surgery or radiation therapy
Contralateral carotid artery occlusion
Prior ipsilateral carotic endarterectomy. High risk factors for endarterectomy, which would favor stenting instead, include medical comorbidities (severe heart disease, heart failure, severe lung disease) and anatomic features (contralateral carotid occlusion, radiation therapy to the neck, prior ipsilateral carotid artery surgery, intra-thoracic or intracranial carotid disease) that would make surgery difficult and risky. Reasons to avoid
While rates of stroke and death after both surgery and stenting are low, rates of stroke and death after stenting may be higher than endartererectomy, particularly for transfemoral stenting in patients over age 70. An endarterectomy of the carotid artery in the neck is recommended to reduce the risk of stroke when the carotid artery is severely narrowed, particularly after a stroke to reduce the risk of additional strokes.Coronary endarterectomy involves removing atheroma from the wall of blocked blood vessels (coronary) supplying the heart muscle. 
Has the mammography quality standards act affected the mammography quality in North Carolina? [SEP] The Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) was enacted by the United States Congress to regulate the quality of care in mammography. The FDA explains MQSA:
The Mammography Quality Standards Act requires mammography facilities across the nation to meet uniform quality standards. Congress passed this law in 1992 to assure high-quality mammography for early breast cancer detection, which can lead to early treatment, a range of treatment options leading to an increased chance of survival. History
In a nationwide survey of mammography facilities conducted in 1985, called Nationwide Evaluation of X-ray Trends (NEXT), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration found 36 percent to be producing mammographic images of unacceptable quality. The American College of Radiology responded by initiating a voluntary accreditation program for these facilities in August 1987 and found that 30 percent of facilities failed on their first application for accreditation.Evidence from a 1990 General Accounting Office (GAO) study showed that many mammography providers lacked adequate quality assurance programs. In 1992, hearings held by the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources found numerous quality issues in the field of mammography.Congress enacted the MQSA on October 7, 1992. The act became effective October 1, 1994, and requires all mammography facilities to meet quality standards as promulgated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Effects on patients
MQSA is intended to maintain high quality mammography in the United States and its territories. 
Do hospitals provide lower quality care on weekends? [SEP] Higher mortality rates were seen in patients admitted to hospital at weekends [OR = 1.11; 95% CI 1.06-1.17; p<0.0001], in hospitals with fewer general surgical doctors [OR = 1.07; 95% CI 1.01-1.13; p=0.019] and with lower nursing staff ratios [OR = 1.0; 95% CI 1.01-1.13; p=0.024]. Compared with patients admitted on weekends, patients admitted on weekdays had a lower 7-day mortality rate (OR = 0.89, 95% CI 0.87-0.91), 14-day mortality rate (OR = 0.92, 95% CI 0.90-0.93), and 28-day mortality rate (OR = 0.97, 95% CI 0.95-0.98). Mortality risk among patients admitted at weekends was higher than among those admitted on weekdays (OR = 1.10; 95% CI 1.08-1.11; p<0.0001). Patients admitted on weekends had a higher unadjusted 30-day mortality rate (11.1% vs 8.8%) than patients admitted on weekdays, with no difference in length of stay. More patients admitted on weekends died during hospitalisation or had poor outcome at discharge than weekday patients (15.9% and 59.8% vs. 14.1% and 55.3%, respectively). Compared with patients admitted on weekdays, patients admitted on weekends had lower mortality (OR = 0.94; 95% CI 0.89-0.99) and shorter mean hospital stay (estimate, 3.74%; 95% CI 3.40-4.08); but did not differ in risk of perioperative complications (OR = 1.00; 95% CI 0.98-1.02). it could be due to reduced health and social care availability (that the patient may be discharged into) at the weekend. It has long been argued that the weekend effect may be due to a lower quality of clinical services at the weekend. 
Screening History Among Women with Invasive Cervical Cancer in an Academic Medical Center: Will We Miss Cancers Following Updated Guidelines? [SEP] Cervical cancer screening is a medical screening test designed to identify abnormal, potentially precancerous cells within the cervix as well as cells that have progressed to early stages of cervical cancer. One goal of cervical screening is to allow for intervention and treatment so the abnormal lesions can be removed prior to progression to cancer. An additional goal is to decrease mortality from cervical cancer by identifying cancerous lesions in their early stages and providing treatment prior to progression to more invasive disease.Currently available screening tests fall into three categories: molecular, cytologic and visual inspection. In women over the age of 65, screening for cervical cancer may be discontinued in the absence of abnormal screening results within the prior 10 years and no history of high-grade lesions. 2018

On 26 April 2018, the HSE confirmed that 206 women developed cervical cancer after having a screening test which was subsequently deemed to be potentially inaccurate on lookback, once a woman presented with a confirmed diagnosis of Cervical Cancer and given the known limitations of screening using smear technology. On 26 April 2018 the HSE confirmed that 206 women had developed cervical cancer after having a misdiagnosed CervicalCheck smear test. Cervical cancer usually takes time to develop, so delaying the start of screening a few years poses little risk of missing a potentially precancerous lesion. Cervical cancer staging is the assessment of cervical cancer to determine the extent of the disease. 
Oral mucocele/ranula: Another human immunodeficiency virus-related salivary gland disease? [SEP] A ranula is a mucus extravasation cyst involving a sublingual gland and is a type of mucocele found on the floor of the mouth. Ranulae present as a swelling of connective tissue consisting of collected mucin from a ruptured salivary gland caused by local trauma. The lesion is a mucous extravasation cyst (mucocele) of the floor of mouth, although a ranula is often larger than other mucoceles (mainly because the overlying mucosa is thicker). Classification
A ranula is a type of mucocele, and therefore could be classified as a disorder of the salivary glands. When found on the floor of the mouth, the mucocele is referred to as a ranula. Human immunodeficiency virus-associated salivary gland disease (HIV-SGD). Ranula is a mucocele under the tongue. Ranulas may be larger than mucoceles at other sites; they are usually associated with the sublingual gland, and less often they arise from the submandibular gland or a minor salivary gland. 
Is there an increase in the incidence of gbs carrier rates among pregnant women in northern Israel? [SEP] In pregnancy, there is an increased susceptibility and/or severity of several infectious diseases. Examples
Pregnant women are more severely affected by influenza, hepatitis E, herpes simplex and malaria. Also, recurrences of herpes genitalis increase in
frequency during pregnancy.The risk of severe malaria by Plasmodium falciparum is three times as high in pregnant women, with a median maternal mortality of 40% reported in studies in the Asia–Pacific region. Limited data suggest that malaria caused by Plasmodium vivax is also more severe during pregnancy.Severe and disseminated coccidioidomycosis has been reported to occur in increased frequency in pregnant women in several reports and case series, but subsequent large surveys, with the overall risk being rather low.Varicella occurs at an increased rate during pregnancy, but mortality is not higher than that among men and non-pregnant women.Listeriosis mostly occurs during the third trimester, with Hispanic women appearing to be at particular risk. According to government data, in Israel, abortion rates in 2016 dropped steadily to 9 per 1,000 women of childbearing age, lower than England (16.2) and the United States (13.2). About 20,000 abortions take place in Israel every year, with the figure remaining steady, despite a substantial increase in the population. As a result, following delivery, the immune system rebounds causing levels of thyroids antibodies to rise in susceptible women.Specifically, the immunohistological features of susceptible women are indicated by:
antibodies to thyroglobulin (TgAb)
antibodies to thyroid peroxidase (TPOAb)
increase in TPOAb subclasses IgG1-IgG3
lymphocyte infiltration and follicle formation within thyroid gland (Hashimoto's thyroiditis)
T-cell changes (increased CD4:CD8 ratio)
TSH-receptor antibodies (TSH-R Abs)

Diagnosis
This condition is commonly undiagnosed by physicians due to either unfamiliarity with the disease, the subtlety of symptoms, or the attribution of the symptoms to the stresses of having a newborn. Anatomical defect in the mother
Amniocentesis
Chorionic villus sampling
Age >30
Smoking and exposure tobacco smoke
Obesity
Diabetes
Thyroid disorders (e.g. 
Does a dedicated discharge coordinator improve the quality of hospital discharge? [SEP] While many time frames have been used historically, the most common time frame is within 30 days of discharge, and this is what CMS uses. The time frame was set at 30 days because readmissions during this time can be influenced by the quality of care received at the hospital and how well discharges were coordinated. If a patient is readmitted on the same day of discharge, that is considered a single continuous admission, unless the readmitting diagnosis differs from the diagnosis for the index admission, in which case it is a readmission. They must start the transition no later than 24 hours after the patient is discharged, provide timely, culturally, and linguistically accurate education to the patient, provide support specific to the patient's condition, review and manage the medication for the patient, or provide a timely interaction between post-care providers and outpatient services . The intentions of the IAH are to use mobile teams of physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, social workers, and others to aid in the treatment of chronically ill Medicare patients at their homes. By using mobile teams with electronic information technology, the IAH can improve coordinated healthcare and allow for chronically ill patients to be seen as often as needed. Coordinated Specialty Care (CSC) is a recovery-oriented treatment program designed for people with first episode psychosis (FEP). OnTrackNY offers skill building focused recovery review sessions, engagement in safety and overall wellness planning, and ensures that clients and their support system have access to services that they need. 
Can dobutamine stress echocardiography induce cardiac troponin elevation? [SEP] Some centers use inotrope dobutamine to stress the heart and the images are interpreted in a similar fashion to dobutamine stress echocardiogram. Other conditions that directly or indirectly lead to heart muscle damage and death can also increase troponin levels, such as kidney failure. Severe tachycardia (for example due to supraventricular tachycardia) in an individual with normal coronary arteries can also lead to increased troponins for example, it is presumed due to increased oxygen demand and inadequate supply to the heart muscle.Troponins are also increased in patients with heart failure, where they also predict mortality and ventricular rhythm abnormalities. Troponins can also indicate several forms of cardiomyopathy, such as dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or (left) ventricular hypertrophy, peripartum cardiomyopathy, Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, or infiltrative disorders such as cardiac amyloidosis.Heart injury with increased troponins also occurs in cardiac contusion, defibrillation and internal or external cardioversion. Cardiac injury occurs in about one-third of severe CO poisoning cases, and troponin screening is appropriate in these patients.In both primary pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary embolism, and acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), right ventricular strain results in increased wall tension and may cause ischemia. In hypertensive disorders of pregnancy such as preeclampsia, elevated troponin levels indicate some degree of myofibrillary damage.Cardiac troponin T and I can be used to monitor drug and toxin-induced cardiomyocyte toxicity. Stress echocardiography
A stress test may be accompanied by echocardiography. A resting echocardiogram is obtained prior to stress. 
Cigarettes and cinema: does parental restriction of R-rated movie viewing reduce adolescent smoking susceptibility? [SEP] An examination of parental influences found that youth whose parents smoked cigarettes had a greater likelihood of smoking cigarettes, and this effect increased with the number of smoking parents in the home. One study examining adolescents’ perceptions of smoking in the media found that students are more likely to identify with the stress-relieving and pleasurable effects of cigarette smoking, even when they are aware of the negative consequences of smoking. An additional study found that adolescents who were exposed to movies with a large amount of smoking were nearly three times as likely to experiment with or become regular smokers. Tobacco brand appearance in R-rated movies decreased by 55.4%, however, PG-13 movies only decreased from 15% to 11.8%. E-cigarette television advertisements could be attracting previous tobacco users to use a traditional cigarette.As a result of the large-scale marketing, e-cigarettes gained widespread pervasiveness among all age groups, including vulnerable adolescents and youths populations. E-cigarettes are promoted on YouTube by movies with sexual material and music icons, who encourage minors to "take their freedom back." An analysis of e-cigarette retail websites, marketing, and promotional campaigns demonstrated frequent appeals to adolescents such as use by celebrities, feature cartoons, and enhanced social activity as well as sexual appeal. An article in The Kingston Daily Freeman stated that the film "reveals both the danger and the essential silliness of smoking".The Washington State Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction included Breaking the Habit in its list of prescribed films to be shown in schools to discourage smoking and creating awareness regarding medical issues caused by it. 
Are laboratories reporting serum quantitative hCG results correctly? [SEP] This makes it easy to see how far off the result was. The rules applied to high-volume chemistry and hematology instruments should produce low false rejection rates.The Levey–Jennings chart differs from the Shewhart individuals control chart because the standard deviation (σ, "sigma") is estimated. Analytical quality control, commonly shortened to AQC, refers to all those processes and procedures designed to ensure that the results of laboratory analysis are consistent, comparable, accurate and within specified limits of precision. Constituents submitted to the analytical laboratory must be accurately described to avoid faulty interpretations, approximations, or incorrect results. AQC is achieved through laboratory control of analytical performance. By monitoring the accuracy and precision of results, the quality assurance program should increase confidence in the reliability of the reported analytical results, thereby achieving adequate AQC. Both tests should accurately measure the purity of the sample. Equine chorionic gonadotropin (acronym given as eCG but not to be confused with ECG) is a gonadotropic hormone produced in the chorion of pregnant mares. 
Steroids in aminoglycoside-containing ear drops: do they reduce cochlear toxicity? [SEP] Aminoglycoside-induced production of reactive oxygen species may also injure cells of the cochlea. Once-daily dosing and co-administration of N-acetylcysteine may protect against aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity. The American Academy of Audiology includes in their position statement that exposure to noise at the same time as aminoglycosides may exacerbate ototoxicity. Antibiotic ear drops may cause ear discomfort, pain, or itching. Ear drops are usually used for a short duration of time. Antibiotic ear drops are generally safe and well-tolerated. Some studies have demonstrated that the addition of topical steroids to antibiotic ear drops provides quicker pain relief, but these results are conflicting. Antibiotic ear drops should be used as prescribed. 
Does having a regular primary care clinician improve quality of preventive care for young children? [SEP] Continuity is a key characteristic of primary care, as patients usually prefer to consult the same practitioner for routine check-ups and preventive care, health education, and every time they require an initial consultation about a new health problem. Primary care also includes many basic maternal and child health care services, such as family planning services and vaccinations. The success of the expansion of health insurance under the ACA in large measure depends on the availability of primary care physicians. According to the AAMC's November 2009 physician work force report, nationally, the rate of physicians providing primary care is 79.4 physicians per 100,000 residents.Primary healthcare results in better health outcomes, reduced health disparities, and lower spending, including on avoidable emergency department visits and hospital care. Primary care physicians also counsel and educate patients on safe health behaviors, self-care skills and treatment options, and provide screening tests and immunizations. Improving periodicity schedules can improve access to and utilization of child health services. By strengthening the linkages between primary health care providers and other child and family services, case management and care coordination can better ensure that children receive needed services on a timely basis. They provide accessible primary care preventive health services. 
Does performance in selection processes predict performance as a dental student? [SEP] According to American Dental Education Association, CDM is one of the most selective dental schools in the United States based on average DAT score, GPA, and acceptance rate. They allow the new dentist to further hone his or her skills in most of the traditionally defined disciplines of dentistry while at the same time increasing one's speed and refining one's techniques. Application process
Applications are generally filled out at the beginning of the senior year of dental school. Selection, training, cohesion and psychosocial adaptation influence performance and, as such, are relevant factors to consider while preparing for costly, long-duration spaceflight missions in which the performance objectives will be demanding, endurance will be tested and success will be critical. The Melbourne Dental School is one of the graduate schools of the University of Melbourne. Research
The Melbourne Dental School has a strong tradition in dental research and an established international reputation in several research areas. This study was jointly funded by both the Dental Hygienists Association Australia and the Victorian Dental Oral Health Therapists Association. Admission to Case Dental School has an acceptance rate of 2.1%. 
Is it time to reconsider lobectomy in low-risk paediatric thyroid cancer? [SEP] Thyroid lobectomy alone may be sufficient treatment for small (<1 cm), low-risk, unifocal, intrathyroidal papillary carcinomas in the absence of prior head and neck irradiation or radiologically or clinically involved cervical nodal metastasis. Post-operative complications at high-volume thyroid surgery centers with experienced surgeons are comparable to that of hemithyroidectomy.Arguments for hemithyroidectomy:

Most patients have low-risk cancer with an excellent prognosis, with similar survival outcomes in low-risk patients who undergo total thyroidectomy versus hemithyroidectomy. Approximately 20 percent of patients will develop multiple tumors within the thyroid gland.There is ongoing discussion regarding the best management regarding the optimal surgical procedure for papillary thyroid cancer. Recent studies have examined a more conservative approach to surgery and have demonstrated that hemithyroidectomy may be acceptable for patients with low-risk papillary thyroid cancer with tumor size 1 cm to 4 cm with no presence of invasion to tissues surrounding the thyroid or metastasis. In light of this data, choosing the optimal course of surgical and medical management of papillary thyroid cancer should involve shared decision making from patient, endocrinologists, and surgeons. Medical Guidelines for Clinical Practice for the Diagnosis and Management of Thyroid Nodules in 2018 (published by Japan Association of Endocrine Surgeons and the Japanese Society of Thyroid Surgery), actively recommends active surveillance for low-risk papillary thyroid microcarcinoma.Generally, the prognosis of clinical papillary thyroid cancer in patients aged 55 years or older is poorer than those in younger patients. Preoperative cytology with molecular analysis to help guide surgery for pediatric thyroid nodules. A review of 89 pediatric patients with thyroid nodules. 
Is an advance care planning model feasible in community palliative care? [SEP] Advance care planning is a process that enables individuals to make plans about their future health care. Participation in advance care planning has been shown to reduce stress and anxiety for patients and their families, and lead to improvements in end of life care. Advance care planning aims to allow people to live well, and when death approaches, die in accordance with their personal values. Results of a systematic review indicate there are several prognostic indicators to help identify patients who may benefit from advance care planning discussions while still in the primary care setting.Although ACP is potentially appropriate for nearly all adult patients, given the realities of a busy practice, it would be useful to have a system for identifying patients with a more limited prognosis. It is one of twelve primary care practitioner units participating in the development of advance care planning in Canada led by the Canadian Hospice Palliative Care Association and partly funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. Palliative care (derived from the Latin root palliare, or 'to cloak') is an interdisciplinary medical caregiving approach aimed at optimizing quality of life and mitigating suffering among people with serious, complex, and often terminal illnesses. For example, the American Society of Clinical Oncology recommends that patients with advanced cancer should be "referred to interdisciplinary palliative care teams that provide inpatient and outpatient care early in the course of disease, alongside active treatment of their cancer" within eight weeks of diagnosis.Appropriately engaging palliative care providers as a part of patient care improves overall symptom control, quality of life, and family satisfaction of care while reducing overall healthcare costs. In the United States, the physician sub-specialty of hospice and palliative medicine was established in 2006 to provide expertise in the care of people with life-limiting, advanced disease, and catastrophic injury; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary care in diverse settings; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end of life care.Caregivers, both family and volunteers, are crucial to the palliative care system. 
Do preoperative serum C-reactive protein levels predict the definitive pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer? [SEP] Prostate cancer staging is the process by which physicians categorize the risk of cancer having spread beyond the prostate, or equivalently, the probability of being cured with local therapies such as surgery or radiation. Prostate cancer stage can be assessed by either clinical or pathological staging methods. Clinical staging usually occurs before the first treatment and tumour presence is determined through imaging and rectal examination, while pathological staging is done after treatment once a biopsy is performed or the prostate is removed by looking at the cell types within the sample.There are two schemes commonly used to stage prostate cancer in the United States. A more refined prognosis can be established by consideration of prostate-specific antigen, and grade (i.e. Together with other parameters, it is incorporated into a strategy of prostate cancer staging which predicts prognosis and helps guide therapy. The system is widely accepted and used for clinical decision making even as it is recognised that certain biomarkers, like ACP1 expression, might yield higher predictive value for future disease course.The histopathologic diagnosis of prostate cancer has implications for the possibility and methodology of Gleason scoring. It appears to provide more accuracy in identifying early prostate cancer than the standard prostate cancer marker, PSA. Since signs of asymptomatic prostatic inflammation may sometimes be associated with prostate cancer, this can be addressed by tests that assess the ratio of free-to-total PSA. 
Sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma: is it clinically meaningful? [SEP] Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA, SGCA, or SGCT) is a low-grade astrocytic brain tumor (astrocytoma) that arises within the ventricles of the brain. The World Health Organization (WHO) classifies tumors into different categories according to severity and recurrence.The first tumor classified as grade I is called pilocytic astrocytoma and it is most commonly observed in children rather than adults. The next tumor is never common in the Dns called diffuse astrocytoma and it is considered a grade II, they are benign, or noncancerous, but can become malignant, meaning cancerous, as the tumor progresses. Grades III and grade IV are considered malignant astrocytomas. Anaplastic astrocytomas are considered by the WHO to be a  grade III astrocytoma and Glioblastoma is a grade IV both are referred to high-grade glial tumors.Ependymal tumors are another glial tumor type of the central nervous system. Pathology
Anaplastic astrocytomas fall under the category of high grade gliomas (WHO grade III-IV), which are pathologically undifferentiated gliomas that carry a poor clinical prognosis. The designation of grade III oligodendroglioma (high grade) generally subsumes the previous diagnoses of anaplastic or malignant oligodendroglioma. Literature
Weller M, van den Bent M, Preusser M, Le Rhun E, Tonn JC, Minniti G, Bendszus M, Balana C, Chinot O, Dirven L, French P, Hegi ME, A. S. Jakola, M. Platten, P. Roth, R. Rudà, S. Short, M. Smits, M. J. Taphoorn, A. von Deimling, M. Westphal, R. Soffietti, G. Reifenberger, W. Wick: EANO guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of diffuse gliomas of adulthood. 
After CLASS--Is a voluntary public insurance program a realistic way to meet the long-term support and service needs of adults with disabilities? [SEP] The CLASS Act would have created a voluntary and public long-term care insurance option for employees, but in October 2011 the Obama administration announced it was unworkable and would be dropped. However, certain terms were set in statute:

Enrollees would have paid a monthly premium, through payroll deduction
Enrollees would have been covered on a guaranteed-issue basis
Enrollees would have been eligible for benefits after paying premiums for five years and having worked at least three of those years
Enrollees would have received a lifetime cash benefit after meeting benefit eligibility criteria, based on the degree of impairment

Timeline for provisions
June 21, 2010: Required the Secretary to establish a Personal Care Attendants Workforce Academy Advisory Panel for the purpose of examining and advising the Secretary and Congress on workforce issues related to personal care attendants
By January 1, 2011: Established the CLASS Program, as specified
By January 1, 2011: Addressed infrastructure for personal care attendant workers
By January 1, 2011: Required information on supplemental coverage from the CLASS program in the National Clearinghouse for Long-Term Care Information
By January 1, 2012: Would have required the Secretary to (1) establish an Eligibility Assessment System (2) enter into agreements with the Protection and Advocacy System for each state; and (3) enter into agreements with public and private entities to provide advice and assistance counseling. Goals of the legislation
Expanded availability of long-term care
According to Barbara Manard, a health economist with LeadingAge, the act would have created "a national insurance trust" with a potential "daily cash benefit on the order of about $50 to $75 a day, depending on your level of disability." If correct, this would be because too many people likely to need benefits later in life would buy the insurance, with people unlikely to need the benefits not buying because of the relatively high premiums and the fact the program was voluntary. References
External links
The Sleeper in Health Reform: Long-Term Care and the CLASS Act Service and supports for people with disabilities are those government or other institutional services and supports specifically provided to enable people who have disabilities to participate in society and community life. Disability benefits are funds provided from public or private sources to a person who is ill or who has a disability. In the US, the costs of "family care" for intellectual and developmental disabilities have been studied, including direct financial costs met by families, indirect and opportunity costs, and indirect psychological costs.In related fields, though, family support is still often considered to be "unpaid", "voluntary support" by family members, family-to-family training programs, and self-help groups, often near forms of family interventions by professionals (e.g., behavioral training, clinical assessments, vocational training, family therapy, clinical community re-entry) in traumatic brain injury. 
Is intraoperative neuromonitoring associated with better functional outcome in patients undergoing open TME? [SEP] Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM) or intraoperative neuromonitoring is the use of electrophysiological methods such as electroencephalography (EEG), electromyography (EMG), and evoked potentials to monitor the functional integrity of certain neural structures (e.g., nerves, spinal cord and parts of the brain) during surgery. TCDI can be used in tandem with EEG during vascular surgery. Patients who benefit from neuromonitoring are those undergoing operations involving the nervous system or which pose risk to its anatomic or physiologic integrity. Surgical procedures
Patients benefit from neuromonitoring during certain surgical procedures, namely any surgery where there is risk to the nervous system. Intraoperative monitoring is used to :

to localize neural structures, for example to locate cranial nerves during skull base surgery;
to test function of these structures; and
for early detection of intraoperative neural injury, allowing for immediate corrective measures.For example, during any surgery on the thoracic or cervical spinal column, there is some risk to the spinal cord. The Certification for Neurophysiological Intraoperative Monitoring (CNIM) is awarded by the American Board of Electroencephalographic and Evoked Potential Technologists. References
External links
An updated history of intraoperative MRI and outcomes EEG findings were further validated by the surgical outcomes of all three patients. 
Can we predict which head and neck cancer survivors develop fears of recurrence? [SEP] Head and neck cancer often is curable if it is diagnosed early; however, outcomes are typically poor if it is diagnosed late. Previous diagnosis and treatment of one head and neck cancer confers higher risk of developing a second head and neck cancer or recurrence.Globally, head and neck cancer accounts for 650,000 new cases of cancer and 330,000 deaths annually on average. In the United States, head and neck cancer makes up 3% of all cancer cases (averaging 53,000 new diagnoses per year) and 1.5% of cancer deaths. The 2017 worldwide figure cites head and neck cancers as representing 5.3% of all cancers (not including non-melanoma skin cancers). The ex-smoker's risk for developing a head and neck cancer begins to approach the risk in the general population 15 years after smoking cessation. Management
Improvements in diagnosis and local management, as well as targeted therapy, have led to improvements in quality of life and survival for people with head and neck cancer.After a histologic diagnosis has been established and tumor extent determined, the selection of appropriate treatment for a specific cancer depends on a complex array of variables, including tumor site, relative morbidity of various treatment options, concomitant health problems, social and logistic factors, previous primary tumors, and the person's preference. Prognosis
Although early-stage head and neck cancers (especially laryngeal and oral cavity) have high cure rates, up to 50% of people with head and neck cancer present with advanced disease. Mental health
Cancer in the head or neck may impact a person's mental well-being and can sometimes lead to social isolation. 
The secular growth acceleration: does it appear during fetal life? [SEP] Acceleration in human development process is the phenomenon which has been registered in many populations around the world. These facts illustrate the results of secular changes in body height and appearance of the first menstruation (menarche).Increases in human stature are a main indicator of improvements in the average health of populations. During prenatal growth, from conception to 5 months, the head grows more than the body. This trend continues postnatally along an axis of increased growth from the head to the feet. The proximodistal trend, on the other hand, is the prenatal growth from 5 months to birth when the fetus grows from the inside of the body outwards. Intrauterine growth restriction can result in a baby being small for gestational age (SGA), which is most commonly defined as a weight below the 10th percentile for the gestational age. The majority of catch-up growth occurs in the first 6 months of life, but can continue throughout the first two years. Infants who fail to display adequate catch-up growth in the first few years of life may exhibit worse outcomes.Catch-up growth can alter fat distribution in children diagnosed with IUGR as infants and increase risk of metabolic syndrome. 
Does hippocampal atrophy on MRI predict cognitive decline? [SEP] The hippocampal neuronal cell loss and gliosis are disproportionate to the Alzheimer's disease "neuropathological change in the same section." The reduced volume arises from neuronal cell loss, and increased signal arises from gliosis.The 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET (18F-FDG) scan may show decreased glucose metabolism in the temporal lobe with hippocampal atrophy. Adult neurodegenerative disease
In LATE, MRI often shows asymmetrical hippocampal atrophy that progresses in a rostral-caudal gradient. : 1509   Inferior frontal, anterior temporal, and insular cortex atrophy often accompanies LATE hippocampal atrophy, the same anatomical pattern of TDP-43 proteinopathy at autopsy. : 1509   Reduced subiculum and CA1 volumes identified by MRI correspond to hippocampal sclerosis later identified at autopsy.The 18F-FDG PET scans of those with LATE show reduced glucose metabolism in the medial temporal lobe including the hippocampus. At this early stage brain atrophy will be shown to be more centrally located in the right posterior lobe and occipital gyrus, while AD brain images show the majority of atrophy in the medial temporal cortex. Cerebral atrophy is a common feature of many of the diseases that affect the brain. Measures
CT and MRI are most commonly used to observe the brain for cerebral atrophy. 
Chemoradiotherapy in the management of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma esophagus: is surgical resection required? [SEP] Recently, the ESD technique is applied to esophageal or colorectal neoplasms in some institutions, although it is still controversial considering the technical difficulty, associated risks, and favorable outcomes by EMR. Esophagectomy or oesophagectomy is the surgical removal of all or parts of the esophagus. This procedure is usually done for patients with esophageal cancer. It is normally done when esophageal cancer is detected early, before it has spread to other parts of the body. Esophagectomy of early-stage cancer represents the best chance of a cure. Despite significant improvements in technique and postoperative care, the long-term survival for esophageal cancer is still poor. Esophagectomy is also occasionally performed for benign disease such as esophageal atresia in children, achalasia, or caustic injury.In those who have had an esophagectomy for cancer, omentoplasty (a procedure in which part of the greater omentum is used to cover or fill a defect, augment arterial or portal venous circulation, absorb effusions, or increase lymphatic drainage) appears to improve outcomes. "Endoscopic nasopharyngectomy for salvage in nasopharyngeal carcinoma: A novel anatomic orientation". 
Does quantitative left ventricular regional wall motion change after fibrous tissue resection in endomyocardial fibrosis? [SEP] The left ventricle is the most common location of cardiac fibroma and accounts for approximately 57% of cardiac fibroma cases followed by the right ventricle with 27.5% of cases. Cardiac fibrosis commonly refers to the excess deposition of extracellular matrix in the cardiac muscle, but the term may also refer to an abnormal thickening of the heart valves due to inappropriate proliferation of cardiac fibroblasts. Fibrotic cardiac muscle is stiffer and less compliant and is seen in the progression to heart failure. Fibroblasts are activated post MI, leading to increased collagen synthesis and fibrosis of the heart. Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has shown the ability to reverse left ventricular remodeling in some patients. Often, reverse remodeling, or improvement in left ventricular function, will also be seen. See also
Dor procedure
Athlete's heart

References
Further reading
"Left Ventricular Remodeling in Heart Failure: Current Concepts in Clinical Significance and Assessment". In the LV, the fiber will change gradually in direction from a certain longitudinal-circumferential direction in the outer layer of the heart (epicardium) to another angulated direction almost orthogonal in the inner wall (endocardium), becoming overwhelmingly circumferential somewhere halfway in the middle of the wall. 
Bridge experience with long-term implantable left ventricular assist devices. Are they an alternative to transplantation? [SEP] Although this trial involved bridge-to-transplant indication, the results provide early evidence that continuous flow LVADs have advantages in terms of durability and reliability for patients receiving mechanical support for destination therapy. The trial was designed to compare long-term implantation of left ventricular assist devices with optimal medical management for patients with end-stage heart failure who require, but do not qualify to receive cardiac transplantation. The two major complications of VAD implantation were infection and mechanical failureAccording to a retrospective cohort study comparing patients treated with a left ventricular assist device versus inotrope therapy while awaiting heart transplantation, the group treated with LVAD had improved clinical and metabolic function at the time of transplant with better blood pressure, sodium, blood urea nitrogen, and creatinine. The term usually refers to ventricular assist devices or  mechanical circulatory support to keep the existing heart going, not just until a heart transplant can occur, but for the rest of the patient's life expectancy. REMATCH was a multi-center study supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute to compare long-term implantation of left ventricular assist devices with optimal medical management for patients with end-stage heart failure who require, but do not qualify to receive cardiac transplantation. Typically, the device is an implanted blood pump such as a Left ventricular assist device. The devices mechanically support the hearts of patients with end-stage heart failure. Hybrid assistive devices
Patients who have some remaining heart function but who can no longer live normally may be candidates for ventricular assist devices (VAD), which do not replace the human heart but complement it by taking up much of the function.The first Left Ventricular Assist Device (LVAD) system was created by Domingo Liotta at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston in 1962.Another VAD, the Kantrowitz CardioVad, designed by Adrian Kantrowitz, boosts the native heart by taking up over 50% of its function. 
Does occupational nuclear power plant radiation affect conception and pregnancy? [SEP] A 15-country collaborative cohort study of cancer risks due to exposure to low-dose ionizing radiation, involving 407,391 nuclear industry workers showed significant increase in cancer mortality. Epidemiological studies of the families of these workers have shown increased incidents of radiation-induced cancers, miscarriages, cleft palates and other birth defects. American nuclear industry
Nuclear weapons production workers
In a report based on reviews of raw data on nuclear worker health drafted by the Department of Energy (DOE) and the White House National Economic Council (NEC), the U.S. government found that workers at 14 nuclear weapons plants were exposed to unsafe levels of radiation and other toxins, resulting in a wider range of cancers. Health effects
Preliminary dose-estimation reports by the World Health Organization and the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation indicate that 167 plant workers received radiation doses that slightly elevate their risk of developing cancer, but that this risk may not be statistically detectable, as has happened in the case of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. The WHO report released in 2013 predicts that for populations living around the Fukushima nuclear power plant there is a 70% higher relative risk of developing thyroid cancer for females exposed as infants, a 7% higher relative risk of leukemia in males exposed as infants, and a 6% higher relative risk of breast cancer in females exposed as infants. Radiation exposure can increase cancer risk, with the cancers that arise being indistinguishable from cancers resulting from other causes.In the general population, no increase is expected in the frequency of tissue reactions attributable to radiation exposure and no increase is expected in the incidence of congenital or developmental abnormalities, including cognitive impairment attributable to in-utero radiation exposure. About one third of people [33.3%] in industrialized nations are presently diagnosed with cancer during their lifetimes, radiation exposure can increase one's cancer risk, with the cancers that arise being indistinguishable from cancers resulting from other causes.No increase is expected in the incidence of congenital or developmental abnormalities, including cognitive impairment attributable to within the womb radiation exposure. Exposure to these radioactive frequencies has shown negative affects on the fertility of men by impacting the DNA of the sperm and deteriorating the testes as well as an increased risk of tumor formation in salivary glands. 
Lloyd-Davies position with Trendelenburg--a disaster waiting to happen? [SEP] Trendelenburg gait, named after Friedrich Trendelenburg, is an abnormal gait. Lloyd-Davies position is a medical term referring to a common position for surgical procedures involving the pelvis and lower abdomen. The majority of colorectal and pelvic surgery is conducted with the patient in the Lloyd-Davies position. It was popularised for these procedures by Oswald Lloyd-Davies working at St Marks Hospital London. The controversy became known in the history of philosophy as the Fischer–Trendelenburg debate. Die ethischen Grundgedanken Friedrich Adolf Trendelenburgs. Ernst Bratuschek, Adolf Trendelenburg (Berlin, 1873) [The first complete intellectual biography of Trendelenburg.] "Wilhelm Trendelenburg in Memoriam". 
Is patient outcome compromised during the initial experience with robot-assisted radical cystectomy? [SEP] This is the first instance of such a procedure using robotic surgery. Complications of Laparoscopic and Robotic Urologic Surgery. "Robotic dismembered pyleoplasty: A 6-year, multi-institutional experience". A study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that side effects and blood loss in robotically-performed hysterectomies are no better than those performed by traditional surgery, despite the significantly greater cost of the system. Multi-Institutional Experience Comparing Outcomes of Adult Patients Undergoing Secondary Versus Primary Robotic Pyeloplasty. Essentials Robotic Surgery. Robot assisted partial nephrectomy versus laparoscopic partial nephrectomy for renal tumors: a multi-institutional analysis of perioperative outcomes. Robotic partial nephrectomy: Dealing with dilemmas. 
Is the Retromandibular Transparotid Approach a Reliable Option for the Surgical Treatment of Condylar Fractures? [SEP] Condylar resorption, also called idiopathic condylar resorption, ICR, and condylysis, is a temporomandibular joint disorder in which one or both of the mandibular condyles are broken down in a bone resorption process. Treatments
Treatment of condylar resorption is controversial. Orthodontics can address malocclusion without surgery, but this is often unstable or compensatory, and fails to address the aesthetic impacts of condylar degeneration. Orthognathic surgery in conjunction with orthodontics may be done to reconstruct and stabilize the condyles and disc of the temporomandibular joint. Meta-analysis shows that 46-100% of idiopathic condylar resorption cases treated with orthognathic surgery experience some degree of relapse. The condyles are replaced with a temporomandibular joint total joint replacement (TJR) device, often in conjunction with orthodontics and orthognathic surgery. See also
TMJ disorder
Orthognathic surgery
Condylar Hyperplasia


== References == Radical retropubic prostatectomy can be performed under general, spinal, or epidural anesthesia and requires blood transfusion less than one-fifth of the time. 
Appendectomy timing: Will delayed surgery increase the complications? [SEP] Complicated (perforated) appendicitis should undergo prompt surgical intervention. An interval appendectomy is generally performed 6–8 weeks after conservative management with antibiotics for special cases, such as perforated appendicitis. Delay of appendectomy 24 hours after admission for symptoms of appendicitis has not shown to increase risk of perforation or other complications. The cost effectiveness of surgery versus antibiotics is unclear.Using antibiotics to prevent potential postoperative complications in emergency appendectomy procedures is recommended, and the antibiotics are effective when given to a person before, during, or after surgery. Once the decision to perform an appendectomy has been made, the preparation procedure takes approximately one to two hours. Evidence indicates that a delay in obtaining surgery after admission results in no measurable difference in outcomes to the person with appendicitis. Prognosis
Most people with appendicitis recover quickly after surgical treatment, but complications can occur if treatment is delayed or if peritonitis occurs. In either condition, prompt diagnosis and appendectomy yield the best results with full recovery in two to four weeks usually. 
Treatment of vitamin D deficiency in CKD patients with ergocalciferol: are current K/DOQI treatment guidelines adequate? [SEP] Ergocalciferol, also known as vitamin D2 and nonspecifically calciferol, is a type of vitamin D found in food and used as a dietary supplement. Use
Ergocalciferol may be used as a vitamin D supplement, whereas cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) is produced naturally by the skin when exposed to ultraviolet light. Ergocalciferol (D2) and cholecalciferol (D3) are considered to be equivalent for vitamin D production, as both forms appear to have similar efficacy in ameliorating rickets and reducing the incidence of falls in elderly patients. Unlike cholecalciferol, 25-hydroxylation is not performed by CYP27A1 for ergocalciferol.Ergocalciferol and metabolites have lower affinity to the vitamin D-binding protein compared to the D3 counterparts. It is an analog of 1,25-dihydroxyergocalciferol, the active form of vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol). It is a synthetic analog of ergocalciferol (vitamin D2). Similarly, vitamin D2, ergocalciferol, can also be 25-hydroxylated to form 25-hydroxyergocalciferol, (ercalcidiol, 25(OH)D2); both forms are measured together in blood as 25(OH)D.At a typical intake of cholecalciferol (up to 2000 IU/day), conversion to calcifediol is rapid. Indications for their use include vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency, refractory rickets (vitamin D resistant rickets), familial hypophosphatemia, hypoparathyroidism, hypocalcemia and renal osteodystrophy and, with calcium, in primary or corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis.Calcifediol may have advantages over cholecalciferol for the correction of vitamin D deficiency states. 
Comparing femoral version after intramedullary nailing performed by trauma-trained and non-trauma trained surgeons: is there a difference? [SEP] An intramedullary rod, also known as an intramedullary nail (IM nail) or inter-locking nail or Küntscher nail (without proximal or distal fixation), is a metal rod forced into the medullary cavity of a bone. IM nails have long been used to treat fractures of long bones of the body. This led to the emergence of locked IM nailing, which is the standard today.The extension mechanism of intramedullary can be of two types: ratcheting, such as in the Bliskunov, Albizzia, and the Internal Skeletal Kinetic Distractor (ISKD, removed from market in 2015) nails; and rotating spindle, as in the Fitbone, Phenix, PRECICE, and PRECICE 2 nails. Complications
At a median 14 years after tibial nailing of isolated tibial fractures, patients' function is comparable to population norms, but objective and subjective evaluation shows persistent sequelae which are not insignificant.One potential complication of intramedullary nailing after a fracture is bone malrotation, where the broken bone is fixated out of alignment and heals incorrectly, causing a rotated limb. Trauma surgery and traumatology is a sub-specialty dealing with the operative management of fractures, major trauma and the multiply-injured patient. The photographs were taken four weeks after the patient fractured the shinbone (tibia) and the calfbone (fibula) of his left leg, and two weeks after the surgical emplacement of the Ilizarov apparatus to immobilise the leg and isolate the wound and fracture site to facilitate healing. References
External links
Definitive Surgical Trauma Skills Immobilization of the fracture with internal or external fixation. 
Does Viral Co-Infection Influence the Severity of Acute Respiratory Infection in Children? [SEP] Furthermore, children who experience severe viral respiratory infections early in life have a high possibility of having asthma later in their childhood. In children and adults with established asthma, viral upper respiratory tract infections (URIs), especially HRVs infections, can produce acute exacerbations of asthma. Acute bronchiolitis is due to a viral infection usually affecting children younger than two years of age. Adenovirus infection accounts for up to 10% of respiratory infections in children. Up to one in five infants with bronchiolitis will have adenovirus infection, which can be severe. Around 10% of respiratory infections in children are caused by adenoviruses. Viruses are the most common cause of pneumonia in children, while in adults bacteria are a more common cause. Some viruses also make the body more susceptible to bacterial infection; for this reason, bacterial pneumonia often complicates viral pneumonia. 
Will clinical studies elucidate the connection between the length of storage of transfused red blood cells and clinical outcomes? [SEP] Although transfusion of donor red blood cells can ameliorate and even prevent complications of sickle cell disease in certain circumstances, transfusion therapy is not universally beneficial in sickle cell disease. Frequency of red cell transfusions
Red cell transfusions can be further classified as episodic or chronic. The most common reason for using washed red blood cells in transfusion medicine is to prevent the recurrence of severe allergic transfusion reactions that do not respond to medical treatment. SAG-M.

Medical Uses
Prevention of recurrence of severe allergic reactions
The most common reason for using washed red blood cells in transfusion medicine is to prevent the recurrence of severe allergic transfusion reactions. Storage
Once red blood cells have been washed they can only be kept for up to a day. "The Determination of the Length of Life of Transfused Blood Corpuscles in Man". "Study of Transfused Blood: I. "Study of Transfused Blood: Ii. 
Cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction in elderly patients: does admission to a tertiary center improve survival? [SEP] Cardiogenic shock (CS) is a medical emergency resulting from inadequate blood flow due to the dysfunction of the ventricles of the heart. If cardiogenic shock is due to a heart attack, attempts to open the heart's arteries may help. Causes
Cardiogenic shock is caused by the failure of the heart to pump effectively. The mortality rate for those still living at time of admission who develop complications (among others, cardiac arrest or further abnormal heart rhythms, heart failure, cardiac tamponade, a ruptured or dissecting aneurysm, or another heart attack) from cardiogenic shock is even worse around 85%, especially without drastic measures such as ventricular assist devices or transplantation.Cardiogenic shock may be treated with intravenous dobutamine, which acts on β1 receptors of the heart leading to increased contractility and heart rate. The setting was the coronary care unit of a university hospital in the USA.250 patients were included in the study (aged 28 to 94; mean 64, 72% male) with a myocardial infarction. Cardiogenic shock
A complication that may occur in the acute setting soon after a myocardial infarction or in the weeks following is cardiogenic shock. Cardiogenic shock is defined as a hemodynamic state in which the heart cannot produce enough of a cardiac output to supply an adequate amount of oxygenated blood to the  tissues of the body.While the data on performing interventions on individuals with cardiogenic shock is sparse, trial data suggests a long-term mortality benefit in undergoing revascularization if the individual is less than 75 years old and if the onset of the acute myocardial infarction is less than 36 hours and the onset of cardiogenic shock is less than 18 hours. If diagnostic coronary angiography does not reveal a culprit blockage that is the cause of the cardiogenic shock, the prognosis is poor. 
Learning needs of postpartum women: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] Effects on social development
Women's education leads to significant social development. See also
Postpartum care

References
Bibliography
Davidson, Michele (2014). Fast facts for the antepartum and postpartum nurse : a nursing orientation and care guide in a nutshell. "Postpartum Care". Psychosocial causes
Pregnancy and postpartum are significant life events that increase a woman's vulnerability for postpartum blues. Feelings commonly reported by new parents and lifestyle changes that may contribute to developing early postpartum mood symptoms include:
Fatigue after labor and delivery
Caring for a newborn that requires 24/7 attention
Sleep deprivation
Lack of support from family and friends
Marital or relationship strain
Changes in home and work routines
Financial stress
Unrealistic expectations of self
Societal or cultural pressure to "bounce back" quickly after pregnancy and childbirth
Overwhelmed and questioning ability to care for baby
Anger, loss, or guilt, especially for parents of premature or sick infants

Risk factors
Most risk factors studied have not clearly and consistently demonstrated an association with postpartum blues. These include sociodemographic factors, such as age and marital status, obstetric factors, such as delivery complications or low birth weight.Factors most consistently shown to be predictive of postpartum blues are personal and family history of depression. However, educating women during pregnancy about postpartum blues may help to prepare them for these symptoms that are often unexpected and concerning in the setting of excitement and anticipation of a new baby. 
Pitfalls in urinary stone identification using CT attenuation values: are we getting the same information on different scanner models? [SEP] A computed tomography urography (CT urography or CT urogram) is a computed tomography scan that examines the urinary tract after contrast dye is injected into a vein.In a CT urogram, the contrast agent is through a cannula into a vein, allowed to be cleared by the kidneys and excreted through the urinary tract as part of the urine. Uses
Plain CT urography (without contrast) is used to evaluate stone diseases, calcifications within kidneys, density of renal masses and presence of any bleeding before contrast is given. CT scan taken at 90 to 180 seconds (when the contrast perfused the whole kidney) to evaluate the characteristics of kidney masses. Taking a CT scan at this time is useful to evaluate any strictures or masses from within the ureters or from outside but compressing on the ureters. Procedure
CT urography (CTU) is commonly used in the evaluation of hematuria, and specifically tailored to image the renal collecting system, ureters and bladder in addition to the renal parenchyma. These calcifications can then be detected by CT because of their high attenuation. The feasibility of using routine abdominal contrast-enhanced CT scans for the evaluation of bone density by QCT has also been demonstrated. CT urography
CT urography (CTU) is commonly used in the evaluation of hematuria, and specifically tailored to image the renal collecting system, ureters and bladder in addition to the renal parenchyma. 
Laminoplasty outcomes: is there a difference between patients with degenerative stenosis and those with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament? [SEP] Laminoplasty is an orthopaedic/neurosurgical surgical procedure for treating spinal stenosis by relieving pressure on the spinal cord. Laminotomies are commonly performed as treatment for lumbar spinal stenosis and herniated disks. Laminotomy versus laminectomy
Historically, laminectomies have been the primary way to treat lumbar spinal stenosis. A laminectomy is a more invasive method with the aim to decrease the total amount of pain and numbness associated with lumbar spinal stenosis. Out of all the potential reasons to have a laminotomy performed, lumbar spinal stenosis is the chief reason. Laminectomies have always been the gold standard when treating lumbar spinal stenosis, but recently, less invasive surgeries have emerged as a safer alternative treatment that helps maintain the postoperative structural integrity of the spine. See also
Laminectomy
Spinal stenosis


== References == References
Minimally Invasive Unilateral Laminectomy for Bilateral Decompression

External links
Laminoplasty for treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis
מיקרוכירוגיה 
Immunohistochemical assessment of steroid hormone receptors in tissues of the anal canal. Implications for anal incontinence? [SEP] The internal anal sphincter, IAS, (or sphincter ani internus) is a ring of smooth muscle that surrounds about 2.5–4.0 cm of the anal canal; its inferior border is in contact with, but quite separate from, the external anal sphincter. It helps the Sphincter ani externus to occlude the anal aperture and aids in the expulsion of the feces. Sympathetic fibers from the superior rectal and hypogastric plexuses stimulate and maintain internal anal sphincter contraction. Role in continence
The IAS contributes 55% of the resting pressure of the anal canal. Problems with the IAS often present as degrees of fecal incontinence (especially partial incontinence to liquid) or mucous rectal discharge. A proctodeum is the back ectodermal part of an alimentary canal. The external anal sphincter  (or sphincter ani externus ) is a flat plane of skeletal muscle fibers, elliptical in shape and intimately adherent to the skin surrounding the margin of the anus. Anatomy
The external anal sphincter measures about 8 to 10 cm in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, and is about 2.5 cm opposite the anus, the sphincter muscle retracts on defecating. 
Is acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia the expression of immune dysregulation? [SEP] The clinical syndrome is associated with pathological findings including pneumonia, eosinophilic pneumonia, cryptogenic organizing pneumonia, acute fibrinous organizing pneumonia, and diffuse alveolar damage (DAD). The phase of resolution and/or remodeling following bacterial infections is commonly referred to as organizing pneumonia, both clinically and pathologically. Pathophysiology
Organizing pneumonia is usually preceded by some type of lung injury that causes a localized denudation or disruption in continuity of the epithelial basal laminae of the type 1 alveolar pneumocytes that line the alveoli. This process is in contrast to the histopathologic changes seen in usual interstitial pneumonia where extensive fibrosis and inflammation occur leading to fibroblastic foci to form in the alveolar spaces resulting in obliteration of the alveolar space, scarring and significant damage to lung architecture (the alveoli).Tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (which inhibit breakdown of the extracellular matrix connective tissue) are more active in usual interstitial pneumonia as compared to organizing pneumonia, this is thought to lead to a greater deposition of connective tissue in the alveolar space in interstitial pneumonia as compared to organizing pneumonia and may explain the progressive, irreversible fibrosis seen in usual interstitial pneumonia. If the organizing pneumonia is secondary to a connective tissue disorder, then the associated laboratory values such as the anti-nuclear antibody, rheumatoid factor, anti-citrullinated protein antibodies, anti-dsDNA antibodies and other similar connective tissue associated antibodies are elevated.Pulmonary function testing in people with organizing pneumonia, either cryptogenic or due to secondary causes, shows a restrictive defect with a decrease in the gas absorptive capacity of the lungs (seen as a decrease in the diffusion capacity of carbon monoxide). The bronchoalveolar lavage in organizing pneumonia shows a lymphocytic predominant inflammation of the alveoli with increases in neutrophils and eosinophils. Resolution of inflammatory cells in the bronchoalveolar lavage is usually delayed in organizing pneumonia, lagging behind clinical and radiographic improvement.Biopsy findings in patients with organizing pneumonia consist of loose connective tissue plugs involving the alveoli, alveolar ducts and bronchioles. See also
Lung abscess
Pneumonia

Notes


== References == 
Hypotension in patients with coronary disease: can profound hypotensive events cause myocardial ischaemic events? [SEP] Coronary ischemia is linked to heart disease, and heart attacks. If blood flow through the coronary arteries is stopped completely, cardiac muscle cells may die, known as a myocardial infarction, or heart attack.Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common cause of coronary ischemia. Coronary ischemia and coronary artery disease are contributors to the development of heart failure over time. Symptoms and signs
A key symptom of coronary ischemia is chest pain or pressure, known as angina pectoris. Coronary ischemia resulting from coronary artery disease also increases the risk of developing heart failure. Unstable angina may precede myocardial infarction. Typically, patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy have a history of acute myocardial infarction, however, it may occur in patients with coronary artery disease, but without a past history of acute myocardial infarction. The following are causes of ischemic cardiomyopathy:
Diabetes
Atherosclerosis
Vasospasm
Inflammation of arteries

Pathophysiology
Ischemic cardiomyopathy is caused by too little blood flow and hence oxygen reaching the muscular layer of the heart due to a narrowing of coronary arteries in turn causing cell death. 
An HIV1/2 point of care test on sputum for screening TB/HIV co-infection in Central India - Will it work? [SEP] Impact
Operation ASHA increases TB-detection rate by 50-400% within 6-18 month of starting work in any area. Operation ASHA in India
In India, Operation ASHA serves 5.1 million people of the population, operating in the following Indian states for tuberculosis:
Delhi NCR (East Delhi, West Delhi, South Delhi), Madhya Pradesh (Bhopal, Khargone, Barwani-district, Indore, Khandwa, Vidisha, Gwalior), Maharashtra (Bhiwandi, Malegaon, Vasai), Odisha (Bhubhaneswar), Rajasthan (Jaipur), and Himachal Pradesh (Solan, Sirmour, Kullu, Mandi). NIRT carries out research on clinical, bacteriological as well as behavioural and epidemiological aspects of tuberculosis and HIV-TB. Recent studies suggest that many married women in India, despite practicing monogamy and having no risk behaviours, acquire HIV from their husbands and HIV testing of married males can be an effective HIV prevention strategy for the general population.In 2007, the third phase of the National AIDS Control Programme (NACP III) targeted high-risk groups and conducted outreach programmes. Setting up HIV screening centres was the first step taken by the government to screen its citizens and the blood bank.Adult HIV prevalence in India declined from an estimated 0.41% in 2000 to 0.31% in 2009. The co-epidemic of tuberculosis (TB) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is one of the major global health challenges in the present time. Tuberculosis can occur at any stage of HIV infection. The early provision of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults with newly diagnosed tuberculosis improved survival in patients who had a low CD4 count (less than 0.050 x 109 cells/L). 
Do inhaled corticosteroids affect perception of dyspnea during bronchoconstriction in asthma? [SEP] Corticosteroids: Inhaled corticosteroids (e.g. It has been shown to, 1) reduce asthma exacerbations that require oral corticosteroids, 2) reduce hospital visits better than maintenance on inhaled corticosteroids alone at a higher dose, or 3) inhaled corticosteroid at the same or higher dose together with a long-acting bronchodilator (LABA), with a short-acting bronchodilator (SABA) as a reliever. In a moderate or severe exacerbation, corticosteroids by mouth are added to these treatments.People with asthma have higher rates of anxiety, psychological stress, and depression. For adults and children who are in the hospital due to acute asthma, systemic (IV) corticosteroids improve symptoms. A short course of corticosteroids after an acute asthma exacerbation may help prevent relapses and reduce hospitalizations. Continuous (daily) use of an inhaled corticosteroid, rather than its intermitted use, seems to provide better results in controlling asthma exacerbations. For adults or adolescents who have persistent asthma that is not controlled very well, the addition of anti-leukotriene agents along with daily inhaled corticosteriods improves lung function and reduces the risk of moderate and severe asthma exacerbations. Early treatment with corticosteroids seems to prevent or ameliorates a decline in lung function. 
Is routine chest radiography after transbronchial biopsy necessary? [SEP] Bronchography is a radiological technique, which involves x-raying the respiratory tree after coating the airways with contrast. Diagnostic specimens are often obtained via bronchoscopic transbronchial biopsy, CT-guided percutaneous biopsy, or video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS). Other chest X-ray findings
Follow-up needed
This category includes findings that suggest the need for a follow-up evaluation for non-TB conditions. Pneumonia and congestive heart failure are very commonly diagnosed by chest radiograph. When a condition is suspected based on chest radiography, additional imaging of the chest can be obtained to definitively diagnose the condition or to provide evidence in favor of the diagnosis suggested by initial chest radiography. Unless a fractured rib is suspected of being displaced, and therefore likely to cause damage to the lungs and other tissue structures, x-ray of the chest is not necessary as it will not alter patient management. It is seldom possible to reach a diagnosis on the basis of the chest radiograph alone: high-resolution CT of the chest is usually required and sometimes a lung biopsy. Limitations
While chest radiographs are a relatively cheap and safe method of investigating diseases of the chest, there are a number of serious chest conditions that may be associated with a normal chest radiograph and other means of assessment may be necessary to make the diagnosis. 
Is it safe to perform rectal anastomosis in gynaecological debulking surgery without a diverting stoma? [SEP] A suture-free method for anastomosis of the colon to colon or rectum has been developed. Dissection along this plane facilitates a straightforward dissection and preserves the sacral vessels and hypogastric nerves and is a sphincter-sparing resection and decreases permanent stoma rates. It is possible to rejoin the two ends of the colon; however, most patients require a temporary ileostomy pouch to bypass the colon, allowing it to heal with less risk of infection, perforation or leakage.TME has become the "gold standard" treatment for rectal cancer Worldwide. Hand Sewn: Surgeons typically use this type of anal anastomosis to remove all of the rectal mucosal layer, although very small islands may still remain. A hand sewn anal anastomosis may be necessary when ulcerative colitis, FAP, or cancer patients retain disease in the anal canal to remove all remaining disease. Salvage surgery to redo an IPAA's anal anastomosis
If a pouch has a troubled anal-anastomosis that leaks and causes sepsis or if a person retained more than the recommended amount of rectum (a rectal cuff of no more than 2 cm follows global colorectal surgery recommendations for an ulcerative colitis person), then an experience surgeon may be able to 'redo' the anal anastomosis by removing excess rectum. It might not be possible for an experienced salvage surgeon to redo an anal-anastomosis that has already been hand sewn or has a complication like a fistula or sepsis damage too close to the anus because this presents a surgical situation that is high risk to not heal properly and cause more complications. "Ileal pouch–anal anastomosis". 
Does angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 (ACE-1) gene polymorphism lead to chronic kidney disease among hypertensive patients? [SEP] Angiotensin-converting enzyme (EC 3.4.15.1), or ACE, is a central component of the renin–angiotensin system (RAS), which controls blood pressure by regulating the volume of fluids in the body. ACE cleaves angiotensin I hormone into the vasoconstricting  angiotensin II which causes a cascade of hormonal reactions which is part of the body's harmful phase of RAAS, which ultimately leads to an increase in the body's blood pressure. Patients with high blood pressure or heart disease show elevated ACE2 plasma levels.Given its role as the SARS-CoV-2 entry receptor, it has been repeatedly hypothesised that population variation in ACE2 may contribute to an individual's genetic susceptibility to COVID-19. Further reading
External links
"Angiotensin Receptors: AT1". Epidemiology
The incidence of hypertensive nephropathy varies around the world. "Hypertensive nephropathy: pathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment". "Hypertensive nephrosclerosis-a cause of end-stage renal disease?". Complications affecting the kidneys
Hypertension is a risk factor for chronic kidney disease and end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). 
Does laparoscopic antireflux surgery improve quality of life in patients whose gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is well controlled with medical therapy? [SEP] A Nissen fundoplication, or laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication when performed via laparoscopic surgery, is a surgical procedure to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and hiatal hernia. Patients that continue to have reflux symptoms or that have had uncontrolled reflux symptoms for more than 5 years are also candidates for surgical management. Although antacids and PPI drug therapy can reduce the effects of reflux acid, successful surgical treatment has the advantage of eliminating drug side-effects and damaging effects from other components of reflux such as bile or gastric contents. Medical use
Transoral incisionless fundoplication may improve symptoms in gastroesophageal reflux disease, at least in the short term. Evidence
An American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) statement in June 2015 state that endoscopic antireflux therapy is a potential treatment based on the 2012 review.In 2015 three reviews were published discussing the relative safety and effectiveness of the procedure compared with other endoscopic procedures delivered through the mouth, drug treatment (generally proton-pump inhibitors), and fundoplication.One was a systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trials conducted with Stretta, done in response to the 2013 SAGES review (which did not include meta-analysis). Medical nutrition therapy and lifestyle changes
Medical nutrition therapy plays an essential role in managing the symptoms of the disease by preventing reflux, preventing pain and irritation, and decreasing gastric secretions.Some foods such as chocolate, mint, high-fat food, and alcohol have been shown to relax the lower esophageal sphincter, increasing the risk of reflux. "Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of gastroesophageal reflux disease". Short-term complications from laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding are reported to be lower than laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery, and complications from laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery are lower than conventional (open) Roux-en-Y surgery.Risks of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass include anastomotic stenosis (narrowing of the intestine where the two segments are rejoined), marginal ulcers (ulcers near the rejoined segment), internal hernia, small bowel obstruction, kidney stones, and gall stones. 
Is semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in case of insufficient venous material an acceptable alternative for limb-threatening ischemia? [SEP] Claudication is also considered a symptom of peripheral artery disease.Popliteal bypass surgery may be performed on people with the following symptoms and conditions:
Disruption in daily life or the ability to walk from intermittent claudication
Persistent wounds in the leg
Infection or gangrene
Ischemic rest pain (due to lack of blood circulation resulting in leg pain at rest)

Efficiency
Generally, a vein bypass lasts at least 5 years in 60-70 percent of people. Also, when comparing the efficacy of using PTFE or the great saphenous vein in people with claudication and critical limb ischemia, the latter showed better long term results.A second bypass may be required if a blockage forms in the bypass graft later on. Alternatives
In some cases where the blockage is not as severe or limb threatening, alternative procedures that may take place are percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or endarterectomy. Today, it has now been proved that the in situ procedure is better suited in vein bypasses in the lower leg compared to the upper leg, particularly for treating advanced ischemic disease in the lower leg. Percutaneous intentional extraluminal revascularization  is a percutaneous technique used in interventional radiology for limb salvage in patients with lower limb ischemia due to long superficial femoral artery occlusions. The technique is not without complications but may serve as a "temporary bypass" to provide wound healing and limb salvage. A femoral endarterectomy is also frequently used as a supplement to a vein bypass graft at the sites of surgical anastomosis. Acute limb ischemia is a sudden lack of blood flow to the limb, for example caused by an embolus whereas critical limb ischemia is a late sign of a progressive chronic disease. 
Can biofeedback training of psychophysiological responses enhance athletes' sport performance? [SEP] Biofeedback is the process of gaining greater awareness of many physiological functions of one's own body by using electronic or other instruments, and with a goal of being able to manipulate the body's systems at will. Some of the processes that can be controlled include brainwaves, muscle tone, skin conductance, heart rate and pain perception.Biofeedback may be used to improve health, performance, and the physiological changes that often occur in conjunction with changes to thoughts, emotions, and behavior. The definition reads:
Biofeedback is a process that enables an individual to learn how to change physiological activity for the purposes of improving health and performance. Relaxation
In a study of 18 healthy individuals published in the International Journal of Stress Management it was established that with the use of biofeedback there were large improvements in the individuals ability to relax which was translated in the individuals having improved scores on the Smith Relaxation States Inventory 3 test which measures mindfulness, energized positive feelings and basic relaxation. This has been shown help modify athletes' thoughts, emotions, and behaviors in beneficial ways. Neurofeedback, a specific form of biofeedback, is based on the idea that human beings can consciously alter their brain function through training sessions in which they attempt to change the signal generated by their brain and measured via a neurological feedback mechanism. Definition of biofeedback
The American Psychological Association has named biofeedback as a clinical proficiency.The Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB), the Biofeedback Certification Institution of America (BCIA), and the International Society for Neurofeedback and Research (ISNR) approved the following definition of biofeedback on May 18, 2008:

Biofeedback is a process that enables an individual to learn how to change physiological activity for the purposes of improving health and performance. Biofeedback includes reports on advances in biofeedback, neurofeedback, self-regulation strategies, sports physiology, personal and occupational wellness, peak performance in the arts, and scientific psychophysiology. 
Do cytokines have any role in epilepsy? [SEP] Clinical syndromes in which epilepsy is not the main feature (e.g. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures can occur. Tonic-clonic seizures may occur as well. A European study showed that people with epilepsy were at greater risk for accidental injuries related to seizures such as concussions, abrasions and wounds and reported more hospitalizations and medical action than the general population. Other studies have shown that people with epilepsy are at a greater risk of seizure related drowning, suffocation, broken bones and burns and more likely to die in a fatal automobile crash. People also often have a family history of epilepsy and seem to have a genetically predisposed risk of seizures. People also often have a family history of epilepsy and seem to have a genetically predisposed risk of seizures. Epilepsia. 
Cue-induced behavioural activation: a novel model of alcohol craving? [SEP] Studies indicate that cue reactivity—a response to the presentation of various visual, auditory, olfactory, and tactile cues—increases physiological excitement in addicts. : 413 In investigations of these reactions in people with substance use disorders, changes in self-reported drug craving, physiological responses, and drug use are monitored as they are exposed to drug-related cues (e.g., cigarettes, bottles of alcohol, drug paraphernalia) or drug-neutral cues (e.g., pencils, glasses of water, a set of car keys). Clinical significance
Addiction
Due to the effect of reward cues and Pavlovian-instrumental transfer on the amplification of incentive salience for rewarding stimuli, PIT is believed to be one of the mechanisms responsible for producing "cue-triggered wanting", or craving, for a drug that occurs when an individual with a drug addiction is exposed to drug cues even after long periods of abstinence. Under the influence of alcohol, individuals are incapable of sufficiently processing the long-term consequences of their actions; they will respond to immediate and salient cues in the moment. In the lab patients who were given alcohol were more likely to respond to unpleasant tones (external stimuli) violently, despite internal cues advising them against aggression. The inebriated females’ abilities to analyze internal cues warning them of the risks of sex were inhibited by alcohol, while alcohol caused them to become more responsive to the salient cue of arousal. It has also been proposed that during substance dependence the somatic states that guide decision-making are weakened in relation to natural rewards, while at the same time they enhance the emotional response to drug-related stimuli.Compulsive behaviours characterized by addiction are underpinned by two interacting systems:

impulsivity; responsible for the rapid signalling of the affective importance of a stimuli
reflection; cognitively evaluates the signal before altering the behavioural response.Dysfunction in impulsivity exaggerates the emotional impact of the drug-related stimuli and attenuates the impact of natural reinforcement. The model proposes a two dimensional trait characteristic for the initiation and continuation of substance/behavioural abuse:

Reward Drive (RD) – reflects individual differences in sensitivities to incentive motivation and engagement of addictive behaviour when reward cues are detected. 
Can routine offering of influenza vaccination in office-based settings reduce racial and ethnic disparities in adult influenza vaccination? [SEP] The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that vaccination against influenza reduces sickness, medical visits, hospitalizations, and deaths. As of 2019, the CDC recommends a yearly vaccine as most studies demonstrate overall effectiveness of annual influenza vaccination.There is not enough evidence to establish significant differences in the effectiveness of different influenza vaccine types, but there are high-dose or adjuvanted products that induce a stronger immune response in the elderly.According to a 2016 study by faculty at the University of New South Wales, getting a flu shot was as effective or better at preventing a heart attack than even quitting smoking. Vaccination campaigns usually focus special attention on people who are at high risk of serious complications if they catch the flu, such as pregnant women, children under 59 months, the elderly, and people with chronic illnesses or weakened immune systems, as well as those to whom they are exposed, such as health care workers.As the death rate is also high among infants who catch influenza, the CDC and the WHO recommend that household contacts and caregivers of infants be vaccinated to reduce the risk of passing an influenza infection to the infant.In children, the vaccine appears to decrease the risk of influenza and possibly influenza-like illness. No effect on hospitalization was found.In working adults, a review by the Cochrane Collaboration found that vaccination resulted in a modest decrease in both influenza symptoms and working days lost, without affecting transmission or influenza-related complications. In healthy working adults, influenza vaccines can provide moderate protection against virologically confirmed influenza, though such protection is greatly reduced or absent in some seasons.In health care workers, a 2006 review found a net benefit. Recommendations
Various public health organizations, including the World Health Organization (WHO), recommend that yearly influenza vaccination be routinely offered, particularly to people at risk of complications of influenza and those individuals who live with or care for high-risk individuals, including:

people aged 50 years of age or older
people with chronic lung diseases, including asthma
people with chronic heart diseases
people with chronic liver diseases
people with chronic kidney diseases
people who have had their spleen removed or whose spleen is not working properly
people who are immunocompromised
residents of nursing homes and other long-term care facilities
health care workers (both to prevent sickness and to prevent spread to their patients)
women who are or will be pregnant during the influenza season
children and adolescents (aged 6 months through 18 years) who are receiving aspirin- or salicylate-containing medications and who might be at risk for experiencing Reye syndrome after influenza virus infection
American Indians/Alaska Natives
people who are extremely obese (body mass index ≥40 for adults)The flu vaccine is contraindicated for those under six months of age and those with severe, life-threatening allergies to flu vaccine or any ingredient in the vaccine. NACI literature review on the comparative effectiveness and immunogenicity of subunit and split virus inactivated influenza vaccines in adults 65 years of age and older (PDF). "Summary of the NACI literature review on the comparative effectiveness of subunit and split virus inactivated influenza vaccines in older adults". 
Colorectal cancer in young patients: is it a distinct clinical entity? [SEP] She has also written about the survival rates in young patients with colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer (CRC), also known as bowel cancer, colon cancer, or rectal cancer, is the development of cancer from the colon or rectum (parts of the large intestine). These findings may suggest a reason for age being associated with the increased risk of developing colorectal cancer.Epigenetic reductions of DNA repair enzyme expression may likely lead to the genomic and epigenomic instability characteristic of cancer. When colorectal cancer is caught early, surgery can be curative. The mean age of colorectal cancer diagnosis is 44 for members of families that meet the Amsterdam criteria. Colorectal cancer diagnosed before age 50
2. Colorectal cancer with MSI-high pathology in a person who is younger than 60 years of age
4. Colorectal cancer diagnosed in a person with one or more first-degree relative with colorectal cancer or Lynch syndrome associated tumour diagnosed under age 50
5. 
Can implant retention be recommended for treatment of infected TKA? [SEP] Titanium screws are prone to peri-implantitis and plaque accumulation, leading to further interventions. The alternative to cement is a screw-retained implant, although some studies have reported a higher risk of peri-implantitis with these compared to cement-retained implants. Often, pus may also exude from the tissues surrounding the implant. Depending on the nature of the disease, treatment can vary significantly – from non-surgical therapy with an aim to control the infection and detoxify the implant surface, to surgical procedures to regenerate the alveolar bone that has been lost.Due to the screw-shaped design and titanium surface modifications of the implants, mechanical debridement on the surface of the implant is ineffective in removing all adhering microorganisms. This antiseptic has been recommended to maintain satisfactory plaque control around implants primarily based on data from studies around teeth, but long-term use is not recommended due to adverse events including staining of teeth and oral tissues and altered taste sensation. Current research
Preventing peri-implantitis using Biomaterial strategies to prevent or eliminate initial bacterial attachment are currently being researched. These biomaterial strategies are aiming at suppressing or inhibiting bacterial colonization of implant surfaces in favor or host cells and tissues. Additionally, new studies suggest that implant-specific instruments need to be used that reduce peri-implant bacteria while maintaining the integrity of the surface of the implant. 
Long-term significance of postictal psychotic episodes II. Are they predictive of interictal psychotic episodes? [SEP] Unipolar psychotic depression requires that psychotic symptoms occur during severe depressive episodes, although residual psychotic symptoms may also be present in between episodes (eg: during remission, mild depression…). Signs and symptoms
Individuals with psychotic depression experience the symptoms of a major depressive episode, along with one or more psychotic symptoms, including delusions and/or hallucinations. However, once psychotic symptoms have emerged, they tend to reappear with each future depressive episode. As with other depressive episodes, psychotic depression tends to be episodic, with symptoms lasting for a certain amount of time and then subsiding. Presentation
Brief psychotic disorder is characterized by a sudden onset of psychotic symptoms, which may include delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech or behavior, or catatonic behavior.Symptoms generally last at least a day, but not more than a month, and there is an eventual return to full baseline functioning. Brief psychotic disorder with postpartum onset: if onset of brief psychotic disorder symptoms is during pregnancy or within 4 weeks after birth. Approximately 1 in 10,000 women experience brief psychotic disorder shortly after childbirth. Approximately 1 in 10,000 women experience brief psychotic disorder shortly after childbirth. 
Do primary care physicians underprescribe antibiotics for peptic ulcer disease? [SEP] Emergency physicians are sometimes counted as primary care physicians. Primary care physicians also counsel and educate patients on safe health behaviors, self-care skills and treatment options, and provide screening tests and immunizations. In addition, they need to account for clustering of patients and physicians.Studies of the quality of preventive health care find the opposite results: primary care physicians perform best. A study of patients with acute low back pain found the primary care physicians provided equivalent quality of care but at lower costs than orthopedic specialists.Factors associated with quality of care by primary care physicians:

The more experience the primary care physician has with a specific disease. Two studies found specialists were more likely to adopt COX-2 drugs before the drugs were recalled by the FDA. One of the studies went on to state "using COX-2s as a model for physician adoption of new therapeutic agents, specialists were more likely to use these new medications for patients likely to benefit but were also significantly more likely to use them for patients without a clear indication". As of 2006, a standard triple therapy is amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and a proton pump inhibitor such as omeprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole, or esomeprazole. According to NHS Improvement a 1% deterioration in access to general practice can produce a 10% deterioration in emergency department figures.GPs are increasingly employing pharmacists to manage the increasingly complex medication regimes of an aging population. 
Blunt trauma in intoxicated patients: is computed tomography of the abdomen always necessary? [SEP] Diagnosis
In blunt injury, imaging is indicated if there is gross hematuria, or if the patient exhibits shock together with either gross or microscopic hematuria. See also
Abdominal trauma


== References == Abdominal trauma is an injury to the abdomen. Causes
Motor vehicle collisions are a common source of blunt abdominal trauma. Kidney injury, a common finding in children with blunt abdominal trauma, may be associated with bloody urine. CT
People with abdominal trauma frequently need CT scans for other trauma (for example, head or chest CT); in these cases abdominal CT can be performed at the same time without wasting time in patient care.CT is able to detect 76% of hollow viscous injuries so people who have negative scans are often observed and rechecked if they deteriorate. Treatment
Abdominal trauma requires urgent medical attention and sometimes requires hospitalization. Laparotomy is often performed in blunt abdominal trauma, and is urgently required if an abdominal injury causes a large, potentially deadly bleed. 
Chronic progressive cervical myelopathy with HTLV-I infection: Variant form of HAM/TSP? [SEP] HTLV-2 is associated with milder neurologic disorders and chronic pulmonary infections. Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 or human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV-I), also called the adult T-cell lymphoma virus type 1, is a retrovirus of the human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV) family that has been implicated in several kinds of diseases including very aggressive adult T-cell lymphoma (ATL), HTLV-I-associated myelopathy, uveitis, Strongyloides stercoralis hyper-infection and some other diseases. Inflammatory diseases
HTLV myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis
HTLV-1 is also associated with a progressive demyelinating upper motor neuron disease known as HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), characterized by sensory and motor deficits, particularly of the lower extremities, incontinence and impotence. Only 0.3 to 4% of infected individuals develop HAM/TSP, but this will vary from one geographic location to another.Signs and symptoms of HTLV myelopathy include:

Motor and sensory changes in the extremities
Spastic gait in combination with weakness of the lower limbs
Clonus
Bladder dysfunction(neurogenic bladder) and bladder cancerOther neurologic findings that may be found in HTLV include:

Mild cognitive impairment
Erectile dysfunction

Arthropathy
HTLV-1 is associated with a rheumatoid-like arthropathy, although the evidence is contradictory. Adult T cell lymphoma is a common complication of HTLV infection and requires aggressive chemotherapy, typically R-CHOP. HTLV-2 is associated with milder neurologic disorders and chronic pulmonary infections. Bowel dysfunction
Back pain
Erectile problems
PsoriasisIndividuals with TSP may also exhibit uveitis (inflammation of the uveal tract of the eye), arthritis (inflammation of one or more joints), pulmonary lymphocytic alveolitis (inflammation of the lung tissues), polymyositis (an inflammatory muscle disease), keratoconjunctivitis sicca (persistent dryness of the cornea and conjunctiva), and infectious dermatitis (inflammation of the skin).HTLV-1 can be transmitted via breastfeeding (mother to child), sexual contact, via blood contact (transfusion or needle sharing). "HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis with pseudohypoparathyroidism". 
Gender difference in survival of resected non-small cell lung cancer: histology-related phenomenon? [SEP] While no difference in survival was concluded between two genders due to limited data, women tend to have better prognosis due to the presence of estrogen receptor beta. Background
Females and males exhibit many differences in terms of risk of developing disease, receiving an accurate diagnosis, and responding to treatments. Squamous-cell lung carcinoma
Squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) of the lung is more common in men than in women. References
External links

MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lung cancer — non-small cell Classification
Lung cancer is a large and exceptionally heterogeneous family of malignancies. Classification
Lung cancer is a large and exceptionally heterogeneous family of malignancies. World Health Organization Histological Classification of Lung and Pleural Tumours. In nonsmokers, women and East Asians are more likely to present with symptoms of an underlying lung cancer at younger ages. 
Is lumbar drainage of postoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistula after spine surgery effective? [SEP] Diagnosis
The chief diagnostic indications of lumbar puncture are for collection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In the setting of raised pressure (or normal pressure hydrocephalus, where the pressure is normal but there is excessive CSF), lumbar puncture may be therapeutic.Decreased CSF pressure can indicate complete subarachnoid blockage, leakage of spinal fluid, severe dehydration, hyperosmolality, or circulatory collapse. Surgical drain technique
In extreme cases of intractable CSF leak, a surgical lumbar drain has been used. Neurosurgical repair
Surgery to treat a CSF-venous fistula in CSF leak patients is highly effective. Cerebrospinal fluid diversion is a procedure that is used to drain fluid from the brain and spinal cord. "Cerebrospinal fluid diversion procedures". A lumbar–peritoneal shunt is a technique to channelise the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the lumbar thecal sac into the peritoneal cavity. Once in place the lumbar–peritoneal shunt is used to drain the excess cerebrospinal fluid from the brain via the Subarachnoid cavity and transport it to the peritoneal cavity, where it is eventually absorbed by the organs and passed out of the body during urination. 
Is obesity a risk factor for wheezing among adolescents? [SEP] Many environmental and social factors have been shown to correlate with childhood obesity, and researchers are attempting to use this knowledge to help prevent and treat the condition. Social factors
External motivation
Children who are externally motivated to eat are at a higher risk for obesity. Family stress
Psychological stress in a family may contribute to childhood obesity. Obesity can cause psychosocial problems that can lead to depression. That said, obese children are more likely to be mistreated and teased by their peers and are thus more susceptible to mental health issues. Hence, people with obesity need to expend more energy to breathe effectively. Obese people tend to have raised levels of the hormone leptin, which is secreted by adipose tissue and under normal circumstances increases ventilation. The risk of OHS is much higher in those with more severe obesity, i.e. 
Dose end-tidal carbon dioxide measurement correlate with arterial carbon dioxide in extremely low birth weight infants in the first week of life? [SEP] Capnography is the monitoring of the concentration or partial pressure of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the respiratory gases. When the measurement is taken at the end of a breath (exhaling), it is called "end tidal" CO2 (PETCO2).The capnogram is a direct monitor of the inhaled and exhaled concentration or partial pressure of CO2, and an indirect monitor of the CO2 partial pressure in the arterial blood. The relationship of cardiac output and end tidal CO2 is linear, such that as cardiac output increases or decreases, the amount of CO2 is also adjusted in the same manner. Therefore the monitoring of end tidal CO2 can provide vital information on the integrity of the cardiovascular system, specifically how well the heart is able to pump blood.The amount of CO2 that is measured during each breath requires an intact cardiovascular system to delivery the CO2 to the alveoli which is the functional unit of the lungs. Indirectly, it reflects the production of CO2 by tissues and the circulatory transport of CO2 to the lungs.When expired CO2 is related to expired volume rather than time, the area beneath the curve represents the volume of CO2 in the breath, and thus over the course of a minute, this method can yield the CO2 per minute elimination, an important measure of metabolism. Studies have shown that when a person doing CPR tires, the patient's end-tidal CO2 (PETCO2, the level of carbon dioxide released at the end of expiration) falls, and then rises when a fresh rescuer takes over. Cord blood gas analysis is indicated for high-risk pregnancies, in cases where C-sections occurred due to fetal compromise, if there were abnormal fetal heart rate patterns, Apgar scores of 3 or lower, intrapartum fever, or multifetal gestation.Evidence of brain injury related to the hypoxic-ischemic events that cause neonatal encephalopathy can be seen with brain MRIs, CTs, magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging or ultrasounds. Observation: Modern neonatal intensive care involves sophisticated measurement of temperature, respiration, cardiac function, oxygenation, and brain activity. 
Is CA72-4 a useful biomarker in differential diagnosis between ovarian endometrioma and epithelial ovarian cancer? [SEP] Endometrioid tumors
Endometrioid tumors account for approximately 20% of all ovarian cancers and are mostly malignant (endometroid carcinomas). Small cell tumors
Small cell ovarian cancer (SCCO) are generally classified into epithelial tumors associated with distinctive endocrine features.The World Health Organisation (WHO) recognises SCCO as two distinct entities: Small Cell Ovarian Cancer of Hypercalcemic Type (SCCOHT) and Small Cell Ovarian Cancer of Pulmonary Type (SCCOPT).Small cell tumours are rare and aggressive, they contribute to less than 2% of all gynaecologic malignancies. Mucin-16 (MUC-16) also known as Ovarian cancer-related tumor marker CA125 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MUC16 gene. As a biomarker
Testing of CA-125 blood levels has been proposed as useful in treating ovarian cancer. While the test can give useful information for women already known to have ovarian cancer, CA-125 testing has not been found useful as a screening method because of the uncertain correlation between CA-125 levels and cancer. In addition to ovarian cancer, CA-125 can be elevated in patients who have conditions such as endometrial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, and gastrointestinal cancer. Because of the wide variety of conditions that can increase serum levels, CA-125 is not used to detect cancer, but it is often used to monitor responses to chemotherapy, relapse, and disease progression in ovarian cancer patients. Analysis of CA 242 and other tumor markers
The objective of this study was to compare different tumor markers and their diagnostic value. 
Preservation of the PCL when performing cruciate-retaining TKA: Is the tibial tuberosity a reliable predictor of the PCL footprint location? [SEP] : Effect of Tibial Tuberosity Advancement on Femorotibial Contact Mechanics and Stifle Kinematics. The function of the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is to prevent the femur from sliding off the anterior edge of the tibia and to prevent the tibia from displacing posterior to the femur. Cause
Related anatomy
The PCL is located within the knee joint where it stabilizes the articulating bones, particularly the femur and the tibia, during movement. Similar to the anterior cruciate ligament, the PCL connects the femur to the tibia. This configuration allows the PCL to resist forces pushing the tibia posteriorly relative to the femur. The PCL gets its name by attaching to the posterior portion of the tibia.The PCL, ACL, MCL, and LCL are the four main ligaments of the knee in primates. Structure
The PCL is located within the knee joint where it stabilizes the articulating bones, particularly the femur and the tibia, during movement. Similar to the anterior cruciate ligament, the PCL connects the femur to the tibia. 
The English antibiotic awareness campaigns: did they change the public's knowledge of and attitudes to antibiotic use? [SEP] Antibiotic Action is a UK-based initiative that works to raise global awareness about antibiotic resistance, and is funded by the British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy (BSAC),  a UK registered charity. Antibiotic Action seeks to inform and educate people from various backgrounds, ranging from politicians to healthcare professionals to the public, about the need for discovery, research, and development of new treatments for bacterial infections to combat antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic Action contributes to national and international activities such as conferences, media interviews, presentations, and displays to educate people about the importance of finding new ways to treat bacterial infections. References
External links
Antibiotic Action website This report, titled Antibiotic Resistance Threats in the United States, 2019, indicated which pathogens posed the greatest threat of resistance, and highlighted the importance of infection prevention, providing recommendations for prevention strategies.There has also been a substantial effort to educate not only prescribers, but patients too on the issue of antibiotic misuse. Though the current (2007) guidelines dictate more restricted antibiotic use, many dentists and dental patients follow the 1997 guidelines instead, leading to overuse of antibiotics.A study by Imperial College London in February 2017 found that of 20 online websites, 9 would provide antibiotics (illegally) without a prescription to UK residents.Studies have shown that common misconceptions about the effectiveness and necessity of antibiotics to treat common mild illnesses contribute to their overuse. Missing microbes: how the overuse of antibiotics is fueling our modern plagues. Wide-scale misuse of antibiotics and other antimicrobials and related resistance to these drugs is challenging infectious disease treatment and health care budgets worldwide. 
Does increased nerve length within the treatment volume improve trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery? [SEP] In those who do not improve or become resistant to other measures, a number of types of surgery may be tried.It is estimated that trigeminal neuralgia affects around 0.03% to 0.3% of people around the world with a female over-representation around a 3:1 ratio between women and men. Surgical
Microvascular decompression provides freedom from pain in about 75% of patients presenting with drug-resistant trigeminal neuralgia. Stereotactic radiosurgery is a form of radiation therapy that focuses high-power energy on a small area of the body

Support
Psychological and social support has found to play a key role in the management of chronic illnesses and chronic pain conditions, such as trigeminal neuralgia. For treatment of trigeminal neuralgia the procedure may be used repeatedly on patients. Patient selection
Patients most likely to benefit from a microvascular decompression have a classic form of trigeminal neuralgia. Other procedures
Several other surgical procedures exist for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia, including percutaneous rhizotomy, percutaneous glycerol injection, percutaneous balloon compression, rhyzotomy and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). Among present procedures, the most effective and long lasting has been found to be microvascular decompression (MVD), which seeks to relieve direct compression of the trigeminal nerve by separating and padding blood vessels in the vicinity of the emergence of this nerve from the brain stem, below the cranium.Choice of a surgical procedure is made by the doctor and patient in consultation, based on the patient's pain presentation and health and the doctor's medical experience. References
External links
Trigeminal Neuralgia Fact Sheet National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
Is the affinity column-mediated immunoassay method suitable as an alternative to the microparticle enzyme immunoassay method as a blood tacrolimus assay? [SEP] Whereas gel agglutination is based on size exclusion of agglutinated red cells in an inert matrix, red cell affinity column technology (ReACT) is based on affinity adherence of red cells in an immunologically active matrix. Affinity electrophoresis is a general name for many analytical methods used in biochemistry and biotechnology. The main use of these tips are to flow samples through and the analytes affinity for the bound antigen/antibody allows for the capture of analyte. Affinity chromatography is useful for its high selectivity and resolution of separation, compared to other chromatographic methods. Specific uses
Affinity chromatography can be used in a number of applications, including nucleic acid purification, protein purification from cell free extracts, and purification from blood. Immunoaffinity
Another use for the procedure is the affinity purification of antibodies from blood serum. If the serum is known to contain antibodies against a specific antigen (for example if the serum comes from an organism immunized against the antigen concerned) then it can be used for the affinity purification of that antigen. Most monoclonal antibodies have been purified using affinity chromatography based on immunoglobulin-specific Protein A or Protein G, derived from bacteria.Immunoaffinity chromatography with monoclonal antibodies immobilized on monolithic column has been successfully used to capture extracellular vesicles (e.g., exosomes and exomeres) from human blood plasma by targeting tetraspanins and integrins found on the surface of the EVs.Immunoaffinity chromatography is also the basis for immunochromatographic test (ICT) strips, which provide a rapid means of diagnosis in patient care. 
Should tumor depth be included in prognostication of soft tissue sarcoma? [SEP] A soft-tissue sarcoma (STS) is a malignant tumor, a type of cancer, that develops in soft tissue. A soft-tissue sarcoma is often a painless mass that grows slowly over months or years. Treatment
In general, treatment for soft-tissue sarcomas depends on the stage of the cancer. Subsequent studies confirmed and refined the role of depth of invasion in the prognosis of malignant melanoma. Prognostic importance
Tumor depth is one of the cornerstones of the current AJCC TNM staging of malignant melanoma. A large study validated the importance of tumor depth (but not Breslow's original description) as one of the three most important prognostic factors in melanoma (the others being T stage and ulceration). Soft tissue sarcoma refers to a broad group of tumors that originate from connective tissues. Signs and symptoms
Soft tissue sarcomas are often detected as a firm mass located on the trunk, limbs, or oral cavity. 
Is amoxapine an atypical antipsychotic? [SEP] The atypical antipsychotics (AAP), also known as second generation antipsychotics (SGAs) and serotonin–dopamine antagonists (SDAs), are a group of antipsychotic drugs (antipsychotic drugs in general are also known as tranquilizers and neuroleptics, although the latter is usually reserved for the typical antipsychotics) largely introduced after the 1970s and used to treat psychiatric conditions. Atypicals are less likely than haloperidol—the most widely used typical antipsychotic—to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities in patients such as unsteady Parkinson's disease-type movements, body rigidity, and involuntary tremors. The definition of "atypicality" was based upon the absence of extrapyramidal side effects, but there is now a clear understanding that atypical antipsychotics can still induce these effects (though to a lesser degree than typical antipsychotics). Regulatory status
Notes
Stahl: AP Explained 1

References
Further reading
External links
 Media related to Atypical antipsychotics at Wikimedia Commons It is a dopamine receptor antagonist and contributes to amoxapine's antipsychotic properties. An atypical antidepressant is any antidepressant medication that acts in a manner that is different from that of most other antidepressants. Atypical antidepressants include agomelatine, bupropion, iprindole, mianserin, mirtazapine, nefazodone, opipramol, tianeptine, and trazodone. The agents vilazodone and vortioxetine are partly atypical. 
Does topical N-acetylcysteine application after myringotomy cause severe otorrhea? [SEP] A myringotomy is a surgical procedure in which an incision is created in the eardrum (tympanic membrane) to relieve pressure caused by excessive buildup of fluid, or to drain pus from the middle ear. Before the invention of antibiotics, myringotomy without tube placement was also used as a major treatment of severe acute otitis media (middle ear infection). One randomized controlled study found that laser myringotomies are safe but less effective than ventilation tube in the treatment of chronic OME. No effect on speech and language development has yet been shown.A retrospective study of success rates in 96 adults and 130 children with otitis media treated with CO2 laser myringotomy showed about a 50% cure rate at six months in both groups. However, 3% to 6% of people given intravenous acetylcysteine show a severe, anaphylaxis-like allergic reaction, which may include extreme breathing difficulty (due to bronchospasm), a decrease in blood pressure, rash, angioedema, and sometimes also nausea and vomiting. Repeated doses of intravenous acetylcysteine will cause these allergic reactions to progressively worsen in these people. Side effects
The most commonly reported adverse effects for IV formulations of acetylcysteine are rash, urticaria, and itchiness.Adverse effects for inhalational formulations of acetylcysteine include nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, fever, rhinorrhea, drowsiness, clamminess, chest tightness, and bronchoconstriction. A marked decrease in myoclonus and some normalization of somatosensory evoked potentials with acetylcysteine treatment has been documented. 
Is non-HDL-cholesterol a better predictor of long-term outcome in patients after acute myocardial infarction compared to LDL-cholesterol? [SEP] However, when analyzed in terms of outcomes, HDL was found to be a significant predictor of heart disease and thus should affect FRS. However, remnant cholesterol is primarily chylomicron and VLDL, and each remnant particle contains about 40 times more cholesterol than LDL.According to one study, high remnant cholesterol is more predictive of myocardial infarction than any other lipid particle. Remnant cholesterol is especially predictive of coronary artery disease in patients with normal total cholesterol.High plasma remnant cholesterol is associated with increased plasma triglyceride levels. Although remnant cholesterol tends to be higher in people who are overweight (high body mass index), normal-weight persons with high remnant cholesterol tend to have a higher risk of myocardial infarction.Remnant cholesterol is associated with chronic inflammation, whereas LDL cholesterol is not. "Efficacy and safety of more intensive lowering of LDL cholesterol: a meta-analysis of data from 170,000 participants in 26 randomised trials". Consensus
The medical consensus supports the lipid hypothesis as evidence from separate meta-analyses, prospective epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials have demonstrated that elevated levels of LDL blood cholesterol are a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Too much LDL (called 'bad cholesterol') can lead to fatty deposits building up in the arteries which increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. A review from the Journal of the American College of Cardiology in 2018 concluded:

The causal effect of LDL and other apo B–containing lipoproteins on the risk of cardiovascular disease is determined by both the magnitude and the cumulative duration of exposure to these lipoproteins. 
Is intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation an effective predictor of fetal acidosis? [SEP] Vibroacoustic stimulation (VAS), sometimes referred to as fetal vibroacoustic stimulation or fetal acoustic stimulation test (FAST), is the application of a vibratory sound stimulus to the abdomen of a pregnant woman to induce FHR (fetal heart rate) accelerations. The presence of FHR accelerations reliably predicts the absence of fetal metabolic acidemia. Vibroacoustic stimulation is typically used during a nonstress test (NST).In 2013, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews concluded that there was insufficient evidence from randomized trials to support its use to assess fetal well-being in labor. Fetal scalp stimulation test is a diagnostic test used to detect fetal metabolic acidemia. See also
Fetal scalp blood testing


== References == See also
Fetal intervention

References
Bouchard S, Johnson MP, Flake AW,  et al. It takes advantage of the differential resistance of fetal hemoglobin to acid. Sonographic fetal growth exams may also be indicated. 
The association of puberty and young adolescent alcohol use: do parents have a moderating role? [SEP] The "Flint Adolescent Study – Generation 2" expands on the scope of the original study to explore how parenting factors are associated with children's alcohol and drug use and other risk factors. Combining these transitional stages and the intake of alcohol can leave a number of consequences for an adolescent. "The rate of alcohol use increases sharply between the ages of 12 and 21 years, and adolescents frequently adopt a binge-like drinking pattern". "Recent studies show that alcohol
consumption has the potential to trigger long-term biological changes that may have detrimental effects on the developing adolescent brain, including neurocognitive impairment." Research shows how an adolescent makes the decision to consume alcohol because they are influenced by various factors. It is also shown that early onset of alcohol intake can lead to high levels of alcohol use in adulthood. One of the main ways to do this is to "Promote an understanding of underage alcohol consumption in the context of human development and maturation that takes into account individual adolescent characteristics as well as environmental, ethic, cultural and gender differences". Another important component to preventing alcohol use disorder throughout adolescence is the responsibility of the government,  to send a message to underage drinkers informing them how themselves and the rest of society strongly disapprove underage alcohol use because of the severe consequences it can cause and also informing that it will not be tolerated. 
Must early postoperative oral intake be limited to laparoscopy? [SEP] Pulmonary aspiration
The main hypothesized benefit of preoperative fasting is to prevent pulmonary aspiration of stomach contents while under the effects of general anesthesia. Aspiration of as little as 30–40 mL can be a significant cause of suffering and death during an operation and therefore fasting is performed to reduce the volume of stomach contents as much as possible. Gastric conditions
In addition to fasting, antacids are administered the night before (or in the morning of an afternoon operation) and then once again two hours prior to surgery. The following are the recommended guidelines for nil by mouth prior to surgery in healthy patients:
When anaesthesia is required in an emergency, nasogastric aspiration is usually performed to reduce gastric contents and the risk of its pulmonary aspiration. Unrestricted clear fluids
Fasting guidelines often restrict the intake of any oral fluid after two to six hours preoperatively. However, it has been demonstrated in a large retrospective analysis in Torbay Hospital that unrestricted clear oral fluids right up until transfer to theatre could significantly reduce the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting without an increased risk in the adverse outcomes for which such conservative guidance exists. Increasing the IV fluids during surgery by giving additional fluid while the person is under general anaesthesia may reduce the risk of nausea/vomiting after surgery. Preoperative fasting
Fasting guidelines often restrict the intake of any oral fluid 2-6 hours preoperatively, but in a large retrospective analysis in Torbay Hospital, unrestricted clear oral fluids until transfer to theatre could significantly reduce the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting without an increased risk in the adverse outcomes for which such conservative guidance exists. 
Does loss of consciousness predict neuropsychological decrements after concussion? [SEP] Fewer than 10% of sports-related concussions among children are associated with loss of consciousness.Common causes include motor vehicle collisions, falls, sports injuries, and bicycle accidents. Loss of consciousness may occur, but is not necessarily correlated with the severity of the concussion if it is brief. Though these events are thought to interfere with neuronal and brain function, the metabolic processes that follow concussion are reversible in a large majority of affected brain cells; however, a few cells may die after the injury.Included in the cascade of events unleashed in the brain by concussion is impaired neurotransmission, loss of regulation of ions, deregulation of energy use and cellular metabolism, and a reduction in cerebral blood flow. Also, by definition, concussion has historically involved a loss of consciousness. Neuropsychological evaluation
The neuropsychological evaluation facilitates the analysis of factors that may be affected by concussion such as learning, memory, efficacy, thinking process, reaction time, and attention. Less than 10% of cases experience a loss of consciousness, and many typical symptoms appear after the initial concussion evaluation. Recovery efforts
Concussions are proven to cause loss of brain function. Pathophysiology
A concussion temporarily changes the brain's function. 
Does body mass index (BMI) influence morbidity and long-term survival in gastric cancer patients after gastrectomy? [SEP] The association between obesity, as defined by a body mass index of 30 or higher, and risk of a variety of types of cancer has received a considerable amount of attention in recent years. Obesity is the source of about 15% of all preventable cancers.In 2018, Chinese researchers performed a systematic review and comprehensive quantitative meta‐analysis of cohort studies reporting body mass index (BMI) and the risk of 23 cancer types, providing epidemiological evidence supporting the association between BMI and cancer risk. The strongest positive association between BMI and cancer risk was found among patients in North America. An association between increased BMI and risk of colorectal adenoma has been reported, as has a dose–response relationship between BMI and colorectal adenoma risk. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Weight loss outcomes are comparable to gastric bypass. 
Does patella position influence ligament balancing in total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] The medial patellofemoral ligament is one of the several ligaments on the medial aspect of the knee. The most likely time for the patella to shift laterally is during the first 20-30 degrees of flexion as the quadriceps tighten simultaneously and pull the patella laterally. Beyond 30 degrees, the quadriceps tendon and patellar ligament pull the patella posterior into the groove of the knee joint making lateral dislocation of the patella unlikely. This reconstruction holds the femur and patella in place. A luxating patella, sometimes called a trick knee, is a condition in which the patella, or kneecap, dislocates or moves out of its normal location. A kneecap in an "alta" position sits above the "trochlear groove" and therefore is less stable. See also
Patella


== References == The anterior cruciate ligament is one of the four main ligaments of the knee, providing 85% of the restraining force to anterior tibial displacement at 30 and 90° of knee flexion. 
Is the advanced age a contraindication to GERD laparoscopic surgery? [SEP] Complications that arise from long term GERD such as severe esophagitis, stricture formation, and ulcer development, all of which can be seen on endoscopy, warrant surgical intervention. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD)  is one of the upper gastrointestinal chronic diseases in which stomach content persistently and regularly flows up into the esophagus, resulting in symptoms and/or complications. Signs and symptoms
Adults
The most common symptoms of GERD in adults are an acidic taste in the mouth, regurgitation, and heartburn. Obesity: increasing body mass index is associated with more severe GERD. Surgery
The standard surgical treatment for severe GERD is the Nissen fundoplication. The prevalence rate of GERD in developed nations is also tightly linked with age, with adults aged 60 to 70 being the most commonly affected. "Role of endoscopy in the management of GERD" (PDF). Lay summary in: "Role of endoscopy in the management of GERD". 
Ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis criteria: are there different levels of risk for transition to psychosis? [SEP] Basic symptoms have generally been applied to the assessment of people who may be at risk to develop psychosis. People who were assessed to be high risk according to the basic symptoms criteria have a 48.5% likelihood of progressing to psychosis. In 2015, the European Psychiatric Association issued guidance recommending the use of a subscale of basic symptoms, called the Cognitive Disturbances scale (COGDIS), in the assessment of psychosis risk in help-seeking psychiatric patients; in a meta-analysis, COGDIS was shown to be as predictive of transition to psychosis as the Ultra High Risk (UHR) criteria up to 2 years after assessment, and significantly more predictive thereafter. Poorer long-term outcomes such as increases in relapses, increases in hospitalizations, and poorer social/occupational functioning are associated with the age of onset of these symptoms, suggesting the importance of early intervention.After the resolution of psychosis, basic symptoms may follow one of 3 courses: Psychosis and the basic symptoms may resolve completely allowing the restoration of normal functioning; they may remit but remain at an uncharacteristic level, with relapses of psychosis; or the characteristic basic symptoms may remain creating a deficit syndrome dominated by negative symptoms. At risk mental state is the clinical presentation of those considered at risk of developing psychosis or schizophrenia. Unitary psychosis (Einheitspsychose) refers to the 19th-century belief prevalent in German psychiatry until the era of Emil Kraepelin that all forms of psychosis were surface variations of a single underlying disease process. The psychosis is often linked to an underlying bipolar or schizophrenic condition. A 2019 review found that the pooled proportion of transition from substance-induced psychosis to schizophrenia was 25% (95% CI 18%–35%), compared with 36% (95% CI 30%–43%) for "brief, atypical and not otherwise specified" psychoses. 
Has the 80-hour workweek improved surgical resident education in New England? [SEP] The working conditions of medical residents often involved 80- to 100-hour workweeks. New York State Department of Health Code, Section 405, also known as the Libby Zion Law, is a regulation that limits the amount of resident physicians' work in New York State hospitals to roughly 80 hours per week. Medical resident work hours refers to the (often lengthy) shifts worked by medical interns and residents during their medical residency. As per the rules of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education in the United States of America, residents are allowed to work a maximum of 80 hours a week averaged over a 4-week period. Residents work 40–80 hours a week depending on specialty and rotation within the specialty, with residents occasionally logging 136 (out of 168) hours in a week. One systematic review found that resident learning has been unfavorably impacted by duty hour regulations, and because medical education affects knowledge and competence, this may result in poor decision-making and medical errors. Its recommendations were adopted by the state of New York in 1989, and limited residents to no more than 24 consecutive hours in the hospital, and no more than 80 hours a week with an in-house supervising attending physician present at all times.Though other federal regulatory and legislative attempts to limit medical resident work hours have materialized, none have attained passage. Resident surveys suggest that a greater emphasis on education, decreased workload, and more ancillary support would better improve patient outcomes. 
Can continuous physical training counteract aging effect on myoelectric fatigue? [SEP] Physical exercise has been found to be associated with changes in androgen levels. There is some correlation between testosterone and physical activity in the middle aged and elderly. When comparing men and women in the 30-, 50-, and 70-year age groups, young and middle aged men showed increased testosterone after exercise, with the latter also having increased cortisol. With men in their 60s, resistive training over 16 weeks did not affect baseline anabolic hormone levels, although GH increased acutely with exercise. However, the results of these exercise studies, at minimum, show that exercise can attenuate muscle damage due to disease, inactivity and steroid use. It has also been shown to delay the onset of fatigue in exercise. Subjects in the low intensity stretching group who had higher fitness levels at baseline showed less hippocampal volume loss, providing evidence for exercise being protective against age-related cognitive decline. Engaging in moderate-high intensity aerobic exercise such as running, swimming, and cycling increases BDNF biosynthesis through myokine signaling, resulting in up to a threefold increase in blood plasma and BDNF levels; exercise intensity is positively correlated with the magnitude of increased BDNF biosynthesis and expression. 
Does ischemic preconditioning require reperfusion before index ischemia? [SEP] Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) is an experimental technique for producing resistance to the loss of blood supply, and thus oxygen, to tissues of many types. Early Preconditioning
Early preconditioning is thought to be stimulated by local action of adenosine, opiates, and bradykinin, which are all endogenously released by ischemic cells. Some research also suggests that ischemic conditioning is also beneficial following a stroke, chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, or heart attack. Classical (local) preconditioning has an early phase with an immediate onset lasting 2–3 hours that protects against myocardial infarction. Recent researches have shown significant therapeutic effects on pre-clinical models of reperfusion injury after ischemic stroke. History
The phenomenon of ischemic preconditioning (IPC) was discovered in 1986 by C. E. Murry and colleagues, who observed that repeated, temporary cross-clamping of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) in dogs protected the LAD territory of the heart against a subsequent prolonged ischemic event, reducing infarct size by 75%. This was thought to be a local effect and was termed local ischemic preconditioning. Traumatic brain injury
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) shares many pathophysiological pathways with acute stroke, and ischemic preconditioning increases the brain's resistance to injury. 
Are sports medicine journals relevant and applicable to practitioners and athletes? [SEP] The Physician and Sportsmedicine is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering sports medicine. Research in Sports Medicine is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering sports medicine. The British Journal of Sports Medicine is a twice-monthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering sports science and sports medicine including sport physiotherapy. The American Journal of Sports Medicine is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers in the field of Sport Sciences. Scope
The American Journal of Sports Medicine is a source of information for sports medicine specialists with the aim of improving the identification, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of sports injuries. The journal acts as a forum for orthopaedic sports medicine research and education, allowing clinical practitioners the ability to make decisions based on scientific information. It is the pre-eminent non-surgical sports medicine journal of North America. Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise is a monthly peer-reviewed journal covering research in sports and exercise science. 
Does head positioning influence anterior chamber depth in pseudoexfoliation syndrome? [SEP] Pseudoexfoliation syndrome, often abbreviated as PEX and sometimes as PES or PXS, is an aging-related systemic disease manifesting itself primarily in the eyes which is characterized by the accumulation of microscopic granular amyloid-like protein fibers. Causes
The cause of pseudoexfoliation glaucoma is generally unknown.PEX is generally believed to be a systemic disorder, possibly of the basement membrane of the eye. The gene is called LOXL1 ... Because pseudoexfoliation syndrome is associated with abnormalities of the extracellular matrix and the basement membrane, this gene could reasonably play a role in the pathophysiology of the condition. Pseudoexfoliation syndrome is considered to be the most common of identifiable causes of glaucoma. History
Pseudoexfoliation syndrome (PEX) was first described by an ophthalmologist from Finland named John G. Lindberg in 1917. Sometimes the two terms "pseudoexfoliation" and "true exfoliation" are used interchangeably but the more precise usage is to treat each case separately. The anterior chamber angle is the structure which determines the anterior chamber depth. This ratio is linearly correlated with the depth of the anterior chamber with the following equation:
Anterior chamber depth (expressed in millimetres) = -3.3 x EZ ratio + 4.2
This estimate has been shown to be accurate with a 95% confidence interval of +/– 0.33 mm error, when compared to measurements of the anterior chamber depth by Scheimpflug photography. 
Are polymorphisms in oestrogen receptors genes associated with lipid levels in response to hormone therapy? [SEP] Furthermore, studies in models of psychopathology and neurodegenerative disease states suggest that estrogen receptors mediate the neuroprotective role of estrogen in the brain. Both individuals were completely insensitive to exogenous estrogen treatment, even with high doses.Genetic polymorphisms in the gene encoding the ERα have been associated with breast cancer in women, gynecomastia in men and dysmenorrhea. Polymorphism may affect ERβ function and lead to altered responses in postmenopausal women receiving hormone replacement therapy. Ligands
Agonists
Non-selective
Endogenous estrogens (e.g., estradiol, estrone, estriol, estetrol)
Natural estrogens (e.g., conjugated estrogens)
Synthetic estrogens (e.g., ethinylestradiol, diethylstilbestrol)

Selective
Agonists of ERβ selective over ERα include:

Antagonists
Non-selective
Selective estrogen receptor modulators (e.g., tamoxifen, raloxifene)
Antiestrogens (e.g., fulvestrant, ICI-164384)

Selective
Antagonists of ERβ selective over ERα include:

PHTPP
(R,R)-Tetrahydrochrysene ((R,R)-THC) – actually not selective over ERα, but rather an agonist instead of antagonist of ERα

Affinities
Interactions
Estrogen receptor beta has been shown to interact with:

References
Further reading
External links
Estrogen+Receptor+beta at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
Overview of all the structural information available in the PDB for UniProt: Q92731 (Estrogen receptor beta) at the PDBe-KB.This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain. Estrogen signaling
Estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) and estrogen-related receptor alpha (ERRα) have been found to regulate many of the same genes. Mutations involving the corresponding residue in the AR and MR have previously been associated with androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) and diminished sensitivity to mineralocorticoids, respectively.Assays revealed that the mutated ERα showed strongly reduced transcriptional activity in response to stimulation by estradiol, with an ED50 that was approximately 65-fold greater than that of normal/wild-type ERα. A group of other ERα agonists that included ethinylestradiol, diethylstilbestrol, tamoxifen, clomifene, and raloxifene were tested in their ability to promote transcriptional activity of the mutated ERα, but none of them were found to be more efficacious than estradiol in activating the mutated receptor and hence in overcoming the estrogen insensitivity of the siblings.As the sisters had very high, supraphysiological levels of circulating estradiol, the authors cautioned that it could not be ruled out that estradiol may have exerted some functional influence on their phenotypes via signaling through the ERβ and GPER (i.e., that not all of the observed phenotypes may have simply been due to loss of ERα signaling). See also
Membrane steroid receptor


== References == 
Sternal plating for primary and secondary sternal closure; can it improve sternal stability? [SEP] Median sternotomy is a type of surgical procedure in which a vertical inline incision is made along the sternum, after which the sternum itself is divided using a sternal saw. The Intraarticular sternocostal ligament is a horizontal fibrocartilaginous plate in the center of the second sternocostal joint. It connects the tip of the costal cartilage to the fibrous junction between the manubrium and the body of the sternum, dividing the joint into two parts. A sternal saw is a bone cutter used to perform median sternotomy, opening the patient's chest by splitting the breastbone, or sternum. The sternoclavicular joint or sternoclavicular articulation is a synovial saddle joint between the manubrium of the sternum, and the clavicle, and the first costal cartilage. It is composed of two portions separated by an articular disc of fibrocartilage.The joint is formed by the sternal end of the clavicle, the clavicular notch of the sternum, and (the superior surface of) the costal cartilage of the first rib. This disk also allows motion between the sternum (manubrium) and itself during protraction and retraction of the scapula. The suprasternal notch, also known as the fossa jugularis sternalis, jugular notch, or Plender gap, is a large, visible dip in between the neck in humans, between the clavicles, and above the manubrium of the sternum. 
Can dose reduction to one parotid gland prevent xerostomia? [SEP] Dehydration, radiotherapy involving the salivary glands, chemotherapy and several diseases can cause reduced salivation (hyposalivation), or a change in saliva consistency and hence a complaint of xerostomia. Altered saliva composition may also be responsible for xerostomia. Physiologic age-related changes in salivary gland tissues may lead to a modest reduction in salivary output and partially explain the increased prevalence of xerostomia in older people. Radiation therapy
Radiation therapy for cancers of the head and neck (including brachytherapy for thyroid cancers) where the salivary glands are close to or within the field irradiated is another major cause of xerostomia. Parasympathomimetic drugs (saliva stimulants) such as pilocarpine may improve xerostomia symptoms and other problems associated with salivary gland dysfunction, but the evidence for treatment of radiation-induced xerostomia is limited. A systematic review of the management of radiotherapy-induced xerostomia with parasympathomimetic drugs found that there was limited evidence to support the use of pilocarpine in the treatment of radiation-induced salivary gland dysfunction. Salivary gland hypoplasia tends to produce xerostomia (dry mouth), with all the associated problems this brings.It is a rare condition, which may occur as a congenital abnormality or result from lack of neuromuscular stimulation.It may be associated with Melkersson–Rosenthal syndrome, and hereditary ectodermal dysplasia. Facial nerve excised in addition to parotid gland. 
Is the histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) gene a candidate for schizophrenia? [SEP] Histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 2 (HINT2) is a mitochondrial protein that in humans is encoded by the HINT2 gene on chromosome 9. See also
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1)


== References == Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 also known as adenosine 5'-monophosphoramidase is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the HINT1 gene.HINT1 hydrolyzes purine nucleotide phosphoramidates with a single phosphate group. See also
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 2 (HINT2)

References


== Further reading == Importance of genetic studies
The implication of genetics in psychiatric illnesses is not unique to schizophrenia, though the heritability of schizophrenia has been calculated as high as 80%. Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia affects 1% of the general population and is highly heritable, providing an indication of a genetic basis. The Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC) attempts to aggregate GWAS data on schizophrenia to detect associations of common variants with small effect on disease risk.In 2011, this collaboration identified by meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies that 129 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) significantly associated with schizophrenia were located in major histocompatibility complex region of the genome.In 2013 this dataset was expanded to identify in total 13 candidate loci for the disease, and also implicated calcium signaling as an important factor in the disease.In 2014 this collaboration expanded to an even larger meta-analysis, the largest to date, on GWAS data (36,989 cases and 113,075 controls) in Nature, indicating 108 schizophrenia-associated genetic loci, of which 83 have not been previously described. Epigenetics may also play a role in schizophrenia, with the expression of Protocadherin 11 X-linked/Protocadherin 11 Y-linked playing a possible role in schizophrenia.A 2008 investigation of 2,977 schizophrenia patients and 33,746 controls from seven European populations examined CNVs in neurexins, and found that exon-affecting deletions in the NRXN1 gene conferred risk of schizophrenia.An updated meta-analysis on CNVs for schizophrenia published in 2015 expanded the number of CNVs indicated in the disease, which was also the first genetic evidence for the involvement of GABAergic neurotransmission. 
Increased neutrophil migratory activity after major trauma: a factor in the etiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome? [SEP] Neutrophils and some T-lymphocytes quickly migrate into the inflamed lung tissue and contribute in the amplification of the phenomenon. Neutrophil swarming is a type of coordinated neutrophil movement that acts in response to acute tissue inflammation or infection. Through this method, specific subpopulations of neutrophils can be tracked and their origin and fate during the induction and resolution of inflammation is observed. The neutrophils close to the injury will switch from random motility to chemotactic movement within a period of 5-15 minutes and swarm towards the infection site. The methods of movement to the region of injury depends on the tissue environment the neutrophils are moving towards. The propagation of neutrophil recruitment leads to multiple, dense neutrophil cell clusters at the site of inflammation. Neutrophil dysfunction
In widespread diseases such as sepsis, leukocyte extravasation enters an uncontrolled stage, where white blood neutrophils begin destroying host tissues at unprecedented rates, claiming the lives of about 200,000 people in the United States alone. In other words, adhesion of neutrophils is heavily impacted by shear forces as well as molecular interactions. 
BCRABL transcript detection by quantitative real-time PCR : are correlated results possible from homebrew assays? [SEP] Real-time RT-PCR
The emergence of novel fluorescent DNA labeling techniques in the past few years has enabled the analysis and detection of PCR products in real-time and has consequently led to the widespread adoption of real-time RT-PCR for the analysis of gene expression. A real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR, or qPCR when used quantitatively) is a laboratory technique of molecular biology based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). "Kinetic PCR: Real time monitoring of DNA amplification reactions". Quantitative Real-time PCR in Applied Microbiology. Real-Time PCR: Current Technology and Applications. Beacon Designer designs highly specific and efficient primers and probes for real-time PCR (polymerase chain reaction) assays. References
External links
Available real-time PCR cyclers
Features of Real-time PCR Platforms and qPCR Machines PCR Troubleshooting and Optimization: The Essential Guide. 
Does higher body mass index contribute to worse asthma control in an urban population? [SEP] Prevalence of asthma (4th column) in 11 different countries
(1st column) between the years 1992 and 1994 (2nd column)
in the ages 20–44 (3rd column) including Japan in 2005

Social determinants
Differences in socioeconomic status has shown disparities among the prevalence of asthma across populations. In the United States, socioeconomic status is associated with race, due to population trends, Black and Hispanic populations are more likely to have asthma, due to higher concentrations in low-income areas. In other areas of the world, the same trend that lower socioeconomic status is related to higher severity of asthma symptoms. A similar trend can be seen in the United States, where an urban-rural gradient shows the increase in the prevalence of asthma closer to the inner city.A study published by BMC Pulmonary Medicine shows the relation between those who live in large urban, small urban, and rural areas. It was found that asthma prevalence in large urban areas was 20.9%, small urban was 21.5%, and rural was 15.1%. Also, residents in large urban areas were less likely to use medical services for asthma symptoms.Multiple factors contribute to socioeconomic disparities, income and education, pollutant exposures and allergens are uncontrollable influences on an individual. Obesity and the systemic inflammation of obesity has been shown to worsen lung function and increase the risk of developing asthma exacerbations. Results suggested that women with asthma have a higher risk of preterm birth. 
Does a physician's specialty influence the recording of medication history in patients' case notes? [SEP] Medical histories vary in their depth and focus. Medical history taking may also be impaired by various factors impeding a proper doctor-patient relationship, such as transitions to physicians that are unfamiliar to the patient. A medical record includes a variety of types of "notes" entered over time by healthcare professionals, recording observations and administration of drugs and therapies, orders for the administration of drugs and therapies, test results, X-rays, reports, etc. Medical history
The medical history is a longitudinal record of what has happened to the patient since birth. Medications and medical allergies
The medical record may contain a summary of the patient's current and previous medications as well as any medical allergies. "Medical records, patient care, and medical education". Background
In the field of medicine a patient history is an account of the significant events in the patient's life that have a relevance to the issue being addressed. These notes constitute a large part of the medical record. 
Living in an urban environment and non-communicable disease risk in Thailand: Does timing matter? [SEP] Non-communicable diseases form the major burden of morbidity and mortality, while infectious diseases including malaria and tuberculosis, as well as traffic accidents, are also important public health issues.The Human Rights Measurement Initiative finds that Thailand is fulfilling 91.0% of what it should be fulfilling for the right to health based on its level of income. Health status
Non-communicable diseases form the major burden of mortality in Thailand, while infectious diseases including malaria and tuberculosis, as well as traffic accidents, are also important public health issues. Infectious diseases
Major infectious diseases in Thailand also include bacterial diarrhea, hepatitis, dengue fever, malaria, Japanese encephalitis, rabies, and leptospirosis. Nutrition
Food safety
Food safety scares are common to Thailand. This increase in prevalence of chronic diseases has been attributed to lifestyle changes and increased urbanization. Obesity was more commonly found to occur in urban settings as compared to suburban areas.NHES is a nationwide survey which measures the health status of Thai citizens. From 2002 to 2017, campaigns aimed at encouraging healthy habits among Thais took up 92% of the yearly ThaiHealth expenditure.Studies have shown that childhood obesity tends to lead to adult obesity. See also
General:

Health in Thailand
Epidemiology of obesity


== Reference List == 
Is renal warm ischemia over 30 minutes during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy possible? [SEP] Possible causes of kidney ischemia include the activation of IL-17C and hypoxia due to surgery or transplant. Physical stress such as infarction, surgery and transplant may produce kidney ischemia. In studies of mice models, clamping of the kidney may result in kidney ischemia. Renal Surgery and Transplant
Renal surgery and coronary artery bypass grafting can produce renal ischemia and reperfusion injury. This could lead to an acute kidney injury. This strongly suggests ischemic renal disease. Based on these studies, kidney transplants and retrospective partial nephrectomy series indicate the risk of renal function impairment the longer the ischemic injury persists. Rapidly corrected acute renal ischemia leads to acute tubular necrosis, from which complete recovery is possible, while more prolonged ischemia may lead to RCN. 
Does a febrile reaction to platelets predispose recipients to red blood cell alloimmunization? [SEP] Non-immune causes account for over 80% of cases of platelet refractoriness, and sepsis is one of the most common non-immune causes. HLA alloimmunization is the commonest immune cause of platelet refractoriness. Non-immune causes
Patient-related
Sepsis
Fever
Disseminated intravascular coagulation
Splenomegaly
Treatment of infection, antibiotics (vancomycin), antifungals (amphotericin B)
Graft-versus-host disease
Hepatic veno-occlusive disease
Bleeding

Platelet component-related
Age of platelet component
ABO mismatch between platelet component and recipient
Number of platelets within the component if platelet increment (PI) is used to calculate platelet refractoriness
Pathogen-reduced platelet component

Immune causes
Alloantibodies to platelet antigens
Human leucocyte antigen (HLA) antibodies
Human platelet antigen (HPA) antibodies
Immune complexes
Other antibodies
Drug-related antibodies

Diagnosis
Platelet transfusion refractoriness can be defined in several different ways. These can stimulate production of alloantibodies (that is, antibodies against other people's antigens) in recipients of transfused platelets from donors with different HPAs. These antibodies cause neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia, post-transfusion purpura, and some cases of platelet transfusion refractoriness to infusion of donor platelets. These alloantibodies destroy the patient's platelets leading to thrombocytopenia, a rapid decline in platelet count. There is no evidence that this reduce the risk of bleeding, but there is evidence that they increase the risk of harm due to the platelet transfusion (increased risk of a transfusion reaction including anaphylaxis). The reaction is triggered by host antibodies destroying donor red blood cells. 
Maternal creatine homeostasis is altered during gestation in the spiny mouse: is this a metabolic adaptation to pregnancy? [SEP] Metabolic
During pregnancy, both protein metabolism and carbohydrate metabolism are affected. Shortly after birth, infants may start to show signs, as the consequences of decreased creatine levels in their body become more apparent. Maternal rats fed a PR-diet during the entire length of pregnancy led to metabolic-related problems in the F1 and F2 generations, even with normal nutrition during the F1 pregnancy. Altered glucose utilization was detected in the grand-offspring of maternal rats fed a PR-diet during pregnancy and lactation, potentially resulting in diabetes later on in life Protein-restriction in the F0 generation led to hypomethylation of promoters involved in metabolism in the F1 and F2 generations, even though the F1 pregnant rat was given a normal diet. A pregnant rodent may have their caloric intake reduced up to 30-50% of normal intake. Cerebral creatine deficiencies  are a small group of inherited disorders that result from defects in creatine biosynthesis and utilization. Pathogenesis
Creatine is synthesized primarily in the liver and kidneys via a two-step enzymatic process. Their findings were that subjects exposed to the urine of pregnant and lactating mice were in oestrus for significantly more days relative to the female mice in the control group or when exposed to the urine of the singly caged female mouse. 
Pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities: Are they detected by rapid prescreening? [SEP] The Papanicolaou test (abbreviated as Pap test, also known as Pap smear (AE), cervical smear (BE), cervical screening (BE), or smear test (BE)) is a method of cervical screening used to detect potentially precancerous and cancerous processes in the cervix (opening of the uterus or womb) or colon (in both men and women). Screening during this period may show this immune reaction and repair as mild abnormalities, which are usually not associated with cervical cancer, but could cause the patient stress and result in further tests and possible treatment. While Pap smears may not be entirely accurate, they remain one of the most effective cervical cancer prevention tools. Pap smears may be supplemented with HPV DNA testing. In a typical scenario, about 0.5% of Pap results are high-grade SIL (HSIL), and less than 0.5% of results indicate cancer; 0.2 to 0.8% of results indicate Atypical Glandular Cells of Undetermined Significance (AGC-NOS).As liquid-based preparations (LBPs) become a common medium for testing, atypical result rates have increased. The nucleus in koilocytes is typically irregular, indicating possible cause for concern; requiring further confirmatory screens and tests.In addition, human papillomavirus (HPV) test may be performed either as indicated for abnormal Pap results, or in some cases, dual testing is done, where both a Pap smear and an HPV test are done at the same time (also called Pap co-testing). Cells may exfoliate onto the cervix and be collected from there, so as with endocervical cells, abnormal cells can be recognised if present but the Pap test should not be used as a screening tool for endometrial malignancy.In the United States, a Pap test itself costs $20 to $30, but the costs for Pap test visits can cost over $1,000, largely because additional tests are added that may or may not be necessary. Cervical cancer screening is a medical screening test designed to identify abnormal, potentially precancerous cells within the cervix as well as cells that have progressed to early stages of cervical cancer. 
The HELPP syndrome--evidence of a possible systemic inflammatory response in pre-eclampsia? [SEP] It is thought that this results in oxidative stress, hypoxia, and the release of factors that promote endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, and other possible reactions.The clinical manifestations of pre-eclampsia are associated with general endothelial dysfunction, including vasoconstriction and end-organ ischemia. Both circulating and placental levels of soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) are higher in women with pre-eclampsia than in women with normal pregnancy. Oxidative stress may also play an important part in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia. Aberrant immune responses promoting pre-eclampsia may also be due to an altered fetal allorecognition or to inflammatory triggers. These findings have given rise to the hypothesis that pre-eclampsia is a disease process by which a placental lesion such as hypoxia allows increased fetal material into the maternal circulation, that in turn leads to an immune response and endothelial damage, and that ultimately results in pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. Angiogenic proteins such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and placental growth factor (PIGF) and anti-angiogenic proteins such as soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) have shown promise for potential clinical use in diagnosing pre-eclampsia, though evidence is insufficient to recommend a clinical use for these markers.A recent study, ASPRE, known to be the largest multi-country prospective trial, has reported a significant performance in identifying pregnant women at high risk of pre-eclampsia yet during the first trimester of pregnancy. Differential diagnosis
Pre-eclampsia can mimic and be confused with many other diseases, including chronic hypertension, chronic renal disease, primary seizure disorders, gallbladder and pancreatic disease, immune or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, antiphospholipid syndrome and hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Acutely, pre-eclampsia can be complicated by eclampsia, the development of HELLP syndrome, hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke, liver damage and dysfunction, acute kidney injury, and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).Pre-eclampsia is also associated with increased frequency of Caesarean section, preterm delivery, and placental abruption. 
Spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. Should one rely on the short gastric arteries? [SEP] The short gastric arteries are of 5-7 small branches of the splenic artery that pass along part of the greater curvature of the stomach from left to right between the layers of the gastrolienal ligament, and are distributed to the greater curvature of the stomach. Structure
Origin
The short gastric arteries arise from the end of the splenic artery and its terminal divisions. Anastomoses
The short gastric arteries form anastomoses with branches of the left gastric artery, and left gastro-omental artery.Unlike the gastroepiploics and the left and right gastric arteries, the short gastric arteries have poor anastomoses if the splenic artery is blocked. The dorsal pancreatic artery is a branch of the splenic artery. Origin
The dorsal pancreatic artery usually arises from (the proximal 2cm of) the splenic artery. The pancreatic branches or pancreatic arteries are numerous small vessels derived from the splenic artery as it runs behind the upper border of the pancreas, supplying its body and tail. These vessels anastomose with the pancreatic branches of the superior and inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery that are given off by the gastroduodenal artery and superior mesenteric artery respectively. Branches
There are four main pancreatic branches of the splenic artery:
Greater pancreatic artery
Dorsal pancreatic artery
Inferior pancreatic artery (aka transverse pancreatic artery)
Caudal pancreatic artery

References
This article incorporates text in the public domain from the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy (1918)

External links
Anatomy photo:38:05-0102 at the SUNY Downstate Medical Center
Pancreas at The Anatomy Lesson by Wesley Norman (Georgetown University) (pancreasvessels) 
Delayed peripheral facial palsy in the stapes surgery: can it be prevented? [SEP] Facial palsy is typified by inability to move the muscles of facial expression. Babies can be born with facial palsy. Surgery
Surgery may be able to improve outcomes in facial nerve palsy that has not recovered. History
The Persian physician Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi (865–925) detailed the first known description of peripheral and central facial palsy.Cornelis Stalpart van der Wiel (1620–1702) in 1683 gave an account of Bell's palsy and credited the Persian physician Ibn Sina (980–1037) for describing this condition before him. Studies indicate that treatment started within 72 hours of the onset of facial paralysis improves the chances of the patient experiencing significant recovery. Delay of treatment may result in permanent facial nerve paralysis. Stapedotomy
A modified stapes operation, called a stapedotomy, is thought by many otologic surgeons to be safer and reduce the chances of postoperative complications. Facial nerve inflammation in the stylomastoid foramen may cause Bell's palsy. 
Hepatic arterial embolization for unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas: do technical factors affect prognosis? [SEP] Hepatic artery embolization, also known as trans-arterial embolization (TAE), is one of the several therapeutic methods to treat primary liver tumors or metastases to the liver. In practice, hepatic artery embolization occludes the blood flow to the tumors, achieving significant tumor shrinkage in over 80% of people. Background
The  several types of hepatic artery treatments are based on the observation that tumor cells get nearly all their nutrients from the hepatic artery, while the normal cells of the liver get about 70-80 percent of their nutrients and 50% their oxygen supply from the portal vein, and thus can survive with the hepatic artery effectively blocked. In practice,  hepatic artery embolization is an option if the neoplastic growth is mainly within the liver. The rationale for the use of bland embolization for hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC) and/or other hyper-vascular tumors is based on the fact that normal liver receives a dual blood supply from the hepatic artery (25%) and the portal vein (75%). Although selective embolization of a solitary well circumscribed HCC in a patient with Child Class B cirrhosis might be well tolerated, embolization of a hemi-liver in a Child A patient with multifocal hepatoma involving more than 75% of the liver and with portal vein tumor thrombus may result in hepatic failure and severe death. Most tumors within the liver are supplied by the proper hepatic artery, so arterial embolization preferentially interrupts the tumor's blood supply and stalls growth until neovascularization. Therapeutic applications
Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization has most widely been applied to hepatocellular carcinoma for patients who are not eligible for surgery. 
Are pelvic anatomical structures in danger during arthroscopic acetabular labral repair? [SEP] The increased stresses that the femur and or acetabulum experience may lead to a fracture of the acetabular rim or a detachment of the overstressed labrum. Studies have shown that damage to the labral tissue can result in disruption of the labral suction-seal, a fluid force paramount in maintaining hip joint integrity. More moderate damage responds better to arthroscopic labral repair, a procedure in which surgical anchors are drilled into the bony acetabular rim and sutures are used to reapproximate the damaged labral tissue. Complications
The complications encountered during and after labral reconstruction are similar to arthroscopic procedures involving the hip. Operative complications
As with all surgery, arthroscopic labral reconstruction has a small risk of infection. The reason for this is so the surgeon can ensure that the needle, and subsequent cannulae do not penetrate and damage the acetabular labrum or cartilage joint surfaces (see fig. Repeated contact between the femoral neck and the edge of the acetabulum may lead to damage to the labrum and adjacent articular cartilage. "Acetabular labral tears". 
Staging laparoscopy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: is it useful? [SEP] "Laparoscopic liver surgery: Shifting the management of liver tumors". "Surgical Management of Hepatocellular Adenoma: Take It or Leave It?". "Laparoscopic liver resection for cancer". Laparoscopic resection of benign hepatic cysts: a new standard. World review of laparoscopic liver resection - 2,804 patients. Laparoscopic major hepatectomy: an evolution in standard care. Comparing the clinical and economic impact of laparoscopic versus open liver resection. Laparoscopic liver resection - current update. 
Can echocardiography and ECG discriminate hereditary transthyretin V30M amyloidosis from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? [SEP] Unfortunately, echocardiographic findings are indistinguishable from those seen in AL amyloidosis, and include thickened ventricular walls (concentric hypertrophy, both right and left) with a normal-to-small left ventricular cavity, increased myocardial echogenicity, normal or mildly reduced ejection fraction (often with evidence of diastolic dysfunction and severe impairment of contraction along the longitudinal axis), and bi-atrial dilation with impaired atrial contraction. See also
Amyloid
Transthyretin
Senile systemic amyloidosis
Restrictive cardiomyopathy


== References == References
External links

GeneReviews/NIH/NCBI/UW entry on Familial Transthyretin Amyloidosis Similar to the other subtypes of cardiac amyloidosis, a biopsy is required for diagnosis. Cardiac amyloidosis produces specific alterations to the functionality of the heart. Echocardiography can be utilized to detect this specific pattern (relative preservation of the apical myocardium with decreased longitudinal strain in the mid and basal sections), which is 90–95% sensitive and 80–85% specific for cardiac amyloidosis. Echocardiography can be used to help physicians with diagnosis, however, it can only be used for the suggestion of the disease, not the confirmation, unless it is late stage amyloidosis. As expected, with cardiac damage and dysfunction, there can be an elevation of these markers in patients with cardiac amyloidosis. 
Does pediatric housestaff experience influence tests ordered for infants in the neonatal intensive care unit? [SEP] Handbook of Neonatal Intensive Care, Mosby, St. Louis, 2006. By 1931, Dr. A Robert Bauer added more sophisticated upgrades to the incubator which allowed for humidity control and oxygen delivery in addition to heating capabilities, further contributing to improved survival in newborns.The 1950s brought a rapid escalation in neonatal services with the advent of mechanical ventilation of the newborn, allowing for survival at an increasingly smaller birth weight.In 1952, the anesthesiologist Dr. Virginia Apgar developed the Apgar score, used for standardized assessment of infants immediately upon delivery, to guide further steps in resuscitation if necessary.The first dedicated neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) was established at Yale-Newhaven Hospital in Connecticut in 1965. A neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), also known as an intensive care nursery (ICN), is an intensive care unit (ICU) specializing in the care of ill or premature newborn infants. Neonatal care, as known as specialized nurseries or intensive care, has been around since the 1960s.The first American newborn intensive care unit, designed by Louis Gluck, was opened in October 1960 at Yale New Haven Hospital.NICU is typically directed by one or more neonatologists and staffed by resident physicians,  nurses, nurse practitioners, pharmacists, physician assistants, respiratory therapists, and dietitians. There is additional equipment used to evaluate and treat sick neonates. Level 2 Neonatal Units
Also known as 'Local Neonatal Units', these can look after babies who need more advanced support such as parenteral nutrition and continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Babies in a Level 2 unit may be classified for nursing purposes as 'Special Care', 'High Dependency' (HDU) (in which a nurse will be assigned up to two babies) or 'Intensive care' (where nursing is one-to-one, or sometimes even two-to-one). Airway - assess airway patency (open/patent, unobstructed vs obstructed) and if the patient will need assistance maintaining their airway
Breathing - assess respiratory rate, respiratory effort, lung sounds, airway sounds, chest movement, oxygen saturation via pulse oximetry
Circulation - assess heart rate, heart rhythm, pulses, skin color, skin temperature, capillary refill time, blood pressure
Disability - assess neurological function with AVPU pediatric response scale (alert, voice, painful, unresponsive), pediatric Glasgow Coma Scale (eye opening, motor response, verbal response), pupil response to light (normal, pinpoint, dilated, unilateral dilated),  blood glucose test (low blood sugar / hypoglycemia can cause altered mental status)
Exposure - assess temperature/ fever, signs of trauma (cuts, bleeding, bruises, burns, etc. 
Is robotically assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy less invasive than retropubic radical prostatectomy? [SEP] Contrasted with the original open form of the surgery, it does not make a large incision but instead uses fiber optics and miniaturization.The laparoscopic and open forms of radical prostatectomy physically remove the entire prostate and reconstruct the urethra directly to the bladder. Medical uses
A few good studies exist looking at open versus laparoscopic versus laparoscopic and robotic radical prostatectomy in cancer as of 2011.There is a robotic and non robotic version. 2008 studies
There was a study in the Journal of Clinical Oncology from Harvard using a national random sample of Medicare patients, showing that patients who had a laparoscopic/robotic radical prostatectomy underwent hormonal therapy in more than 25% of cases after the procedure compared to an open radical prostatectomy [this is usually not necessary with open radical prostatectomy if all the cancer has been removed and is usually less than 10% of cases], with a high risk of secondary procedures for bladder neck contracture [40% greater risk] which can result in poorer continence. Radical retropubic prostatectomy is a surgical procedure in which the prostate gland is removed through an incision in the abdomen (in comparison with perineal prostatectomy, done through the perineum). Radical retropubic prostatectomy is associated with complications such as urinary incontinence and impotence, but these outcomes are related to a combination of individual patient anatomy, surgical technique, and the experience and skill of the surgeon. Some have found tentative evidence of more complete removal of cancer and fewer side effects from surgery for prostatectomy.In 2000, the first robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy was performed.Robotic surgery has also been utilized in radical cystectomies. It is less commonly used than the alternative methods of the retropubic route, or the robot assisted laparoscopic approach.When the cancer is small and confined to the prostate, radical perineal prostatectomy achieves the same rate of cure as the retropubic approach but less blood is lost and recovery is faster. When the cancer is small and confined to the prostate, radical perineal prostatectomy achieves the same rate of cure as the retropubic approach but less blood is lost and recovery is faster. 
Nasal polyposis: is there an inheritance pattern? [SEP] Nasal polyps (NP) are noncancerous growths within the nose or sinuses. Long-term, nasal polyps can cause destruction of the nasal bones and broadening of the nose.As polyps grow larger, they eventually prolapse into the nasal cavity, resulting in symptoms. It can be classified as either with or without nasal polyposis.Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common cause of nasal polyps in children. Types
There are two primary types of nasal polyps: ethmoidal and antrochoanal. Antrochoanal polyps usually arise in the maxillary sinus and extend into the nasopharynx and represent only 4–6% of all nasal polyps.However, antrochoanal polyps are more common in children comprising one-third of all polyps in this population. Epidemiology
Nasal polyps resulting from chronic rhinosinusitis affect approximately 4.3% of the population. An estimated 40% to 80% of people with sensitivity to aspirin will develop nasal polyposis. Genetics
Familial adenomatous polyposis can have different inheritance patterns and different genetic causes. 
c-Kit-dependent growth of uveal melanoma cells: a potential therapeutic target? [SEP] Additionally, c-KIT has been associated with numerous biological processes in other cell types. c-KIT has been proposed as a regulator of stemness in several cancers. c-KIT has also been linked to the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), which is important for tumor aggressiveness and metastatic potential. Several lines of evidence suggest that SCF/c-KIT signaling plays an important role in the tumor microenvironment. For example, in mice high levels of c-KIT in mast cells as well as its presence in the tumor microenvironment promote angiogenesis, leading to increased tumor growth and metastasis. Interactions
KIT has been shown to interact with:

See also
Cytokine receptor
List of genes mutated in pigmented cutaneous lesions

References
Further reading
External links
Proto-Oncogene+Proteins+c-kit at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
C-kit receptor entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms
Human KIT genome location and KIT gene details page  in the UCSC Genome Browser. c-Kit is expressed in HSCs, mast cells, melanocytes, and germ cells. The activation of c-Kit leads to the activation of multiple signaling cascades, including the RAS/ERK, PI3-Kinase, Src kinase, and JAK/STAT pathways. 
Pharmacologic regimens for knee osteoarthritis prevention: can they be cost-effective? [SEP] A disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) is a disease-modifying drug that would inhibit or even reverse the progression of osteoarthritis. Several approved drugs are being investigated as repurposed agents in the treatment of osteoarhritis such as liraglutide (anti-diabetic and anti-obesity drug: NCT02905864), Metformin (anti-diabetic drug: NCT04767841, NCT05034029), Zoledronic acid (anti-osteoporotic drug: NCT04303026), etc.Paroxetine has been deemed to have dmoad activity. Gene therapy is being studied as a treatment for osteoarthritis (OA). Unlike pharmacological treatments which are administered systemically, gene therapy aims to establish sustained, synthesis of gene products and tissue rehabilitation within the joint.Osteoarthritis has a high degree of heritable factors, and there may be genetic risk factors for the disease. Gene transfer strategies for the potential medical management of osteoarthritis are under preliminary research to define pathological mechanisms and possible treatments for this chronic disease. The growing number of the people suffering from osteoarthritis and the effectiveness of the current treatments attract a great deal of attention to genetic-based therapeutic methods to treat the progression of this chronic disease. Forms of osteoarthritis caused by single gene mutation have better chance of treatment by gene therapy.Epidemiological studies have shown that a genetic component may be an important risk factor in OA. Oxaceprol is an anti-inflammatory drug used in the treatment of osteoarthritis. 
Is anorectal endosonography valuable in dyschesia? [SEP] It has since become used for diagnosis of various anorectal disorders, including anismus and other causes of obstructed defecation. Conditions which may be demonstrated include:
Anismus (pelvic floor dyssynergia)It has been suggested that some patients may be embarrassed by this procedure, which give findings of abnormal defecation. Their assessment concluded that anorectal manometry was indicated when used in assessment of fecal incontinence, constipation, evacuation disorders (including Hirschsprung's disease), functional anorectal pain and in the assessment of anorectal function preoperatively or after a traumatic obstetric injury. Medical Uses
Fecal Incontinence
After eliminating structural causes of fecal incontinence from the differential diagnosis, anorectal manometry may be used to evaluate deficiencies in sphincter function or anorectal sensation. Constipation
Anorectal manometry can be used in the diagnostic workup of individuals with chronic constipation without a known cause or with chronic constipation that has not improved on a trial of laxatives and/or fiber. Hirschsprung's disease
In infants and children, anorectal manometry may be used to assist in the diagnosis of Hirschsprung's disease. Although diagnosis of these disorders is largely clinical, anorectal manometry may be used for further diagnostic assessment. In addition to correlating manometry findings with clinical findings, as part of a diagnostic or evaluatory workup, the use of anorectal manometry may be complemented with other diagnostic tests such as endoanal ultrasound, defecography or gut transit studies. 
Production of chemokines by perivascular adipose tissue: a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis? [SEP] Adipose tissue macrophages (abbr. Increased number of adipose tissue macrophages correlates with increased adipose tissue production of proinflammatory molecules and might therefore contribute to the pathophysiological consequences of obesity (e.g. Adipose tissue macrophages and obesity
Increased recruitment of macrophages into adipose tissue is multifactoral. Adipose tissue macrophages isolated from obese patients express growth factors, cytokines, chemokines, and proteolytic enzymes involved in the regulation of tumor growth, angiogenesis, invasion, and metastatic spread, and resemble macrophages present in tumor stroma. The adipokines, or adipocytokines (Greek adipo-, fat; cytos-, cell; and -kinos, movement) are cytokines (cell signaling proteins) secreted by adipose tissue. In obesity, adipose tissue is also implicated in the chronic release of pro-inflammatory markers known as adipokines, which are responsible for the development of metabolic syndrome, a constellation of diseases including, but not limited to, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and atherosclerosis. Adipose tissue contains many small blood vessels. Perivascular adipose tissue releases adipokines such as adiponectin that affect the contractile function of the vessels that they surround. 
Continuity of care experience of residents in an academic vascular department: are trainees learning complete surgical care? [SEP] Vascular surgery is a surgical subspecialty in which vascular diseases involving the arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels, are managed by medical therapy, minimally-invasive catheter procedures and surgical reconstruction. The vascular surgeon is trained in the diagnosis and management of diseases affecting all parts of the vascular system excluding the coronaries and intracranial vasculature. Vascular surgeons also are called to assist other physicians to carry out surgery near vessels, or to salvage vascular injuries that include hemorrhage control, dissection, occlusion or simply for safe exposure of vascular structures. Traditionally, a five-year general surgery residency is followed by a 1-2 year (typically 2 years) vascular surgery fellowship. In many countries, Vascular surgeons can opt for additional training in cardiac surgery as well as post-residency. Some residency programs refer to residents in their final year as chief residents (typically in surgical branches). In dermatology generally one of the final year residents is chosen as chief, to add administrative duties to the normal learning in the last year.If a physician finishes a residency and decides to further his or her education in a fellowship, they are referred to as a "fellow". They are primarily employed in surgical operating departments but may also work directly within or further their training to facilitate working within a variety of acute clinical settings. 
Household and food shopping environments: do they play a role in socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption? [SEP] In contemporary Western society, social class differences in food consumption follow a general pattern. Better access to healthy foods
Greater income plays an important role in accessing healthy foods. Buying and eating organic foods not only requires a certain degree of expendable money, but it also suggests that the middle class consumer possesses some nutritional knowledge and the ability to access the same grocery markets as the rich. In urban areas, vast income inequality makes purchasing healthy foods more difficult for low-income groups, especially among racial minorities. On average, food insecurity and low income is associated with overeating high-calorie snack foods and carbohydrates and under-eating fruits and vegetables. In fact, low-income households do spend more money on fast food as a result of their time constraints: Households that make less than $50,000 per year spend nearly 50% of their food expenditure on “foods away from home”, or ready-to-eat foods that are available through public spaces (e.g., such as vending machines, restaurants, or schools). Somewhat surprisingly, high-income groups actually consume more calories overall from “foods away from home” compared to low-income groups. Farmers’ markets: centerpiece of alternative food distribution systems. 
Does birth center care during a woman's first pregnancy have any impact on her future reproduction? [SEP] A birth center presents a more home-like environment than a hospital labor ward, typically with more options during labor: food and drink, music, and the attendance of family and friends if desired. The review also found that having a birth at an alternative birth center decreased the likelihood of medical intervention during labor, without increasing risk to mother or child. The likelihood of risks during a pregnancy or a mother's preexisting medical conditions may impact the ability for that mother to use a birthing center. However, even if a delivery cannot happen at the birth center due to a high-risk pregnancy, birth center midwives might provide prenatal care up to a certain week of gestation. A woman's first prenatal visit was associated with self-referral to care, more prenatal care advocates, and fewer children. Consequences from lack of prenatal care
Without timely, thorough, and appropriate prenatal care, disadvantaged populations and those who do not utilize prenatal health services face higher risks of encountering consequences during prenatal, childbirth and post-partum experiences. New borns of mothers who do not utilize prenatal care are three times more likely to have a low birth weight and five times more likely to die in comparison to new borns whose mothers regularly attended prenatal care check-ups. Late entry to prenatal care and inadequate prenatal care are associated with increased likelihood of preterm birth, increased risk of low birthweight infants, and increased infant mortality. 
Are environmental factors important in primary systemic vasculitis? [SEP] Systemic vasculitides are a group of heterogeneous diseases that share the etiology in terms of inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis) – more specifically the arterioles – with systemic involvement. Lupus vasculitis is a complication of systemic lupus erythematosus in which the autoimmune response causes the deposition of immune complexes, such as rheumatoid factor, within the blood vessels. Retinal vasculitis is inflammation of the vascular branches of the retinal artery, caused either by primary ocular disease processes, or as a specific presentation of any systemic form of vasculitis such as Behçet's disease, sarcoidosis, multiple sclerosis, or any form of systemic necrotizing vasculitis such as temporal arteritis, polyarteritis nodosa, and granulomatosis with polyangiitis, or due to lupus erythematosus, or rheumatoid arthritis. Eales disease, pars planitis, birdshot retinochoroidopathy (autoimmune bilateral posterior uveitis), and Fuchs heterochromic iridocyclitis (FHI) can also cause retinal vasculitis. Therefore, vasculitis generally occurs only in patients affected by mixed (type 2 and 3) cryoglobulinemia, as simple (type 1) cryoglobulinemia causes a hyperviscosity syndrome without complement activation.The large majority of cases of cryogloulinemic vasculitis are associated with underlying medical conditions which contribute to or exacerbate the pathophysiology, the most common being hepatitis C virus infection. "Golfer's vasculitis vs cutaneous vasculitis exacerbated by activity". "Golfer's vasculitis". External links
About.com article about Golfer's vasculitis 
Is low serum chloride level a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality? [SEP] Hypochloremia (or Hypochloraemia) is an electrolyte disturbance in which there is an abnormally low level of the chloride ion in the blood. The normal serum range for chloride is 97 to 107 mEq/L. The normal serum range for chloride is 96 to 106 mEq/L, therefore chloride levels at or above 110 mEq/L usually indicate kidney dysfunction as it is a regulator of chloride concentration. Previously, animal models with elevated chloride have displayed more inflammation markers, changes in blood pressure, increased renal vasoconstriction, and less renal blood flow as well at glomerulus filtration, all of which are prompting researchers to investigate if these changes or others may exist in patients. Some studies have reported a possible relationship between increased chloride levels and death or acute kidney injury in severely ill patients that may frequent the hospital or have prolonged visits. As mentioned earlier a normal serum chloride range is from 96 to 106 mEq/L, and hyperchloremic patients will have levels above this range. This study is important because this continues to suggest there is increased risk associated with elevated chloride levels in vulnerable populations. A diagnostic test may use a chloridometer to determine the serum chloride level. 
Is EQ-5D a valid quality of life instrument in patients with acute coronary syndrome? [SEP] EQ-5D is a standardised measure of health-related quality of life developed by the EuroQol Group to provide a simple, generic questionnaire for use in clinical and economic appraisal and population health surveys. EQ-5D assesses health status in terms of five dimensions of health and is considered a ‘generic’ questionnaire because these dimensions are not specific to any one patient group or health condition. EQ-5D can also be referred to as a patient-reported outcome (PRO) measure, because patients can complete the questionnaire themselves to provide information about their current health status and how this changes over time. ‘EQ-5D’ is not an abbreviation and is the correct term to use when referring to the instrument in general.EQ-5D is widely used around the world in clinical trials and real-world clinical settings, population studies, and health economic evaluations. In clinical trials and routine clinical settings, EQ-5D can be used (i) to provide a profile of patient health on the day of questionnaire completion; (ii) to monitor the health status of patient groups at particular times, e.g. EQ-5D-5L
EQ-5D-5L was introduced in 2009 with the aim of enhancing instrument sensitivity and providing respondents with the opportunity to provide a more detailed and accurate picture of their health. Theoretical and psychometric properties
The validity, reliability, and responsiveness of EQ-5D-3L have been assessed for EQ-5D versions in many different health conditions, including cardiovascular disease, mental health populations, aged care, skin conditions, cancer, and total knee arthroplasty.The brevity of EQ-5D-3L is likely to be a major factor in its widespread use, but the three-level format can be a limitation in some clinical areas. EQ-5D in economic evaluation
EQ-5D is the most widely used health-related quality of life questionnaire in health economic evaluations. 
Could Adult European Pharmacoresistant Epilepsy Patients Be Treated With Higher Doses of Zonisamide? [SEP] Zonisamide, sold under the brand name Zonegran among others, is a medication used to treat the symptoms of epilepsy and Parkinson's disease. Medical uses
Epilepsy
Zonisamide is approved in the United States, and United Kingdom for adjunctive treatment of partial seizures in adults and Japan for both adjunctive and monotherapy for partial seizures (simple, complex, secondarily generalized), generalized (tonic, tonic-clonic (grand mal), and atypical absence) and combined seizures. In Japan, zonisamide has been used as an adjunct to levodopa treatment since 2009. Research
Tardive dyskinesia
In an open-label trial zonisamide attenuated the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia. References
External links
"Zonisamide". Approximately 30% of people with epilepsy have a drug-resistant form.When 2 AED regimens have failed to produce sustained seizure-freedom, it is important to initiate other treatments to control seizures. Ethosuximide, sold under the brand name Zarontin among others, is a medication used to treat absence seizures. References
The Medical Treatment of Epilepsy by Stanley R Resor. 
Does early migraine treatment shorten time to headache peak and reduce its severity? [SEP] Prevention is better than cure, so the ideal treatment goal is to prevent migraine attacks. Ibuprofen has been found to provide effective pain relief in about 50% of migraine attacks. A single dose of intravenous dexamethasone, when added to standard treatment of a migraine attack, is associated with a 26% decrease in headache recurrence in the following 72 hours. Medication
Preventive migraine medications are considered effective if they reduce the frequency or severity of the migraine attacks by at least 50%. A single dose of intravenous dexamethasone, when added to standard treatment of a migraine attack, is associated with a 26% decrease in headache recurrence in the following 72 hours. Children
Ibuprofen helps decrease pain in children with migraines and is the initially recommended treatment. This method is considered to be efficient for migraine prevention. Alternative medicine
Acupuncture
Cochrane reviews have found that acupuncture is effective in the treatment of migraine. 
Does the manic/mixed episode distinction in bipolar disorder patients run true over time? [SEP] A mixed affective state, formerly known as a mixed-manic or mixed episode, has been defined as a state wherein features unique to both depression and  mania—such as episodes of despair, doubt, anguish, rage or homicidal ideation, suicidal ideation, splitting, racing thoughts, sensory overload, pressure of activity, and heightened irritability—occur either simultaneously or in very short succession. Previously, the diagnostic criteria for both a manic and depressive episode had to be met in a consistent and sustained fashion, with symptoms enduring for at least a week (or any duration if psychiatric hospitalization was required), thereby restricting the official acknowledgement of mixed affective states to only a minority of patients with bipolar I disorder. In current DSM-5 nomenclature, however, a "mixed episode" no longer stands as an episode of illness unto itself; rather, the symptomology specifier "with mixed features" can be applied to any major affective episode (manic, hypomanic, or depressive), meaning that they are now officially recognized in patients with, in addition to bipolar I disorder, bipolar II disorder and, by convention, major depressive disorder. If untreated, a manic episode usually lasts three to six months.In severe manic episodes, a person can experience psychotic symptoms, where thought content is affected along with mood. Mixed affective episodes
In bipolar disorder, a mixed state is an episode during which symptoms of both mania and depression occur simultaneously. These episodes are separated from each other by a remission (partial or full) for at least two months or a switch in mood polarity (i.e., from a depressive episode to a manic episode or vice versa). Manic episodes are often complicated by delusions and/or hallucinations; and if the psychotic features persist for a duration significantly longer than the episode of typical mania (two weeks or more), a diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder is more appropriate. If the person is concurrently depressed, they are said to be having a mixed episode.The World Health Organization's classification system defines a manic episode as one where mood is higher than the person's situation warrants and may vary from relaxed high spirits to barely controllable exuberance, is accompanied by hyperactivity, a compulsion to speak, a reduced sleep requirement, difficulty sustaining attention, and/or often increased distractibility. 
Post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage: is it a preferably night-time event? [SEP] In several reported case series, the rate of post tonsillectomy bleeding ranged from 2.0% to 7.0%. A meta-analysis reported that frequency of bleeding after tonsillectomy across different techniques did not differ.It is estimated 1.3% of people will have a delayed discharge (of 4 to 24 hours) due to a complication, and up to 3.9% will require repeat admission to hospital. Controlling the pain following tonsillectomy is important to ensure that people can start eating again normally following the procedure.At some point, most commonly 7 to 11 days after the surgery (but occasionally as long as two weeks after), bleeding can occur when scabs begin sloughing off from the surgical sites. In the 7th century Paulus Aegineta (625–690) described a detailed procedure for tonsillectomy, including dealing with the inevitable post-operative bleeding. Furthermore, rarely bleeding may be present in the tonsil area of the mouth throughout the surgical procedure, which would need extra treatment on top of the coblation tonsillectomy surgery. Bleeding in areas around the tonsils can also occur during the healing stage in the first few weeks after surgery because the wound is still fresh and can open up in come occasions. Surgical Procedure
Coblation tonsillectomy is an outpatient surgical process, meaning patients are able leave the hospital and go home after they have gone through the surgery and have woken up, so it is unnecessary for them to stay overnight. If bleeding is present in the tonsil area due to slow recovery rate then the patient will be required to stay at the hospital overnight. 
Acute hepatitis C in Israel: a predominantly iatrogenic disease? [SEP] Hepatitis C is an infectious disease caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV) that primarily affects the liver; it is a type of viral hepatitis. Worldwide hepatitis C is the cause of 27% of cirrhosis cases and 25% of hepatocellular carcinoma. It was believed that the high prevalence in Egypt was linked to a discontinued mass-treatment campaign for schistosomiasis, using improperly sterilized glass syringes.In the United States, about 2% of people have chronic hepatitis C. In 2014, an estimated 30,500 new acute hepatitis C cases occurred (0.7 per 100,000 population), an increase from 2010 to 2012. Worldwide the prevalence of hepatitis C virus infection in pregnant women and children has been estimated to 1–8% and 0.05–5% respectively. "Hepatitis C". Hepatitis C is a contagious disease that primarily affects the liver, causing severe damage as the disease progresses. Hepatitis C virus genotype is considered more common than the Hepatitis B virus infection contributing to more than a million cases annually and is considered one of the major reason for liver transplantation in United States. National Hepatitis C Program U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 
Out of the smokescreen II: will an advertisement targeting the tobacco industry affect young people's perception of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke? [SEP] "Harm reduction" advertising
Some tobacco companies have sponsored ads that claim to discourage teen smoking. In that case, the film is released with a health warning in end credits, DVD packaging, etc.Since May 2007, the Motion Picture Association of America may give a film glamorizing smoking or depicting pervasive smoking outside of a historic or other mitigating context a higher rating.There have also been moves to reduce the depiction of protagonists smoking in television shows, especially those aimed at children. Impact on the public
Although the tobacco industry claims that their advertising is only used to convince current smokers to switch between brands and that it does not increase total cigarette consumption, research into the effects of advertising shows that it plays an essential role in projecting positive connotations of smoking cigarettes onto potential new smokers. Tobacco promotion and advertising is an important cause of tobacco use initiation and escalation among youth. Exposure to advertisements increases intention to use e-cigarettes among adolescent non-users, and is associated with current e-cigarette use, even in a dose-dependent fashion, as increasing exposure is associated with increased odds of use. E-cigarette television advertisements could be attracting previous tobacco users to use a traditional cigarette.As a result of the large-scale marketing, e-cigarettes gained widespread pervasiveness among all age groups, including vulnerable adolescents and youths populations. The increasing frequency and reach of advertising on television raises concerns about the potential impact of promoting nicotine products and renormalizing smoking through that medium, particularly for youth. "Harm reduction" advertising
Some tobacco companies have sponsored ads that claim to discourage teen smoking. 
Do adjuvant aromatase inhibitors increase the cardiovascular risk in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer? [SEP] Steroidal aromatase inhibitors are a class of drugs that are mostly used for treating breast cancer in postmenopausal women. That is the reason that compounds that inhibit biosynthesis of estrogen have been researched and are now the standard adjuvant therapy for breast cancer in postmenopausal women. It has been proven that breast cancer in postmenopausal women can be treated or prevented by modulating the estrogen receptors or its ligands and as aromatase is part of the final step in estrogen conversion it is a good target for medicine. Aromatase inhibitors stops this conversion and lowers the levels of estrogen.Treating breast cancer with aromatase inhibitors is only effective in postmenopausal women because of high levels of aromatase ligands (substrate) in ovaries of premenopausal women. the adipose tissue of the breast) with aromatase inhibitors has been proven to be an effective treatment for hormone-sensitive breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Aromatase inhibitors are generally not used to treat breast cancer in premenopausal women because, prior to menopause, the decrease in estrogen activates the hypothalamus and pituitary axis to increase gonadotropin secretion, which in turn stimulates the ovary to increase androgen production. Ongoing areas of clinical research include optimizing adjuvant hormonal therapy in postmenopausal women with breast cancer. Preliminary data from the open-label TEAM trial comparing exemestane with tamoxifen indicated in 2009 that exemestane 25 mg/day is also effective in the primary adjuvant treatment of early-stage breast cancer in postmenopausal women.Interim phase III trial results in 2011 showed that adding everolimus to exemestane therapy against advanced breast cancer can significantly improve progression-free survival compared with exemestane therapy alone.A Phase III trial was reported in 2011, concluding that the use of exemestane in postmenopausal women at an increased risk for breast cancer reduced the incidence of invasive breast cancer. 
Metastatic carcinoma to the cervical nodes from an unknown head and neck primary site: Is there a need for neck dissection? [SEP] The neck dissection is a surgical procedure for control of neck lymph node metastasis from squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the head and neck. Metastasis of squamous cell carcinoma into the lymph nodes of the neck reduce survival and is the most important factor in the spread of the disease. 1957 – Hayes Martin describes routine use of the radical neck dissection for control of neck metastases. The tumors frequently present at advanced stages, and around 70% of patients present with metastasis to the cervical lymph nodes.
. As the tonsils consist of a rich network of lymphatics, the carcinoma may metastasize to the neck lymph nodes which many are cystic. Metastasis of cancer cells to cervical lymph nodes diminishes the chance of cure. A PET CT scan should be done for squamous cell carcinoma involving lymph nodes of the neck region. Cervical artery dissection is dissection of one of the layers that compose the carotid and vertebral artery in the neck (cervix). 
Cardiac reoperations in octogenarians: Do they really benefit? [SEP] Cardiogeriatrics, or geriatric cardiology, is the branch of cardiology and geriatric medicine that deals with the cardiovascular disorders in elderly people. See also
Cardiology
Geriatrics


== References == Cardiac surgery, or cardiovascular surgery, is surgery on the heart or great vessels performed by cardiac surgeons. Cardiac surgery in the adult. According to a study by Eagle et al., patients 50–59 years old have an operative mortality rate of 1.8%, while patients older than 80 have a rate of 8.3%. Manual of Perioperative Care in Adult Cardiac Surgery. He performed a bypass heart surgery on a 90 year old British man in Gujarat, making it the oldest patient to be performed in the state. They also seem to improve Health-related quality of life in younger men recovering from a myocardial infarction or from a post-revascularisation surgery. 
Location and number of sutures placed for hiatal hernia repair during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding: does it matter? [SEP] Laparoscopic hernia repair is the repair of a hiatal hernia using a laparoscope, which is a tiny telescope-like instrument. Methods
There are several different methods when performing a laparoscopic hernia repair. In bariatric surgery, hernias are repaired laparoscopically anteriorly, rather than posteriorly as in the fundoplication procedure. Laparoscopic hernia repair
A laparoscopic hernia repair is when the hiatal hernia is corrected using a covering for the mesh that is used to repair the weakened area. General complications that can occur using any method of hernia repair are:
problems with anesthesia dosage
difficulty swallowing because the stomach is too high up or esophagus is wrapped too tightly
heartburn
excessive gas
infection or bleeding
esophagus moving out of wrap causing lower esophageal sphincter to not be supported

General laparoscopic procedure
Some complications that can arise from the general laparoscopic procedure are PUR (postoperative urinary retention) Other complications that can arise during this procedure are:
nerve injury that results in prolonged pain
recurrence of hernia
hematomas
excessive bleeding that leads to the switch to open hernia repair
wound infection

Nissen fundoplication procedure
Complications that can arise form this procedure are:
dysphagia
bloating
other gastrointestinal symptomsOverall, the complication rate for this procedure is about 10% to 20%. Outcomes from having laparoscopic hernia repair are:
A lower morbidity rate
Low mortality rate
Quarter inch to half an inch incisions that result in three small scarsA laparoscopic hiatal hernia repair results in a hospital stay of approximately 36 to 48 hours after the procedure has been performed

Benefits
Laparoscopic hernia repair has several benefits compared to performing Open hernia repairs.Benefits are:
Three small scars at the point of incision compared to one large scar
Reduced post-operative pain
Shorter recovery time
Shorter hospital stay

See also
Hiatus hernia


== References == Gastric banding is performed using laparoscopic surgery and usually results in a shorter hospital stay, faster recovery, smaller scars, and less pain than open surgical procedures. Placement via laparoscopic surgery
The surgical insertion of an adjustable gastric band is often referred to as a lap band procedure or band placement. 
Is Alveolar Macrophage Phagocytic Dysfunction in Children With Protracted Bacterial Bronchitis a Forerunner to Bronchiectasis? [SEP] Increased levels of lipid-laden alveolar macrophages are associated with various respiratory conditions, including chronic smoking, gastroesophageal reflux, lipoid pneumonia, fat embolism,  pulmonary alveolar proteinosis and pulmonary aspiration. Lipid-laden alveolar macrophages have been reported in cases of vaping-associated pulmonary injury.The lipid-laden macrophage index (LLMI) can be calculated by counting 100 macrophages in a BAL specimen treated with a lipid stain and scoring each macrophage from 0 to 4 based on the amount of lipids present in the cell. Macrophage activation syndrome  is a severe, potentially life-threatening, complication of several chronic rheumatic diseases of childhood. Thus, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae and human rhinoviruses are microbes that play a major role in non-atopic asthma. Although cell-mediated immune response is responsible for the clearance of C. pneumoniae, this response can be harmful to the host because it favours the development of inflammation that can lead to asthma. Furthermore, infection with C. pneumonia also induces serum immunoglobulin IgA, and IgG responses, which are associated with chronic asthma. The release of proinflammatory cytokines in response to M. pneumoniae infection has been indicated as a possible mechanism leading to bronchial asthma. The T helper type 2 predominant airways disease caused by M. pneumonia infection may lead to IgE-related hyper-responsiveness and eosinophil function, resulting in an onset of asthma. 
Do elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy for treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression? [SEP] Radiation therapy can be used to cure care or shrink tumors that are interfering with quality of life. This surgical procedure is also commonly performed in order to remove pressure from the spinal cord in the neck, which may be due to various reasons. During the surgery there is also a benefit of minimizing the injury to muscles, ligaments, and bones in the spine since more invasive surgeries have a greater risk of damaging them. Spinal microsurgery is the most common and effective microsurgical decompression treatment for patients who present with moderate to severe spinal stenosis. Spinal cord compression is a form of myelopathy in which the spinal cord is compressed. Emergency radiation therapy (usually 20 grays in 5 fractions, 30 grays in 10 fractions or 8 grays in 1 fraction) is the mainstay of treatment for malignant spinal cord compression. The median survival of patients with metastatic spinal cord compression is about 12 weeks, reflecting the generally advanced nature of the underlying malignant disease. "Systematic review of the diagnosis and management of malignant extradural spinal cord compression: the Cancer Care Ontario Practice Guidelines Initiative's Neuro-Oncology Disease Site Group". 
Are WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF-recommended replacement milks for infants of HIV-infected mothers appropriate in the South African context? [SEP] Background
Breastfeeding with HIV guidelines established by the WHO suggest that HIV-infected mothers (particularly those in resource-poor countries) practice exclusive breastfeeding only, rather than mixed breastfeeding practices that involve other dietary supplements or fluids. The convention concluded with the following recommendations: If replacement feeding is acceptable, feasible, affordable and safe, HIV-infected mothers are recommended to use replacement feeding. At six months, if replacement feeding is still not available, HIV-infected mothers are encouraged to slowly introduce food while continuing breastfeeding. See also
Breastfeeding and HIV transmission avoidance to prevent malnutrition in South Africa
Breastfeeding difficulties
Breastfeeding promotion controversies: Breastfeeding and HIV
HIV/AIDS: Mother-to-child
Management of HIV/AIDS: Pregnant women
Marian Tompson, leader of AnotherLook at Breastfeeding and HIV/AIDS

References
External links
Breast-Feeding Content Resources WHO reports on Breast Feeding
Health risks of not breastfeeding Archived 2016-03-04 at the Wayback Machine US Department of Health & Human Services
The World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action (WABA) is a global network of individuals & organisations concerned with the protection, promotion & support of breastfeeding worldwide. History
In April 2006 founder Jill Youse searched for ways to donate breast milk and stumbled across an orphanage in Durban, South Africa, looking for donor milk to provide for their HIV positive infants. One of the top goals of IBMP is to provide donor milk to malnourished, orphaned, or diseased infants in South Africa. South Africa
South Africa has a breast milk collection and distribution program, Milk Matters, based in Cape Town. Recommended alternatives
The World Health Organization recommends that if a mother is unable to breastfeed, chooses not to breastfeed, or if her baby (often premature) shows signs that it isn't getting enough breast-milk, a healthy wet nurse or milk from a donor is a healthy alternative to formula. 
Is minilaparoscopic inguinal hernia repair feasible? [SEP] Inguinal hernia surgery is an operation to repair a weakness in the abdominal wall that abnormally allows abdominal contents to slip into a narrow tube called the inguinal canal in the groin region. Successful outcomes of repair are usually measured via rates of hernia recurrence, pain and subsequent quality of life.Surgical repair of inguinal hernias is one of the most commonly performed operations worldwide and the most commonly performed surgery within the United States. Robotic surgery
Robot assisted repair of inguinal hernias has demonstrated safety and efficacy in surgeries repairing inguinal hernias that present on both sides of the pubic bone (bilateral) as well as inguinal hernias that present on one side (unilateral). Complications and prognosis
Inguinal hernia repair complications are unusual, and the procedure as a whole proves to be relatively safe for the majority of patients. It can occur with any inguinal hernia repair technique, and if unresponsive to pain medications, further surgical intervention is often required. "Chronic Pain Following Inguinal Hernia Repair". Laparoscopic hernia repair is when minimally invasive cameras and equipment are used and the hernia is repaired with only small incisions adjacent to the hernia. American Hernia Society
Surgery Methods, Inguinal Hernia, Description, Comparison 
Surgical treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis in patients with double prostheses: is single-valve replacement safe? [SEP] The first robot-assisted double heart valve replacement was carried out in the Chennai region of India at Chettinad Health City. Valve replacement surgery is the replacement of one or more of the heart valves with either an artificial heart valve or a bioprosthesis (homograft from human tissue or xenograft e.g. Until recently, surgical aortic valve replacement was the standard treatment for adults with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. Artificial heart valves are susceptible to bacterial infection; most bacteria that cause heart valve infections come from the mouth, so that good dental hygiene and routine dental cleaning are recommended. When the valve is not inserted correctly, when there is incomplete sealing between the native heart valve and the stented valve, paravalvular leak (PVL) can occur. Later prostheses have improved durability.Bioprosthetic valve disfunction (BVD) has historically been divided into SVD (structural valve deterioration, including irreversible intrinsic changes of the prosthetic valve structure), NSVD (non-structural valve deterioration, including irreversible intra- or para-prosthetic regurgitation, prosthesis malposition, and patient-prosthesis mismatch), valve thrombosis, and endocarditis (which can be potentially reversible). "Percutaneous valve implantation: back to the future?". It risks having a disease of two valves instead of one.The procedure requires technical expertise. 
Epidural analgesia for surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a risky technique? [SEP] For this reason, epidurals are commonly used for pain control during childbirth and surgery. Peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) is intraperitoneal dissemination (carcinosis) of any form of cancer that does not originate from the peritoneum itself. "Peritoneal carcinomatosis from colorectal cancer". "Peritoneal carcinomatosis". "HIPEC in Peritoneal Metastasis of Gastric Origin: A Systematic Review of Regimens and Techniques". "Peritoneal carcinomatosis". Colorectal cancer
Among colorectal cancer patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis cytoreductive surgery, with the addition of HIPEC can be used to prolong overall survival in patients. Epidurals are recommended for perioperative COVID-19 people over general anesthesia—EBPs have an extremely low risk of transferring an infection to the central nervous system even with an ongoing infection but are a last resort after conservative treatments and nerve blocks. 
Risk stratification in emergency surgical patients: is the APACHE II score a reliable marker of physiological impairment? [SEP] APACHE II ("Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II") is a severity-of-disease classification system, one of several ICU scoring systems. It is applied within 24 hours of admission of a patient to an intensive care unit (ICU): an integer score from 0 to 71 is computed based on several measurements; higher scores correspond to more severe disease and a higher risk of death. Application
APACHE II was designed to measure the severity of disease for adult patients admitted to intensive care units. In the original research paper that described the APACHE II score, patient prognosis (specifically, predicted mortality) was computed based on the patient's APACHE II score in combination with the principal diagnosis at admission. APACHE III
A method to compute a refined score known as APACHE III was published in 1991.The score was validated on the dataset from 17,440 adult medical/surgical intensive care unit (ICU) admissions at 40 US hospitals. The prognostic system of APACHE III has two options:

APACHE III ScoreProvides an initial risk classification of severely ill hospitalized patients in defined groups.APACHE III predictive equationAdds additional variables to the APACHE III Score including the primary reason for ICU admission (from a reference list of 212 conditions classified according to etiology, major organ involved, and distinction between surgical/medical categories); age, sex, race and preexisting comorbidities; and location prior to ICU admission (operating room, recovery or emergency department, transfer or readmission from another hospital or ICU).When possible, the time between the patient's arrival at the hospital and their ICU admission is recorded. The sequential organ failure assessment score (SOFA score), previously known as the sepsis-related organ failure assessment score, is used to track a person's status during the stay in an intensive care unit (ICU) to determine the extent of a person's organ function or rate of failure. "The pediatric risk of mortality III – Acute physiology score (PRISM III–APS): A method of assessing physiologic instability for pediatric intensive care unit patients". 
Are physicians meeting the needs of family caregivers of the frail elderly? [SEP] Geriatric care may be indicated if caregiving responsibilities become increasingly stressful or medically complex for family and caregivers to manage independently.There is a distinction between geriatrics and gerontology. Elderly patients can receive care related to medication management, pain management, psychiatric and memory care, rehabilitation, long-term nursing care, nutrition and different forms of therapy including physical, occupational and speech. While family caregivers often care for patients with dementia at home, they also provide a helpful function within nursing or residential aged care facilities. Findings from a 2021 systematic review found caregivers of these patients in nursing homes with dementia do not have sufficient tools or clinical guidance for helping to manage multiple interventions, such as behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) and medication use. Family physicians frequently treat illnesses related to obstetrics, pediatrics, adult medicine, orthopedics, outpatient and inpatient care. Communication with the client, as well as their primary physician, other health care providers, and family members, is key to ensuring that the individual receiving care is able to participate, to the greatest extent possible, in decisions about their health and other matters affecting their daily life.Depending on the level of service being provided, a professional live-in caregiver may assist the client with personal hygiene, laundry, and light housekeeping. In some situations, professional live-in caregivers will even provide assisted feeding to those who have difficulty swallowing or otherwise eating on their own due to certain medical conditions, such as a recent stroke or Parkinson’s disease.Medication Management: 
Elderly people and those coping with chronic illness often have complicated medication regimens, with many taking multiple prescription and over-the-counter drugs. It is important that the client’s healthcare provider educate caregivers about their medication needs to optimize long-term management at home.Ensuring a Safe Home: 
It is the responsibility of live-in caregivers to ensure their client is safe at home. 
Can nonproliferative breast disease and proliferative breast disease without atypia be distinguished by fine-needle aspiration cytology? [SEP] Benign proliferative breast disease is a group of noncancerous conditions that may increase the risk of developing breast cancer. References
External links
Benign proliferative breast disease entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms This article incorporates public domain material from Dictionary of Cancer Terms. The different types of breast biopsies include fine-needle aspiration (FNA), vacuum-assisted biopsy, core needle biopsy, and surgical excision biopsy. A suspicious hard palpable lump
Skin changes like crusting, scaling, or dimpling of the breast, which may signal an underlying breast cancer
Abnormal nipple discharge

Fine-needle aspiration
Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is a percutaneous ("through the skin") procedure that uses a fine needle and a syringe to sample fluid from a breast cyst or remove clusters of cells from a solid mass. However, in up to 30% of cases, pathological slides from fine-needle aspiration of breast lesions may be inconclusive, necessitating the need for further testing. Breast cancer is often asymptomatic and diagnosis by screening, but may present with symptoms of pain, palpable mass, skin changes, or complications of metastasis. Signs and symptoms
In most cases breast cancers are asymptomatic and are detected by routine clinical screening exams. There is no single definite cutoff that separates atypical ductal hyperplasia from ductal carcinoma in situ, but the following are important distinctive features of atypical ductal hyperplasia, with suggested cutoffs:
Size less than 2 mm. 
Are Reviewers' Scores Influenced by Citations to Their Own Work? [SEP] Journals are rated according to the number of incoming citations, with citations from highly ranked journals weighted to make a larger contribution to the eigenfactor than those from poorly ranked journals. For a given number of citations, citations from more significant journals will result in a higher Eigenfactor score.Originally Eigenfactor scores were measures of a journal's importance; it has been extended to author-level. Similarly, review papers are more often cited than regular research papers because they summarize results from many papers. Moreover, Ragone et al.,  have shown that there is a low correlation between peer review outcomes and the future impact measured by citations. Even when the reviews are not public, they are still a matter of record and the reviewer's credibility depends upon how they represent themselves among their peers. Reviewers tend to be especially critical of conclusions that contradict their own views, and lenient towards those that match them. A theoretical model has been established whose simulations imply that peer review and over-competitive research funding foster mainstream opinion to monopoly.Criticisms of traditional anonymous peer review allege that it lacks accountability, can lead to abuse by reviewers, and may be biased and inconsistent.There have also been suggestions of gender bias in peer review, with male authors being likely to receive more favorable treatment. See also
References
Further reading
"Peer review debate". 
Does the central venous pressure predict fluid responsiveness? [SEP] Central venous pressure (CVP) is the blood pressure in the venae cavae, near the right atrium of the heart. This can be graphically depicted as changes in the slope of the venous return plotted against right atrial pressure (where central venous pressure increases, but right atrial pressure stays the same; VR = CVP − RAP). CVP has been, and often still is, used as a surrogate for preload, and changes in CVP in response to infusions of intravenous fluid have been used to predict volume-responsiveness (i.e. whether more fluid will improve cardiac output). Factors affecting CVP
Factors that increase CVP include:
Cardiac tamponade
Decreased cardiac output
Forced exhalation
Heart failure
Hypervolemia
Mechanical ventilation and the application of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)
Pleural effusion
Pulmonary embolism
Pulmonary hypertension
Tension pneumothoraxFactors that decrease CVP include:

Deep inhalation
Distributive shock
Hypovolemia

See also
Jugular venous pressure
Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure

References
External links
Venous function and central venous pressure: a physiologic story - a technical discussion of the more modern understanding of central venous pressure; this may well conflict with the sources below. Central Venous Pressure and Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Monitoring
Cardiovascular Physiology
Central+Venous+Pressure at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) References
External links
Portal+Pressure at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) RAP is often nearly identical to central venous pressure (CVP), although the two terms are not identical, as a pressure differential can sometimes exist between the venae cavae and the right atrium. 
Memory-provoked rCBF-SPECT as a diagnostic tool in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] Cognitive Retention Therapy (CRT)  also known as the Ashby Memory Method is a Cognitive therapy for dementia, based on the research of Dr. Mira Ashby. Florbetapir can be used to detect beta amyloid plaques in patients with memory problems using positron emission tomography (PET) scans, making the company the first to bring to market an FDA-approved method that can directly detect this hallmark pathology of Alzheimer's disease. History
The definitive diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease can only be made following the demonstration of the presence of beta-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, the pathologic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease in brain tissue, typically at autopsy. Alzheimer's disease research
11C-PiB is currently the most studied and used radioligand for PET imaging of cerebral Aβ pathology. The Alzheimer's disease biomarkers are neurochemical indicators used to assess the risk or presence of the disease. CSF BACE1 activity could be a potential candidate biomarker to monitor amyloidogenic APP metabolism in the CNS. Recent research has shown that large soluble APP (sAPP) that are present in CSF may serve as a novel potential biomarker of Alzheimer's disease. It is believed that the new technology will provide not only future early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease but also possible therapy for Alzheimer's disease. 
Can we ease the financial burden of colonoscopy? [SEP] Most of the potential benefits of colonoscopy have been extrapolated from randomized trials of the sigmoidoscopy.The large randomized pragmatic clinical trial NordICC was the first published trial on the use of colonoscopy as a screening test to prevent colorectal cancer, related death, and death from any cause. This is often a real concern in clinical settings where high caseloads could provide financial incentive to complete colonoscopies as quickly as possible. An advantage of colonoscopy over X-ray imaging or other less invasive tests is the ability to perform therapeutic interventions during the test. Tens of millions of adults annually need to have colonoscopies, and yet many don't because of concerns about the procedure.Colonoscopy can be carried out without any sedation and without problems with pain, which is practised in several institutions in many countries with the patient's agreement. In 1982, Dr. Lawrence Kaplan of Aspen Medical Group in St. Paul, MN reported a series of 100 consecutive colonoscopies and upper endoscopies performed in a free-standing clinic miles from the nearest hospital, demonstrating the safety and cost effectiveness of these outpatient procedures. External links

Colonoscopy. Optical colonoscopy is taken as the "gold standard" for colorectal cancer screening by the vast majority of the medical and research communities. Virtual colonoscopy (also known as CT colonography) is another preferred investigation, provided that facilities and expertise are available. 
Is low birth weight a risk indicator for congenital cytomegalovirus infection? [SEP] Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection refers to a condition where cytomegalovirus is transmitted in the prenatal period. CMV is a member of the virus family herpesviridae and is the most common intrauterine infection.Human cytomegalovirus is one of the vertically transmitted infections that lead to congenital abnormalities. For this group, which makes up 50% to 80% of the women of child-bearing age, the rate of newborn CMV infection is 1%, and these infants appear to have no significant illness or abnormalities.The virus can also be transmitted to the infant at delivery from contact with genital secretions or later in infancy through breast milk. Children with symptomatic CMV have been found to have a greater incidence of long-term neurological and neurodevelopmental complications than children with fetal alcohol syndrome or down syndrome.Congenital cytomegalovirus infection can be an important cause of intraventricular hemorrhage and neonatal encephalopathy. Congenital CMV cannot be diagnosed if the infant is tested more than one week after birth.Visually healthy infants are not routinely tested for CMV infection although only 10–20% will show signs of infection at birth though up to 80% may go onto show signs of prenatal infection in later life. One study did not show significant decrease in the risk of congenital cytomegalovirus infection. References
External links
Cytomegalovirus (CMV)—NHS Choices
CMV: Congenital CMV Infection—CDC Additionally, low birth weight has associations with cardiovascular diseases later in life, especially in cases of large increases in weight during childhood.Low birth rate is associated with schizoid personality disorder. 
Is external palliative radiotherapy for gallbladder carcinoma effective? [SEP] In contrast to brachytherapy (sealed source radiotherapy) and unsealed source radiotherapy, in which the radiation source is inside the body, external beam radiotherapy directs the radiation at the tumour from outside the body. Surgery for gallbladder cancer is called radical cholecystectomy or extended cholecystectomy. References
External links
U.S. National Cancer Institute Gallbladder Cancer Treatment (www.cancer.gov) In patients having lumpectomy for breast cancer, the TARGIT-A(lone) randomized controlled trial (recruitment from 2000–2012) tested whether TARGIT within a risk-adapted approach is non-inferior to conventional course of external beam postoperative radiotherapy given over several weeks.One IORT technique is known as TARGIT (TARGeted Intraoperative radioTherapy). Adoption
At the St Gallen Breast Cancer Conference (16–19 March 2011) the consensus amongst over 52 breast cancer expert panelists was that TARGIT alone could be used as the only radiation treatment in selected cases after breast conserving surgery (49% yes, 36% no), or as a tumour bed boost instead of external beam radiotherapy boost (62% yes, 23% no).On 25 July 2014 the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) gave provisional recommendation for the use of TARGIT IORT with Intrabeam in the UK National Health Service. The Australian Government also approved budget item for  the treatment of early stage breast cancer using targeted intraoperative radiotherapy and patients can avail of this treatment from 1 September 2015.On 26 May 2015, in response to a query by the British Medical Journal, NICE clarified that while their appraisal is going on, TARGIT IORT with Intrabeam can continue to be offered to patients who need it.About 260 centres in over 35 countries including North America (about 80 centres), South America, Europe (e.g., 60 centres in Germany), Australia, Middle East (e.g., 9 centres in Israel), and the Far East are currently using TARGIT IORT for breast cancer treatment, and over 45,000 patients have so far been treated using TARGIT IORT.Evaluation of the long-term outcomes from an open-label randomised controlled trial (TARGIT-A) published in 2020, demonstrated that TARGIT-IORT is as effective as whole breast external beam radiotherapy in controlling cancer for patients with breast cancer. Conventional radiation techniques such as external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) following surgical removal of the tumour have been time tested and proven to be effective. Currently, therapeutic doses of radiation can be targeted to tumors with great accuracy using linear accelerators in radiation oncology; however, when irradiating using external beam radiotherapy, the beam will always need to travel through healthy tissue, and the normal liver tissue is very sensitive to radiation. 
Is discordance in TEOAE and AABR outcomes predictable in newborns? [SEP] Diagnosis
Transient tachypnea of the newborn is a diagnosis of exclusion as it is a benign condition that can have symptoms and signs similar to more serious conditions, such as respiratory distress syndrome. Evidence from clinical trials investigating the use of postnatal corticosteroids for transient tachypnea of the newborn is inconclusive. Epidemiology
Transient tachypnea of the newborn occurs in approximately 1 in 100 preterm infants and 3.6-5.7 per 1000 term infants. Low-risk infants
The next step in evaluation is distinguishing whether this BRUE is low- or high-risk. The American Academy of Pediatrics classifies an infant as low risk if they have a BRUE and meet the following characteristics:
infant is of age greater than 60 days
gestational age greater than or equal to 32 weeks
infant has had no prior BRUEs
this BRUE did not occur in a cluster
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) by a medical provider was not required
no concerning features on history
no concerning physical examination findings
duration less than 20 seconds

High-risk infants
If the infant does not meet all of these criteria, the BRUE is considered high-risk, and more likely represents an underlying medical condition. Management
If the infant meets criteria for a low-risk BRUE and the clinician feels there are no concerning findings otherwise, treatment often involves simple short observation in the emergency department with pulse oximetry. The biggest difference is whether the infant is symptomatic at time of presentation to a health professional. Causes
How an infant feeds from the breast to bottle differs. 
Chemical shift MRI: is there any contribution to morphologic evaluation of solid breast masses? [SEP] One alternative to mammography, breast MRI or contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), has shown substantial progress in the detection of breast cancer. Uses
Some of the uses of MRI of the breasts are: screening for malignancy in women with greater than 20% lifetime risk of breast cancer (especially those with high risk genes such as BRCA1 and BRCA2), evaluate breast implants for rupture, screening the opposite side breast for malignancy in women with known one sided breast malignancy, extent of disease and the presence of multifocality and multicentricity in patients with invasive carcinoma and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), and evaluate response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.MRI breasts has the highest sensitivity to detect breast cancer when compared with other imaging modalities such as breast ultrasound or mammography. In the screening for breast cancer for high-risk women, sensitivity of MRI range from 83 to 94% while specificity (the confidence that a lesion is cancerous and not a false positive) range from 75.2% to 100%. In nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, the chemical shift is the resonant frequency of an atomic nucleus relative to a standard in a magnetic field. The variations of nuclear magnetic resonance frequencies of the same kind of nucleus, due to variations in the electron distribution, is called the chemical shift. Thus, an NMR signal observed at a frequency 300 Hz higher than the signal from TMS, where the TMS resonance frequency is 300 MHz, has a chemical shift of:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              300
              
              
                
                  H
                  z
                
              
            
            
              300
              ×
              
                10
                
                  6
                
              
              
              
                
                  H
                  z
                
              
            
          
        
        =
        1
        ×
        
          10
          
            −
            6
          
        
        =
        1
        
        
          
            p
            p
            m
            
            .
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {300\,{\rm {Hz}}}{300\times 10^{6}\,{\rm {Hz}}}}=1\times 10^{-6}=1\,{\rm {ppm\,.}}} As is the case for NMR the chemical shift reflects the electron density at the atomic nucleus. Importance of NMR chemical shift re-referencing in biomolecular NMR
Incorrect chemical shift referencing is a particularly acute problem in biomolecular NMR. 
Do some U.S. states have higher/lower injury mortality rates than others? [SEP] For unintentional injuries (high speed car accidents; opioid and drug abuse and traumatic brain injuries) mortality rates were approximately 50% higher in rural areas than urban areas", with inadequate access to adequately staffed healthcare facilities listed as one among several factors leading to this disparity.In states that chose not to expand Medicaid programs under the Affordable Care Act–Alabama, Georgia, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas and Tennessee–rural Americans face limited options as hospitals close their doors. In urban areas
According to research conducted in 2019 by University of Chicago Medicine, African American census tracts in large US cities—Chicago, Los Angeles, New York City—are more likely than white majority neighborhoods to be located in trauma care deserts that are greater than five miles from a trauma center offering emergency medical services and specialists: neurosurgeons, cardiac doctors, respiratory therapists. CFOI publishes data on fatal cases of work-related injuries for all States, Territories, and New York City. In the U.S. the Bureau of Labor Statistics makes available extensive statistics on workplace accidents and injuries. States and Territories with CFOI Programs
California, Colorado, Florida, Idaho, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York State (including New York City), New York State (excluding New York City), New York City, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, West Virginia, Wyoming

States and Territories with SOII Programs
California, Colorado, Florida, Idaho, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, West Virginia, Wyoming

States and Territories with Joint CFOI/SOII Programs
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Georgia, Guam, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Virgin Islands, Washington, Wisconsin

See also
Occupational safety and health
Occupational disease
Occupational exposure banding
Safety culture
Work accident

References
External links
[3], Scope of CFOI
[4], OSHA State Programs
[5], CFOI Overview
Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries Charts, 1992-2012
NIOSH Publications on Traumatic Occupational Injury Topics (2008-2009), National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health Injuries lead to death, disability, and financial loss. In states that track training fatalities, training accounts for nearly a third of the total fatalities. In Great Britain the fatal injury rate on turf is less than it is on synthetics, which is opposite of North American racing. 
Do European people with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet? [SEP] The prevalence of insulin-dependent (type I) diabetes mellitus (IDDM) among children and young adult from Europe is approximately 0.4%. The percentage of children whose type 1 diabetes begins with an episode of diabetic ketoacidosis varies widely by geography, as low as 15% in parts of Europe and North America, and as high as 80% in the developing world. Some dietary habits have also been associated with type 1 diabetes risk, namely consumption of cow's milk and dietary sugar intake. Animal studies and some large human studies have found small associations between type 1 diabetes risk and intake of gluten or dietary fiber; however, other large human studies have found no such association. In the general population, the risk of developing type 1 diabetes is around 1 in 250. In the eyes, prolonged high blood sugar causes the blood vessels in the retina to become fragile.People with type 1 diabetes also have increased risk of cardiovascular disease, which is estimated to shorten the life of the average type 1 diabetic by 8–13 years. Type 1 diabetics are also at increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, autoimmune gastritis, pernicious anemia, vitiligo, and Addison's disease. Epidemiology
Type 1 diabetes makes up an estimated 10–15% of all diabetes cases  or 11–22 million cases worldwide. 
Adults with mild intellectual disabilities: can their reading comprehension ability be improved? [SEP] A reading disability is a condition in which a person displays difficulty reading. There are a variety of disabilities affecting cognitive ability. People with mild ID are capable of learning reading and mathematics skills to approximately the level of a typical child aged nine to twelve. In a 2019 Cochrane review on beginning reading interventions for children and adolescents with intellectual disability, small to moderate improvements in phonological awareness, word reading, decoding, expressive and receptive language skills, and reading fluency were noted when these elements were part of the teaching intervention.Although there is no specific medication for intellectual disability, many people with developmental disabilities have further medical complications and may be prescribed several medications. Reading comprehension is the ability to process written text, understand its meaning, and to integrate with what the reader already knows. The use of effective comprehension strategies that provide specific instructions for developing and retaining comprehension skills, with intermittent feedback, has been found to improve reading comprehension across all ages, specifically those affected by mental disabilities.Reading different types of texts requires the use of different reading strategies and approaches. Self-Monitoring: Asking oneself questions about reading strategies, whether they are getting confused or having trouble paying attention. ReadWorks.org | The Solution to Reading Comprehension 
Do antibiotics decrease post-tonsillectomy morbidity? [SEP] Tonsillectomy does not appear to affect long term immune function.Following the surgery ibuprofen and paracetamol (acetaminophen) may be used to treat postoperative pain. Medical uses
Tonsillectomy is mainly undertaken for sleep apnea and recurrent or chronic tonsillitis. The main reasons for either keeping a person in hospital, or readmitting them after tonsillectomy are uncontrolled pain, vomiting, fever, or bleeding. Immune system
There is no evidence tonsillectomy affects long term immune function. More recent studies of coblation tonsillectomy indicate reduced pain and ostalgia; less intraoperative or postoperative complications; lesser incidence of delayed hemorrhage, more significantly in pediatric populations, less postoperative pain and early return to daily activities, fewer secondary infections of the tonsil bed and significantly lower rates of secondary hemorrhage. Many people are prescribed antibiotics following a tonsillectomy, however, the benefits and potential harms have not been well studied. Furthermore, tonsil surgery may be required when antibiotic treatment does not help in getting rid of the bacteria, which causes tonsillitis. Surgery
Overview
Tonsillectomy is a surgical procedure that consists of taking out the patient's tonsils, which produce chemical substances in back mouth area to assist in keeping a good health by fighting off infections. 
Body diffusion-weighted MR imaging of uterine endometrial cancer: is it helpful in the detection of cancer in nonenhanced MR imaging? [SEP] Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI or DW-MRI) is the use of specific MRI sequences as well as software that generates images from the resulting data that uses the diffusion of water molecules to generate contrast in MR images. A variant of diffusion weighted imaging, diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), was used in deriving the Connectome data sets; DSI is a variant of diffusion-weighted imaging that is sensitive to intra-voxel heterogeneities in diffusion directions caused by crossing fiber tracts and thus allows more accurate mapping of axonal trajectories than other diffusion imaging approaches.Diffusion-weighted images are very useful to diagnose vascular strokes in the brain. Mechanism
Diffusion imaging is an MRI method that produces in vivo magnetic resonance images of biological tissues sensitized with the local characteristics of molecular diffusion, generally water (but other moieties can also be investigated using MR spectroscopic approaches). In order to measure the tissue's complete diffusion profile, one needs to repeat the MR scans, applying different directions (and possibly strengths) of the diffusion gradient for each scan. The imaging of this property is an extension of diffusion MRI. Functional imaging techniques, such as diffusion-weighted MRI performed with or without a lymphotropic contrast agent and positron emission tomography, may allow a more accurate nodal assessment based on molecular or physiologic activity. Diagnosis of endometrial cancer is typically based on an endometrial biopsy. Stroke and hemorrhage
Diffusion weighted imaging offers a powerful means to detect acute stroke. 
Do inhaled steroids differ from cromones in terms of hospital admission rates for asthma in children? [SEP] reported 60% of pediatric asthmatic patients demonstrating acute symptoms were found to have creola bodies in their sputum. Observation of CrB seemed to be useful as a marker of duration of asthmatic attacks. "Creola bodies in wheezing infants predict the development of asthma". "Creola Bodies in Infancy with Respiratory Syncytial Virus Bronchiolitis Predict the Development of Asthma". Children who suffer from frequent respiratory infections prior to the age of six are at higher risk of developing asthma, particularly if they have a parent with the condition. Results suggested that women with asthma have a higher risk of preterm birth. They are also approved for the treatment of asthma. The effects of nedocromil versus asthma are gradual rather than fast-acting and it is not indicated for acute respiratory distress compared to fast acting bronchodilators like albuterol or other well-known inhaler medications. 
Substance use and HIV-related sexual behaviors among US high school students: are they related? [SEP] Study participants who reported amphetamine or heavy alcohol use before sex were more likely to have HIV or other sexually transmitted infections.A Kaiser Family Foundation study indicated that fewer Americans view HIV as a top health priority today compared to ten years ago. HIV infection rates in the U.S. The CDC said in 2007, 35% of US high school students were currently sexually active and 47.8% of US high school students reported having had sexual intercourse. The study that reported those findings did not take into account the sexual orientation of the subjects.A survey by the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy found, "7% of youth used alcohol the first time they had sex, and 6% used alcohol the most recent time they had sex." HIV, syphilis and hepatitis B account for less than 1% of diagnoses, but young people aged 13–24 accounted for about 21% of all new HIV diagnoses in the United States in 2011.Researchers from the CDC have stated that teenagers often do not understand the risks associated with sexual activity. Teenagers and young adults engaging in sexual activity are at increased risk of STIs or HIV. "Adolescent female school dropouts who use drugs and engage in risky sex: effects of a brief pilot intervention in Cape Town, South Africa". "Gender-specific HIV prevention interventions for women who use alcohol and other drugs: The evolution of the science and future directions". 
Does sex influence the response to intravenous thrombolysis in ischemic stroke? [SEP] This article describes disparities existing between men and women in accessing  and receiving care for a stroke. Disparity in symptom recognition/diagnosis
There are marked differences in the clinical symptom presentation of stroke between men and women.Women who suffer an acute stroke are more likely to present with non-traditional and non-neurological stroke symptoms, for example chest pain and/or shortness of breath. Disparity in treatment
Research findings indicate that physicians treat women experiencing stroke less aggressively than they treat men experiencing stroke. Women with cardiovascular disease, as an example, are less frequently offered invasive procedures when compared with their male counterparts.The use of rt-PA (Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator), a protein enzyme that helps break up blood clots, is a common treatment for stroke. Research indicates that women have between 22% and 30% lower odds of receiving rt-PA treatment for acute stroke than men. When comparing the treatment of men and women with acute stroke, research has found that women are consistently less likely to receive thrombolytic (blood clot dissolving) treatments, despite findings indicating that women experiencing stroke benefit more than men from thrombolytic treatment.Between 1997 and 2006, women hospitalized for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) were less likely to receive cerebro-vascular and cardiac reperfusion/revascularization therapies, intravenous tPA (Tissue Plasminogen Activator to break up clots), catheter angiography (imaging of blood vessels), angioplasty/stent (opening of blocked blood vessels), and carotid endarterectomy (surgical removal of plaque). Thrombosis
In 21.4% of cases, ischaemic strokes are caused by thrombosis. Computational modeling of ischemic stroke has been used to understand the biological events during an ischemic stroke, and to identify potential drug targets. 
Thrombosis prophylaxis in hospitalised medical patients: does prophylaxis in all patients make sense? [SEP] Thrombosis prevention or thromboprophylaxis is medical treatment to prevent the development of thrombosis (blood clots inside blood vessels) in those considered at risk for developing thrombosis. Thrombosis prevention is also recommended during air travel. Thrombosis prophylaxis is effective in preventing the formation of blood clots, their lodging in the veins, and their developing into thromboemboli that can travel through the circulatory system to cause blockage and subsequent tissue death in other organs. Medical treatments
Thrombosis prophylaxis is not only used for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis, but can be initiated for the prevention of the formation of blood clots in other organs and circumstances unrelated to deep vein thrombosis:

Epidemiology of developing blood clots
The risk of developing deep vein thrombosis, or pulmonary embolism is different than the total risk of the formation of blood clots. Most hospitalized medical patients have at least 1 risk factor for thrombosis that progresses to thromboembolism and this risk persists weeks after discharge. Risk of thrombosis is related to hospitalization. Contraindications
Preventing blood clots with medication is not considered safe in the following circumstances:

Research
An international registry and risk assessment calculator is being used to centralize data on post-surgical venous thrombosis and its prevention. Antibiotic prophylaxis is intended to avoid adverse outcomes in certain patients at "highest risk of postoperative complications." 
Do teleoncology models of care enable safe delivery of chemotherapy in rural towns? [SEP] Telepharmacy is the delivery of pharmaceutical care via telecommunications to patients in locations where they may not have direct contact with a pharmacist. Benefits and drawbacks
A primary appeal of telepharmacy is its potential to expand access to pharmacy care in smaller rural communities, some of which cannot support a full-time pharmacist or cannot easily recruit a pharmacist to reside in their region. Telepharmacy can potentially give patients in remote locations access to professional pharmacy care that could not be received locally, which can lower costs and improve patient safety through better patient counseling, drug administration monitoring, and compliance monitoring. This system improves access to both emergency and routine medical care in remote parts of Australia and reduces the need for patients to travel to seek medical care.Another application of telepharmacy in Queensland has been the provision of pharmaceutical reviews in rural hospitals that lack on-staff pharmacists. In response to the need for alternative means of delivering pharmacy in services in rural communities lacking a full-time pharmacist, several midwestern and northwestern states with extensive rural areas have led much of the development of policy and implementation methods for telepharmacy. Telemedicine has been suggested as a way of overcoming transportation barriers for patients and health care providers in rural and geographically isolated areas. Telemedicine provides clinical, educational, and administrative benefits for rural areas that have access to these technological outlets.Telemedicine eases the burden of clinical services by the utilization of electronic technology in the direct interaction between health care providers, such as primary and specialist health providers, nurses, and technologists, and patients in the diagnosis, treatment, and management of diseases and illnesses. In a study of rural Queensland health systems, more developed urban health centers used video conferencing to educate rural physicians on treatment and diagnostic advancements for breast and prostate cancer, as well as various skin disorders, such as eczema and chronic irritations.Telemedicine may offer administrative benefits to rural areas. 
Does Paget's disease exist in India? [SEP] Disease of the vulva
Vulvar Paget's disease affect women and presents as erythematous (red), eczematous lesions. History
The first case of Paget's disease was described by James Paget in 1874. Pathophysiology
Paget's disease of the breast is characterised by Paget cells. Epidemiology
Most patients diagnosed with Paget's disease of the nipple are over age 50, but rare cases have been diagnosed in patients in their 20s. History
The condition is named after Sir James Paget, an English surgeon who first described the condition in 1874. Paget–Schroetter disease (also known as venous thoracic outlet syndrome) is a form of upper extremity deep vein thrombosis (DVT), a medical condition in which blood clots form in the deep veins of the arms. It is endemic to India. There are several medical conditions which were described by, and later named after, Paget:

Paget's disease of bone
Paget's disease of the nipple (a form of intraductal breast cancer spreading into the skin around the nipple)
Extramammary Paget's disease refers to a group of similar, more rare skin lesions discovered by Radcliffe Crocker in 1889 which affect the male and female genitalia. 
Is There an Additional Value of Using Somatostatin Receptor Subtype 2a Immunohistochemistry Compared to Somatostatin Receptor Scintigraphy Uptake in Predicting Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor Response? [SEP] References
External links
Somatostatin+Receptor at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) Patients with neuroendocrine tumors that over-express the somatostatin receptor 2 have an improved prognosis. The somatostatin receptor 2 is also being looked at as a possible target in cancer treatment for its ability to inhibit tumor growth. Somatostatin 2 receptors have been found in concentration on the surface of tumor cells, particularly those associated with the neuroendocrine system where the overexpression of somatostatin can lead to many complications Due to this, these receptors are considered a prospective aid for the detection of tumors, especially in patients who present with conditions like hypothyroidism and Cushing's syndrome. A synthetic version of the somatostatin hormone, octreotide, has been successfully used in combination with radio-peptide tracers to locate adrenal gland tumors through scintigraphic imaging. The use of sstr2 and sstr5 as biomarkers to track the progress of and treat neuroendocrine tumors displaying circulating tumor cells is also being investigated due to these cells' somatostatin receptor gene expressivity. Therapeutic targeting
Most pituitary adenomas express SSTR2, but other somatostatin receptors are also found. This variant of the Somatostatin receptor was found with the use of immunohistochemistry. 
Can vaginal pH be measured from the wet mount slide? [SEP] A vaginal wet mount (or vaginal smear or wet prep) is a gynecologic test wherein a sample of vaginal discharge is observed by wet mount microscopy by placing the specimen on a glass slide and mixing with a salt solution. Method
Vaginal wet mounts are not done during the menstrual period, because menstrual blood on the slide can confound the results. Concomitant vaginal discharge tests
A vaginal discharge sample wet mount is often also used for the following additional tests:

KOH slide. Vaginal pH test. The normal vaginal pH is 3.8 to 4.5. The device that is used is called a vaginal photometer. Use
The device is used to try to obtain an objective measure of a woman's sexual arousal. The normal pH of vaginal fluid is between 3.8 and 4.5, contrasting with male semen which is typically between 7.2 and 7.8 (neutral pH is 7.0).During arousal, vaginal lubrication, also sometimes called "arousal fluid", is produced. 
Does Molecular Genotype Provide Useful Information in the Management of Radioiodine Refractory Thyroid Cancers? [SEP] Use of molecular biomarkers in FNA specimens to personalize treatment for thyroid surgery. RAS Mutations in Thyroid FNA Specimens Are Highly Predictive of Predominantly Low-Risk Follicular-Pattern Cancers. RET/PTC and PAX8/PPARγ chromosomal rearrangements in post-Chernobyl thyroid cancer and their association with iodine-131 radiation dose and other characteristics. Targeted next-generation sequencing panel (ThyroSeq) for detection of mutations in thyroid cancer. Integrated genomic characterization of papillary thyroid carcinoma. Buryk MA, Picarsic J, Creary SE, Shaw PH, Simons JP, Deutsch M, Monaco SE, Nikiforov Y, Witchel S. Identification of unique heterozygous germline mutation, STK11 (p.F354L), in a child with encapsulated follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma within 6 months of completing treatment for neuroblastoma. UPMC, Pitt partnering for thyroid cancer research
A subtype of thyroid tumor isnt cancer Pitt experts find - Post gazette
Yuri Nikiforov: Making Cancer Disappear
Genetic testing at UPMC pinpoints mutations to match patients, therapies

Video
*Noninvasive follicular thyroid neoplasms cause little risk for patients
Dr. Nikiforov on Reclassifying Subtype of Thyroid Cancer
Genomic Evolution of Thyroid Nodules and Cancer - ATA Award Lecture by Dr. Yuri Nikiforov
Hot Topic 3 NIFTP Bethesda 2 World Congress on Thyroid Cancer 2017
ThyroSeq: The Test for Thyroid Nodule Diagnostic Pathology and Molecular Genetics of the Thyroid. 
Screening for gestational diabetes mellitus: are the criteria proposed by the international association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups cost-effective? [SEP] Classification
Gestational diabetes is formally defined as "any degree of glucose intolerance with onset or first recognition during pregnancy". Routine screening of women with a glucose challenge test may find more women with gestational diabetes than only screening women with risk factors. The American Diabetes Association and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada recommend routine screening unless the woman is low risk (this means the woman must be younger than 25 years and have a body mass index less than 27, with no personal, ethnic or family risk factors) The Canadian Diabetes Association and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommend universal screening. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force found there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against routine screening, and a 2017 a Cochrane review found that there is not evidence to determine which screening method is best for women and their babies.Some pregnant women and careproviders choose to forgo routine screening due to the absence of risk factors, however this is not advised due to the large proportion of women who develop gestational diabetes despite having no risk factors present and the dangers to the mother and baby if gestational diabetes remains untreated. These were recommended by WHO 2013.According to these gestational diabetes mellitus should be diagnosed at any time in pregnancy if one of the following criteria are met, using a 75 g glucose OGTT:

Fasting blood glucose level ≥92 mg/dL (5.1 mmol/L)
1 hour blood glucose level ≥180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L)
2 hour blood glucose level ≥153 mg/dL (8.5 mmol/L)

Urinary glucose testing
Women with GDM may have high glucose levels in their urine (glucosuria). Diet and physical activity interventions designed to prevent excessive gestational weight gain reduce the rates of gestational diabetes. A large case-control study found that gestational diabetes was linked with a limited group of birth defects, and that this association was generally limited to women with a higher body mass index (≥ 25 kg/m2). References
External links

IDF Diabetes Atlas
International Diabetes Federation
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development – Am I at Risk for Gestational Diabetes? 
Are higher rates of depression in women accounted for by differential symptom reporting? [SEP] Gender is correlated with the prevalence of certain mental disorders, including depression, anxiety and somatic complaints. Depression
Major depressive disorder is twice as common in women compared to men. Depression in women is more likely to be comorbid with anxiety disorders, substance abuse disorders, and eating disorders. Women are more likely to experience specific sub-clusters of symptoms, such as re-experiencing symptoms (e.g. Increased likelihood of adverse traumatic experiences in childhood also explains the observed gender difference in major depression. This risk has been associated with an increased risk of developing depression.As with PTSD, evidence of a biological difference between men and women may contribute to the observed gender difference. For instance, even with the same symptomology or scores according to diagnostic criteria, women are more likely to be diagnosed with depression than men. Women are more likely to experience high levels of depressive symptoms (i.e., low mood, anhedonia, fatigue) at illness onset and over the course of illness. 
Follow-up of patients with new cardiovascular implantable electronic devices: are experts' recommendations implemented in routine clinical practice? [SEP] These devices are generally recommended to people who have been previously diagnosed with arrhythmias and want to have them monitored, or for those who have suspected arrhythmias and need to be monitored over an extended period of time in order to be diagnosed.Wireless ambulatory ECGs work in a way similar to a regular ECG by measuring the electrical potential of the heart through the skin. The information can also be sent through these technologies or through email to a doctor or cardiac technician.Wireless ambulatory ECGs are able to provide voice alarm messages when cardiac abnormalities occur, such as bradycardia, and can record this information and provide a screen prompt for the patient to view the data. The device can be worn every day to track heart health in real life.5. The meeting provides information on the latest techniques and technology for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of vascular diseases, among them stroke, heart attack, aneurysm and hardening of the arteries. ISO 14155 Clinical investigation of medical devices for human subjects -- Good clinical practice
This international standard addresses good clinical practices for the design, conduct, recording and reporting of clinical investigations carried out in human subjects to assess the safety and performance of medical devices for regulatory purposes. The standard regards good clinical practices and protocols for the clinical investigations and plans of medical devices. Cardiac monitoring for ambulatory patients (those well enough to walk around) is known as ambulatory electrocardiography and uses a small, wearable device, such as a Holter monitor, wireless ambulatory ECG, or an implantable loop recorder. For long term use, an Insertable Cardiac Monitor is placed under the skin and automatically detects and records abnormal heart rhythms for up to 5 years. 
Does limb-salvage surgery offer patients better quality of life and functional capacity than amputation? [SEP] Limb-sparing techniques, also known as limb-saving or limb-salvage techniques, are performed in order to preserve the look and function of limbs. As the techniques for chemotherapy, radiation, and diagnostic modalities improve, there has been a trend toward limb-sparing procedures to avoid amputation, which has been associated with a lower 5-year survival rate and cost-effectiveness compared to limb salvage in the long-run. Furthermore, it provides a better position for a prosthetic limb compared to amputation. Amputation is the removal of a limb by trauma, medical illness, or surgery. The high level of oxygenation and revascularization speed up recovery times and prevent infections.A study found that the patented method called Circulator Boot achieved significant results in prevention of amputation in patients with diabetes and arteriosclerosis. The boot checks the heart rhythm and compresses the limb between heartbeats; the compression helps cure the wounds in the walls of veins and arteries, and helps to push the blood back to the heart.For victims of trauma, advances in microsurgery in the 1970s have made replantations of severed body parts possible. A large survey in patients with tetraplegia demonstrated that these patients give preference to improving upper extremity function above other lost functions like being able to walk or sexual function.Surgical procedures do exist to improve the function of the tetraplegic patient's arms, but these procedures are performed in fewer than 10% of the tetraplegic patients. when compared to a scheduled amputation. 
Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme and frequency of severe hypoglycaemia in Type 1 diabetes: does a relationship exist? [SEP] Angiotensin-converting enzyme (EC 3.4.15.1), or ACE, is a central component of the renin–angiotensin system (RAS), which controls blood pressure by regulating the volume of fluids in the body. Angiotensin II is a potent vasoconstrictor in a substrate concentration-dependent manner. Angiotensin II binds to the type 1 angiotensin II receptor (AT1), which sets off a number of actions that result in vasoconstriction and therefore increased blood pressure. Under physiological conditions the enzyme reaches about 60% of its maximal activity toward angiotensin I while it reaches its full activity toward bradykinin. Influence on athletic performance
The angiotensin converting enzyme gene has more than 160 polymorphisms described as of 2018.Studies have shown that different genotypes of angiotensin converting enzyme can lead to varying influence on athletic performance.The rs1799752 I/D polymorphism consists of either an insertion (I) or absence (D) of a 287 base pair alanine sequence in intron 16 of the gene. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is an enzyme that can be found either attached to the membrane of cells (mACE2) in the intestines, kidney, testis, gallbladder, and heart or in a soluble form (sACE2). Endocrine
Chronic, persistent hyperglycaemia is most often a result of diabetes. Acute episodes of hyperglycemia without an obvious cause may indicate developing diabetes or a predisposition to the disorder.In diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia is usually caused by low insulin levels (diabetes mellitus type 1) and/or by resistance to insulin at the cellular level (diabetes mellitus type 2), depending on the type and state of the disease. 
Cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism: are clinical predictors adequate? [SEP] In the United States, this population accounts for 14% of all traumatic injuries, of which a majority are just mainly from falls.Trauma is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality across all age groups, however, geriatric populations are unique compared to younger counterparts in the amount of existing health issues and inherent risk of disability and death. Falls
Because falls are the most common mechanism of injury in severely injured geriatric patients, the risk factors for geriatric trauma overlap significantly with those that predispose older adults to falls. Under the NEXUS guidelines, when an acute blunt force injury is present, a cervical spine is deemed to not need radiological imaging if all the following criteria are met:

There is no posterior midline cervical tenderness
There is no evidence of intoxication
The patient is alert and oriented to person, place, time, and event
There is no focal neurological deficit (see focal neurological signs)
There are no painful distracting injuries (e.g., long bone fracture)

Medical imaging
Choice of method
In children, a CT scan of the neck is indicated in more severe cases such as neurologic deficits, whereas X-ray is preferable in milder cases, by both US and UK guidelines. See also
Cervical fracture
Spinal cord injury

References
External links
Wilderness Medicine Protocols
State of Maine EMS Protocols
NEXUS Criteria for C-Spine Imaging
Canadian C-Spine Rule Causes
Considerable force is needed to cause a cervical fracture. A severe, sudden twist to the neck or a severe blow to the head or neck area can cause a cervical fracture. Although high energy trauma is often associated with cervical fractures in the younger population, low energy trauma is more common in the geriatric population. In addition, indirect signs of injury by the vertebral column are incongruities of the vertebral lines, and/or increased thickness of the prevertebral space:

Classification
There are proper names for several types of cervical fractures, including:

Fracture of C1, including Jefferson fracture
Fracture of C2, including Hangman's fracture
Flexion teardrop fracture – a fracture of the anteroinferior aspect of a cervical vertebraThe AO Foundation has developed a descriptive system for cervical fractures, the AOSpine subaxial cervical spine fracture classification system. 
Do microbiological factors account for poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in Poland? [SEP] Microbiota composition can change during the course of the pregnancy. Intrauterine infections in pregnancy are caused by bacteria that cause inflammation. {{citation needed|date=September 2020} }When there are high bacterial counts in of the vagina during pregnancy is typically due to the presence of the following organisms:
Gardnerella vaginalis
Fusobacterium nucleatum
Bacteroides ureolyticus
Atopobium vaginae
Staphylococci species
Streptococci species
Mobiluncus species
Mycoplasma species

History
Investigations into reproductive-associated microbiomes began around 1885 by Theodor Escherich. References
Further reading

A Metagenomic Approach to Characterization of the Vaginal Microbiome Signature in Pregnancy. The placental microbiome is the nonpathogenic, commensal bacteria claimed to be present in a healthy human placenta and is distinct from bacteria that cause infection and preterm birth in chorioamnionitis. The placental microbiota varies between low birth weight infants and those infants with normal birth weights. Future research may find that the microbiota of the female reproductive tract may be related to pregnancy, conception, and birth. The human placenta does not have a microbiome and placental bacterial infection is not a common cause of adverse pregnancy outcome; however, the placenta is a potential site of perinatal acquisition of S. agalactiae (group B Streptococcus), a major cause of neonatal sepsis. 
Should all patients be optimized to the same preoperative hemoglobin level to avoid transfusion in primary knee arthroplasty? [SEP] First, ensuring that the patient enters the operating room with a sufficient hematocrit level is essential. Patients who are anemic prior to surgery often require more transfusions. Although either oral or parenteral iron could be given, increasingly clinicians are giving parenteral iron to ensure that the haemoglobin is increased the maximal amount before the elective surgery is undertaken.During surgery, techniques are utilized to reduce or eliminate exposure to allogeneic blood. People who are in good health and not anemic may sometimes donate their own blood prior to the surgery (autologous blood donation), which helps to conserve donor units and reduces some of the risks of exposure to allogeneic blood (though autologous donation carries risks of its own). Additional details on this question can be found in the journal, Transfusion.Exposure to blood can be reduced, and tolerance to anemia enhanced, by using a "restrictive" transfusion strategy; for example, the AABB recommends that hospital patients in stable condition only be transfused when the hemoglobin drops below 7–8 g/dL (70–80 g/L). Patients expect to reduce the blood product used during surgery because the red blood transfusion generally has a negative physiologic impact and highly related cost. Exchange transfusion is recommended for those patients who have a higher hemoglobin (> 90g/L), those who have not improved after a simple transfusion, or those who have severe respiratory compromise. The recommended restrictive threshold for blood transfusion is a hemoglobin level of 7 to 8 g/dL, while a more liberal threshold is set at 9 to 10 g/dL. 
Is there any relation between cervical cord plaques and discopathy in patients with multiple sclerosis? [SEP] The most common form of myelopathy in humans, cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM), also called degenerative cervical myelopathy, results from narrowing of the spinal canal (spinal stenosis) ultimately causing compression of the spinal cord. As outlined above, the most common form of myelopathy is secondary to degeneration of the cervical spine. Pure spinal MS
Pure spinal multiple sclerosis: Patients with clinical and paraclinical features suggestive of cord involvement of multiple sclerosis (MS)-type albeit not rigidly fulfilling the McDonald criteria Some inflammatory conditions are associated with the presence of scleroses in the CNS. See also
Demyelinating disease
Pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis
The Myelin Project


== References == In MS plaques are reported to appear by coalescence of several confluent smaller demyelinations. Currently antibodies to lipids and peptides in sera, detected by microarrays, can be used as markers of the pathological subtype given by brain biopsy.After some debate among research groups, currently the heterogeneity hypothesis looks like accepted

See also
Pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis
Internal cerebral veins
Great cerebral vein
Circle of Willis

External links
Dawson Fingers in Multiple Sclerosis [3]


== Sources == Further research on CVS as a biomarker for MS is ongoing.Brain atrophy is seen as an indicator of MS.Testing of cerebrospinal fluid obtained from a lumbar puncture can provide evidence of chronic inflammation in the central nervous system. These antibodies are more related to the peripheral nervous demyelination, but they were also found in chronic progressive PPMS and combined central and peripheral demyelination (CCPD, which is considered another atypical MS presentation).In addition to the significance of auto-antibodies in MS, four different patterns of demyelination have been reported, opening the door to consider MS as a heterogeneous disease. 
Is the processing of affective prosody influenced by spatial attention? [SEP] Auditory spatial attention  is a specific form of attention, involving the focusing of auditory perception to a location in space. Current research suggests that auditory spatial attention overlaps functionally with many areas previously shown to be associated with visual attention. During the period between cue and target, when participants were presumably attending to the cued feature to be presented, both auditory and vision spatial attention conditions elicited greater positivity in source space from a centro-medial location at 600-1200 ms following cue onset, which the authors of the study propose may be the result of a supra-modal pathway for spatial information. The comparison of the spatial location task to the temporal order task showed greater activation in areas previously found to be associated with attention in the visual domain, including the bilateral temporal parietal junction, bilateral superior frontal areas near FEF, bilateral intraparietal sulcus, and bilateral occipital temporal junction, suggesting an attentional network that operates supra-modally across vision and audition. Comparing activation in the spatial vs. non-spatial attentional conditions showed increased activation in several areas implicated in the executive control of visual attention, including the prefrontal cortex, FEF, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and superior parietal lobe, again supporting the notion of these structures as supra-modal attentional areas. See also
Attention
Spatial music


== References == See also
Barbara Landau#Relationship between spatial language and spatial cognition


== References == While it is often overlooked, affective prosody is as integral to communication as the ability to form and understand correct words. 
Is there a role for leukocyte and CRP measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly? [SEP] The Appendicitis Inflammatory Response (AIR) score is a diagnostic scoring system used to assist with the identification of appendicitis in children and adults. Limitations
While the AIR score has better predictive power than certain other diagnostic tools for appendicitis (e.g. Higher levels are found in late pregnant women, mild inflammation and viral infections (10–40 mg/L), active inflammation, bacterial infection (40–200 mg/L), severe bacterial infections and burns (>200 mg/L).CRP cut-off levels indicating bacterial from non-bacterial illness can vary due to co-morbidities such as malaria, HIV and malnutrition and the stage of disease presentation.CRP is a more sensitive and accurate reflection of the acute phase response than the ESR (erythrocyte sedimentation rate). A score of 5 or 6 is compatible with the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. A score of 7 or 8 indicates a probable appendicitis, and a score of 9 or 10 indicates a very probable acute appendicitis. Significance
It carries high significance in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. "The use of the clinical scoring system by Alvarado in the decision to perform computed tomography for acute appendicitis in the ED". "Application of Alvarado scoring system in diagnosis of acute appendicitis". 
Are bipolar disorders underdiagnosed in patients with depressive episodes? [SEP] Without presenting elevated mood, these individuals are commonly misdiagnosed with major depressive disorder. Bipolar disorder is an affective disorder characterized by periods of elevated and depressed mood. Currently, there is a lack of clarity over how prevalent this disorder is and the number of individuals who have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, despite not experiencing depressive periods. Background
Bipolar Disorder (BD) is a psychiatric disorder defined by intermittent episodes of depression and (hypo)mania during the individual's lifetime. As a result of the broad and complex nature of bipolar disorder, misdiagnosis is fairly common: 69% of confirmed cases are found to be initially misdiagnosed and more than a third of individuals are misdiagnosed for ten years onwards. Bipolar disorder, previously known as manic depression, is a mental disorder characterized by periods of depression and periods of abnormally elevated mood that each last from days to weeks. Since a diagnosis of bipolar disorder requires a manic or hypomanic episode, many affected individuals are initially misdiagnosed as having major depression and incorrectly treated with prescribed antidepressants. Bipolar I disorder requires confirmation of only 1 full manic episode for diagnosis, but may be associated with hypomanic and depressive episodes as well. 
Prognosis of low-tone sudden deafness - does it inevitably progress to Meniere's disease? [SEP] Ménière's disease (MD) is a disease of the inner ear that is characterized by potentially severe and incapacitating episodes of vertigo, tinnitus, hearing loss, and a feeling of fullness in the ear. Signs and symptoms
Ménière's is characterized by recurrent episodes of vertigo, fluctuating hearing loss, and tinnitus; episodes may be preceded by a headache and a feeling of fullness in the ears. Menière's Disease, Stanford Ear Institute. Ménière's disease is characterized by sudden attacks of vertigo, lasting minutes to hours preceded by tinnitus, aural fullness, and fluctuating hearing loss. Sudden sensorineural hearing loss
Sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSHL or SSNHL), commonly known as sudden deafness, occurs as an unexplained, rapid loss of hearing—usually in one ear—either at once or over several days. Depression or anxiety that the condition will worsen or progress to Meniere's disease.As with Meniere's disease, atypical, early, or mild cases may only present some symptoms. A 2009 study from Japan found that only about 10% of their diagnosed patients with sudden low-frequency hearing loss (SLFHL) went on to develop full Meniere's disease, and about 18% with recurring SLFHL developed Meniere's disease. 30% went on to have lasting hearing difficulty, reported from a ten-year follow-up.A 2018 study from Korea found the chance of progression to Meniere's disease of all participants with SLFHL to be 9.38% with an average progression time of 1.7±1.4 years, but when limited to patients with recurring symptoms "it was confirmed that about half (46.88%) of them progressed to Meniere's disease." 
Can pictorial warning labels on cigarette packages address smoking-related health disparities? [SEP] The WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, adopted in 2003, requires such warning messages to promote awareness against smoking.A 2009 review summarises that there is "clear evidence that tobacco package health warnings increase consumers' knowledge about the health consequences of tobacco use". 2007 meta-analyses indicated that communications emphasizing the severity of a threat are less effective than communications focusing on susceptibility and that warning labels may have no effect among smokers who are not confident that they can quit, which lead the authors to recommend exploring different, potentially more effective methods of behaviour change.In many countries, a variety of warnings with graphic, disturbing images of tobacco-related harms (including hematuria and diabetes) are placed prominently on cigarette packages. In 2003, new EU regulations required one of the following general warnings must be displayed, covering at least 30% of the surface of the pack:

Smoking kills - quit now
Smoking seriously harms you and others around youAdditionally, one of the following additional warnings must be displayed, covering at least 40% of the surface of the pack:

Smokers die younger
Smoking clogs the arteries and causes heart attacks and strokes
Smoking causes fatal lung cancer
Smoking when pregnant harms your baby
Protect children: don't make them breathe your smoke
Your doctor or your pharmacist can help you stop smoking
Smoking is highly addictive, don't start
Stopping smoking reduces the risk of fatal heart and lung diseases
Smoking can cause a slow and painful death
Get help to stop smoking: [telephone]/[postal address]/[internet address]/consult your doctor/pharmacist
Smoking may reduce the blood flow and cause impotence
Smoking causes ageing of the skin
Smoking can damage the sperm and decreases fertility
Smoke contains benzene, nitrosamines, formaldehyde and hydrogen cyanideFrom October 2008, all cigarette products manufactured must carry picture warnings in the reverse. Warnings are usually in small typeface placed along one of the sides of the cigarette packs with colors and fonts that closely resemble the rest of the package, so the warnings essentially are integrated and do not stand out with the rest of the cigarette package.However, this is subject to change as the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of 2009 requires color graphics with supplemental text that depicts the negative consequences of smoking to cover 50 percent of the front and rear of each pack. For example, in 2016, graphical health warnings on all cigarette packages became mandatory.Tobacco control measures have shown to be effective in decreasing smoking prevalence rates. Provisions of the Act
Declaration of Policy
It is the policy and the purpose of this Act, to establish a comprehensive Federal program to deal with cigarette labeling and advertising with respect to any relationship between smoking and health, whereby —

(1) The public may be adequately informed that cigarette smoking may be hazardous to health by inclusion of a warning to that effect on each package of cigarettes. Labeling
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, import, or package for sale or distribution within the United States any cigarettes the package of which fails to bear the following statement:

CAUTION: CIGARETTE SMOKING MAY BE HAZARDOUS TO YOUR HEALTHSuch statement shall be located in a conspicuous place on every cigarette package and shall appear in conspicuous and legible type in contrast by typography, layout, or color with other printed matter on the package. Beginning on January 1, 1965, the tobacco industry would have to put health warning labels on their cigarette packages and that starting July 1, 1965, similar health warnings would be required in their advertisements. 
Does patient-prosthesis mismatch after aortic valve replacement affect survival and quality of life in elderly patients? [SEP] The major advantage of stentless valves is that they limit patient–prosthesis mismatch (when the area of the prosthetic valve is too small in relation to the size of the patient, increasing the pressure inside the valve) and can be helpful when dealing with small aortic root. Common complications include disturbances to the heart's rhythm (heart block), which typically require the permanent insertion of a cardiac pacemaker.Recovery from aortic valve replacement takes about three months if the patient is in good health. The survival curve of patients who undergo aortic valve replacements is slightly inferior to the curve of their corresponding healthy same-aged same sex population. Patient–prosthesis mismatch
When dealing with a small aortic annulus, the surgeon might have to insert a prosthetic aortic valve of small size, with an orifice too small in relation to the size of the patient (patient–prosthesis mismatch). "Aortic Valve Replacement with a Mechanical Cardiac Valve Prosthesis". However, the risks associated with surgical aortic valve replacement are increased in elderly patients and those with concomitant severe systolic heart failure or coronary artery disease, as well as in people with comorbidities such as cerebrovascular and peripheral arterial disease, chronic kidney disease, and chronic respiratory dysfunction. Prognosis after aortic valve replacement for people  younger than 65 is about five years less than that of the general population; for people older than 65 it is about the same. Medical uses
In those between 50 and 70 years of age bioprosthetic and mechanical aortic valves have similar overall outcomes with respect to stroke and survival. 
Is fear of anaphylactic shock discouraging surgeons from more widely adopting percutaneous and laparoscopic techniques in the treatment of liver hydatid cyst? [SEP] Most people have a fear of medical procedures at some point in their lifetime, which can include the fear of surgery, dental work, doctors, or needles. Classification
Fear of medical procedures can be classified under a broader category of "blood, injection, and injury phobias". : 82

Fear of surgery
Fear of surgery or other invasive medical procedure is known as tomophobia. Fear of surgery is not a fear experienced often, but is still just as harmful as other phobias that are more common. This fear is one of those categorized under all fears of medical procedures that can be experienced by anyone, all ages, and have little need for actual psychological treatment, unless it is uncharacteristically causing the patient to react in a way that would be harmful to his or her health. Children
Fear of surgery is common among young children. Fear of surgery can be harmful to the patient if not taken care of properly before the surgery. Fear of doctors and fear of needles
Two of the most common fears of medical procedures are the fear of doctors and the fear of needles. 
Reporting and interpreting red blood cell morphology: is there discordance between clinical pathologists and clinicians? [SEP] Immunohematology is a branch of hematology and transfusion medicine which studies antigen-antibody reactions and analogous phenomena as they relate to the pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of blood disorders. Abstracting and indexing
The journal is abstracted and indexed in:

References
External links
Experimental Hematology website
Society for Hematology and Stem Cells website Poikilocytosis is variation in the shapes of red blood cells. Poikilocytes may be oval, teardrop-shaped, sickle-shaped or irregularly contracted. Normal red blood cells are round, flattened disks that are thinner in the middle than at the edges. A poikilocyte is an abnormally-shaped red blood cell. Generally, poikilocytosis can refer to an increase in abnormal red blood cells of any shape, where they make up 10% or more of the total population of red blood cells. The technologist then views the blood under a microscope, where the sizes and shapes of the red blood cells can be seen. 
Does β-catenin have a role in pathogenesis of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid? [SEP] The incidence of MTS in patients with sebaceous neoplasms as high as 14 to 50%.Besides mutations in mismatch repair genes, Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is known to be altered and play a significant role in the development of sebaceous tumors. Mutations and overexpression of β-catenin are associated with many cancers, including hepatocellular carcinoma, colorectal carcinoma, lung cancer, malignant breast tumors, ovarian and endometrial cancer. Together with TGF-β, an important role of β-catenin is to induce a morphogenic change in epithelial cells. Involvement in cancer
Beta-catenin is a proto-oncogene. Increased nuclear β-catenin levels have also been noted in basal cell carcinoma (BCC), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), prostate cancer (CaP), pilomatrixoma (PTR) and medulloblastoma (MDB) These observations may or may not implicate a mutation in the β-catenin gene: other Wnt pathway components can also be faulty. The potential of β-catenin to change the previously epithelial phenotype of affected cells into an invasive, mesenchyme-like type contributes greatly to metastasis formation. As a therapeutic target
Due to its involvement in cancer development, inhibition of beta-catenin continues to receive significant attention. αE-catenin also plays a role in tumor metastasis and skin cell function. 
Is ultrasound equal to X-ray in pediatric fracture diagnosis? [SEP] Fracture sonography is the use of medical ultrasound to detect bone fractures. While medical ultrasound is used to visualize soft tissues like skin, organs, and blood vessels, fracture sonography is used to visualize fractures on only bone surfaces. The advantages of fracture sonography are the avoidance of radiation exposure, faster examinations, and the ability to use standard ultrasound devices, which are more widespread. Diagnosis
Fracture sonography is suitable for the diagnosis of fractures of the shaft and metaphysis of bones. For adult patients, sonography can be used to rule out an increasing deformity of fractures. If a joint effusion is depicted in the ultrasound, two-plane X-ray imagery is necessary to diagnose the fracture. Because bone tumors can appear at this location, X-ray imaging is necessary following a fracture diagnosis. These differences are important for the correct evaluation and treatment of the fractures. 
Measuring hospital mortality rates: are 30-day data enough? [SEP] Perioperative mortality has been defined as any death, regardless of cause, occurring within 30 days after surgery in or out of the hospital. Globally, 4.2 million people are estimated to die within 30 days of surgery each year. A study based on extrapolation from existing data sources estimated that 4.2 million people die within 30 days of surgery every year, with half of these deaths occurring in low- and middle-income countries.Perioperative mortality figures can be published in league tables that compare the quality of hospitals. In this study the overall global mortality rate was 1·6 per cent at 24 hours (high HDI 1·1 per cent, middle HDI 1·9 per cent, low HDI 3·4 per cent), increasing to 5·4 per cent by 30 days (high HDI 4·5 per cent, middle HDI 6·0 per cent, low HDI 8·6 per cent; P < 0·001). Patient safety factors were suggested to play an important role, with use of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist associated with reduced mortality at 30 days. See also
Vital statistics
Nosology
International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems

References

About the Mortality Medical Data System
Johansson, L. A.; Westerling, R. (2002), "Comparing hospital discharge records with death certificates: Can the differences be explained? For example, for a group of patients first we need to find the observed mortality rates for all the hospitals of interest. Then we can build/construct a model or use an existing model to predict mortality rates for each of the hospitals. 
Hearing loss: an unknown complication of pre-eclampsia? [SEP] Pre-eclampsia is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy that presents with three main features: new onset of high blood pressure, large amounts of protein in the urine or other organ dysfunction, and edema. Pre-eclampsia increases the risk of undesirable as well as lethal outcomes for both the mother and the fetus including preterm labor. Risk factors
Known risk factors for pre-eclampsia include:
Having never previously given birth
Diabetes mellitus
Obesity
Advanced maternal age (>35 years)
Kidney disease
Untreated hypertension
Prior history of pre-eclampsia
Family history of pre-eclampsia
Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome
Multiple gestation
Having donated a kidney
Having sub-clinical hypothyroidism or thyroid antibodies
Placental abnormalities such as placental ischemia
Socioeconomics play a large role in the prevalence of these risk factors, and, like other processes, each risk factor plays a role in the likelihood of increased consequences (morbidity) to, and the complexity of care for, the hospitalized patient

Pathogenesis
Although much research into mechanism of pre-eclampsia has taken place, its exact pathogenesis remains uncertain. Severe pre-eclampsia is a significant risk factor for intrauterine fetal death. Epidemiology
Pre-eclampsia affects approximately 2–8% of all pregnancies worldwide. Complications
Complications of pre-eclampsia can affect both the mother and the fetus. Premature birth can be associated with sensorineural hearing loss because of an increased risk of hypoxia, hyperbilirubinaemia, ototoxic medication, and infection as well as noise exposure in the neonatal units. It can include hereditary hearing loss or hearing loss due to other factors present either in-utero (prenatal) or at the time of birth. 
Is portable ultrasonography accurate in the evaluation of Schanz pin placement during extremity fracture fixation in austere environments? [SEP] Fracture sonography is the use of medical ultrasound to detect bone fractures. While medical ultrasound is used to visualize soft tissues like skin, organs, and blood vessels, fracture sonography is used to visualize fractures on only bone surfaces. The advantages of fracture sonography are the avoidance of radiation exposure, faster examinations, and the ability to use standard ultrasound devices, which are more widespread. Diagnosis
Fracture sonography is suitable for the diagnosis of fractures of the shaft and metaphysis of bones. For adult patients, sonography can be used to rule out an increasing deformity of fractures. Because intra-articular fractures cause a joint effusion, the dorsal fat pad sign is a reliable parameter for diagnosis of elbow fractures. Because bone tumors can appear at this location, X-ray imaging is necessary following a fracture diagnosis. However, fracture sonography's demonstrated sensitivity and specificity may boost its popularity in the future. 
Medical student education in emergency medicine: do students meet the national standards for clinical encounters of selected core conditions? [SEP] Coverage includes basic science, clinical research, education information, and clinical practice related to emergency medicine. Role of the College
The College sets standards of training and administers examinations for emergency physicians. Doctors who complete this training program may sit the FCEM examination, and on completion become a Fellow of the College and may be recommended by the College for a Certificate of Completion of Training in emergency medicine. See also
International Conference on Emergency Medicine
International Federation for Emergency Medicine


== References == In New Zealand, emergency medicine was recognised as a medical specialty in November 1995. Its principal role is oversight of emergency medicine specialist training through the setting of standards and administration of assessment to ensure that trainees meet these standards. Admission to Fellowship of the Australasian College for Emergency Medicine requires satisfactory completion of a minimum of seven years of post-graduate medical training, including multiple examinations and presentation of a research project (or equivalent coursework). References
External links
Australasian College for Emergency Medicine web site 
A model of healing of Los Angeles grades C and D reflux oesophagitis: is there an optimal time of acid suppression for maximal healing? [SEP] A Hill repair is an anti-acid reflux procedure. A reflux suppressant is any one of a number of drugs used to combat oesophageal reflux. It provides direct physiologic measurement of acid in the esophagus and is the most objective method to document reflux disease, assess the severity of the disease and monitor the response of the disease to medical or surgical treatment. Background
The importance of refluxed gastric contents in the pathogenesis of GERD was emphasized by Winkelstein who introduced the term "peptic esophagitis" and by Bernstein and Baker who reported the symptom of heartburn following instillation of hydrochloric acid in the distal esophagus in what was then became known as the acid perfusion test. Using this technique to monitor esophageal acid exposure patients for periods up to 24 hours, DeMeester and Johnson were able to identify the most important parameters of esophageal acid exposure, and they developed a composite pH score to quantify gastroesophageal reflux. Clinical application
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common disease in western countries. Further, only half of the patients with increased esophageal acid exposure will have esophagitis. Components of esophageal pH monitoring
A reflux episode is defined as esophageal pH drops below four. 
Gadofosveset-enhanced MR angiography of carotid arteries: does steady-state imaging improve accuracy of first-pass imaging? [SEP] Carotid ultrasonography is an ultrasound-based diagnostic imaging technique to evaluate structural details of the carotid arteries. Carotid ultrasound is used to diagnose carotid artery stenosis (CAS) and can assess atherosclerotic plaque morphology and characteristics. Carotid duplex and contrast-enhanced ultrasound are two of the most common imaging techniques used to evaluate carotid artery disease. Medical Uses
Carotid ultrasound is a low-cost, noninvasive, and accurate diagnostic imaging modality used to evaluate diseases of the carotid arteries. DSA is the gold standard for evaluating CAS, and MRI is the gold standard for carotid plaque imaging. Imaging Techniques
Duplex ultrasound
Duplex ultrasound (duplex) combines standard B-mode ultrasound and Doppler ultrasonography to evaluate both structural details of the carotid arteries and blood flow through the arteries. Therefore, doppler imaging substantially aids in the diagnosis of carotid artery stenosis by ultrasound. Intravenous contrast is able to improve the performance of carotid ultrasound in diagnosing carotid artery stenosis. 
Sternal skin conductance: a reasonable surrogate for hot flash measurement? [SEP] Because the current applied is high compared to the physiological current, the test could be compared to a “stress test” for sweat glands. The transient hot wire method (THW) is a very popular, accurate and precise technique to measure the thermal conductivity of gases, liquids, solids, nanofluids and refrigerants in a wide temperature and pressure range. The transient hot wire method has advantage over the other thermal conductivity methods, since there is a fully developed theory and there is no calibration or single-point calibration. An ASTM standard is published for the measurements of engine coolants using a single-transient hot wire method. 1931 - Sven Pyk and Bertil Stalhane proposed the first “transient” hot wire method for the measurement of thermal conductivity of solids and powders. See also
Electroanalytical methods
Electrochemical skin conductance
Potentiometric titration
Voltammetry


== References == Sternomancy, from the Greek sternon (chest) is a divination practice involving reading the markings or bumps on the chest or breast bone (or the area "from the breast to the belly", according to some sources). Sternomancy is related to phrenology (head-reading), palmistry (chiromancy) and scapulomancy (divination by observing animal shoulder-blades). 
Elephant trunk in a small-calibre true lumen for chronic aortic dissection: cause of haemolytic anaemia? [SEP] Hemolytic anemia or haemolytic anaemia is a form of anemia due to hemolysis, the abnormal breakdown of red blood cells (RBCs), either in the blood vessels (intravascular hemolysis) or elsewhere in the human body (extravascular). Acquired hemolytic anemia is also encountered in burns and as a result of certain infections (e.g. Low-grade hemolytic anemia occurs in 70% of prosthetic heart valve recipients, and severe hemolytic anemia occurs in 3%. Laboratory studies commonly used to investigate hemolytic anemia include blood tests for breakdown products of red blood cells, bilirubin and lactate dehydrogenase, a test for the free hemoglobin binding protein haptoglobin, and the direct Coombs test (also called direct antiglobulin test or DAT) to evaluate complement factors and/or antibodies binding to red blood cells:

Treatment
Definitive therapy depends on the cause:

Symptomatic treatment can be given by blood transfusion, if there is marked anemia. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) occurs when antibodies directed against the person's own red blood cells (RBCs) cause them to burst (lyse), leading to an insufficient number of oxygen-carrying red blood cells in the circulation. Hemolytic anemia is the hemolytic state in which anemia is present, and bone marrow function is inferentially unable to compensate for the shortened lifespan of the red cell. See also
List of circulatory system conditions

References
External links
Case report of warm-antibody autoimmune hemolytic anemia with typical laboratory findings. Nevertheless, the rare chances of life-threatening acute drop in hemoglobin are always there and in which are deemed to develop hypovolemic shock and cardiac failure due to severe anemia, and to be complicated by acute tubular necrosis as a result of hemoglobinuria over the aftermath.In addition to the rarely happened severe anemia and complications, prognosis of DLHA is deemed to be very good. 
Does partial expander deflation exacerbate the adverse effects of radiotherapy in two-stage breast reconstruction? [SEP] The side effects of radiotherapy on fertility are a growing concern to patients undergoing radiotherapy as cancer treatments. Impacts of radiotherapy on female fertility
Radiation therapy can have a significant impact on female fertility. Studies now suggest that the stage of follicular development may determine how much damage is induced.Radiation therapy has been seen to also have a direct impact on the uterus, leading to changes to its vascular supply, volume and elasticity. Some of the cells involved in this process can be damaged by the use of radiotherapy. Radiation fractionation as cancer treatment
Fractionation effects are utilised in the treatment of cancer with radiation therapy. The logic behind this treatment is that applying greater amounts of radiation works to lower the effects of accelerated tumor growth that typically occurs during the later stages of radiotherapy.Hyperfractionation is dividing the same total dose into more deliveries. , where the reduced treatment time may reduce patient movement, and breast treatments, where there is the potential to reduce breathing motion. Because this treatment combines radiotherapy with embolization, it is also called radioembolization. 
Should temperature be monitorized during kidney allograft preservation? [SEP] Heat stabilization is an additive-free preservation technology for tissue samples which stops degradation and changes immediately and permanently. The patient, technically dead at this point, was removed from the cooling system and taken to an operating theatre for a two-hour surgical procedure before having their blood restored and being warmed to the normal temperature of 37C. That rate differs between cells of differing size and water permeability: a typical cooling rate around 1 °C/minute is appropriate for many mammalian cells after treatment with cryoprotectants such as glycerol or dimethyl sulphoxide, but the rate is not a universal optimum.On April 22, 1966, the first human body was frozen—though it had been embalmed for two months—by being placed in liquid nitrogen and stored at just above freezing. While moderate hypothermia may be satisfactory for short surgeries, deep hypothermia (20 °C to 25 °C) affords protection for times of 30 to 40 minutes at the bottom of this temperature range. The use of continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) has proven effective in the induction of hypothermia as an intravascular cooling system. Patients are completely rewarmed before discontinuing CPB, but temperature remain labile despite rewarming efforts which requires close monitoring in the ICU. In the trials, patients who experience clinical death for less than five minutes duration from blood loss are being cooled from normal body temperature of 37 °C to less than 10 °C by pumping a large quantity of ice-cold saline into the largest blood vessel of the body (aorta). See also
Clinical death
Targeted temperature management
Suspended animation
Emergency Preservation and Resuscitation


== References == 
Can p53 alterations be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer? [SEP] Suppression of p53 plays important roles in cancer stem cell phenotype, induced pluripotent stem cells and other stem cell roles and behaviors, such as blastema formation. Other
Apart from the cellular and molecular effects above, p53 has a tissue-level anticancer effect that works by inhibiting angiogenesis. Oncogenes also stimulate p53 activation, mediated by the protein p14ARF. Restoring endogenous normal p53 function holds some promise. Thus, pharmacological reactivation of p53 presents itself as a viable cancer treatment option. Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) is a set of published rules that define when tumors in cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progress") during treatment. New response evaluation criteria in solid tumours: revised RECIST guideline (version 1.1).Guidelines (version 1.1)
Full presentation of newer guideline (14.7 MB; .pdf) WRAP53β is overexpressed in primary nasopharyngeal carcinoma, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and rectal cancer. 
Is irritable bowel syndrome a diagnosis of exclusion? [SEP] Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a "disorder of gut-brain interaction" characterized by a group of symptoms that commonly include abdominal pain, abdominal bloating and changes in the consistency of bowel movements. Onset may be triggered by an intestinal infection ("post-infectious irritable bowel syndrome") or a stressful life event.Diagnosis is based on symptoms in the absence of worrisome features and once other potential conditions have been ruled out. Recent findings suggest that an allergy triggered peripheral immune mechanism may underlie the symptoms associated with abdominal pain in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. Conditions that may present similarly include celiac disease, bile acid malabsorption, colon cancer, and dyssynergic defecation.Ruling out parasitic infections, lactose intolerance, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, and celiac disease is recommended before a diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome is made. Notes
References
External links

Irritable bowel syndrome at Curlie Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
H2c. Bowel dysfunction is a necessary diagnostic criterion of IBS. Irritable bowel (IBS)
In diarrhea dominant IB is a common symptom of GSE, increased coeliac disease-associated serum IgG was found in treated and untreated CD patients. 
Is pelvic pain associated with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse? [SEP] Symptoms can include pelvic pain, pressure, pain during sex, urinary incontinence (UI), overactive bladder, bowel incontinence, incomplete emptying of feces, constipation, myofascial pelvic pain and pelvic organ prolapse. When pelvic organ prolapse occurs, there may be visible organ protrusion or a lump felt in the vagina or anus.Common treatments for pelvic floor dysfunction are surgery, medication, physical therapy and lifestyle modifications.The term "pelvic floor dysfunction" has been criticized since it does not represent a particular pelvic floor disorder. Providers will also ask about presence and severity of symptoms such as pelvic pain or pressure, problems with urination or defecation, painful sex, or sexual dysfunction. Both fluoroscopy and MRI assess the pelvic floor at rest and during maximum strain using coronal and sagittal views.When grading individual organ prolapse for severity, the rectum, bladder and uterus are individually assessed. Additionally, different forms of pelvic organ prolapse often present with similar symptoms.Most women who experience pelvic organ prolapse do not have symptoms. When symptoms are present, the most common and most specific symptoms for uterine prolapse—and organ prolapse in general—into the vagina are bulge symptoms, such as pelvic pressure, vaginal fullness, or a palpable vaginal bulge, and these symptoms are often more common and more severe if the prolapse reaches the vaginal hymen. Prevalence of pelvic organ prolapse was found to be consistently higher when physical exam was used (for uterine prolapse, this was 14.2% in one study and 3.8% in another) compared to a symptom-based determination in which the prevalence of any type of prolapse, including uterine prolapse, was 2.9% to 8% in the U.S. Other frequently described symptoms are urinary hesitancy (needing to wait for the urinary stream to begin, often caused by pelvic floor dysfunction and tension), and discomfort and difficulty driving, working, exercising, or traveling. 
Does ibuprofen increase perioperative blood loss during hip arthroplasty? [SEP] In orthopedic surgery, a decrease of blood transfusions was likewise confirmed. A monograph relating ibuprofen plasma concentration, time since ingestion, and risk of developing renal toxicity in people who have overdosed has been published.In October 2020, the US FDA required the drug label to be updated for all NSAID medications to describe the risk of kidney problems in unborn babies that result in low amniotic fluid. Cardiovascular risk
Along with several other NSAIDs, chronic ibuprofen use has been found correlated with risk of progression to hypertension in women, though less than for acetaminophen, and myocardial infarction (heart attack), particularly among those chronically using higher doses. On 9 July 2015, the US FDA toughened warnings of increased heart attack and stroke risk associated with ibuprofen and related NSAIDs; the NSAID aspirin is not included in this warning. Interactions
Alcohol
Drinking alcohol when taking ibuprofen may increase the risk of stomach bleeding. Aspirin
According to the FDA, "ibuprofen can interfere with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose aspirin, potentially rendering aspirin less effective when used for cardioprotection and stroke prevention". Since ibuprofen has acidic properties and is also excreted in the urine, forced alkaline diuresis is theoretically beneficial. "The Ibuprofen Revolution". 
Laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resections in patients with Crohn's disease: are abscesses, phlegmons, or recurrent disease contraindications? [SEP] Management of Crohn's disease involves first treating the acute symptoms of the disease, then maintaining remission. Surgery
Surgery is normally reserved for complications of Crohn's disease or when disease that resists treatment with drugs is confined to one location that can be removed. Surgery is often used to manage complications of Crohn's disease, including fistulae, small bowel obstruction, colon cancer, small intestine cancer and fibrostenotic strictures, when strictureplasty (expansion of the stricture) is sometimes performed. Otherwise, and for other complications, resection and anastomosis – the removal of the affected section of intestine and the rejoining of the healthy sections – is the surgery usually performed for Crohn's disease (e.g., ileocolonic resection). Smoking can not only make Crohn's disease worse in people who do it, but also increase the risk of recurrence after surgery. Bowel resection or repair is typically initiated earlier in patients with signs of infection, the elderly, immunocompromised, and those with severe comorbidities.Peptic ulcer disease may cause perforation of the bowel but rarely requires bowel resection. Laparoscopic adhesiolysis is the most common surgery used when bowel rest and medical management fail to resolve the obstruction. A very long opening is created between two loops, which are then sutured together.The recent extension of this technique to Crohn's disease of the last portion of the small bowel (terminal ileum) going into the right colon is poised to change the paradigm of surgical treatment of terminal ileitis from a conventional resection (ileocolectomy) to a bowel sparing procedure. 
Has the use of complementary and alternative medicine therapies by U.S. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations changed from 2002 to 2007? [SEP] According to a national survey conducted in 2002, "36 percent of U.S. adults aged 18 years and over use some form of complementary and alternative medicine." Complementary Medicine: New Approaches to Good Practice. Complementary & Alternative Medicine: Legal Boundaries and Regulatory Perspectives. Committee on the Use of Complementary and Alternative Medicine by the American Public for the Board on Health Promotion and Disease Prevention, Institute of Medicine (2005). Complementary and Alternative Medicine in the United States. Sixth Report: Complementary and Alternative Medicine. "Development and classification of an operational definition of complementary and alternative medicine for the Cochrane Collaboration". Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine. 
Is extended aortic replacement in acute type A dissection justifiable? [SEP] About 18% of individuals who present with an acute aortic dissection have a history of open-heart surgery. It includes DeBakey type III.The Stanford classification is useful as it follows clinical practice, as type A ascending aortic dissections generally require primary surgical treatment, whereas type B dissections generally are treated medically as initial treatment with surgery reserved for any complications.The main indication for surgical repair of type A dissections is the prevention of acute hemorrhagic pericardial tamponade due to leakage of blood through the dissected layers of the intrapericardial proximal aorta. For Stanford type A (ascending aortic) dissection, surgical management is superior to medical management. For uncomplicated Stanford type B (distal aortic) dissections (including abdominal aortic dissections), medical management is preferred over surgery. Complicated Stanford type B aortic dissections require surgical intervention after initiation of medical therapy.The risk of death due to aortic dissection is highest in the first few hours after the dissection begins, and decreases afterward. Surgical
Indications for the surgical treatment of aortic dissection include an acute proximal aortic dissection and an acute distal aortic dissection with one or more complications. "Type A Aortic Dissection". Type 3 refers to the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta.Group A dissections are the more serious of the two due to the location of the dissection in the ascending aorta, which leads to a higher risk of congestive heart failure and pericardium and/or aortic valve rupture. 
Is intensive monitoring during the first transfusion in pediatric patients necessary? [SEP] Most extremely preterm babies (less than 28 weeks) require at least one red cell transfusion; this is partly due to the amount of blood removed with blood samples compared to the baby's total blood volume (iatrogenic anemia) and partly due to anemia of prematurity. Most transfusions are given as small volume top-up transfusions to increase the baby's hemoglobin above a certain pre-defined level, or because the baby is unwell due to the anemia. What to transfuse
A small volume transfusion is usually 10 to 20 ml/kg administered at a rate of 5 ml/kg/hour.A large volume transfusion is the estimated entire blood volume of the baby (80 ml/kg) and is usually given during cardiac surgery.A red cell exchange transfusion is usually given to treat severe hyperbilirubinemia or anemia in babies with hemolytic disease of the newborn. Safety considerations
The Serious Hazards of Transfusion (SHOT) hemovigilance reporting scheme has shown that there are a disproportionate number of transfusion errors in babies. Regular transfusion is required to reduce the symptoms of anemia by increasing functional red blood cells and hemoglobin count. Therefore, other than diagnosing anemias that require transfusion, diagnosis for the two main causes (beta-thalassemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) of transfusion dependent anemia is also important. Units of red blood cells required is examined to diagnose transfusion dependent anemia. Diagnosed patients require frequent and regular transfusion for survival. 
Effects of exercise training on heart rate and QT interval in healthy young individuals: are there gender differences? [SEP] Hormonal response in young men varies with the number of sets in the exercise session. A review of the effects of exercise on neurocardiac function in preclinical models noted that exercise-induced neuroplasticity of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) has an inhibitory effect on glutamatergic neurotransmission in this region, in turn reducing sympathetic activity; the review hypothesized that this neuroplasticity in the RVLM is a mechanism by which regular exercise prevents inactivity-related cardiovascular disease. There is some evidence that interval training is also beneficial for older individuals and for those with coronary artery disease, but further study is required.Interval training can improve many aspects of human physiology. The QT interval is a measurement made on an electrocardiogram used to assess some of the electrical properties of the heart. Higher rates of prolonged QTc are seen in females, older patients, high systolic blood pressure or heart rate, and short stature. "Physiological adaptations to low-volume, high-intensity interval training in health and disease". In addition to prolonging the resting QT interval, LQTS may affect how the QT changes in response to exercise and stimulation by catecholamines such as adrenaline. While in healthy persons the QT interval shortens during exercise, in those with concealed LQT1 exercise or adrenaline infusion may lead to paradoxical prolongation of the QT interval, revealing the underlying condition. 
Is coeliac disease screening in risk groups justified? [SEP] Coeliac UK is a UK charity for people with coeliac disease - a condition estimated to affect 1 out of every 100 people and to be twice as common in women as in men - and the skin manifestation of the condition, dermatitis herpetiformis (DH). Genetic studies indicate that coeliac disease genetically links to loci shared by linkage with other autoimmune diseases. An idiopathic case has been reported with coeliac disease. Coeliac disease
Age at CD/GSE diagnosis – most people are over the age of 50 when first diagnosed at RCD
Dietary noncompliance – Some EATL appears years after diagnosis with non-GF diets. Coeliac disease
Coeliac disease (American English: celiac) (CD) is one of the most common chronic, immune-mediated disorders, triggered by the eating of gluten, a mixture of proteins found in wheat, barley, rye, and oats and derivatives. For this reason, the new guidelines of the European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition for the diagnosis of coeliac disease conclude that a proven diagnosis of DH, by itself, confirms the diagnosis of coeliac disease. To find out if there are unintended ingestions of gluten, an exhaustive evaluation with the advice of a coeliac disease specialized dietitian could be necessary.In some cases, people can significantly improve with a low FODMAPs diet in addition to gluten withdrawal and/or a GFD with a low content of preservatives and additives. Diagnosis
A literature review of 2014 found that non-coeliac gluten sensitivity diagnosis can be reached only by excluding celiac disease (CD) and wheat allergy.Persons suspected of having celiac disease may undergo serological testing for IgA anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies (abbreviated anti-tTG antibodies or anti-TG2 antibodies) and anti-endomysial antibodies (abbreviated EMA) provided the IgA-level is high, and if IgA is low, testing for certain IgG antibodies; in case of positive serological indication, a duodenal biopsy may confirm active celiac disease.Eliminating the possibility of CD can generally also be done by adding HLA-DQ typing. 
Analysis of the epidemiological pattern of Shigellosis in Barcelona between 1988 and 2012: Is it an emerging sexually transmitted infection? [SEP] Shigella flexneri is a species of Gram-negative bacteria in the genus Shigella that can cause diarrhea in humans. Several different serogroups of Shigella are described; S. flexneri belongs to group B. S. flexneri infections can usually be treated with antibiotics, although some strains have become resistant. Shigella are closely related to Escherichia coli, but can be differentiated from E.coli based on pathogenicity, physiology (failure to ferment lactose or decarboxylate lysine) and serology. This bacterium is gram-negative, non-spore forming Shigella from serogroup B. Serotype
Shigella flexneri belongs to group B (i.e. Invasion
Shigella flexneri is an intracellular bacterium that infects the epithelial lining of the mammalian intestinal tract. References
External links
"Shigella flexneri". Type strain of Shigella flexneri at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase 
A patient with myelomeningocele: is untethering necessary prior to scoliosis correction? [SEP] Surgical treatment of adult degenerative scoliosis; Matteo, Palmisano; Eugen, Dema; Stefano, Cervellati; European Spine Journal, Volume 22 (6) – 1 Nov 2013
The posterior surgical correction of congenital kyphosis and kyphoscoliosis: 23 cases with minimum 2 years follow-up; Yan, Zeng; Chongqing, Chen; Qiang, Qi; Zhaoqing, Guo; Weishi, Li; European Spine Journal, Volume 22 (2) – 1 Feb  2013
Complication rate in adult deformity surgical treatment: safety of the posterior osteotomies; Giovanni, Maida; Francesco, Lucero; Francesco, Gallozzi; Marcello, Ferraro; Maggi, Bernardo; European Spine Journal, Volume 24 (7) – 1 Nov  2015
Vertebral Column Resection for the Treatment of Severe Spinal Deformity; Lawrence, Lenke; Brenda, Sides; Linda, Koester; Marsha, Hensley; Kathy, Blanke; Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research, Volume 468 (3) – 1 Mar 2010
Péréon Y, Bernard JM, Fayet G, Delécrin J, Passuti N, Guihéneuc P (1998). A lipomyelomeningocele defect is present at birth and can present with physical defect of the spine and back, and it can also cause various neurological symptoms such as weakness and bladder and bowel incontinence. Minimally invasive thoracic spinal fusion is one of the newest approaches to scoliosis surgery. Scoliosis: Ascending the Curve. Scoliosis. The rise in spinal abnormalities require examination by an orthopaedic surgeon to determine if active treatment is needed.The traditional medical management of scoliosis is complex and is determined by the severity of the curvature and skeletal maturity, which together help predict the likelihood of progression. Evidence suggests use of scoliosis specific exercises might prevent the progression of the curve along with possible bracing and surgery avoidance.For adults, treatment usually focuses on relieving any pain:
Pain medication
Posture checking
Bracing
SurgeryTreatment for idiopathic scoliosis also depends upon the severity of the curvature, the spine's potential for further growth, and the risk that the curvature will progress. Surgery
Surgery is usually recommended by orthopedists for curves with a high likelihood of progression (i.e., greater than 45–50° of magnitude), curves that would be cosmetically unacceptable as an adult, curves in people with spina bifida and cerebral palsy that interfere with sitting and care, and curves that affect physiological functions such as breathing.Surgery is indicated by the Society on Scoliosis Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Treatment (SOSORT) at 45–50° and by the Scoliosis Research Society (SRS) at a Cobb angle of 45°. 
Is aerobic workload positively related to ambulatory blood pressure? [SEP] Blood pressure variability
24-hour, non-invasive ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring allows estimates of cardiac risk factors including excessive BP variability or patterns of circadian variability known to increase risks of a cardiovascular event. Additionally, ambulatory monitoring may reveal an excessive morning blood pressure surge; which is associated with increased risk of stroke in elderly people with high blood pressure.Classification of dipping in blood pressure is based on the American Heart Association's calculation, using systolic blood pressure (SBP) as follows:

  
    
      
        D
        i
        p
        =
        (
        1
        −
        
          
            
              S
              B
              
                P
                
                  S
                  l
                  e
                  e
                  p
                  i
                  n
                  g
                
              
            
            
              S
              B
              
                P
                
                  W
                  a
                  k
                  i
                  n
                  g
                
              
            
          
        
        )
        ×
        100
        %
      
    
    {\displaystyle Dip=(1-{\frac {SBP_{Sleeping}}{SBP_{Waking}}})\times 100\%}
  Dippers have significantly lower all-cause mortality than non-dippers or reverse dippers. As a result, "... ambulatory blood pressure predicts mortality significantly better than clinic blood pressure." References
External links
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, Medical Journal of Australia Sleep
Lack of sleep can increase blood pressure, and longer sleep cycles may reduce blood pressure in prehypertensive individuals. Stress
Stress reducing techniques can improve elevated blood pressure. Afterload is proportional to the average arterial pressure. This leads to elevated systolic blood pressure. 
PREVALENCE OF THE STREPTOCOCUS AGALACTIAE IN THE PREGNANT WOMAN FROM THE AUTONOMIC CITY OF MELILLA: IS CULTURE A DETERMINANT FACTOR? [SEP] References
External links
Type strain of Streptococcus dysgalactiae at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase This is also being investigated for its potential to prevent rheumatic heart disease which is also caused by S. pyogenes.Agglutination of Streptococcus salivarius is often used in the diagnosis of atypical pneumonia caused by Haemophilus influenzae

Subspecies
Streptococcus thermophilus was originally described as a subspecies of this entry, Streptococcus salivarius subsp. "Variable Characteristics of Bacteriocin-Producing Streptococcus salivarius Strains Isolated from Malaysian Subjects". "Anti-Inflammatory Properties of Streptococcus salivarius, a Commensal Bacterium of the Oral Cavity and Digestive Tract". External links
Streptococcus salivarius, UniProt
Type strain of Streptococcus salivarius at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase agalactiae is the most common human pathogen of streptococci belonging to group B of the Rebecca Lancefield classification of streptococci. References
External links
CDC—Group B Strep (GBS)
Group B Strep Association US
Group B Strep Support UK
Type strain of Streptococcus agalactiae at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase References
External links
Diseases Database (DDB): 31906
Streptococcus Group D Infections at eMedicine 
Is fluoroscopy essential for retrieval of lower ureteric stones? [SEP] Ureteroscopy  is an examination of the upper urinary tract, usually performed with a ureteroscope that is passed through the urethra and the bladder, and then directly into the ureter. The procedure is useful in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders such as kidney stones and urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. Smaller stones in the bladder or lower ureter can be removed in one piece, while bigger ones are usually broken before removal during ureteroscopy.The examination may be performed with either a flexible, semi-rigid or rigid device while the patient is under anesthesia. Ureterolysis is a surgical procedure aimed at exposing the ureter in order to free it from external pressure or adhesions or to avoid injury to it during pelvic surgery, most often hysterectomy. Voiding and positive pressure cystourethrograms help to assess lower urinary tract trauma, reflux, suspected fistulas, and to diagnose urinary retention. Laser lithotripsy is a surgical procedure to remove stones from urinary tract, i.e., kidney, ureter, bladder, or urethra. Procedure
A urologist inserts a scope into the urinary tract to locate the stone. Urology
In urology, fluoroscopy is used in retrograde pyelography and micturating cystourethrography to detect various abnormalities related to the urinary system. 
Does the sequence of clamp application during open abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery influence distal embolisation? [SEP] With most devices, the "main body" of the endograft is placed first, followed by the "limbs" which join the main body and extend to the iliac arteries, effectively protecting the aneurysm sac from blood pressure.The abdominal aneurysm extends down to the common iliac arteries in about 25%-30% of patients. This reduces the pressure in the aneurysm, which itself will usually thrombose and shrink in size over time.Staging such procedures is common, particularly to address aortic branch points near the diseased aortic segment. Open surgical repairs should be considered initially in younger patients requiring descending and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repairs. Once the graft is sewn into the proximal (toward the patient's head) and distal (toward the patient's foot) portions of the aorta, the aneurysmal sac is closed around the graft. Sequential aortic clamping
At medical centers with a high volume of open aortic surgery, the fastest option for open aortic surgery was sequential aortic clamping or "clamp-and-sew", whereby the aorta was clamped proximally and distally to the diseased segment, and a graft sewn into the intervening segment. In infrarenal aneurysms, the relative tolerance of the lower extremities to ischemia allows surgeons to clamp distally with low risk of ill effect. Classification
Abdominal aortic aneurysms are commonly divided according to their size and symptomatology. The aorta must be clamped during the repair, denying blood to the abdominal organs and sections of the spinal cord; this can cause a range of complications. 
Are lower fasting plasma glucose levels at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes associated with improved outcomes? [SEP] Those with impaired fasting glucose are at an increased risk of vascular complications of diabetes, though to a lesser extent. Diagnosis of diabetes is by blood tests such as fasting plasma glucose, oral glucose tolerance test, or glycated hemoglobin (A1C).Type 2 diabetes is largely preventable by staying a normal weight, exercising regularly, and eating a healthy diet (high in fruits and vegetables and low in sugar and saturated fats). Diagnosis
The World Health Organization definition of diabetes (both type 1 and type 2) is for a single raised glucose reading with symptoms, otherwise raised values on two occasions, of either:
fasting plasma glucose ≥ 7.0 mmol/L (126 mg/dL)orwith a glucose tolerance test, two hours after the oral dose a plasma glucose ≥ 11.1 mmol/L (200 mg/dL)A random blood sugar of greater than 11.1 mmol/L (200 mg/dL) in association with typical symptoms or a glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of ≥ 48 mmol/mol (≥ 6.5 DCCT %) is another method of diagnosing diabetes. Management
Management of type 2 diabetes focuses on lifestyle interventions, lowering other cardiovascular risk factors, and maintaining blood glucose levels in the normal range. Hypoglycemia is associated with adverse outcomes in older people with type 2 diabetes. Digital tools
Electronic health records
Sharing their electronic health records with people who have type 2 diabetes helps them to reduce their blood sugar levels. However, both type 1 and type 2 diabetics can see dramatic improvements in blood sugars through modifying their diet, and some type 2 diabetics can fully control the disease by dietary modification. In addition, and more importantly, this study showed that, in type 2 diabetic patients with a body mass index of 35 or higher, bariatric surgery has the potential to lead to complete remission of diabetes in as many as 40% of those people who have the procedure. 
Do elderly patients call 911 when presented with clinical scenarios suggestive of acute stroke? [SEP] As a potential solution to the problem of detrimental delays in stroke management the MSU concept was developed enabling diagnosis and treatment directly at the emergency site as opposed to awaiting the patient's arrival at hospital for treatment. By bringing imaging technology and stroke clinical expertise to the scene, teams are able to take advantage of the pre-hospital arrival time by focusing team efforts solely on one patient with suspected stroke.Apart from the earlier start of treatment, knowledge about the type of stroke already in the pre-hospital phase of stroke management allows accurate triage decisions in regard to the most appropriate target hospital, e.g., hospital with or without endovascular or neurosurgical treatment options. When available, patients are admitted to an acute stroke unit for treatment. As the age of the population increases, the diagnosis and management of CPSP will become increasingly important to improve the quality of life of an increasing number of stroke survivors. Cognitive Impairment and Therapy
Cognitive impairment is indisputably one of the biggest threats following stroke. If any one of the three tests shows abnormal findings, the patient may be having a stroke and should be transported to a hospital as soon as possible. If the person slurs the words, gets some words wrong, or is unable to speak, that could be a sign of a stroke. "Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale: reproducibility and validity". 
Cerebromediastinal tuberculosis in a child with a probable Say-Barber-Miller syndrome: a causative link? [SEP] Contributions
One of Miller's main contributions, was the study of Tuberculosis. Bibliography
Tuberculosis in children: evolution, epidemiology, treatment, prevention. Oxford University Press, 1974
Clinical tuberculosis with John Crofton and Norman Horne., Paris:IUATLD, London:Macmillan 1995,


== References == People with Say–Meyer syndrome have impaired growth, deficits in motor skills development and mental state.It is suggested that it is from a X-linked transmission. References
External links
Miller–Dieker NIH
Miller-Dieker syndrome  NIH Up to nearly 7% of children with pulmonary tuberculosis may develop this condition. Barber-Say syndrome (BSS) is a very rare congenital disorder associated with excessive hair growth (hypertrichosis), fragile (atrophic) skin, eyelid deformities (ectropion), and an overly broad mouth (macrostomia).Barber-Say syndrome is phenotypically similar to Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome, which is also associated with dominant mutations in TWIST2. Signs and symptoms
Severe hypertrichosis, especially of the back
Skin abnormalities, including hyperlaxity and redundancy
Facial dysmorphism, including macrostomia
Eyelid deformities, in
Abnormal and low-set ears
Bulbous nasal tip with hypoplastic alae nasi
Low frontal hairline

Genetics
Multiple cases of parent-to-child transmission suggest that Barber-Say syndrome exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance. 
Are virtual planning and guided surgery for head and neck reconstruction economically viable? [SEP] Surgical planning is the preoperative method of pre-visualising a surgical intervention, in order to predefine the surgical steps and furthermore the bone segment navigation in the context of computer-assisted surgery. During the late 1990s, the first full computer-based virtual surgical planning was made for osteotomies, and then transferred to the operating theatre by a navigation system. As newer imaging modalities emerged providing increasing anatomical and functional detail for the patient in the 2000s, these surgical planning systems started to incorporate virtual reality technology to facilitate the visualisation and manipulation of the 3D data. Benefits
The benefits of Image-guided surgery include greater control of the surgical procedure, real-time feedback on the effect of the intervention, reduced tissue trauma and disruption in gaining access to the anatomical structure. Computer-assisted neurosurgery also includes spinal procedures using navigation and robotics systems. Computer-assisted oral and maxillofacial surgery
Bone segment navigation is the modern surgical approach in orthognathic surgery (correction of the anomalies of the jaws and skull), in temporo-mandibular joint (TMJ) surgery, or in the reconstruction of the mid-face and orbit.It is also used in implantology where the available bone can be seen and the position, angulation and depth of the implants can be simulated before the surgery. Using 3D imaging during the planning phase, the communication between the surgeon, dentist and dental technician is highly supported and any problems can easily detected and eliminated. Computer-assisted visceral surgery
With the advent of computer-assisted surgery, great progresses have been made in general surgery towards minimal invasive approaches. 
Do overweight children necessarily make overweight adults? [SEP] Obesity in children is growing at a faster rate than obesity in adults. Overweight children are also more likely to grow up to be overweight adults. Long-term effects
Children who are obese are likely to be obese as adults. One study showed that children who became obese as early as age 2 were more likely to be obese as adults. The results of a survey in the UK published in 2010 imply that children raised by their grandparents are more likely to be obese as adults than those raised by their parents. For example, one study found that approximately 80% of children who were overweight at aged 10–15 years were obese adults at age 25 years. Another study found that 25% of obese adults were overweight as children. The latter study also found that if overweight begins before 8 years of age, obesity in adulthood is likely to be more severe.A study has also found that tackling childhood obesity will not necessarily lead to eating disorders later in life.A review of secular trends in the number of overweight or obese children have come to the conclusion that prevalence had increased during the past two decades in the most industrialised countries, apart from Russia and Poland, and in several low-income countries, especially in urban areas. 
Biliary atresia: should all patients undergo a portoenterostomy? [SEP] Prognosis
Prognosis of this condition/procedure comprises the following:
If performed before 60 days of age, 80% of children achieve some bile drainage
Prognosis is progressively worse the later surgery is done
Post-operatively, cholangitis and malabsorption are common
Many children with biliary atresia will require liver transplantation despite the attempted surgical repair, although on occasion, it can be delayed until adulthood. Biliary atresia, also known as extrahepatic ductopenia and progressive obliterative cholangiopathy, is a childhood disease of the liver in which one or more bile ducts are abnormally narrow, blocked, or absent. Syndromic biliary atresia (e.g. If left untreated, biliary atresia can lead to liver failure. Treatment
Most (>95%) infants with biliary atresia will undergo an operation designed to retain and salvage the native liver, restore bile flow, and reduce the level of jaundice. He is best known for devising a surgical procedure, the hepatoportoenterostomy, to address a life-threatening birth defect known as biliary atresia. As of 2012, a patient in his fifties was known to be alive in Japan.While the procedure is not a definitive cure for biliary atresia and about half of patients require liver transplantation by the age of two, a 2015 article in The Journal of Pediatrics said that the international adoption of the procedure had "dramatically changed the outcome of biliary atresia." The definitive treatment for duodenal atresia is surgery (duodenoduodenostomy or duodenojejunostomy), which may be performed openly or laparoscopically. 
Does a history of unintended pregnancy lessen the likelihood of desire for sterilization reversal? [SEP] Voluntary sterilization
Motivations for voluntary sterilizations include:

Lifestyle
Because of the emphasis placed on childbearing as the most important role of women, not having children was traditionally seen as a deficiency or due to fertility problems. If prenatal testing has detected a genetic disorder in the child, parents may opt to be sterilized to forgo having more children who may also be affected. Because sterilization is a largely irreversible procedure, post-sterilization regret is a major psychological effect. The most common reason for post-sterilization regret is the desire to have more children. Sterilization can lead to distrust in a marriage if the husband then suspects his wife of infidelity. If a woman marries again after sterilization, her new husband might be displeased with her inability to bear him children, causing tumult in the marriage. Vasectomy Reversal Resource
Female Sterilization Options – /mk.nkl/cvas1.html Is Vasectomy the Right Method For Me?] In a study conducted in El Paso, Texas, groups of women were asked why they would choose sterilization; many of the top reasons included: not wanting any more children, their current age and health, plans of working or attending school or inability to afford another child. 
Does early discharge with nurse home visits affect adequacy of newborn metabolic screening? [SEP] Early postnatal hospital discharge generally refers to the postpartum hospital discharge of the mother and newborn within 48 hours. Mothers
Breastfeeding
Mothers participating in early discharge programs which include home-based follow-up care have been found to have higher rates of breastfeeding at three months postpartum as well as exclusive breastfeeding compared to later discharged mothers. The length of postnatal hospital discharge has also been found to be a predictor of breastfeeding cessation, in which mothers discharged early were more likely to cease breastfeeding compared to mothers who were discharged at a conventional duration. Depression
Early postnatal hospital discharge may influence depression in mothers. Newborns
Morbidity
Although conclusions on the effects of early postnatal hospital discharge on morbidity of newborns remain unclear, it has been suggested that newborns discharged within 24 hours of birth are more likely to require readmission by one month compared to newborns discharged after 24 hours. It has also been suggested that there are higher rates of dehydration in early discharged newborns compared to newborns discharged later.In contrast, a systematic literature review has found no significant differences in complication rates, type and occurrence of newborn morbidities between newborns who were discharged early and those who were discharged later on. This position statement offers discharge readiness checklists for the newborn and mother, such as the need for a physical examination of the newborn during the first 24 to 72 hours after birth before they are discharged. APGAR scoring
All nurses working in a birthing center have an important role in assessing the newborn immediately after birth. 
Are stroke patients' reports of home blood pressure readings reliable? [SEP] "Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale: reproducibility and validity". Additionally, ambulatory monitoring may reveal an excessive morning blood pressure surge; which is associated with increased risk of stroke in elderly people with high blood pressure.Classification of dipping in blood pressure is based on the American Heart Association's calculation, using systolic blood pressure (SBP) as follows:

  
    
      
        D
        i
        p
        =
        (
        1
        −
        
          
            
              S
              B
              
                P
                
                  S
                  l
                  e
                  e
                  p
                  i
                  n
                  g
                
              
            
            
              S
              B
              
                P
                
                  W
                  a
                  k
                  i
                  n
                  g
                
              
            
          
        
        )
        ×
        100
        %
      
    
    {\displaystyle Dip=(1-{\frac {SBP_{Sleeping}}{SBP_{Waking}}})\times 100\%}
  Dippers have significantly lower all-cause mortality than non-dippers or reverse dippers. Ambulatory and home monitoring
Ambulatory blood pressure devices take readings regularly (e.g. Blood pressure readings outside of a clinical setting are usually slightly lower in the majority of people; however studies that quantified the risks from hypertension and the benefits of lowering blood pressure have mostly been based on readings in a clinical environment. Not all home blood pressure machines are accurate, and "wide range" (one-size fits all) home blood pressure monitoring units do not have adequate evidence to support their use. In addition, health care professionals are recommending that people validate their home devices before relying on the results.Home monitoring is a cheap and simple alternative to ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, although it does not usually allow assessment of blood pressure during sleep which may be a disadvantage. Compared to ambulatory blood pressure measurements, home monitoring has been found to be an effective and lower cost alternative, but ambulatory monitoring is more accurate than both clinic and home monitoring in diagnosing hypertension. When measuring blood pressure in the home, an accurate reading requires that one not drink coffee, smoke cigarettes, or engage in strenuous exercise for 30 minutes before taking the reading. 
Does increasing blood pH stimulate protein synthesis in dialysis patients? [SEP] There is evidence that hyperaminoacidemia increases protein synthesis and anabolism. People with compromised kidneys will have a lower excretion of uric acid leading to several diseases, including further renal damage, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and gout.Creatinine might not be a direct indicator of protein toxicity; however, it is important to mention that creatinine could increase due to overwork by the kidneys exposed to high levels of protein waste. The physiological changes induced by an increased protein intake, such as an increased glomerular pressure and hyperfiltration, place further strain on already damaged kidneys. Protein restricted individuals have been shown to have slower rates of progression of their renal diseases.Several studies, however, have found no evidence of protein toxicity due to high protein intakes on kidney function in healthy people. In response to an increased consumption of dietary protein, the kidneys maintain homeostasis within the body by operating at an increased capacity, producing a higher amount of urea and subsequently excreting it from the body. Currently, evidence suggests that changes in renal function that occur in response to an increased dietary protein intake are part of the normal adaptive system employed by the body to sustain homeostasis. In a healthy individual with well-functioning kidneys, there is no need for concern that an increased dietary protein intake will lead to protein toxicity and decreased renal function. Since vitamins are necessary for proper metabolism, protein building, and growth it is important for the health of dialysis patients that they are supplemented with any vitamins or minerals that they may be deficient in. 
Can T-cell deficiency affect spatial learning ability following toluene exposure? [SEP] Toluene toxicity refers to the harmful effects caused by toluene on the body. Environmental influences
When exposure to toluene occurs there is usually simultaneous exposure to several other chemicals. Smoking has been shown to enhance the elimination rate of toluene from the body, perhaps as a result of enzyme induction.The diet can also influence toluene elimination. Effects of long-term exposure
Serious adverse behavioural effects are often associated with chronic occupational exposure  and toluene abuse related to the deliberate inhalation of solvents. Long-term toluene exposure is often associated with effects such as: psychoorganic syndrome; visual evoked potential (VEP) abnormality; toxic polyneuropathy, cerebellar, cognitive, and pyramidal dysfunctions; optic atrophy; hearing disorders and brain lesions.The neurotoxic effects of long-term use (in particular repeated withdrawals) of toluene may cause postural tremors by downregulating GABA receptors within the cerebellar cortex. The tremors associated with toluene misuse do not seem to be a transient symptom, but an irreversible and progressive symptom which continues after solvent abuse has been discontinued.There is some evidence that low-level toluene exposure may cause disruption in the differentiation of astrocyte precursor cells. This does not appear to be a major hazard to adults; however, exposure of pregnant women to toluene during critical stages of fetal development could cause serious disruption to neuronal development. References
External links

ATSDR - Case Studies in Environmental Medicine: Toluene Toxicity U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (public domain) 
Is there a relationship between homocysteine and vitiligo? [SEP] Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency is the most common genetic cause of elevated serum levels of homocysteine (hyperhomocysteinemia). Management
In common forms of MTHFR deficiency, elevated plasma homocysteine levels have sometimes been treated with Vitamin B12 and low doses of folic acid. Variations in genes that are part of the immune system or part of melanocytes have both been associated with vitiligo. Vitiligo however is a risk factor. Its relationship with homocysteine is analogous to the relationship between cystine and cysteine. Individuals of 677TT are predisposed to mild hyperhomocysteinemia (high blood homocysteine levels), because they have less active MTHFR available to produce 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (which is used to decrease homocysteine). Symptoms of homocystinuria can also be caused by a deficiency of vitamins B6, B12, or folate. Homocystinuria represents a group of hereditary metabolic disorders characterized by an accumulation of the amino acid homocysteine in the serum and an increased excretion of homocysteine in the urine. 
Do dermatomyositis and polymyositis affect similar thigh muscles? [SEP] Although they vary in particulars, polymyositis, dermatomyositis and inclusion body myositis are idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) primarily characterized by chronic inflammation of human skeletal muscle tissue that ultimately causes the necrosis of muscle cells. Polymyositis (PM) is a type of chronic inflammation of the muscles (inflammatory myopathy) related to dermatomyositis and inclusion body myositis. The inflammation of polymyositis is mainly found in the endomysial layer of skeletal muscle, whereas dermatomyositis is characterized primarily by inflammation of the perimysial layer of skeletal muscles. Causes
Polymyositis is an inflammatory myopathy mediated by cytotoxic T cells with an as yet unknown autoantigen, while dermatomyositis is a humorally mediated angiopathy resulting in myositis and a typical dermatitis.The cause of polymyositis is unknown and may involve viruses and autoimmune factors. Cancer may trigger polymyositis and dermatomyositis, possibly through an immune reaction against cancer that also attacks a component of muscles. Dermatopolymyositis  is a family of myositis disorders that includes polymyositis and dermatomyositis. Dermatomyositis (DM) is a long-term inflammatory disorder which affects the skin and the muscles. Dermatomyositis: an inflammatory disease of skin and muscle marked especially by muscular weakness and skin rash.Scleroderma is a connective tissue disease that causes fibrosis and vascular abnormalities, but that also has an autoimmune component, and can include connective tissues complications. 
Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis--is it the same disease as adult ankylosing spondylitis? [SEP] Childhood arthritis (also known as juvenile arthritis or pediatric rheumatic disease) is an umbrella term used to describe any rheumatic disease or chronic arthritis-related condition which affects individuals under the age of 16. Previous terminology included Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis and Juvenile Chronic Arthritis. Radiographic axial spondyloarthritis:Synonym for ankylosing spondylitis. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a type of arthritis characterized by long-term inflammation of the joints of the spine typically where the spine joins the pelvis. Pathophysiology
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a systemic rheumatic disease, meaning it affects the entire body. Diagnosis
Ankylosing spondylitis is a member of the more broadly defined disease axial spondyloarthritis. Axial spondyloarthritis can be divided into two categories: radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (which is a synonym for ankylosing spondylitis) and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (which include less severe forms and early stages of ankylosing spondylitis).While AS can be diagnosed through the description of radiological changes in the sacroiliac joints and spine, there are currently no direct tests (blood or imaging) to unambiguously diagnose early forms of ankylosing spondylitis (non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis). Children
Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis (JAS) is a rare form of the disease which differs from the more common adult form. 
Is Aspiration Thrombectomy Beneficial in Patients Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is a non-surgical procedure used to treat narrowing of the coronary arteries of the heart found in coronary artery disease. While balloon angioplasty is still done as a part of nearly all percutaneous coronary interventions, it is rarely the only procedure performed.Other procedures done during a percutaneous coronary intervention include:
Implantation of stents
Debulking strategies
Rotational atherectomy
Orbital atherectomy
Laser atherectomy
Brachytherapy (use of radioactive source to inhibit restenosis)
Coronary intravascular lithotripsy (IVL)The angioplasty procedure usually consists of most of the following steps and is performed by a team made up of physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurses, radiographers, and endovascular specialists; all of whom have extensive and specialized training in these types of procedures. Thrombus aspiration
In primary PCI, angiography may demonstrate thrombus (blood clots) inside the coronary arteries. Various studies have been performed to determine whether aspirating these clots (thrombus aspiration or manual thrombectomy) is  beneficial. Usage
Percutaneous coronary angioplasty is one of the most common procedures performed during U.S. hospital stays; it accounted for 3.6% of all operating room procedures performed in 2011. 85% of patients in the medical therapy arm elected to have PCI at the end of the trial.The 2019 ISCHEMIA trial has confirmed that invasive procedures (PCI or CABG) do not reduce death or heart attacks compared to medical therapy alone for stable angina. References
External links
Q&A: Primary angioplasty, 18 Oct 2008
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention - Patient UK
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention - Medscape Those at moderate to high risk benefit from an early invasive strategy, which includes coronary angiography and, if necessary, revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery.Medical therapy for acute coronary syndromes is based on drugs that act against ischemia and resultant angina and limit the infarct size (i.e., the area of myocardium that is affected), as well as drugs that inhibit clot formation. 
Can static foot posture measurements predict regional plantar surface area? [SEP] Pedobarography is the study of pressure fields acting between the plantar surface of the foot and a supporting surface. In addition to clinical applications, pedobarography continues to be used in the laboratory to understand the mechanisms governing human gait and posture.The use of pedobarographs in clinical settings is supported by researchers. According to Bowen, et al., "Pediobarograph measurements can be used to monitor and quantitatively assess the progressive changes of foot deformity over time. Static pedobarography  refers to the collection and analysis of time series pedobarographic data during postural (i.e. Posturography is the technique used to quantify postural control in upright stance in either static or dynamic conditions. Risk factors
Identified risk factors for plantar fasciitis include excessive running, standing on hard surfaces for prolonged periods, high arches of the feet, the presence of a leg length inequality, and flat feet. The tendency of flat feet to excessively roll inward during walking or running makes them more susceptible to plantar fasciitis. Gait
The plantar fascia also has an important role in dynamic function during gait. 
Can dentists recognize manipulated digital radiographs? [SEP] Digital dentistry refers to the use of dental technologies or devices that incorporates digital or computer-controlled components to carry out dental procedures rather than using mechanical or electrical tools. The use of digital dentistry can make carrying out dental procedures more efficient than using mechanical tools, both for restorative as diagnostic purposes. Dental radiographs, commonly known as X-rays, are radiographs used to diagnose hidden dental structures, malignant or benign masses, bone loss, and cavities. Faults
Dental radiographs are an essential component to aid in diagnosis. Alongside an efficient clinical examination, a dental radiograph of a high quality can show essential diagnostic information crucial for the ongoing treatment planning for a patient. Of course when a dental radiograph is recorded many faults may arise. Digital radiography is a form of radiography that uses x-ray–sensitive plates to directly capture data during the patient examination, immediately transferring it to a computer system without the use of an intermediate cassette. Forensic dentists may make their determinations by using radiographs, ante- and post-mortem photographs, and DNA analysis. 
Is delayed gastric emptying following pancreaticoduodenectomy related to pylorus preservation? [SEP] Gastroparesis (gastro- from Ancient Greek γαστήρ – gaster, "stomach"; and -paresis, πάρεσις – "partial paralysis"), also called delayed gastric emptying, is a medical disorder consisting of weak muscular contractions (peristalsis) of the stomach, resulting in food and liquid remaining in the stomach for a prolonged period of time. Surgical considerations
Pylorus-sparing pancreaticoduodenectomy
Clinical trials have failed to demonstrate significant survival benefits of total pancreatectomy, mostly because patients who submit to this operation tend to develop a particularly severe form of diabetes mellitus called brittle diabetes. In recent years the pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy (also known as Traverso-Longmire procedure/PPPD) has been gaining popularity, especially among European surgeons. The main advantage of this technique is that the pylorus, and thus normal gastric emptying, should in theory be preserved. There is conflicting data as to whether pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is associated with increased likelihood of gastric emptying. In practice, it shows similar long-term survival as a Whipple's (pancreaticoduodenectomy + hemigastrectomy), but patients benefit from improved recovery of weight after a PPPD, so this should be performed when the tumour does not involve the stomach and the lymph nodes along the gastric curvatures are not enlarged.Compared to the standard Whipple procedure, the pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy technique is associated with shorter operation time and less intraoperative blood loss, requiring less blood transfusion. Delayed gastric emptying, normally defined as an inability to tolerate a regular diet by the end of the first post-op week and the requirement for nasogastric tube placement, occurs in approximately 17% of operations. This condition is also called rapid gastric emptying. 
Is Overexpression of Ki-67 a Prognostic Biomarker of Upper Tract Urinary Carcinoma? [SEP] Antigen KI-67, also known as Ki-67, Ki-67 or MKI67 (Marker Of Proliferation Ki-67), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MKI67 gene (antigen identified by monoclonal antibody Ki-67). Function
Antigen KI-67 is a nuclear protein that is associated with cellular proliferation and ribosomal RNA transcription. Use as a marker of proliferating cells
The Ki-67 protein (also known as MKI67) is a cellular marker for proliferation, and can be used in immunohistochemistry. Cellular content of Ki-67 protein markedly increases during cell progression through S phase of the cell cycle. In breast cancer Ki67 identifies a high proliferative subset of patients with ER-positive breast cancer who derive greater benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy

Antibody labeling
Ki-67 is an excellent marker to determine the growth fraction of a given cell population. The fraction of Ki-67-positive tumor cells (the Ki-67 labeling index) is often correlated with the clinical course of cancer. This gene is also found to be an unfavorable prognosis marker for renal and liver cancer, and a favorable prognosis marker for urothelial cancer. Clinical Significance
The Human Protein Atlas shows that C1orf159 is an unfavorable prognosis marker for renal and liver cancer, and a favorable prognosis marker for urothelial cancer, indicating that a high expression of C1orf159 is associated with a lower survival probability for patients with renal and liver cancer, and is associated with a higher survival probability for patients with urothelial cancer. 
Does a delay in transfer to a rehabilitation unit for older people affect outcome after fracture of the proximal femur? [SEP] Classification
See also
Femoral fracture

References
Kenneth Koval; Joseph Zuckerman (2000). Hip Fractures: A Practical Guide to Management. Rehabilitation maintains functional independence in the elderly. Finally, a driver's evaluation for an appropriate elderly candidate is an underutilized part of rehabilitation that has a considerable impact on society.Geriatric rehabilitation also have a role in intermediate care, where patients are referred by a hospital or family doctor, when there is a requirement to provide hospital based short term intensive physical therapy aimed at the recovery of musculoskeletal function, particularly recovery from joint, tendon, or ligament repair and, or, physical medicine and rehabilitation care when elderly patients get out of sync with their medication resulting in a deterioration of their personal health which reduces their ability to live independently. 75% of hip fracture patients do not recover completely and show signs of overall health deterioration. For older adults to gain confidence in resistance training, which may ultimately lead to falling prevention effects, they must obtain the recommended amount of daily activity.The aim of medical management is to identify factors that can contribute to falls and fracture risk such as osteoporosis, multiple medications, balance and gait problems, loss of vision and a history of falls. In 2010, over 258,000 people aged 65 and older were admitted to the hospital for hip fractures. This fracture often disrupt the blood supply to the femoral head. 
Does the treatment of amblyopia normalise subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic children? [SEP] Treatment in adulthood is usually much less effective.Amblyopia begins by the age of five. Pathophysiology
Amblyopia is a developmental problem in the brain, not any intrinsic, organic neurological problem in the eyeball (although organic problems can lead to amblyopia which can continue to exist after the organic problem has resolved by medical intervention). Diagnosis and treatment of amblyopia as early as possible is necessary to keep the vision loss to a minimum. Screening for amblyopia is recommended in all people between three and five years of age. In the UK, 90% of visual health appointments in the child concern amblyopia.Depending on the chosen criterion for diagnosis, 1–4% of the children have amblyopia. "Effectiveness of occlusion therapy in ametropic amblyopia: a pilot study." Abraham, S. V. "Bilateral ametropic amblyopia." "Effectiveness of occlusion therapy in ametropic amblyopia: a pilot study". 
A comparison of 500 prefilled textured saline breast implants versus 500 standard textured saline breast implants: is there a difference in deflation rates? [SEP] The follow-up report, Natrelle Saline-filled Breast Implants: a Prospective 10-year Study (2009) indicated rupture-deflation rates of 3–5 per cent at 3-years post-implantation, and 7–10 per cent rupture-deflation rates at 10-years post-implantation. In a study of his 4761 augmentation mammaplasty patients, Eisenberg reported that overfilling saline breast implants 10-13% significantly reduced the rupture-deflation rate to 1.83% at 8-years post-implantation. Saline implants
The saline breast implant—filled with saline solution (biological-concentration salt water 0.90% w/v of NaCl, ca. The study In vitro Deflation of Pre-filled Saline Breast Implants (2006) reported that the rates of deflation (filler leakage) of the pre-filled saline breast implant made it a second-choice prosthesis for corrective breast surgery. Nonetheless, in the 1990s, the saline breast implant was the prosthesis most common device used for breast augmentation surgery in the United States, because of the U.S. FDA's restriction against the implantation of silicone-filled breast implants outside of clinical studies. Saline breast implants have enjoyed little popularity in the rest of the world, possessing negligible market share. When compared to the results achieved with a silicone-gel breast implant, the saline implant can yield acceptable results, of increased breast-size, smoother hemisphere-contour, and realistic texture; yet, it is likelier to cause cosmetic problems, such as the rippling and the wrinkling of the breast-envelope skin, accelerated lower breast pole stretch, and technical problems, such as the presence of the implant being noticeable to the eye and to the touch. In 2000, the FDA approved saline breast implant Premarket Approval Applications (PMA) containing the type and rate data of the local medical complications experienced by the breast surgery patients. 
Do foreign bodies migrate through the body towards the heart? [SEP] The foreign body can then become lodged in the trachea or further down the respiratory tract such as in a bronchus. By mouth
The other way for a foreign body to travel through the digestive system (after oral intake and passage through the entire intestines) happens very often, but is only rarely medically relevant. A foreign body (FB) is any object originating outside the body of an organism. Most references to foreign bodies involve propulsion through natural orifices into hollow organs. It is possible for foreign bodies to enter the tract from the mouth or rectum. Pancreas
Sometimes foreign bodies can pass spontaneously through the gastrointestinal tract and perforate or penetrate the wall of stomach and duodenum and migrate into pancreas. Other
Foreign bodies can also become lodged in other locations:

anus or rectum
blood vessels or thoracic system
ears
nose
teeth and periodontium
urethra
vagina

Other animals
Foreign bodies are common in animals, especially young dogs and cats. Sometimes the linear foreign body anchors in the mouth by catching under the tongue. 
Is there a relationship between serum paraoxonase level and epicardial fat tissue thickness? [SEP] Serum paraoxonase and arylesterase 1 (PON1) also known as A esterase , homocysteine thiolactonase or serum aryldialkylphosphatase 1 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the  PON1 gene. Paraoxonase 1 has esterase and more specifically paraoxonase  activity. Polymorphisms in the PON1 gene significantly affect the catalytic ability of the enzyme.PON1 (paraoxonase 1) is also a major anti-atherosclerotic component of high-density lipoprotein (HDL). Paraoxonases are a family of mammalian enzymes with aryldialkylphosphatase activity. Paraoxonase 1 has gene expression primarily in the liver but has also been expressed in tissue from the kidney and parts of the colon. Paraoxonase 1 that is synthesized in the liver is then transported into the bloodstream, where it will associate with high-density lipoprotein (HDL). Paraoxonase 1 also plays an important role as an antioxidant in preventing the oxidation of low-density lipoproteins (LDL), a process that is directly involved in the development of atherosclerosis. Both paraoxonase 1 and 3 are bound to HDL and because of their similar properties as antioxidants, it is possible PON3 also plays a role in the prevention of LDL and HDL oxidation. 
Chemoradiation instead of surgery to treat mid and low rectal tumors: is it safe? [SEP] Success of the preoperative regimen changed the paradigm of anal cancer treatment from surgical to non-surgical and was the advent of definitive chemoradiation (omitting surgery) being accepted as a standard-of-care for anal squamous cell carcinomas. Chemoradiation can be concurrent  (together) or sequential (one after the other).The chemotherapy component can be or include a radiosensitizing agent.Chemoradiotherapy as neoadjuvant therapy before surgery has been shown to be effective in esophageal cancer. "Chemoradiotherapy in the treatment of cervical cancer". External links
Chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer. Rectal cancer cases in the U.S. have an average circumferential resection margins (CRMs) rate of 17 percent, significantly higher than the 3 percent to 11 percent range for European countries. It is possible to rejoin the two ends of the colon; however, most patients require a temporary ileostomy pouch to bypass the colon, allowing it to heal with less risk of infection, perforation or leakage.TME has become the "gold standard" treatment for rectal cancer Worldwide. The operation can be done by open surgery, laparoscopic or Robot-assisted.For lower down tumours in the middle and lower third of the rectum a new procedure has been developed known as Transanal-Total Mesorectal Excision (TaTME). Thus, LARs are generally the preferred treatment for rectal cancer insofar as this is surgically feasible. 
Is calibration the cause of variation in liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry testosterone measurement? [SEP] Tandem mass spectrometry, also known as MS/MS or MS2, is a technique in instrumental analysis where two or more mass analyzers are coupled together using an additional reaction step to increase their abilities to analyse chemical samples. Oligonucleotides
Tandem mass spectrometry has been applied to DNA and RNA sequencing. Liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC–MS) is an analytical chemistry technique that combines the physical separation capabilities of liquid chromatography (or HPLC) with the mass analysis capabilities of mass spectrometry (MS). Mass spectrometry
Mass spectrometry (MS) is an analytical technique that measures the mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) of charged particles (ions). After digestion, LC-MS is used for peptide mass fingerprinting, or LC-MS/MS (tandem MS) is used to derive the sequences of individual peptides. A tandem mass tag (TMT) is a chemical label that facilitates sample multiplexing in mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantification and identification of biological macromolecules such as proteins, peptides and nucleic acids. In analytical chemistry, a calibration curve, also known as a standard curve, is a general method for determining the concentration of a substance in an unknown sample by comparing the unknown to a set of standard samples of known concentration. A triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (TQMS), is a tandem mass spectrometer consisting of two quadrupole mass analyzers in series, with a (non-mass-resolving) radio frequency (RF)–only quadrupole between them to act as a cell for collision-induced dissociation. 
Are complex coronary lesions more frequent in patients with diabetes mellitus? [SEP] In most cases, diabetic cardiomyopathy is detected with concomitant hypertension or coronary artery disease. About 50% of diabetics with diabetic cardiomyopathy show pathologic evidence for microangiopathy such as sub-endothelial and endothelial fibrosis, compared to only 21% of non-diabetic heart failure patients. Inflammation
Diabetes is associated with increased inflammation, which is mediated by generation of abnormal fatty acids, AGEs and other mechanisms. Stroke (mainly the ischemic type)
Carotid artery stenosis does not occur more often in diabetes, and there appears to be a lower prevalence of abdominal aortic aneurysm. So far as macrovascular disease in type 1 diabetes is concerned, the same group reported improved outcomes for cardiovascular events in the group who had been managed by strict blood glucose control: in this group the incidence of any cardiovascular disease was reduced by 30% (95% CI 7, 48; P = 0.016) compared to the group with less intensive control and the incidence of major cardiovascular events (nonfatal myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death) was reduced by 32% (95% CI −3, 56; P = 0.07).The situation regarding glycaemic control and complications in type 2 diabetes is less clear cut than for type 1, though there is evidence from the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study Group that strict blood glucose control is beneficial for both microvascular and macrovascular complications. Similar lesions can occasionally be found in non-diabetics usually following trauma or injury to the area; however, more than 4 lesions strongly suggests diabetes. Cardiovascular Diabetology is a peer-reviewed open access medical journal covering the intersection of cardiology and diabetology, meaning the connection between diabetes, metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases. Scope
Cardiovascular Diabetology considers for publications manuscripts on all aspects of the diabetes/cardiovascular interrelationship, including clinical, genetic, experimental, pharmacological, epidemiological, molecular biology and laboratory research. 
Are variations in the use of carotid endarterectomy explained by population Need? [SEP] Carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure used to reduce the risk of stroke from carotid artery stenosis (narrowing the internal carotid artery). Medical uses
Carotid endarterectomy is used to reduce the risk of strokes caused by carotid artery stenosis over time. Carotid endartectomy itself can cause strokes, so to be of benefit in preventing strokes over time, the risks for combined 30-day mortality and stroke risk following surgery should be < 3% for asymptomatic people and ≤ 6% for symptomatic people. It is controversial if carotid endarterectomy can improve cognitive function in some patients. People deemed unfit for the operation by the surgeon or anesthesiologist due to comorbidities.High risk criteria for carotid endarterectomy include the following:

Age ≥80 years
Class III/IV congestive heart failure
Class III/IV angina pectoris
Left main or multi vessel coronary artery disease
Need for open heart surgery within 30 days
Left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤30%
Recent (≤30 days) heart attack
Severe lung disease or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Severe renal disease
High cervical (C2) or intrathoracic lesion
Prior radical neck surgery or radiation therapy
Contralateral carotid artery occlusion
Prior ipsilateral carotic endarterectomy. In 2003 nearly 140,000 carotid endarterectomies were performed in the US, however, the number of procedures has continued to decrease over time. An endarterectomy of the carotid artery in the neck is recommended to reduce the risk of stroke when the carotid artery is severely narrowed, particularly after a stroke to reduce the risk of additional strokes.Coronary endarterectomy involves removing atheroma from the wall of blocked blood vessels (coronary) supplying the heart muscle. Carotid artery stenting and carotid endarterectomy have been found to have similar benefits in patients with severe degree of carotid artery stenosis. 
Are there effects of intrauterine cocaine exposure on delinquency during early adolescence? [SEP] Babies whose mothers used cocaine while pregnant supposedly have increased risk of several different health issues during growth and development. Early studies in the mid-1980s reported that cocaine use in pregnancy caused children to have severe problems, including cognitive, developmental, and emotional disruption. Cocaine exposure in utero may affect the structure and function of the brain, predisposing children to developmental problems later, or these effects may be explained by children of crack-using mothers being at higher risk for domestic violence, deadbeat parenting, and maternal depression. Pregnancy and birth
Studies have found after controlling for other factors that some effects are present in pregnancies involving cocaine: abruptio placenta, prematurity, low birth weight, and small size compared to babies of the same gestational time. Prenatal cocaine exposure has been found to affect the cognitive performance of individuals and affect speech and language development, behavior, physical and cognitive growth, and function. The effects of cocaine uses can cause for there to be an increased chance of the baby being born premature, affecting the body weight, height and the growth of the organs and brain due to the premature state of the baby as well as the impact of the harmful substances the baby was exposed to. Studies have found that children exposed to cocaine during fetal development experience problems with language, behavior, development, and attention. Children who had been exposed to high levels of cocaine in utero show poorer behavioral inhibition than those with lower levels of exposure or unexposed children. 
Is expert breast pathology assessment necessary for the management of ductal carcinoma in situ ? [SEP] Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), also known as intraductal carcinoma, is a pre-cancerous or non-invasive cancerous lesion of the breast. Terminology
Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) literally means groups of "cancerous" epithelial cells which remained in their normal location (in situ) within the ducts and lobules of the mammary gland. See also
Breast cancer
Carcinoma in situ

References


== External links == In situ ductal cancers (i.e. Ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast is the most common precancer in women. "Current issues in breast cytopathology". Non-invasive apocrine carcinoma of the breast, i.e. Some authors have proposed that in situ ductal tumors with apocrine histopathology should be larger than 0.2 centimeters in order to be diagnosed as ADCIS.A study of 22 females aged 31 to 84 years (average age: 59 years) diagnosed with ADCIS reported that on presentation, 9 were asymptomatic (tumors detected by mammography), 11 were palpable breast masses with 2 of them associated with a nipple discharge and 2 of them diagnosed in females with Paget's disease of the breast (Two cases had no information on their presentations). 
Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: is reimplantation of spinal cord arteries a waste of time? [SEP] Spinal cord injury related to aortic repair occurs due to impaired blood flow to the spine after coverage of blood vessels, important to the blood circulation of the spine, namely intercostal- and lumbar arteries. In open cordotomy, a thoracic approach is normally used so that the spinal cord tracts controlling the breathing muscles are not put at risk. Cases of spinal stroke following operations like aortography, spinal anesthesia and lumbar spine surgery are reported.Abnormalities in blood vessels including arteriovenous malformations, arteriovenous fistulas and cavernomas are preferably presented as ischaemia and occasionally hemorrhage. Postoperative strategy
Probability of postoperative spinal cord stroke is linked to both aneurysm extent, particularly extent II (descending aorta at full length) and length of graft, which highlights the importance of postoperative management. A thoracoabdominal aortic repair is a more extensive operation than either an isolated infrarenal or thoracic aortic repair. This can lead to inadequate blood supply to the spinal cord, resulting in paraplegia, when repairing thoracic aneurysms. Techniques to limit ischemia
A number of techniques exist for maintaining perfusion to the viscera and spinal cord during open thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair, including left heart bypass, balloon perfusion catheter placement in the visceral arteries, selective spinal drainage and cold crystalloid renal perfusion. However, with evolving surgical strategies, identification of predictors, and use of various adjuncts over the years, the incidence of spinal cord injury after thoracic/thoracoabdominal aortic repair has declined. 
Is year of radical prostatectomy a predictor of outcome in prostate cancer? [SEP] References

Klein, EA, Jhaveri, F, Licht, M. Contemporary technique of radical prostatectomy. Impotence following radical prostatectomy: insight into etiology and prevention. Surgery
Surgical removal of the prostate, or prostatectomy, is a common treatment either for early-stage prostate cancer or for cancer that has failed to respond to radiation therapy. Radical prostatectomy has been associated with a greater decrease in sexual function and increased urinary incontinence (mainly stress incontinence) than external beam radiotherapy, an alternative treatment.Radical prostatectomy has traditionally been used alone when the cancer is localized to the prostate. When compared with observation and palliative treatment, radical prostatectomy probably reduces the risk of dying for any reason, including dying from prostate cancer. Between radical prostatectomy and active monitoring, the risk of dying for any reason, including from prostate cancer, is likely the same. A review comprehensively analyzed the evidence from studies in men with prostate cancer that compared RALP with open radical prostatectomy and found no difference in the reduction of mortality from this cancer, the recurrence or all-cause mortality. Uses
Radical perineal prostatectomy is used to remove early prostate cancer, in select people who have a small well defined cancer in the prostate. 
Does health information exchange reduce redundant imaging? [SEP] Medical image sharing is the electronic exchange of medical images between hospitals, physicians and patients. Patients: In conjunction with recent US government initiatives, patients are able to receive their imaging exams electronically, without needing to carry and store physical media. It allows for the ability to see physicians in multiple locations and have their imaging at the ready. Benefits
Improved access to patients’ medical imaging histories
Ability to view images instantly
Real-time collaboration by specialists
Avoiding duplicate care reduces costs
Decreased radiation exposure for patients
Expertise and specialized opinion is remotely accessible to patients

Health
Medical Image Sharing contributes to many of the "Health" initiatives across the industry. Being able to instantly and electronically exchange medical information can improve communication between physicians, as well as with patients. Medical image sharing helps achieve meaningful use by improving access to medical images to patients and physicians. Sharing medical images over long distances can happen instantaneously with these technologies, allowing a physician to review a patient's images during the conference. With medical image sharing, patients can receive their medical imaging electronically, and then be able to share that information with the next physician they are seeing. 
Is decompressive surgery effective for spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive cervical myelopathy? [SEP] Spinal decompression is the relief of pressure on the spinal cord or on one or more compressed nerve roots passing through or exiting the spinal column. Decompression of the spinal neural elements is a key component in treating spinal radiculopathy, myelopathy and claudication. Decompression of the spinal cord or cauda equina
Laminectomy is an open or minimally invasive surgical procedure in which a portion of the posterior arch of the vertebrae and/or spinal ligaments is removed from the spine to alleviate the pressure on the spinal canal contents. In the cervical and thoracic spine it is used to treat myelopathy caused by compression of the spinal cord itself. Spinal cord compression is a form of myelopathy in which the spinal cord is compressed. See also
Spinal stenosis
Cervical spinal stenosis
Myelopathy

References

Loblaw DA, Perry J, Chambers A, Laperriere NJ (March 2005). "Systematic review of the diagnosis and management of malignant extradural spinal cord compression: the Cancer Care Ontario Practice Guidelines Initiative's Neuro-Oncology Disease Site Group". The most common form of myelopathy in humans, cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM), also called degenerative cervical myelopathy, results from narrowing of the spinal canal (spinal stenosis) ultimately causing compression of the spinal cord. 
Endovenous laser ablation in the treatment of small saphenous varicose veins: does site of access influence early outcomes? [SEP] Endovenous laser treatment (ELT) is a minimally invasive ultrasound-guided technique used for treating varicose veins using laser energy commonly performed by a phlebologist, interventional radiologist or vascular surgeon. Methods
Endovenous laser treatment treats varicose veins using an optical fiber that is inserted into the vein to be treated, and laser light, normally in the infrared portion of the spectrum, shines into the interior of the vein. During the procedure, a catheter bearing a laser fiber is inserted under ultrasound guidance into the great saphenous vein (GSV) or small saphenous vein (SSV) through a small puncture. Clinical evaluations
A 2005 report from one practice, summarising results of 1,000 limbs treated over a 5-year period with EVLT showed that 98% of the treated vessels at up to 60 months follow-up remained closed, with complications and side effects such as temporary paresthesia and DVTs below 0.5%.The Australian Medical Services Advisory Committee (MSAC) in 2008 has determined that endovenous laser treatment for varicose veins "appears to be more effective in the short term, and at least as effective overall, as the comparative procedure of junction ligation and vein stripping for the treatment of varicose veins." A study of 516 treated veins over 69 months by Elmore and Lackey reported a success rate of 98.1%.Endovenous thermal ablation (EVTA) by radiofrequency or laser is a safe and effective treatment of refluxing great saphenous veins  (GSVs) and has replaced traditional high ligation and stripping in official recommendations of various leading Vascular Societies in the United States and the United Kingdom. See also
Interventional radiology

References
External links

American College of Phlebology
Vascular Web - Varicose Veins This procedure is often used as an adjunct to endovenous laser treatment or other endovenous ablations of the greater saphenous vein. Clinical significance
Varicose veins
The small saphenous vein may become varicose. 
Is a pressor necessary during aortic perfusion and oxygenation therapy of cardiac arrest? [SEP] Extracorporeal cardiopulmonary resuscitation (commonly known as ECPR) is a method of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) that passes the patient's blood through a machine in a process to oxygenate the blood supply. A patient who is deemed to be in cardiac arrest refractory to CPR has percutaneous catheters inserted into the femoral vein and artery. Concept
Similar to the concept of elective cardiopulmonary bypass, used in open heart surgery, oxygenation and perfusion can be maintained with an ECMO device in patients undergoing cardiovascular collapse. In the setting of cardiac arrest, ECPR involves percutaneous cannulation of a femoral vein and artery, followed by the activation of the device, which subsequently maintains circulation until an appropriate recovery is made.The theory behind this invasive approach is that the artificial restoration of oxygenation and end-organ perfusion allows treating physicians more time to mitigate and reverse pathology which contributes to cardiac arrest and refractory shock. The guidelines qualify this by advising that the patient should have had only a brief period without blood flow and that the condition resulting in the arrest be amenable to reversal i.e. beta-blocker, tricyclic acid, digoxin)
Any other cause where there is likely to be reversibility of the cardiac arrest if an artificial circulation can be provided

In-hospital cardiac arrest
Patients with in-hospital cardiac arrest, which is refractory to standard, advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) treatment AND in whom the cause may be reversible, such as:
The patient with suspected acute coronary syndrome who arrests in the E&TC AND does not respond to standard ACLS AND the cause is likely to be reversible with treatment in the cardiac catheterisation laboratory
The patient in the cardiac catheterisation laboratory undergoing coronary angiography who suffers a cardiac arrest and who does not immediately respond to standard ACLS
The patient with suspected massive pulmonary embolism
Any other cause where there is likely to be reversibility of the underlying condition if an artificial circulation can be provided

Contraindications
No precise list of contraindications has been established, though numerous studies and guidelines have adapted a range of circumstance in which the use of ECPR would be inappropriate. Cardiac arrests are fundamentally treated with CPR which includes chest compressions. Perfusion of the heart is necessary for successful defibrillation (if the arrest type is shockable) and ROSC. 
Do people who were passive smokers during childhood have increased risk of long-term work disability? [SEP] Lung cancer: passive smoking is a risk factor for lung cancer. Passive smoking is strongly associated with an increased risk of stroke, and this increased risk is disproportionately high at low levels of exposure. Risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
According to a 2015 review, passive smoking may increase the risk of tuberculosis infection and accelerate the progression of the disease, but the evidence remains weak. A 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis found that passive smoking was associated with a slightly increased risk of allergic diseases among children and adolescents; the evidence for an association was weaker for adults. Skin conditions: A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found that passive smoking was associated with a higher rate of atopic dermatitis. Sleep disordered breathing: Most studies have found a significant association between passive smoking and sleep disordered breathing in children, but further studies are needed to determine whether this association is causal. Workers particularly at risk of exposure include those in installation repair and maintenance, construction and extraction, and transportation.Much research has come from studies of nonsmokers who are married to a smoker. The US Surgeon General, in his 2006 report, estimated that living or working in a place where smoking is permitted increases the non-smokers' risk of developing heart disease by 25–30% and lung cancer by 20–30%.Similarly, children who are exposed to environmental tobacco smoke are shown to experience a range of adverse effects and a higher risk of becoming smokers later in life. 
Is the covering of the resection margin after distal pancreatectomy advantageous? [SEP] A resection margin or surgical margin is the margin of apparently non-tumorous tissue around a tumor that has been surgically removed, called "resected", in surgical oncology. References
Further reading
External links
Surgical Considerations: Margins In medicine, a pancreatectomy is the surgical removal of all or part of the pancreas. A distal pancreatectomy is removal of the body and tail of the pancreas. But overall, quality of life in patients after total pancreatectomy is comparable with quality of life in patients who undergo a partial pancreatic resection.An experimental procedure called islet cell transplantation exists to help mediate the loss of endocrine function following total pancreatectomy. This may spare the patient the large abdominal incision that would occur if they were to undergo the initial part of a pancreaticoduodenectomy that was cancelled due to metastatic disease. In practice, it shows similar long-term survival as a Whipple's (pancreaticoduodenectomy + hemigastrectomy), but patients benefit from improved recovery of weight after a PPPD, so this should be performed when the tumour does not involve the stomach and the lymph nodes along the gastric curvatures are not enlarged.Compared to the standard Whipple procedure, the pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy technique is associated with shorter operation time and less intraoperative blood loss, requiring less blood transfusion. As a result, the authors prefer pancreatoduodenectomy over pancreaticoduodenectomy for the name of this procedure, as strictly speaking pancreaticoduodenectomy should refer to the resection of the duodenum and pancreatic duct rather than the pancreas itself. 
Does treatment duration affect outcome after radiotherapy for prostate cancer? [SEP] However, because radiation therapy causes tissue changes, prostatectomy after radiation has higher risks of complications. Radiation therapy
Radiation therapy, also known as radiotherapy, is often used to treat all stages of prostate cancer. Radiotherapy uses ionizing radiation to kill prostate cancer cells. Uses
Radiation therapy is commonly used in prostate cancer treatment. The risk of dying from prostate cancer or having acute bladder side effects may be similar to that of longer radiation treatment. Radiation therapy is also used after radical prostatectomy either for cancer recurrence or if multiple risk factors are found during surgery. Radiation therapy delivered immediately after surgery when risk factors are present (positive surgical margin, extracapsular extension, seminal vessicle involvement) has been demonstrated to reduce cancer recurrence, decrease distant metastasis, and increase overall survival in two separate randomized trials. Chronic radiation proctopathy can present at a median time of 8-12 months following radiation therapy. 
Is the urinary biomarkers assessment a non-invasive approach to tubular lesions of the solitary kidney? [SEP] Assessment of kidney function occurs in different ways, using the presence of symptoms and signs, as well as measurements using urine tests, blood tests, and medical imaging. Clinical assessment
Clinical assessment can be used to assess the function of the kidneys. Urine tests
Part of the assessment of kidney function includes the measurement of urine and its contents. Blood tests
Blood tests are also used to assess kidney function. These include tests that are intended to directly measure the function of the kidneys, as well as tests that assess the function of the kidneys by looking for evidence of problems associated with abnormal function. Medical imaging
The kidney function can also be assessed with medical imaging. Some forms of imaging, such as kidney ultrasound or CT scans, may assess kidney function by indicating chronic disease that can impact function, by showing a small or shrivelled kidney.. Other tests, such as nuclear medicine tests, directly assess the function of the kidney by measuring the perfusion and excretion of radioactive substances through the kidneys. Urinalysis often provides clues about kidney health – hematuria, tubular casts, and proteinuria have been used as markers of injury. 
Is there a role for fondaparinux in perioperative bridging? [SEP] Fondaparinux (trade name Arixtra) is an anticoagulant medication chemically related to low molecular weight heparins. Medical uses
Clinically, it is used for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis in patients who have had orthopedic surgery as well as for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.Fondaparinux is similar to enoxaparin in reducing the risk of ischemic events at nine days, but it substantially reduces major bleeding and improves long-term mortality and morbidity.It has been investigated for use in conjunction with streptokinase. Comparison to other agents
One potential advantage of fondaparinux over LMWH or unfractionated heparin is that the risk for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is substantially lower. Furthermore, there have been case reports of fondaparinux being used to anti-coagulate patients with established HIT as it has no affinity for PF4. Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
Fondaparinux is a synthetic pentasaccharide factor Xa inhibitor. Fondaparinux binds antithrombin and accelerates its inhibition of factor Xa. In contrast to heparin, fondaparinux does not inhibit thrombin. reported an effective and scalable one-pot synthesis of Fondaparinux.The sequence of monosaccharides is D-GlcNS6S-α-(1,4)-D-GlcA-β-(1,4)-D-GlcNS3,6S-α-(1,4)-L-IdoA2S-α-(1,4)-D-GlcNS6S-OMe, as shown in the following structure:

References
External links
"Fondaparinux". 
Motor performance in chronic low back pain: is there an influence of pain-related cognitions? [SEP] The symptoms of low back pain usually improve within a few weeks from the time they start, with 40–90% of people recovered by six weeks.In most episodes of low back pain, a specific underlying cause is not identified or even looked for, with the pain believed to be due to mechanical problems such as muscle or joint strain. In those with chronic pain, the pain processing system may malfunction, causing large amounts of pain in response to non-serious events.The symptoms of low back pain usually improve within a few weeks from the time they start, with 40–90% of people recovered by six weeks. Low back pain is the greatest contributor to lost productivity, absenteeism, disability and early retirement worldwide. In addition, a majority of those with chronic low back pain show symptoms of depression or anxiety. A problem with these muscles is often found in someone with chronic low back pain, because the back pain causes the person to use the back muscles improperly in trying to avoid the pain. While most low back pain is caused by muscle and joint problems, this cause must be separated from neurological problems, spinal tumors, fracture of the spine, and infections, among others. Rarely, complaints of low back pain result from systemic or psychological problems, such as fibromyalgia and somatoform disorders.Low back pain may be classified based on the signs and symptoms. Physical management
Management of acute low back pain
Increasing general physical activity has been recommended, but no clear relationship to pain or disability or returning to work has been found when used for the treatment of an acute episode of pain. 
Patient comprehension of emergency department care and instructions: are patients aware of when they do not understand? [SEP] An emergency department (ED), also known as an accident and emergency department (A&E), emergency room (ER), emergency ward (EW) or casualty department, is a medical treatment facility specializing in emergency medicine, the acute care of patients who present without prior appointment; either by their own means or by that of an ambulance. In some countries, emergency departments have become important entry points for those without other means of access to medical care. Nomenclature in English
Emergency department became commonly used when emergency medicine was recognized  as a medical specialty, and hospitals and medical centres developed departments of emergency medicine to provide services. Signs on emergency departments may contain additional information. Mental illness
Some patients arrive at an emergency department for a complaint of mental illness. This is a common occurrence in emergency departments worldwide. Emergency department waiting times
Emergency department (ED) waiting times have a serious impact on patient mortality, morbidity with readmission in less than 30 days, length of stay, and patient satisfaction. As of 2014, around 3% of all hospital-related adverse effects were due to medication errors in the emergency department (ED); between 4% and 14% of medications given to patients in the ED were incorrect and children were particularly at risk.Errors can arise if the doctor prescribes the wrong medication, if the prescription intended by the doctor is not the one actually communicated to the pharmacy due to an illegibly-written prescription or misheard verbal order, if the pharmacy dispenses the wrong medication, or if the medication is then given to the wrong person.The ED is a riskier environment than other areas of the hospital due to medical practitioners not knowing the patient as well as they know longer term hospital patients, due to time pressure caused by overcrowding, and due to the emergency-driven nature of the medicine that is practiced there. 
Can mandibular depiction be improved by changing the thickness of double-oblique computed tomography images? [SEP] As a result, whereas square lower jaws are often considered a positive trait in men, a wide mandible can be perceived as discordant or masculine on women, or sometimes in certain men, particularly when there is asymmetry.A wide lower face can primarily be caused by a wide mandibular bone or large masseter muscle. The level of protrusion of the mandible angle, the size of the masseter muscle and the overall structure of the jaw are evaluated. The result is an image showing sharply the section along the mandible arch, and blurred elsewhere. See also
Oral and maxillofacial radiology


== References == Although interior reconstruction can be applied to dental or cardiac CT images, the concept is not limited to CT. Dual use of CT images
Several studies have shown that bone density may be measured by QCT using CT images that were ordered for other purposes. The feasibility of using routine abdominal contrast-enhanced CT scans for the evaluation of bone density by QCT has also been demonstrated. In the late 1970s advancement of the lower jaw (mandibular advancement) was noted to improve sleepiness in three patients. 
Adjuvant radiation of stage III thymoma: is it necessary? [SEP] A thymectomy is an operation to remove the thymus. Thymectomy is indicated when thymoma are present in the thymus. Anecdotal evidence suggests MG patients with no evidence of thymoma may still benefit from thymectomy. Thymic carcinoma, or type C thymoma, is a malignancy of the thymus. After thymoma, thymic carcinoma is the second most common type of thymus cancer. Signs and symptoms
Early-stage thymic carcinoma is generally asymptomatic, and the development of symptoms is indicative of an advanced stage cancer. Treatment
Treatment of thymic carcinoma depends on the stage, though initial resection of the entire tumor or surgical debulking is standard. Adjuvant radiotherapy is necessary if  breast cancer is treated by removing only the cancerous lump with a rim of surrounding normal tissue,  as it reduces the chance of local recurrence. 
Inhibin: a new circulating marker of hydatidiform mole? [SEP] Invasive hydatidiform mole is a type of neoplasia that grows into the muscular wall of the uterus. Because expression in gonadal and various extragonadal tissues may vary several fold in a tissue-specific fashion, it is proposed that inhibin may be both a growth/differentiation factor and a hormone. Epidemiological studies have reported that hydatidiform mole appears to be caused by abnormal gametogenesis and fertilization more frequent at the extremes of reproductive age of younger than 15 and older than 45 years of age and pregnancies at these ages are a risk factor for hydatidiform mole. Pathophysiology
A hydatidiform mole is a pregnancy/conceptus in which the placenta contains grapelike vesicles (small sacs) that are usually visible to the naked eye. In rare cases a hydatidiform mole co-exists in the uterus with a normal, viable fetus. A small percentage of hydatidiform moles have biparental diploid genomes, as in normal living persons; they have two sets of chromosomes, one inherited from each biological parent. In 2 to 3% of cases, hydatidiform moles may develop into choriocarcinoma, which is a malignant, rapidly growing, and metastatic (spreading) form of cancer. Epidemiology
Hydatidiform moles are a rare complication of pregnancy, occurring once in every 1,000 pregnancies in the US, with much higher rates in Asia (e.g. 
Is the fibronectin-aggrecan complex present in cervical disk disease? [SEP] Fibronectin is a plasma protein that binds cell surfaces and various compounds including collagen, fibrin, heparin, DNA, and actin. The interaction of VLA-5 with fibronectin plays an important role in regulating inflammatory cytokine production by human articular chondrocytes (From the Cell Migration Gateway ITGA5 ITGB1). Fibronectin also binds to other extracellular matrix proteins such as collagen, fibrin, and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (e.g. Altered fibronectin expression, degradation, and organization has been associated with a number of pathologies, including cancer, arthritis, and fibrosis. Fibronectin was also observed to be closely associated with the newly deposited collagen fibrils. Fibronectin has been shown to interact with:

CD44
COL7A1,
LPA,
IGFBP3,
TNC, and
TRIB3. Two fibronectin binding domains have been identified - one is present in the C-terminal D repeat region, and one in the N-terminal A region

Mechanism
The fibronectin binding protein is able to bind fibronectin present in the extracellular matrix. A positive result indicates that fetal fibronectin is present in the cervical secretions. 
Does peritoneal dialysis affect halitosis in patients with end-stage renal disease? [SEP] Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is a type of dialysis which uses the peritoneum in a person's abdomen as the membrane through which fluid and dissolved substances are exchanged with the blood. Peritoneal dialysis has better outcomes than hemodialysis during the first couple of years. Medical uses
Peritoneal dialysis is a method of renal replacement therapy for needing maintenance therapy for late stage chronic kidney disease. Complications
Peritoneal Dialysis-Related Peritonitis
A common cause of peritonitis is touch contamination, e.g. Chronic Complications
Long term use of PD is associated with fibrosis of the peritoneum. History
Peritoneal dialysis was first carried out in the 1920s; however, long term use did not come into medical practice until the 1960s. Affected individuals with end-stage kidney disease often require hemodialysis and eventually kidney transplantation to replace the failed kidney function. Diabetic nephropathy is the most common cause of end-stage kidney disease, which may require hemodialysis or even kidney transplantation. 
Can elevated troponin I levels predict complicated clinical course and inhospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism? [SEP] Measurements of cardiac-specific troponins I and T are extensively used as diagnostic and prognostic indicators in the management of myocardial infarction and acute coronary syndrome. Blood troponin levels may be used as a diagnostic marker for stroke or other myocardial injury that is ongoing, although the sensitivity of this measurement is low. Of course, patients with COPD exacerbations might also have concurrent myocardial infarction or pulmonary embolism, so care has to be taken to attribute increased troponin levels to COPD. .In 2020, it was found that patients with severe COVID-19 had higher troponin I levels compared to those with milder disease. Prognostic use
Elevated troponin levels are prognostically important in many of the conditions in which they are used for diagnosis.In a community-based cohort study indicating the importance of silent cardiac damage, troponin I has been shown to predict mortality and first coronary heart disease event in men free from cardiovascular disease at baseline. The higher the troponin I level in asymptomatic individuals, the higher the likelihood if subclinical myocardial injury. Reductions in troponin I levels proved to reduce the risk of future CVD.- High sensitive troponin I used as a screening tool to assess a person's cardiovascular risk and has the potential to reduce the growing cost burden of the healthcare system.The efficiency of  the new test has been confirmed by data collected by international studies with the participation of more than 100,000 subjects.The ability of high sensitive troponin I to identify individual's cardiovascular risk in asymptomatic people enables physicians to use it in outpatient/ambulatory practice during preventive check-ups, complex health examinations, or examinations of patients with known risk factors. If one of these is abnormal, further investigations might be warranted to the issue.Troponin levels are increased in between 16 and 47% with pulmonary embolism. 
Is transurethral catheterisation the ideal method of bladder drainage? [SEP] A triple lumen catheter is inserted through the urethra to irrigate and drain the bladder after the surgical procedure is complete.The outcome is considered excellent for 80–90% of BPH patients. If TURP is contraindicated, a urologist may consider a simple prostatectomy, in and out catheters, or a supra-pubic catheter to help a patient void urine effectively. In urinary catheterization a latex, polyurethane, or silicone tube known as a urinary catheter is inserted into the bladder through the urethra to allow urine to drain from the bladder for collection. For patients with neurogenic bladder due to spinal cord injury, intermittent catheterization (IC) is a standard method for bladder emptying. Intermittent catheterization is considered the "gold standard" for medical bladder emptying. Advantages
People with neurogenic bladder disorders like spinal cord injury, spina bifida or multiple sclerosis, and non-neurogenic bladder disorders like obstruction due to prostate enlargement, urethral strictures or post-operative urinary retention, need to be continuously catheterised to empty their urinary bladders. A safer method of emptying the urinary bladder in this condition is by urethral catheterization. Catheterization introduces an infection into the bladder. 
The colour of pain: can patients use colour to describe osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] Radiographic systems to classify osteoarthritis vary by which joint is being investigated. Osteoarthritis of the hip joint may also be graded by Tönnis classification. Osteoarthritis (OA) is a type of degenerative joint disease that results from breakdown of joint cartilage and underlying bone which affects 1 in 7 adults in the United States. In contrast to rheumatoid arthritis, in osteoarthritis the joints do not become hot or red.Treatment includes exercise, decreasing joint stress such as by rest or use of a cane, support groups, and pain medications. Conflicting evidence exists for the differences in hip and knee osteoarthritis in African Americans and Caucasians. The pain in an osteoarthritic joint has been related to thickened synovium and to subchondral bone lesions. Kellgren-Lawrence grading scale for osteoarthritis of the knee. References
External links

"Osteoarthritis". 
Inpatient Pediatric Tonsillectomy: Does Hospital Type Affect Cost and Outcomes of Care? [SEP] There are variations in the rates of tonsillectomy between and within countries. In 2019, the American Academy of Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS) recommended:Caregivers and patients who meet the appropriate criteria for tonsillectomy as described here should be advised of only modest anticipated benefits of tonsillectomy, as weighed against the natural history of resolution with watchful waiting, as well as the risk of surgical morbidity and complications and the unknown risk of general anesthesia exposure in children [younger than] four years of age. The role of tonsillectomy as an option in managing children with recurrent throat infection means that there is a substantial role for shared decision making with the child's caregiver and primary care clinician.Many cases of the sore throat have other causes than tonsillitis and tonsillectomy is therefore not indicated for those cases. The main reasons for either keeping a person in hospital, or readmitting them after tonsillectomy are uncontrolled pain, vomiting, fever, or bleeding. More recent studies of coblation tonsillectomy indicate reduced pain and ostalgia; less intraoperative or postoperative complications; lesser incidence of delayed hemorrhage, more significantly in pediatric populations, less postoperative pain and early return to daily activities, fewer secondary infections of the tonsil bed and significantly lower rates of secondary hemorrhage. Tonsillectomy appears to be more painful in adults than children. Tonsillectomy rates even vary considerably between neighbouring countries. In the 1970s, tonsillectomy rates in the United Kingdom started to decline after several studies concluded that tonsillectomy was not as effective for sore throats and many other indications as previously thought.Tonsillectomy rates in the United States have declined since 1978, when experts of the National Institutes of Health concluded that there was insufficient evidence that the benefits of tonsillectomy outweighed the risks and therefore recommended more research, which subsequently led to stricter guidelines.As doctors took a more conservative approach towards tonsillectomy, parental pressure became one of the most important reasons for surgery. 
Does anterior laxity of the uninjured knee influence clinical outcomes of ACL reconstruction? [SEP] Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL reconstruction) is a surgical tissue graft replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament, located in the knee, to restore its function after an injury. Background
The Anterior Cruciate Ligament is the ligament that keeps the knee stable. The Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) knee injury is one of the three major and common injuries which occur in the sport. Clinical significance
Injury
An ACL tear is one of the most common knee injuries, with over 100,000 tears occurring annually in the US. In comparing operative and nonoperative approaches to ACL tears, few differences were noted between surgical and nonsurgical groups, with no significant differences in regard to knee function or muscle strength reported by the patients.The main goals to achieve during rehabilitation (rehab) of an ACL tear is to regain sufficient functional stability, maximize full muscle strength, and decrease risk of reinjury. Force applied to a less stiff knee is more likely to result in ACL tears.In addition, the quadriceps femoris muscle is an antagonist to the ACL. For some, the ACL may heal without surgery during the rehabilitation process (i.e. ACL injury used to be a career-ending injury for competitive athletes; however, in recent years ACL reconstruction surgery followed by physical therapy has allowed many athletes to return to their pre-injury level of performance.Long term complications of ACL injury include early onset arthritis of the knee and/or re-tearing the ligament. 
Is the type of remission after a major depressive episode an important risk factor to relapses in a 4-year follow up? [SEP] The STAR*D trial included remission (the near-absence of symptoms, rather than simply a reduction in symptoms) as an outcome measure, as there is evidence that patients with depression who achieve remission function better and are less prone to relapse than those who achieve only partial improvement in symptoms

Trial
The STAR*D trial enrolled 4,041 outpatients with nonpsychotic depression at 23 psychiatric and 18 primary care sites. For those who did achieve full remission, there was a decreased chance of relapse at 12-month (naturalistic) follow-up compared to those patients who only responded. Patients with severe symptoms may require outpatient treatment or hospitalization.The treatment of a major depressive episode can be split into 3 phases:
Acute phase: the goal of this phase is to resolve the current major depressive episode
Continuation: this phase continues the same treatment from the acute phase for 4–8 months after the depressive episode has resolved and the goal is to prevent relapse
Maintenance: this phase is not necessary for every patient but is often used for patients who have experienced 2–3 or more major depressive episodes. However, the risk of relapse is decreased by taking antidepressant medications for more than 6 months.Symptoms completely improve in six to eight weeks in sixty to seventy percent of patients. Relapse prevention (RP) is a cognitive-behavioral approach to relapse with the goal of identifying and preventing high-risk situations such as unhealthy substance use, obsessive-compulsive behavior, sexual offending, obesity, and depression. A relapse often occurs in the following stages: emotional relapse, mental relapse, and finally, physical relapse. Relapse is thought to be multi-determined, especially by self-efficacy, outcome expectancies, craving, motivation, coping, emotional states, and interpersonal factors. Depression
For the prevention of relapse in Major Depressive Disorder, several approaches and intervention programs have been proposed. 
Prostate-specific antigen and free prostate-specific antigen in the early detection of prostate cancer: do combination tests improve detection? [SEP] It appears to provide more accuracy in identifying early prostate cancer than the standard prostate cancer marker, PSA. Prostate cancer screening is the screening process used to detect undiagnosed prostate cancer in men without signs or symptoms. The second screening tool is the measurement of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in the blood. PSA is not a unique indicator of prostate cancer, but may also detect prostatitis or benign prostatic hyperplasia.A 2018 United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) draft adjusted the prior opposition to PSA screening. A PSA test cannot 'prove' the existence of prostate cancer by itself; varying levels of the antigen can be due to other causes. Thus, PSA screening is advocated by some as a means of detecting high-risk, potentially lethal prostate cancer, with the understanding that lower-risk disease, if discovered, often does not need treatment and may be amenable to active surveillance.Screening for prostate cancer is controversial because of cost and uncertain long-term benefits to patients. PSA is not uniquely an indicator of prostate cancer, but may also detect prostatitis or benign prostatic hyperplasia. Several new biomarkers are being investigated to improve the diagnosis of prostate cancer. 
Can homemade alcohol (Raksi) be useful for preserving dead bodies? [SEP] Alcohol (Raksi or Madira) is Legal to produce 60 Litres of fermented beverage and distill 30 Litres Raksi per year for personal consumption, but it's illegal to sell home made Spirits Raksi in Nepal. When someone dies, alcohol is offered to the deceased. They also use alcohol as an offering to the deceased person. Raksi: Raksi is a general term to refer to traditionally distilled alcohol. Raksi is a strong drink, clear like vodka or gin, tasting somewhat like Japanese sake. Raksi, however, remains an important requirement of various religious rituals and social events, due in part perhaps to its antiseptic properties. Rakı or raki (, Turkish pronunciation: [ɾaˈkɯ] (listen)) is an alcoholic drink made of twice-distilled grapes. When drinking "for the soul" of the deceased, one spills some rakia on the ground, saying "For the peaceful rest of the soul", before drinking the rest. 
Do elderly cancer patients have different care needs compared with younger ones? [SEP] This fairly young but increasingly important subspecialty incorporates the special needs of the elderly into the treatment of cancer. Unique concerns of older cancer patients
For many reasons, older adults with cancer have different needs than younger adults with the disease. For example, older adults:
May be less able to tolerate certain cancer treatments. Older patients have unique needs because of their often complex medical histories, numerous drugs they are taking, their social situations, possible problems with cognitive dysfunction related to age, and general diminution of organ function that occurs naturally in the older population. Age
The age of the patient and caregiver can affect the psychological effect that cancer has on them. The age of the cancer patient can also affect the physical and psychological burden on caregivers. Given that the highest percentage of individuals with cancer are older adults, caregiving for older cancer patients can be complicated by other comorbid diseases such as dementia. The spouses of elderly cancer patients are likely to be elderly themselves, which may cause the caregiving to take an even more significant toll on their well being. 
Is breast cancer survival improving? [SEP] In general survival rates are improving, although more so for some cancers than others. The American Cancer Society reports 5-year relative survival rates of over 70% for women with stage 0-III breast cancer with a 5-year relative survival rate close to 100% for women with stage 0 or stage I breast cancer. Researchers attribute the reduction in breast cancer mortality to improved treatment, including the increased use in adjuvant chemotherapy. Improvements in cancer therapy
The improvement in survival rates for many cancers in the last half century is due to improved understanding about the causes of cancer and the availability of new treatment options, which are continually evolving. Overall, as a result of awareness, breast cancers are being detected at an earlier, more treatable stage. Breast cancer sufferers get better treatment in terms of bed spaces, facilities and doctors and nurses". Bone
Roughly 70% of all patients living with advanced breast cancer have bone metastases Very often bone metastases can be successfully managed for a long time. In women with metastatic breast cancer, taxane-containing chemotherapy regimens appear to improve survival and tumour shrinkage and decrease time to progression. 
Can common carotid intima media thickness serve as an indicator of both cardiovascular phenotype and risk among black Africans? [SEP] Although carotid IMT is predictive of future cardiovascular events, the usefulness of measuring change in carotid IMT over time is disputed, as meta-analyses have not found that change in carotid IMT is predictive of cardiovascular events. IMT measurements of the far (deeper) wall, by ultrasound, are generally considered more reliable than measurements performed on the near (more superficial) wall; although measurement of both near and far wall IMT has also been advocated.Carotid IMT has been used in many epidemiological and clinical studies and these have shown associations with several risk factors, including type 2 diabetes, familial hypercholesterolemia, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), triglycerides, rheumatoid arthritis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and air pollution. Since the 1990s, some clinical trials of lifestyle and pharmaceutical interventions have also used carotid artery IMT as a surrogate endpoint for evaluating the regression and/or progression of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; however the appropriateness of carotid IMT in this context is uncertain. Although carotid intima–media thickness is strongly associated with atherosclerosis, thickening of the intima–media may not always be due to atherosclerosis. References

Various Newscasts on Carotid IMT (Intima Media Thickness)
Bortel L (2005). "Carotid artery wall thickness: comparison between sonography and multi-detector row CT angiography". The Association of Black Cardiologists (ABC) is an organization founded to bring special attention to the adverse impact of cardiovascular disease on African Americans. Work on health inequalities
According to research, fewer than 3% of cardiologists were African American as of 2015, yet it is important for patients to be able to identify with their doctors to build trust.In 2007, the ABC were invited to contribute to a Scientific American issue on controversies around race-based medicine.In 2019, a paper was published describing the creation of the ABC Cardiovascular Implementation Study (CVIS) which sought to facilitate robust participation of African Americans, other minorities and underserved populations in clinical trials. 
Delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations: are current guidelines sufficient? [SEP] An imperforate anus or anorectal malformations (ARMs) are birth defects in which the rectum is malformed. Types
There are other forms of anorectal malformations though imperforate anus is most common. Presentation
There are several forms of imperforate anus and anorectal malformations. Diagnosis
When an infant is born with an anorectal malformation, it is usually detected quickly as it is a very obvious defect. There are two main categories of anorectal malformations: those that require a protective colostomy and those that do not. While many surgical techniques to definitively repair anorectal malformations have been described, the posterior sagittal approach (PSARP) has become the most popular. Anorectal anomalies are congenital malformations of the anus and rectum. Anorectal disorders include conditions involving the anorectal junction as seen in the image. 
Is being small for gestational age a risk factor for retinopathy of prematurity? [SEP] Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), also called retrolental fibroplasia (RLF) and Terry syndrome, is a disease of the eye affecting prematurely born babies generally having received neonatal intensive care, in which oxygen therapy is used due to the premature development of their lungs. Thus, all preterm babies are at risk for ROP, and very low birth-weight is an additional risk factor. Causes
By the fourth month of pregnancy, the fetal retina has begun to develop vascularization. Intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin) has been reported as a supportive measure in aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity. References
External links
Retinopathy of Prematurity Resource Guide from the National Eye Institute (NEI). Causes
Being small for gestational age is broadly either:
Being constitutionally small, or caused by a genetic trait of the baby
Intrauterine growth restriction, also called "pathological SGA"

Diagnosis
The condition is defined by birth weight and/or length. This results in smaller retinal images for infants. Critical warning signs
Excessive tearing
Red or encrusted eyelids
White pupils
Extreme sensitivity to bright light
Constant eye turning

Vision problems
Strabismus
Nystagmus
Amblyopia
Photophobia
Tumor in the eye
Cataract

See also
Eye exam
Orthoptist
Pediatric ophthalmology
Retinopathy of prematurity

References
External links
Boston Children's Hospital
University of Massachusetts Medical Center
Infant Vision: Birth to 24 Months of Age- American Optomeric Association 
Comparative safety of infliximab and etanercept on the risk of serious infections: does the association vary by patient characteristics? [SEP] Serious infections and sepsis, including fatalities, have been reported with the use of etanercept including reactivation of latent tuberculosis and hepatitis B infections. At two months, the response was 61-69% for patients treated with infliximab, and 31% for those treated with placebo.Newer drugs such as Etrolizumab have similar efficacy to Infliximab with fewer adverse effects for treatment of ulcerative colitis. The anti-TNF agents (infliximab and etanercept; level 1b, grade A) are more effective for the treatment of enthesitis than traditional agents. Half of the patients saw benefit from this treatment, and a few other patients experienced infections that in some cases lead to death.There have been numerous case reports of the efficacy of infliximab in various inflammatory skin conditions diseases; the FDA approved infliximab for chronic severe plaque psoriasis in adults in September 2006.Infliximab has been used off-label in treating refractory sarcoidosis, where other treatments have not been effective.Infliximab has been tested in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) but there was no evidence of benefit with the possibility of harm.Infliximab is indicated for steroid refractory checkpoint inhibitor induced colitis, at a dose of 5 to 10 mg/kg. Adverse effects
Infliximab has adverse effects, some life-threatening, common to drugs in the class of TNF inhibiting immunosuppressants (which also includes etanercept (Enbrel) and adalimumab (Humira)). On the other hand, adding infliximab or etanercept to gemcitabine for treating patients with advanced pancreatic cancer was not associated with differences in efficacy when compared with placebo. Opportunistic infections
TNF inhibitors put patients at increased risk of certain opportunistic infections. The anti-TNF monoclonal antibody biologics infliximab, golimumab, certolizumab and adalimumab, and the fusion protein etanercept, which are all currently approved by the FDA for human use, have warnings which state that patients should be evaluated for latent TB infection, and if it is detected, preventive treatment should be initiated prior to starting therapy with these medications. 
Fast foods - are they a risk factor for asthma? [SEP] Due to their fat content, fast foods are implicated in poor health and various serious health issues such as obesity and cardiovascular diseases. Additionally, there is strong empirical evidence showing that fast foods are also detrimental to appetite, respiratory system function, and central nervous system function (Schlosser). In a cross-sectional data study from more than 100,000 adolescents in 32 countries, which included low-income, middle-income, to high-income countries, it has been found that fast food is associated with an increase in suicide attempts. In particular many fast foods are high in saturated fats which are widely held to be a risk factor in heart disease. A five-year study conducted in Singapore showed that frequent fast food consumers (more than two times per week) had a significant increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes and an increased risk of death from coronary heart disease, when compared to non-consumers. Fast-food consumption was prevalent in both males and females, in all racial/ethnic groups, and in all regions of the country.Additionally, in the study children who ate fast food, compared to those who did not, tended to consume more total fat, carbohydrates, and sugar-sweetened beverages. After reviewing these test results, the researchers concluded that consumption of fast food by children seems to have a negative effect on an individual's diet, in ways that could significantly increase the risk for obesity. Proximity of fast food locations
A study of students who live within a half mile from fast food locations have been reported to consume fewer amounts of fruit and vegetables, consume more soda, and are more likely to be overweight. 
Can magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy improve cancer detection in enlarged prostates? [SEP] MRI-guided targeted biopsy
Since the mid-1980s, TRUS biopsy has been used to diagnose prostate cancer in essentially a blind fashion because prostate cancer cannot be seen on ultrasound due to poor soft tissue resolution. However, multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) has since about 2005 been used to better identify and characterize prostate cancer. Many prostate cancers missed by conventional biopsy are detectable by MRI-guided targeted biopsy. In fact, a side-by-side comparison of TRUS versus MRI-guided targeted biopsy that was conducted as a prospective, investigator-blinded study demonstrated that MRI-guided biopsy improved detection of significant prostate cancer by 17.7%, and decreased the diagnosis of insignificant or low-risk disease by 89.4%.Two methods of MRI-guided, or "targeted" prostate biopsy, are available: (1) direct "in-bore" biopsy within the MRI tube, and (2) fusion biopsy using a device that fuses stored MRI with real-time ultrasound (MRI-US). Visual or cognitive MRI-US fusion have been described.When MRI is used alone to guide prostate biopsy, it is done by an interventional radiologist. Correlation between biopsy and final pathology is improved between MRI-guided biopsy as compared to TRUS.In the fusion MRI-US prostate biopsy, a prostate MRI is performed before biopsy and then, at the time of biopsy, the MRI images are fused to the ultrasound images to guide the urologist to the suspicious targets. Fusion MRI-US biopsies can be achieved in an office setting with a variety of devices.MRI-guided prostate biopsy appears to be superior to standard TRUS-biopsy in prostate cancer detection. See also
Prostate biopsy


== References == 
Does normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion improve myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism for hypertrophied hearts? [SEP] Retrograde perfusion (retroperfusion) is an artificial method of providing blood supply to an organ by delivering oxygenated blood through the veins. See also
Langendorff heart
Perfusion
Isolated organ perfusion technique


== References == That is, when the ventricular myocardium is working, it extracts oxygen from the coronary blood and produces adenosine as a byproduct of ATP use. The second goal, is to perfuse the heart itself. Perfusion of the heart is necessary for successful defibrillation (if the arrest type is shockable) and ROSC. Adenosine stress
An intravenous infusion of adenosine is given at 140 µg/Kg/min for 3 minutes with continuous heart rate and blood pressure recording to induce hyperaemia (normally seen as a drop in systolic blood pressure of 10mmHg or a rise in heart rate of 10bpm). It was found to depress the tonicity of coronary vessels, improve myocardial metabolism (so that heart can sustain hypoxia better) and also exert a positive chronotropic and inotropic effects, thereby not precipitating angina pectoris. Physiology
Sustained myocardial stretch activates tension-dependent Na+/H+ exchangers, bringing Na+ ions into the sarcolemma. 
Are there progressive brain changes in schizophrenia? [SEP] In childhood-onset schizophrenia, there appears to be a more rapid loss of cerebral grey matter during adolescence. Morphometry
Structural imaging studies have consistently reported differences in the size and structure of certain brain areas in schizophrenia. Together, this indicates that extensive changes do occur in the brains of people with schizophrenia. The average volumetric changes in these studies are however close to the limit of detection by MRI methods, so it remains to be determined whether schizophrenia is a neurodegenerative process that begins at about the time of symptom onset, or whether it is better characterised as a neurodevelopmental process that produces abnormal brain volumes at an early age. Moreover, one study decomposed cortical volume into its constituent parts, cortical surface area and cortical thickness, and reported widespread cortical volume reduction in schizophrenia, mainly driven by cortical thinning, but also reduced cortical surface area in smaller frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital cortical regions.CT scans of the brains of people with schizophrenia show several pathologies. Additionally, the brains have widened sulci as compared to normal brains, also with increased CSF volumes and reduced brain volume.Using machine learning, two neuroanatomical subtypes of schizophrenia have been described. Schizophrenia is a mental disorder characterized by continuous or relapsing episodes of psychosis. Signs and symptoms
Schizophrenia is a mental disorder characterized by significant alterations in perception, thoughts, mood, and behavior. 
Does concept mapping enhance learning outcome of nursing students? [SEP] Versus concept mapping and mind mapping
More generally, concept mapping is any process used for visually representing relationships between ideas in pictures or diagrams. A concept map is typically a diagram of multiple ideas, often represented as boxes or circles, linked in a graph (network) structure through arrows and words where each idea is connected to another. A concept map or conceptual diagram is a diagram that depicts suggested relationships between concepts. Concept maps may be used by instructional designers, engineers, technical writers, and others to organize and structure knowledge. Concept mapping is also sometimes used for brain-storming. Concept maps are widely used in education and business. Learning, Creating, and Using Knowledge: Concept Maps as Facilitative Tools in Schools and Corporations (2nd ed.). Applied Concept Mapping: Capturing, Analyzing, and Organizing Knowledge (1st ed.). 
Is the Androgen Deficiency of Aging Men (ADAM) questionnaire useful for the screening of partial androgenic deficiency of aging men? [SEP] Values below 30 may indicate testosterone deficiency, which may contribute to fatigue, erectile dysfunction, osteoporosis and loss of secondary sex characteristics. The predominant androgen in men, testosterone, has shown to substantially decline throughout the aging process. It appears that testosterone replacement therapy may benefit men with symptoms of frailty who have late-onset hypogonadism. Epidemiology
The epidemiology is not clear; 20% of men in their 60s and 30% of men in their 70s have low testosterone; around 5% of men between 70 and 79 have both low testosterone and the symptoms, so are diagnosed with late-onset hypogonadism. Research was also necessary to better understand the cardiovascular risks of testosterone replacement therapy in older men.A relationship between late-onset hypogonadism and risk of Alzheimer's disease has been hypothesized, and some small clinical studies have been conducted to investigate the prevention of Alzheimer's disease in men with late-onset hypogonadism; as of 2009, results were inconclusive. References
External links

androgen at NIH/UW GeneTests Androgen deficiency is a medical condition characterized by insufficient androgenic activity in the body. Diagnosis
Diagnosis of androgenic deficiency in males is based on symptoms together with at least two measurements of testosterone done first thing in the morning after a period of not eating. 
Does the Transmissible Liability Index (TLI) assessed in late childhood predict suicidal symptoms at young adulthood? [SEP] The Suicide Behaviors Questionnaire-Revised (SBQ-R) is a psychological self-report questionnaire designed to identify risk factors for suicide in children and adolescents between ages 13 and 18. Question breakdown, scoring, and interpretation
Each of the four questions addresses a specific risk factor: the first concerns presence of suicidal thoughts and attempts, the second concerns frequency of suicidal thoughts, the third concerns the threat level of suicidal attempts, and the fourth concerns likelihood of future suicidal attempts. "Practice parameter for the assessment and treatment of children and adolescents with suicidal behavior". Females, aged 12–17, who had attempted suicide scored significantly higher on the CDI than psychiatric controls; and girls who were repeat attempters of suicide scored higher on the CDI than first-time suicide attempters. "Suicidal ideation" or suicidal thoughts are the precursors of suicide, which is the leading cause of death among youth. Ideation or suicidal thoughts are categorized as: considering, seriously considering, planning, or attempting suicide and youth is typically categorized as individuals below the age of 25. Various research studies show an increased likelihood of suicide ideation in youth in the LGBT community.Factors involved in this propensity are peer victimization, parental disapproval, and bullying, as well as overall sentiments of undesirability due to LGBT identity. Some studies suggest the main reason for suicidal ideation in youth is their exposure to violence in school. 
Are there gender differences in the reasons why African Americans delay in seeking medical help for symptoms of an acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] Also, women experience longer waiting times in the emergency department than men. Background
Females and males exhibit many differences in terms of risk of developing disease, receiving an accurate diagnosis, and responding to treatments. Social determinants of health
Social determinants such as neighborhood disadvantage, immigration status, lack of social support, social isolation, access to health services play an important role in myocardial infarction risk and survival. There are well-documented disparities in myocardial infarction survival by socioeconomic status, race, education, and census-tract-level poverty.Race: In the U.S. African Americans have a greater burden of myocardial infarction and other cardiovascular events. On a population level, there is a higher overall prevalence of risk factors that are unrecognized and therefore not treated, which places these individuals at a greater likelihood of experiencing adverse outcomes and therefore potentially higher morbidity and mortality.Socioeconomic status: Among individuals who live in the low-socioeconomic (SES) areas, which is close to 25% of the US population, myocardial infarctions (MIs) occurred twice as often compared with people who lived in higher SES areas.Immigration status: In 2018 many lawfully present immigrants who are eligible for coverage remain uninsured because immigrant families face a range of enrollment barriers, including fear, confusion about eligibility policies, difficulty navigating the enrollment process, and language and literacy challenges. Indications of the effect of these social forces on black-white differentials in health status have begun to surface in the research literature.Race has played a decisive role in shaping systems of medical care in the United States. "It’s related to the fact that many black women are less likely to be taken seriously compared to the white women when they go in for certain illnesses. Negative self-evaluations and accepting negative cultural stereotypes as true (internalized racism) can harm cardiovascular health.According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Minority Health, in 2018, African Americans were 30% more likely to die from heart disease than non-Hispanic whites. 
Does histologic chorioamnionitis correspond to clinical chorioamnionitis? [SEP] Chorioamnionitis, also known as intra-amniotic infection (IAI), is inflammation of the fetal membranes (amnion and chorion), usually due to bacterial infection. Microorganisms
Bacterial, viral, and even fungal infections can cause chorioamnionitis. Diagnosis
Pathologic
Chorioamnionitis is diagnosed from a histologic (tissue) examination of the fetal membranes. Confirmed histologic chorioamnionitis without any clinical symptoms is termed subclinical chorioamnionitis and is more common than symptomatic clinical chorioamnionitis.Infiltration of the chorionic plate by neutrophils is diagnostic of (mild) chorioamnionitis. Outcomes
Chorioamnionitis has possible associations with numerous neonatal conditions. Furthermore, histological chorioamnionitis may increase the likelihood of newborn necrotizing enterocolitis, where one or more sections of the bowel die. Compared to infants with clinical chorioamnionitis, it appears cerebral palsy may occur at a higher rate for those with histologic chorioamnionitis. See also
Chorioamnionitis
Placentitis


== References == 
Are lifetime prevalence of impetigo, molluscum and herpes infection really increased in children having atopic dermatitis? [SEP] Eczema herpeticum can be life-threatening in babies. Molluscum dermatitis represents a unique form of id reaction, in which patients may present with localized or widespread eczema surrounding scattered lesions of molluscum contagiosum. Up to 80% of people with atopic dermatitis have elevated total or allergen-specific IgE levels.About 30% of people with atopic dermatitis have mutations in the gene for the production of filaggrin (FLG), which increase the risk for early onset of atopic dermatitis and developing asthma. Filaggrin mutations are also associated with a decrease in natural antimicrobial peptides found on the skin; subsequently leading to disruption of skin flora and bacterial overgrowth (commonly Staphylococcus aureus overgrowth or colonization).Atopic dermatitis is also associated with the release of pruritogens (molecules that stimulate pruritus or itching) in the skin. People with atopic dermatitis are more likely to have Staphylococcus aureus living on them. Epidemiology
Global estimates of the prevalence of dermatitis herpetiformis range from 1 in 400 to 1 in 10,000 people. The atopic subgroup is closely associated with family history of the disease, whereas the non-atopic subgroup has its onset in adulthood and it is not caused by inheritance. If there is eczema, people generally have a history of atopy, be it personal or through family. 
Does sonographic needle guidance affect the clinical outcome of intraarticular injections? [SEP] Ultrasound-guided hip joint injection is a joint injection in the hip, assisted by medical ultrasound. Given the complexity of hip and groin anatomy and clinical conditions, imaging-guided injections are useful both for the diagnostic workup and treatment. General principles for ultrasound-guided injection
Usual standards for musculoskeletal interventional procedures apply include review of previous imaging, informed consent and appropriate local anesthetic. A 20-gauge 3.5 inch regular cutting back spinal needle is directed in-plane under real time ultrasound guidance into the anterior capsular recess. Fluoroscopic-guidance was the mainstay imaging-guidance hip injection, but ultrasound-guidance is becoming increasingly prevalent due to its accuracy with visualization of soft tissue and neurovascular structures, less associated cost and no ionizing radiation exposure or risk of contrast agent reactions. In addition, a recent meta-analysis revealed that ultrasound-guided hip joint injections were significantly more accurate than landmark-guided intra-articular hip injections (accuracies were 100%, 95%CI 98–100%; 72%, 95%CI 56–85%, respectively).To date, many trials examining efficacy of intra-articular corticosteroid injection for osteoarthritis, either under fluoroscopy or ultrasound-guidance, have revealed short-term improvement of hip pain, though no reliable predictors of response to intra-articular corticosteroid injections have been identified. While it has been shown that no significant difference in terms of effectiveness between fluoroscopy and ultrasound-guided corticosteroid hip injection, it has been reported that ultrasound-guided injections were less painful and preferred by patients. 22–24G needles are sufficed for most injections.As an example, ultrasound-guided hip joint injection can be considered when symptoms persist despite initial treatment options such as activity modification, analgesia and physical therapy. 
Pancreas retransplantation:  a second chance for diabetic patients? [SEP] A pancreas transplant is an organ transplant that involves implanting a healthy pancreas (one that can produce insulin) into a person who usually has diabetes. In the event of rejection of the new pancreas, which would quickly cause life-threatening diabetes, there would be a significant chance the recipient would not survive very well for long without the native pancreas, however dysfunctional, still in place. At present, pancreas transplants are usually performed in persons with insulin-dependent diabetes, who can develop severe complications. During the modern era of immunosuppression, the whole pancreas transplantation technique with enteric diversion became the gold standard…
The first pancreas transplantation, performed in a multi-organ transplant with kidney and duodenum, was into a 28-year-old woman; her death three month post-surgery did not obscure the apparent success of the pancreatic replacement. "Pancreas transplantation: indications and consequences". In a summary of the 1977 Workshop on Pancreatic Islet Cell Transplantation in Diabetes, Lacy commented on the feasibility of "islet cell transplantation as a therapeutic approach [for] the possible prevention of the complications of diabetes in man". Five-year follow-up after clinical islet transplantation. Pancreas transplantation for treatment of diabetes mellitus. 
Factors determining the survival of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with lung metastasis alone: does combined modality treatment benefit? [SEP] Chemotherapy
In patients with stage 3 lung cancer that cannot be removed, treatment with combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy improves survival significantly. Staging
Staging of nasopharyngeal carcinoma is based on clinical and radiologic examination. Generally, there are three different types or treatment methods that can be used for patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The surgery is effective the treatment of recently diagnosed localized nasopharyngeal cancer for stage I patients. "Minimally Invasive Endoscopic Nasopharyngectomy in the Treatment of Recurrent T1-2a Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma". "Endoscopic Nasopharyngectomy for Patients with Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma at the Primary Site". "Endoscopic nasopharyngectomy for salvage in nasopharyngeal carcinoma: A novel anatomic orientation". "Endoscopic Endonasal Nasopharyngectomy in Selected Cancers" (PDF). 
Do viral infections have a role in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo? [SEP] Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is a disorder arising from a problem in the inner ear. Symptoms are repeated, brief periods of vertigo with movement, characterized by a spinning sensation upon changes in the position of the head. BPPV is one of the most common causes of vertigo.BPPV is a type of balance disorder along with labyrinthitis and Ménière's disease. Other causes of vertigo include:

Motion sickness/motion intolerance: a disjunction between visual stimulation, vestibular stimulation, and/or proprioception
Visual exposure to nearby moving objects (examples of optokinetic stimuli include passing cars and falling snow)
Other diseases: (labyrinthitis, Ménière's disease, and migraine, etc.) Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common cause of peripheral vertigo. The most common symptom for vestibular neuritis is the onset of vertigo that has formed from an ongoing infection or trauma. Causes
Some people will report having an upper respiratory infection (common cold) or flu prior to the onset of the symptoms of vestibular neuritis; others will have no viral symptoms prior to the vertigo attack. Due to its proximity to the vestibulocochlear nerve, the virus can spread and cause hearing loss, tinnitus (hearing noises that are not caused by outside sounds), and vertigo. 
Does the enteral feeding advancement affect short-term outcomes in very low birth weight infants? [SEP] A 2012 policy by the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended feeding preterm infants human milk, finding "significant short- and long-term beneficial effects," including reducing the rate of NEC by a factor of one-half to three-quarters.Small amounts of oral feeds of human milk starting as soon as possible, while the infant is being primarily fed intravenously, primes the immature gut to mature and become ready to receive greater intake by mouth. This may lead to an increased risk of:
Mental retardation
Developmental delay/disability
Special needs – education
Retention in kindergarten
Cerebral palsy

Neonatal Nutrition
Late preterm infants have immature gastrointestinal function and feeding difficulties that predispose them to in increase in enterohepatic circulation, decreased stool frequency, dehydration, and hyperbilirubinemia. Feeding during the birth hospitalization may be transiently successful, but not sustained after discharge. Feeding difficulties are associated with relatively low oromotor tone, function, and neural maturation also predispose these infants to dehydration and hyperbilirubinemia.Late Preterm Infants have an increased risk of being underweight and stunted at 12 and 24 months of age versus term infants.Proper nutrition is essential for normal growth, optimal neurologic and cognitive development, immune protection, and long term health. Feeding Methods
Direct Breast Feeding
Feeding tube at breast
Cup/Finger feeding
Bottle Feeding
Gavage Tube (bolus feeding)

Strategies to Improve Outcome
Early Nutrition
Colostrum Diet; Mother's own milk [Contains: Lactoferrin, Secretory IgA, Lysozyme, contains oligosaccharides (beneficial growth of good gut bacteria), and hormones]
Trophic Feeds (beneficial effect on maturation of the intestinal tract)
Donor Milk
Fortify human milk
Consistency in feedings important

References
External links
AWHONN Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses Resource for Late preterm infant
2012 AAP-Section on Perinatal Pediatrics  Workshop on Perinatal Practice Strategies: Late preterm infants The authors conclude that the "results suggest that infants weaned through the baby-led approach learn to regulate their food intake in a manner, which leads to a lower BMI and a preference for healthy foods like carbohydrates.". As the infant matures, the feeding times shorten. A change for more support towards infant nutrition and the nutritional will benefit children. 
Is late-night salivary cortisol a better screening test for possible cortisol excess than standard screening tests in obese patients with Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] Salivary cortisol is a good stress index, with increased levels of cortisol correlating positively with increased levels of stress. Because the collection of saliva samples is non-invasive, it has the advantage of not introducing further stress on the participant that may otherwise distort results.In more specific studies looking at the link between cortisol levels and psychological phenomena, it has been found that chronic stressors such as life-threatening situations (example: diseases), depression, and social or economic hardship correlate with significantly higher cortisol levels. Salivary cortisol levels can thus provide insight into a number of other psychological processes. For example, Early morning cortisol levels have been found to be elevated in shy children and late night levels elevated in depressed adolescents, particularly the between the hours of two and four PM. Evidence and current research
Cortisol and melatonin aberrations
In 2008 the Endocrine Society published diagnostic guidelines for Cushing's syndrome, wherein they recommended midnight salivary cortisol testing on two consecutive days as one possible initial screening tool. A 2009 review concluded that late-night salivary cortisol testing is a suitable alternative to serum cortisol testing for diagnosing Cushing's syndrome, reporting that both sensitivity and specificity exceeded ninety percent. In 2010 Sakihara, et al., evaluated the usefulness and accuracy of salivary, plasma, and urinary cortisol levels and determined salivary cortisol to be the "method of choice" for Cushing's syndrome screening. In 2008 Restituto, et al., found early morning salivary cortisol to be "as good as serum" as an Addison's disease screening technique. 
Does psychological distress predict disability? [SEP] Mental distress or psychological distress encompasses the symptoms and experiences of a person's internal life that are commonly held to be troubling, confusing or out of the ordinary. Mental distress can potentially lead to a change of behavior, affect a person's emotions in a negative way, and affect their relationships with the people around them. A person in mental distress may exhibit some of the broader symptoms described in psychiatry, without actually being ‘ill’ in a medical sense. Mental distress is a psychological condition. References
Further reading
External links
Mental Distress Changes The psychological injury must reach a degree of disturbance of the pre-existing psychological/ psychiatric state such that it interferes in some significant way with the individual's ability to function. Disability and return to work
When psychological injuries compromise daily activities, psychologists need to address the degree of disability (see Schultz, 2009; Schultz & Rogers, 2011). People under constant distress are more likely to become sick, mentally or physically. 
Does preloading with colloids prevent hemodynamic changes when neurosurgical patients are subsequently changed to the seated position? [SEP] This is due to neutralisation of the charge on the hydrophobic colloidal particles. Participating colloids displace water molecules, thus creating a relative water molecule deficit with water molecules moving back into the circulatory system within the lower venous pressure end of capillaries. Decreased colloidal osmotic pressure, most notably seen in hypoalbuminemia, can cause edema and decrease in blood volume as fluid is not reabsorbed into the bloodstream. This low pressure often correlates with poor surgical outcomes.In the clinical setting, there are two types of fluids that are used for intravenous drips: crystalloids and colloids. These colloidal solutions are typically used to remedy low colloid concentration, such as in hypoalbuminemia, but is also suspected to assist in injuries that typically increase fluid loss, such as burns. Haemaccel (a registered trademark) is a type of intravenous colloid used in the prevention or treatment of shock associated with reduction in effective circulating blood volume due to hemorrhage, loss of plasma (burns, peritonitis, pancreatitis, crush injuries), or loss of water and electrolytes from persistent vomiting and diarrhea. The key is to prevent exacerbation of hemorrhaging until definitive vascular control can be achieved, the theory being that if clots have formed within a vessel then increasing the patient's blood pressure might dislodge those established clots resulting in more significant bleeding. "Liberal Versus Restricted Fluid Resuscitation Strategies in Trauma Patients". 
Does continuous intravenous infusion of low-concentration epinephrine impair uterine blood flow in pregnant ewes? [SEP] Hypertension in Pregnancy is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering human and animal hypertension during gestation, including the physiology of circulatory control, pathophysiology, methodology, and therapy. Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is a medication and hormone. While the safety of its use during pregnancy and breastfeeding is unclear, the benefits to the mother must be taken into account.Epinephrine is normally produced by both the adrenal glands and a small number of neurons in the brain, where it acts as a neurotransmitter. While epinephrine does increase aortic, cerebral, and carotid circulation pressure, it lowers carotid blood flow and end-tidal CO2 or ETCO2 levels. It appears that epinephrine may improve macrocirculation at the expense of the capillary beds where perfusion takes place. References
External links
"Epinephrine". Ephedrine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant that is often used to prevent low blood pressure during anesthesia. Ephedrine should be used with caution in patients with inadequate fluid replacement, impaired adrenal function, hypoxia, hypercapnia, acidosis, hypertension, hyperthyroidism, prostatic hypertrophy, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, during delivery if maternal blood pressure is >130/80 mmHg, and during lactation.Contraindications for the use of ephedrine include: closed-angle glaucoma, phaeochromocytoma, asymmetric septal hypertrophy (idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis), concomitant or recent (previous 14 days) monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) therapy, general anaesthesia with halogenated hydrocarbons (particularly halothane), tachyarrhythmias or ventricular fibrillation, or hypersensitivity to ephedrine or other stimulants.Ephedrine should not be used at any time during pregnancy unless specifically indicated by a qualified physician and only when other options are unavailable. 
Is there a first night effect on sleep bruxism? [SEP] Dental damage may be similar in both types, but the symptoms of sleep bruxism tend to be worse on waking and improve during the course of the day, and the symptoms of awake bruxism may not be present at all on waking, and then worsen over the day. Awake bruxism is thought to have different causes from sleep bruxism. It is possible for sleep bruxism to occur as early as the first year of life – after the first teeth (deciduous incisors) erupt into the mouth, and the overall prevalence in children is about 14–20%. The symptoms of sleep bruxism are usually most intense immediately after waking, and then slowly abate, and the symptoms of a grinding habit which occurs mainly while awake tend to worsen through the day, and may not be present on waking. One study reported that sleep arousals which were experimentally induced with sensory stimulation in sleeping bruxists triggered episodes of sleep bruxism. Initial reports have suggested that episodes of sleep bruxism may be accompanied by gastroesophageal reflux, decreased esophageal pH (acidity), swallowing, and decreased salivary flow. However, children with sleep bruxism have been shown to have greater levels of anxiety than other children. Genetic factors
Some research suggests that there may be a degree of inherited susceptibility to develop sleep bruxism. 
Does menopausal transition affect the quality of life? [SEP] The symptoms of menopause may also include mental health issues such as feelings of shame, embarrassment, short-temper, loneliness and depression which are challenging to manage for well-being in prison. For most women, the majority of change occurs during the late perimenopausal and postmenopausal stages. In the US, National Institute on Aging has conducted research exploring the impact of menopause on women's health and aging. A  2018 Radio 4 Woman's Hour poll that found that 48% of women experiencing the menopause reported that it had ‘a negative impact on their mental health and mood.' Menopausal transition
Poor sleep quality, sleep fragmentation and increased awakenings are common complaints during the menopausal transition. Sleep during the menopausal transition is furthermore influenced by pain disorders and specifically by comorbid physical and psychiatric conditions. Signs and symptoms
During early menopause transition, the menstrual cycles remain regular but the interval between cycles begins to lengthen. During the menopausal transition and after menopause, women can experience a wide range of symptoms. 
Can clinicians use the PHQ-9 to assess depression in people with vision loss? [SEP] The 9-question Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) is a diagnostic tool introduced in 2001 to screen adult patients in a primary care setting for the presence and severity of depression. Primary care providers frequently use the PHQ-9 to screen for depression in patients. The PHQ-9 can be used to diagnose Major Depressive Syndrome, but Major Depressive Disorder must be diagnosed using additional clinical information (e.g. Applications
The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence endorsed the PHQ-9 for measuring depression severity and responsiveness to treatment in adults in a primary care setting. The Veterans Administration, Department of Defense, and Kaiser Permanente adopted the PHQ-9 as a standard measure for depression screening. The PHQ-9 is also the most commonly used depression measure in the United Kingdom's National Health Service, which requires providers to use a depression screening instrument when treating depression.Studies found the PHQ-9 is also useful for screening for depression in psychiatric clinics. 9-item depression scale
The PHQ-9 (DEP-9 in some sources), a tool specific to depression, scores each of the 9 DSM-IV related criteria based on the mood module from the original PRIME-MD. She was a major force in writing the PHQ-9, a 9-question instrument given to patients in a primary care setting to screen for the presence and severity of depression. 
Should all human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with end-stage renal disease be excluded from transplantation? [SEP] Regardless of the underlying histology, kidney disease in HIV-positive patients is associated with an increased risk of death. HIVAN presents with nephrotic syndrome and progressive kidney failure. Incidence
HIVAN is the third most common cause of end stage kidney failure among African Americans, and commonly seen in African-American patients with HIV compared to other ethnic groups. Indications
The indication for kidney transplantation is end-stage renal disease (ESRD), regardless of the primary cause. Significant cardiovascular disease, incurable terminal infectious diseases and cancer are often transplant exclusion criteria. HIV was at one point considered to be a complete contraindication to transplantation. Specific rules vary by transplant center, but key exclusion criteria often include:

diabetes;
uncontrolled hypertension;
morbid obesity;
heart or lung disease;
history of cancer;
family history of kidney disease; and
impaired kidney performance or proteinuria.Guidance for the Development of Program-Specific Living Kidney Donor Medical Evaluation Protocols - OPTN

Sources of kidneys
Since medication to prevent rejection is so effective, donors do not need to be similar to their recipients. This includes people with HIV who have comorbidities, a low CD4 cell count, or are not currently on effective HIV treatment. 
Is the 7th TNM edition suitable for biological predictor in early gastric cancer? [SEP] The TNM Classification of Malignant Tumors (TNM) is a globally recognised standard for classifying the anatomical extent of the spread of malignant tumours (cancer). TNM is a notation system that describes the stage of a cancer, which originates from a solid tumor, using alphanumeric codes:

T describes the size of the original (primary) tumor and whether it has invaded nearby tissue,
N describes nearby (regional) lymph nodes that are involved,
M describes distant metastasis (spread of cancer from one part of the body to another).The TNM staging system for all solid tumors was devised by Pierre Denoix between 1943 and 1952, using the size and extension of the primary tumor, its lymphatic involvement, and the presence of metastases to classify the progression of cancer. General outline
The TNM classification comprises staging algorithms for almost all cancers, with the primary exception of pediatric cancers. AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (2nd ed.). AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (4th ed.). AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (6th ed.). AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (7th ed.). AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (8th ed.). 
Does growth hormone replacement therapy reduce mortality in adults with growth hormone deficiency? [SEP] Growth hormone deficiency (GHD), or human growth hormone deficiency, is a medical condition resulting from not enough growth hormone (GH). Adults
GH supplementation is not recommended medically for the physiologic age-related decline in GH/IGF secretion. Adults
GH treatment can confer a number of measurable benefits to severely GH-deficient adults, such as enhanced energy and strength, and improved bone density. HGH deficiency in adults
The Endocrine Society has recommended that adult patients diagnosed with growth hormone deficiency (GHd) be administered an individualized GH treatment regimen. "GH replacement therapy can provide a number of measurable benefits to GH-deficient adults. These include improved bone density, increased muscle mass, decrease of adipose tissue, faster hair and nail growth, strengthened immune system, increased circulatory system, and improved blood lipid levels, but long term mortality benefit has not yet been demonstrated.A peer-reviewed article published in 2010 indicates that "Growth hormone (GH) replacement unequivocally benefits growth, body composition, cardiovascular risk factors and quality of life. The reason is unknown, but GH is now rarely used in ICU patients unless they have severe growth hormone deficiency.GH treatment usually decreases insulin sensitivity, but some studies showed no evidence for increased diabetes incidence in GH-treated adult hypopituitary patients.In past it was believed that GH treatment could increase the cancer risk; a large study recently concluded that "With relatively short follow-up, the overall primary cancer risk in 6840 patients receiving GH as adults was not increased. However, as adults in their 30s and 40s, these people, who had been children with growth hormone deficiency, were now adults with growth hormone deficiency and had more than their share of common adult problems: reduced physical, mental, and social energy, excess adipose and diminished muscle, diminished libido, poor bone density, higher cholesterol levels, and higher rates of cardiovascular disease. 
Attaining negative margins in breast-conservation operations: is there a consensus among breast surgeons? [SEP] Breast-conserving surgery (BCS) refers to an operation that aims to remove breast cancer while avoiding a mastectomy. This page reviews the history of this operation, important considerations in decision making and patient selection, and the emerging field of oncoplastic breast conservation surgery. Breast conserving surgery at National Breast and Ovarian Cancer Centre www.nbocc.org References
Further reading
External links
Surgical Considerations: Margins The therapeutic advantages of the liposuction-only technique are the small incision-scars required for access to the breast interior, hence, a shorter post-operative healing period for the incision scars; the therapeutic disadvantage is limited breast-reduction volumes. Complications
The post-operative complications occurred included seroma, wound dehiscence, hematoma; whereas partial NAC necrosis occurred in 10 per cent of the reduced breasts; yet, after refinement of the Lejour technique, the study Vertical Mammaplasty: Early Complications After 250 Personal Consecutive Cases (1999), reported a reduced incidence rate of 7.0 per cent in the 324 breast reductions performed in 167 patients. Further indications for lipectomy are presented by: (i) the woman who requires a large-volume reduction, and wants un-scarred, sensate breasts, yet will accept a degree of ptosis; (ii) the woman who requires a secondary mammoplasty to correct an asymmetric breast, by up to one brassière cup-size; and (iii) the girl affected by virginal breast hypertrophy, as a temporary procedure performed before the conclusion of her thelarche (the pubertal breast-growth phase), given the hypertrophy's high rate of recurrence. The surgeon answers the woman's questions to assist her in establishing realistic expectations (self-image) about the breast-reduction outcome possible with a lipectomy procedure; and that, should lipectomy not satisfactorily reduce the volume of her breasts, a secondary, surgical breast-reduction procedure can be performed later.The measures of the bust: a liposuction mammoplasty procedure does not feature a surgical-incision plan delineated upon the woman's breasts, chest, and torso. 
Can serum be used for analyzing the EGFR mutation status in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved erlotinib for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer that has failed at least one prior chemotherapy regimen.In lung cancer, erlotinib has been shown to be effective in patients with or without EGFR mutations, but appears to be more effective in patients with EGFR mutations. A test for the EGFR mutation has been developed by Genzyme. Clinical applications:

as a screening test to detect cancer-specific metabolic alterations in patients;
to determine whether the cancer growth has stopped or the disease is progressing;
to determine when cancer treatment is effective or needs to be changed. VeriStrat is a test developed to evaluate patient prognosis and, additionally, predict benefit from cancer treatment by EGFR inhibitors. "Predictive value of a proteomic signature in patients with non-small cell lung cancer treated with second-line erlotinib or chemotherapy (PROSE): a biomarker stratified, randomised phase 3 trial," Gregorc et al. CimaVax-EGF is a vaccine used to treat cancer, specifically non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is hijacked by many types of cancer, including cancers of the lung, colon, kidney, and head and neck. It has been suggested that CimaVax may also be effective in other types of cancer that are dependent on EGF/EGFR, including many cases of prostate cancer. 
Do Web-based and clinic samples of gay men living with HIV differ on self-reported physical and psychological symptoms? [SEP] Twice as many male internet users as females identified as gay or bisexual (16% vs. 8%). Poland
A volunteer-based research of adult Poles showed that different modes of survey produce significant differences in the share of people who admit homosexual attraction. The data below were extracted from the same group of 202 men and 325 women who gave out information about same-sex experiences live and then successfully completed the online questionnaire later. In Poland, for example, it was found in an experiment that self-reporting same-sex attraction was twice as common using an online questionnaire as in a paper questionnaire, despite the fact that the group that answered the online questions and the one that filled out the paper form were similar on all demographic variables and on all other aspects of their sexuality. In the 90s, an experiment was made in the US where it was found that teen males were several times more likely to acknowledge same-sex experiences using a computer methodology compared to paper questionnaires. Men overall accounted for 76% of all adults and adolescents living with HIV infection at the end of 2010 in the United States, and 80% (38,000) of the estimated 47,500 new HIV infections. At the end of 2014, 508,676 gay and bisexual men were living with diagnosed HIV infection (53% of everyone living with diagnosed HIV in the US). In regards to the United States statistics of HIV infection among gay and bisexual men, there were 38,729 new cases recorded in 2017 but 70% of those cases were among adults and adolescents that are bisexual and gay men. 
Are patients with diabetes receiving the same message from dietitians and nurses? [SEP] The Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases Information Service is an information dissemination service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). DESMOND (Diabetes Education and Self Management for Ongoing and Newly Diagnosed) is a UK NHS training course for people with type 2 diabetes that helps people to identify their own health risks and to set their own goals. A NHS training course is available for type 1 diabetics called DAFNE (Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating). Content
Topics covered in the DESMOND curriculum:

The patient story
What diabetes is
Main ways to manage diabetes
Consequences of diabetes and personal risk from having diabetes
Monitoring your diabetes
Ways to take action to improve the control of your diabetes
Food choices for diabetics
Physical activity and diabetes
Stress and emotions and diabetes
The purpose and content of annual diabetic review and screening in diabetics

See also
Diabetes mellitus type 2

References
NHS DESMOND homepage
NHS NICE criteria for diabetes training courses

External links
DESMOND NHS project website
Diabetes UK charity website The common usage of the term "hypoglycemia" was noted and countered by doctors writing in the Journal of the American Medical Association in the 1970s:

The "syndrome of hypoglycemia" has become popular among patients and physicians alike, primarily because it seems to provide an explanation (?) The multidisciplinary journal takes the view of diabetes education as represented by nurses, dieticians, physicians and other professionals. Typically the CDE is also a nurse, dietitian, clinical nutrition professional, exercise physiologist, pharmacist, or social worker who has further specialized in diabetes education and care management. The Association of Diabetes Care & Education Specialists (formerly American Association of Diabetes Educators, or AADE) is a multidisciplinary membership organization for healthcare professionals who specialize in teaching patients about diabetes and how to self-manage the disease. 
Preparing patients at high risk of falls for discharge home after rehabilitation: Do we meet the guidelines? [SEP] Falls in older people: epidemiology, risk factors and strategies for prevention. Older Californians at risk for avoidable falls. Evidence suggests that pre-discharge home assessments are associated with a reduced risk of falling. Occupational and physical therapy
Studies show that balance, flexibility, strength, and motor-cognitive training not only improve mobility but also reduce the risk of falling. Falls are of concern within medical treatment facilities. Important points of inquiry:
Visual motor reaction time
Frequency of falls
Effectiveness of "parachute" corrective response of moving hand and arm to "break" the fall
Eyewitness account
Associated features
Risk factors for falling
legal and illegal drug interactions
Sedative and alcohol consumption
Assessment of proper, safe use of cane or walker assistive device

Prevention
The relationship between the person at risk of falling and their environment is important for determining the risk falls and taking measures to prevent falls. An assessment with an occupational therapist may be helpful to determine an appropriate rehabilitation plan to prevent falls by taking into consideration both the person and their living environment. Older Adult Falls – Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
Expression of c-kit protooncogen in hepatitis B virus-induced chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma: has it a diagnostic role? [SEP] Proto-oncogene c-KIT is the gene encoding the receptor tyrosine kinase protein known as tyrosine-protein kinase KIT, CD117 (cluster of differentiation 117) or mast/stem cell growth factor receptor (SCFR). Additionally, c-KIT has been associated with numerous biological processes in other cell types. Role in cancer
Activating mutations in this gene are associated with gastrointestinal stromal tumors, testicular seminoma, mast cell disease, melanoma, acute myeloid leukemia, while inactivating mutations are associated with the genetic defect piebaldism.c-KIT plays an important role in regulating many mechanisms leading to tumor formation and progression of carcinomas. Anti-KIT therapies
KIT is a proto-oncogene, meaning that overexpression or mutations of this protein can lead to cancer. Diagnostic relevance
Antibodies to KIT are widely used in immunohistochemistry to help distinguish particular types of tumour in histological tissue sections. Hepatitis B virus PRE 1151–1410 (HBV post-transcriptional regulatory element, nucleotides 1151–1410) is a part of 500 base pair long  HBV PRE, that has been proposed to be the hepatitis B virus (HBV) RNA export element. Hepatocellular carcinoma (summary)
Hepatocellular carcinoma  is a primary cancer of the liver and is more common in men than in women. Hepatocellular carcinoma is a severe and life-threatening disease that is associated with poor overall survival. 
Longer term quality of life and outcome in stroke patients: is the Barthel index alone an adequate measure of outcome? [SEP] Functional Evaluation: The Barthel Index. The Barthel ADL Index: a reliability study. The Barthel index has been shown to have portability and has been used in 16 major diagnostic conditions as well as different clinical settings (e.g., nursing homes) with satisfactory reliability and validity. The Barthel index has demonstrated high inter-rater reliability (0.95) and test–retest reliability (0.89) as well as high correlations (0.74–0.8) with other measures of physical disability.Copyright Information: The Maryland State Medical Society holds the copyright for the Barthel Index. It has become the most widely used clinical outcome measure for stroke clinical trials.The scale was originally introduced in 1957 by Dr. John Rankin of Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow, Scotland as a 5-level scale ranging from 1 to 5. See also
Barthel scale
Glasgow outcome scale
strokecenter.org list of stroke assessment scales (external link)


== References == The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, or NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS), is a tool used by healthcare providers to objectively quantify the impairment caused by a stroke and aid planning post-acute care disposition, though was intended to assess differences in interventions in clinical trials. Accuracy
The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale has been repeatedly validated as a tool for assessing stroke severity and as an excellent predictor for patient outcomes. 
Do women residents delay childbearing due to perceived career threats? [SEP] Therefore, if a mother chooses to have children at a younger age, her career may be more affected by the penalty than mothers who choose to wait until after their career has been established. Women who have children at the beginning of their careers have to make greater accommodations in their lives such as cutting back on education, taking more time off, and pass up on more promotions. These choices may have a longer lasting effect on the course of a woman's career than having children after being satisfied in a steady job. Today, more and more women are not becoming mothers largely due to the pursuit of career aspirations and educational goals by women. Since motherhood is seen as a choice, employers view mothers as choosing children over their work. The status of motherhood has important ramifications on hiring, promotion, and salary processes. Despite the law, women may still feel pressured to leave the workforce due to stress. Similarly, this lack of commitment may explain the motherhood penalty in terms of performance. 
Do general practitioner hospitals reduce the utilisation of general hospital beds? [SEP] They have typically provided specialist care such as ophthalmology, podiatry, dentistry, minor injuries nursing, and therefore provided services that fell between that of the GP service and those available at the hospital. Rationale
The Department of Health and the government claimed that polyclinics offer:

A way of providing more services in the community closer to home and at more convenient times (including antenatal and postnatal care, healthy living information, community mental health services, community care, and social care and specialist advice)
An improved structure within which GPs and other health and social care professionals can work together
Improved care for patients with chronic or complex conditions
A shift in the focus of urgent care out of hospitals and into polyclinics.A report by the King's Fund has questioned many of these, observing that:

Access to services was likely to be harder in rural areas and in urban areas where new buildings were not situated close to transport hubs
Simply putting healthcare professionals in the same location is in practice often not sufficient to generate co-working or integration of care
While the co-location of multiple services presents opportunities for delivering more integrated care, particularly for people with chronic diseases, the evidence suggests that in practice these opportunities are often lost, and accessibility of primary care is likely to be reduced for most patients if their GPs move into polyclinics, particularly in rural settings (a point emphasised in The Times)
There is limited evidence that quality of care for services shifted out of hospitals is comparable, and there is evidence that quality may be decreased in certain cases; the limited inspection and accreditation of out-of-hospital care is also a serious deficit in quality assuranceThe report also observed that the proposals were likely to increase professional isolation, and threaten both professional development and motivation, and continuity of care, and that pre-existing problems in healthcare to do with the lack of an overall governance structure, and unclear lines of accountability had not been addressed. Ireland
In Ireland there are about 2,500 General Practitioners working in group practices, primary care centres, single practices and health centres. The British Medical Association in 2019 conducted a survey for GP premises. In 2019 the average number of registered patients per GP in England has risen since 2018 by 56 to 2,087. According to NHS Improvement a 1% deterioration in access to general practice can produce a 10% deterioration in emergency department figures.GPs are increasingly employing pharmacists to manage the increasingly complex medication regimes of an aging population. Northern Ireland
There have been particularly acute problems in general practice in Northern Ireland as it has proved very difficult to recruit doctors in rural practices. Newcastle General Hospital (NGH) was for many years the main hospital for the city of Newcastle upon Tyne, England. 
Some aspects of social exclusion: do they influence suicide mortality? [SEP] Social exclusion at the individual level results in an individual's exclusion from meaningful participation in society. The effect of social exclusion have been hypothesized in various past research studies to correlate with such things as substance abuse and addiction, and crime. This social deprivation is included in a broad network of correlated factors that contribute to social exclusion; these factors include mental illness, poverty, poor education, and low socioeconomic status. Social deprivation may be correlated with or contribute to social exclusion, which is when a member in a particular society is ostracized by other members of the society. This has provided an understanding of how social deprivation is linked to lifespan development and mental illness. One predictor of suicide is a lack of social integration. Race
Studies have shown that individuals that are racially and ethnically stigmatized, not just in the U.S., but globally as well, experience health issues such as mental and physical illness, and in some cases even death, in higher rates than the average individual. Relationship quality and health
There is evidence that social integration is negatively linked to suicide and marital status is negatively linked to mortality rates from all-causes. 
Does parity increase insulin resistance during pregnancy? [SEP] Many may need extra insulin during pregnancy to reach their blood sugar target. More insulin is needed to overcome this resistance; about 1.5–2.5 times more insulin is produced than in a normal pregnancy.Insulin resistance is a normal phenomenon emerging in the second trimester of pregnancy, which in cases of GDM progresses thereafter to levels seen in a non-pregnant woman with type 2 diabetes. Placental hormones, and, to a lesser extent, increased fat deposits during pregnancy, seem to mediate insulin resistance during pregnancy. An inverse correlation with the changes in insulin sensitivity from the time before conception through late gestation accounts for about half of the variance in the decrease in insulin sensitivity during gestation: in other words, low levels or alteration of TNF alpha factors corresponds with a greater chance of, or predisposition to, insulin resistance or sensitivity.It is unclear why some women are unable to balance insulin needs and develop GDM; however, a number of explanations have been given, similar to those in type 2 diabetes: autoimmunity, single gene mutations, obesity, along with other mechanisms.Though the clinical presentation of gestational diabetes is well characterized, the biochemical mechanism behind the disease is not well known. Pregnancy causes increased insulin resistance and so a higher insulin demand. It has been observed that pregnancy increases HGF levels, showing a correlation that suggests a connection between the signaling pathway and increased insulin needs. However, the impact of these interventions varies with the body-mass index of the person as well as with the region in which the studies were performed.Moderate-quality evidence suggest that there is a reduced risk of gestational diabetes mellitus and caesarean section with combined diet and exercise interventions during pregnancy as well as reductions in gestational weight gain, compared with standard care.A 2023 review found that a plant-based diet (including fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts and seeds, and tea) rich in phytochemicals lowers the risk of GDM.It has been suggested that for women who have had gestational diabetes, diet, exercise, education, and lifestyle changes between pregnancies may lower their chances of having gestational diabetes again in future pregnancies. This risk relates to increased maternal glucose values. 
Informed consent for total hip arthroplasty: does a written information sheet improve recall by patients? [SEP] Informed consent is a principle in medical ethics and medical law and media studies, that a patient must have sufficient information and understanding before making decisions about their medical care. Informed consent requires a clear appreciation and understanding of the facts, implications, and consequences of an action. Arguably, this is "sufficient consent" rather than "informed consent." Significantly, causation must be shown: That had the individual been made aware of the risk he would not have proceeded with the operation (or perhaps with that surgeon).Optimal establishment of an informed consent requires adaptation to cultural or other individual factors of the patient. Obtaining informed consents
To document that informed consent has been given for a procedure, healthcare organisations have traditionally used paper-based consent forms on which the procedure and its risks and benefits are noted, and is signed by both patient and clinician. Informed consent is documented by means of a written, signed, and dated informed consent form. Informed consent is a process where patients make decisions informed by the advice of medical professionals. The patient and physician must certify that the information on informed consent has been provided before the procedure. 
Is gastric cancer different in Korea and the United States? [SEP] Stomach cancer, also known as gastric cancer, is a cancer that develops from the lining of the stomach. Most of the time, stomach cancer develops in stages over years. Japan and South Korea, two countries that have high rates of the disease, screen for stomach cancer.A Mediterranean diet lowers the risk of stomach cancer, as does the stopping of smoking. In the United States, five-year survival is 31.5%, while in South Korea it is over 65% and Japan over 70%, partly due to screening efforts.Globally, stomach cancer is the fifth-leading type of cancer and the third-leading cause of death from cancer, making up 7% of cases and 9% of deaths. Stomach cancer occurs most commonly in East Asia and Eastern Europe. The highest rate of stomach cancer was in Mongolia, at 28 cases per 100,000 people.In the United Kingdom, stomach cancer is the 15th-most common cancer (around 7,100 people were diagnosed with stomach cancer in 2011), and it is the 10th-most common cause of cancer-related deaths (around 4,800 people died in 2012).Incidence and mortality rates of gastric cancer vary greatly in Africa. Gastric cancer, though present, is relatively low when compared to countries with high incidence like Japan and China. This manifests itself in the Asian American population in the San Francisco Bay area, where colorectal cancer rates are higher compared with rates of cancer in mainland China.Additionally, Asians born and raised in the United States experience a greater risk of getting breast cancer. 
Do we need imaging to diagnose appendicitis in children? [SEP] Limitations
While the AIR score has better predictive power than certain other diagnostic tools for appendicitis (e.g. Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis is an application of computed tomography (CT) and is a sensitive method for diagnosis of abdominal diseases. It is also a useful test to investigate acute abdominal pain (especially of the lower quadrants, whereas ultrasound is the preferred first line investigation for right upper quadrant pain). Renal stones, appendicitis, pancreatitis, diverticulitis, abdominal aortic aneurysm, and bowel obstruction are conditions that are readily diagnosed and assessed with CT. CT is also the first line for detecting solid organ injury after trauma. Environment
To successfully diagnose a paediatric condition, high-quality images are needed to give a diagnosis. This is one of the most essential elements to paediatric radiology. Common paediatric pathologies requiring imaging
Wilms' tumour
Leukaemia
Teratoma
Congenital abnormalities
Osteosarcoma
Meningitis
Infant respiratory distress syndrome
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Greenstick fractures

See also
Radiology
Paediatrics
Medical imaging
EOS (medical imaging)

References
External links
Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health If a patient wants to eat, consider a diagnosis other than appendicitis. 
Discharging patients earlier from Winnipeg hospitals: does it adversely affect quality of care? [SEP] The WRHA found that around one third of patients in Winnipeg hospitals arrive from other RHAs in the province or from another province (due to hospital catchment). Early postnatal hospital discharge generally refers to the postpartum hospital discharge of the mother and newborn within 48 hours. Similarly, mixed conclusions have been found on the influence of early postnatal hospital discharge on the morbidity of newborns. The length of postnatal hospital discharge has also been found to be a predictor of breastfeeding cessation, in which mothers discharged early were more likely to cease breastfeeding compared to mothers who were discharged at a conventional duration. Depression
Early postnatal hospital discharge may influence depression in mothers. Newborns
Morbidity
Although conclusions on the effects of early postnatal hospital discharge on morbidity of newborns remain unclear, it has been suggested that newborns discharged within 24 hours of birth are more likely to require readmission by one month compared to newborns discharged after 24 hours. It has also been suggested that there are higher rates of dehydration in early discharged newborns compared to newborns discharged later.In contrast, a systematic literature review has found no significant differences in complication rates, type and occurrence of newborn morbidities between newborns who were discharged early and those who were discharged later on. Their findings suggest that late preterm infants discharged early experience significantly more neonatal morbidity than term infants discharged early; however, this may be true only for breastfed infants. 
Does the distribution of health care benefits in Kenya meet the principles of universal coverage? [SEP] Context of Healthcare in Kenya
A majority of Kenya's population receives healthcare services from the public sector. Strategy of Decentralized Healthcare
In the devolved government, the Kenya Health Policy 2014 – 2030 provides guidance to the health sector in terms of identifying and outlining the requisite activities in achieving the government's health goals. The policy is aligned to Constitution of Kenya and global health commitments. Portal on universal health coverage. The core business and mandate for NHIF is to provide accessible, affordable, sustainable and quality health insurance for all Kenyan citizens. The core business and mandate for NHIF is to provide accessible, affordable, sustainable and quality health insurance for all Kenyan citizens. The program was a form of national health insurance established to provide equitable access and financial coverage for basic health care services to Ghanaian citizens. The scheme provides equitable access and financial coverage for basic health care services to residents in Ghana. 
Cholesterol screening in school children: is family history reliable to choose the ones to screen? [SEP] Lipid measurements
Cholesterol levels may be determined as part of health screening for health insurance or occupational health, when the external physical signs such as xanthelasma, xanthoma, arcus are noticed, symptoms of cardiovascular disease develop, or a family member has been found to have FH. Screening
Cholesterol screening and genetic testing among family members of people with known FH is cost-effective. Screening at an age lower than 16 was thought likely to lead to an unacceptably high rate of false positives.A 2007 meta-analysis found that "the proposed strategy of screening children and parents for familial hypercholesterolaemia could have considerable impact in preventing the medical consequences of this disorder in two generations simultaneously." "The use of total cholesterol alone may best discriminate between people with and without FH between the ages of 1 to 9 years. "Screening of toddlers has been suggested, and results of a trial on 10,000 one-year-olds were published in 2016. Work was needed to find whether screening was cost-effective, and acceptable to families. Genetic counseling can help assist in genetic testing following a positive cholesterol screen for FH. The results emphasize the importance of early identification of FH and treatment with statins.Alirocumab and evolocumab, both monoclonal antibodies against PCSK9, are specifically indicated as adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol.More recently Inclisiran has been approved for the treatment of HeFH
Although monoclonal antibodies against PCSK9 is highly effective for patients with FH, the parenteral administration makes it less acceptable by the patient. 
Bony defects in chronic anterior posttraumatic dislocation of the shoulder: Is there a correlation between humeral and glenoidal lesions? [SEP] A dislocated shoulder is a condition in which the head of the humerus is detached from the shoulder joint. Most shoulder dislocations occur as a result of sports injuries. Most dislocations are apparent on radiographs showing incongruence of the glenohumeral joint. Anterior (forward)
In over 95% of shoulder dislocations, the humerus is displaced anteriorly. People with dislocated shoulders typically present holding their arm internally rotated and adducted, and exhibiting flattening of the anterior shoulder with a prominent coracoid process.Posterior dislocations may go unrecognized, especially in an elderly person and in people who are in the state of unconscious trauma. Signs and symptoms
Causes
The lesion is associated with anterior shoulder dislocation. The presence of swelling or bruising and a deformity in the shoulder is also common depending on how severe the dislocation is.It is most commonly due to a fall onto the front and upper part of the shoulder when the arm is by the side. Surgical
Surgical interventions including repositioning of the shoulder joint and repairing torn ligaments may be necessary for severe injuries in which the shoulder is dislocated. 
Do parents recall and understand children's weight status information after BMI screening? [SEP] It appears that addressing the psychology of obesity and modifying the family environment are important factors in regaining and maintaining a healthy weight. Classification
Body mass index (BMI) is acceptable for determining obesity for children two years of age and older. It has published tables for determining this in children.The US Preventive Service Task Force reported that not all children with a high BMI need to lose weight though. Additionally, BMI may mistakenly rule out some children who do have excess adipose tissue. Screening for obesity is recommended in those over the age of six. Maternal Body Mass Index
Maternal body mass index (BMI) is an important predictor of childhood obesity. In a follow-up study, infant weight status (healthy and obese) was strongly associated with preschool weight status. Almost 30% said that they were concerned with their child's weight. 
Does ambulatory process of care predict health-related quality of life outcomes for patients with chronic disease? [SEP] Ambulatory care or outpatient care is medical care provided on an outpatient basis, including diagnosis, observation, consultation, treatment, intervention, and rehabilitation services. Relatively common ACSC include:Hospitalization for an ambulatory care sensitive conditions is considered to be a measure of access to appropriate primary health care, including preventive and disease management services. Ambulatory care nursing is the nursing care of patients who receive treatment on an outpatient basis, ie they do not require admission to a hospital for an overnight stay. Ambulatory care includes those clinical, organizational and professional activities engaged in by registered nurses with and for individuals, groups, and populations who seek assistance with improving health and/or seek care for health-related problems. Approach
Chronic care is a patient-based approach to provide chronically ill patients with the knowledge and resources to help them better understand their conditions and to help them to adhere with treatment for better outcomes. Chronic care management in nine leading US physician organisations - American Hospital Association Chronic Care Management See also
Chronic care
Disaboom
DMAA: The Care Continuum Alliance
Medical home
Non-communicable diseases

References
External links
Flinders Human Behaviour & Health Research Unit
Improving Chronic Illness Care
Stanford Self-Management Program
The MacColl Institute for Healthcare Innovation
Group Health Research Institute The primary objective was to evaluate the effects of Guided Care on the quality, efficiency and clinical outcomes of health care for chronically ill older patients and their family caregivers. 
Does perspective-taking increase patient satisfaction in medical encounters? [SEP] Perspective-taking is the act of perceiving a situation or understanding a concept from an alternative point of view, such as that of another individual.A vast amount of scientific literature suggests that perspective-taking is crucial to human development and that it may lead to a variety of beneficial outcomes. Outcomes
An abundance of literature links perspective-taking abilities with other behaviors. Empathy
Many studies associate perspective-taking with empathy. However, thinking of how one would behave in another person's situation leads to feelings of empathy as well as of distress.Research also finds that in negotiations, taking on the perspective of another person and empathizing with them may have differential outcomes. One study found that people who engaged in perspective-taking were more effective in making a deal with another person and in finding innovative agreements that satisfied both parties, as compared to those who empathized with someone else. Such studies show that perspective-taking can lead to reduced stereotyping of outgroup members, improved attitudes towards others, and increased helping behavior of outgroup members. Perspective-taking can lead to reduced in-group favoritism. Additionally, this type of communication has been shown to decrease other negative attitudes or assumptions the patient might have about doctors or healthcare as a whole, and has even been shown to improve treatment compliance. 
Is first-line single-agent mitoxantrone in the treatment of high-risk metastatic breast cancer patients as effective as combination chemotherapy? [SEP] Breast cancer chemotherapy refers to the use of cytotoxic drugs (chemotherapy) in the treatment of breast cancer. Regimens
Multiple chemotherapeutic agents may be used in combination to treat patients with breast cancer. Mitoxantrone (INN, BAN, USAN; also known as Mitozantrone in Australia; trade name Novantrone) is an anthracenedione antineoplastic agent. Uses
Mitoxantrone is used to treat certain types of cancer, mostly acute myeloid leukemia. It improves the survival rate of children suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia relapse.The combination of mitoxantrone and prednisone is approved as a second-line treatment for metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer. Until recently this combination was the first line of treatment; however, a combination of docetaxel and prednisone improves survival rates and lengthens the disease-free period.Mitoxantrone is also used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS), most notably the subset of the disease known as secondary-progressive MS. In the absence of a cure, mitoxantrone is effective in slowing the progression of secondary-progressive MS and extending the time between relapses in both relapsing-remitting MS and progressive-relapsing MS.

Side effects
Mitoxantrone, as with other drugs in its class,  may cause adverse reactions of varying severity, including nausea, vomiting, hair loss, heart damage and immunosuppression, possibly with delayed onset. Mechanism of action
Mitoxantrone is a type II topoisomerase inhibitor; it disrupts DNA synthesis and DNA repair in both healthy cells and cancer cells by intercalation between DNA bases. 
Are patients with Werlhof's disease at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] Stroke occurs in 2–3% of all people undergoing cardiac surgery, and the rate is higher in patients with other risk factors for stroke. This is particularly true in the presence of intestinal angiodysplasia, where arteriovenous malformations lead to very high blood flow, and so the loss of von Willebrand factor can lead to much more extensive bleeding from these lesions. When people with aortic stenosis also have gastrointestinal bleeding, it is invariably from angiodysplasia.It has been hypothesized that defects in high molecular weight von Willebrand factor could actually be the cause of the arteriovenus malformations in intestinal angiodysplasia, rather than just making existing angiodysplasic lesions bleed. Desmopressin is thus sometimes used directly to treat mild to moderate acquired von Willebrand's disease and is an effective prophylactic agent for the reduction of bleeding during heart valve replacement surgery. They noted a known association between aortic stenosis (in addition to other cardiac diseases) and acquired von Willebrand's disease type IIA, which is corrected by surgical replacement of the aortic valve. They also noted that von Willebrand's disease is known to cause bleeding from angiodysplasia. Based on these facts, they hypothesized that acquired von Willebrand's disease is the true culprit behind gastrointestinal bleeding in aortic stenosis. that demonstrated a strong association between von Willebrand factor defects and the severity of aortic valve stenosis. 
Is neck pain associated with worse health-related quality of life 6 months later? [SEP] Neck pain, also known as cervicalgia, is a common problem, with two-thirds of the population having neck pain at some point in their lives.Neck pain, although felt in the neck, can be caused by numerous other spinal problems. Neck pain may arise due to muscular tightness in both the neck and upper back, or pinching of the nerves emanating from the cervical vertebrae. The head is supported by the lower neck and upper back, and it is these areas that commonly cause neck pain. Differential diagnosis
Neck pain may come from any of the structures in the neck including: vascular, nerve, airway, digestive, and musculature / skeletal, or be referred from other areas of the body.Major and severe causes of neck pain (roughly in order of severity) include:

Carotid artery dissection
Referred pain from acute coronary syndrome
Head and neck cancer
Infections, including:
Meningitis of several types including sudden onset of severe neck or back pain particularly in teens and young adults which may be fatal if not treated quickly
Retropharyngeal abscess
Epiglottitis
Spinal disc herniation – protruding or bulging discs, or if severe prolapse. Spondylosis - degenerative arthritis and osteophytes
Spinal stenosis – a narrowing of the spinal canalMore common and lesser neck pain causes include:

Stress – physical and emotional stresses
Prolonged postures – many people fall asleep on sofas and chairs and wake up with sore necks. Treatment
Treatment of neck pain depends on the cause. If neck pain is the result of instability, cancer, or other disease process surgery may be necessary. Low-level laser therapy has been shown to reduce pain immediately after treatment in acute neck pain and up to 22 weeks after completion of treatment in patients that experience chronic neck pain. 
Does oral α-galactosidase relieve irritable bowel symptoms? [SEP] It contains the enzyme alpha-galactosidase (α-GAL). Two randomized controlled trials show reduction in gas by subjects taking oral α-GAL. More studies are needed to evaluate its effectiveness in children with irritable bowel syndrome. The small molecule FODMAPs exhibit these characteristics.Over many years, there have been multiple observations that ingestion of certain short-chain carbohydrates, including lactose, fructose and sorbitol, fructans and galactooligosaccharides, can induce gastrointestinal discomfort similar to that of people with irritable bowel syndrome. It also increases colonic secretions, but not to the point of inducing diarrhea. The enzyme, β-galactosidase, is available in tablet form in a variety of doses, in many countries without a prescription. Galactooligosaccharides (GOS) support natural defenses of the human body via the gut microflora, indirectly by increasing the number of bacteria in the gut and inhibiting the binding or survival of Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhimurium and Clostridia. Galactooligosaccharides may improve stool frequency and relieve symptoms related to constipation. 
Is there a connection between sublingual varices and hypertension? [SEP] Esophageal varices are extremely dilated sub-mucosal veins in the lower third of the esophagus. Splenic vein thrombosis is a rare condition that causes esophageal varices without a raised portal pressure. Treatment of these types of varices may differ. : portal hypertension). Anorectal varices are the dilation of collateral submucosal vessels due to backflow in the veins of the rectum. Between 44% and 78% of patients with portal hypertension get anorectal varices. The shunting of blood and consequential increase of pressure through the collateral veins causes the varicosities. Gastric varices are dilated submucosal veins in the lining of the stomach, which can be a life-threatening cause of bleeding in the upper gastrointestinal tract. 
Can CT predict the level of CSF block in tuberculous hydrocephalus? [SEP] If no flow is seen, this is a reliable diagnosis of aqueductal stenosis as it implies that there is a blockage of CSF.Ultrasonography can be used in utero to diagnose aqueductal stenosis by showing dilation of the lateral and third ventricles. This results in symptoms of hydrocephalus as the CSF is still collecting rather than being absorbed or diverted. The CSF tap test, sometimes lumbar tap test or Miller Fisher Test, is a medical test that is used to decide whether shunting of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) would be helpful in a patient with suspected normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). Neurosurgeons can use ShuntCheck flow results along with other diagnostic tests to assess shunt function and malfunction.Hydrocephalus is a condition in which cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) accumulates in the brain, potentially leading to brain damage and death. Potential clinical uses of ShuntCheck
A test for assessing shunt function in symptomatic hydrocephalus patients. Applications
Clinical
CSF flow can be used in diagnosing and treating aqueduct stenosis, normal pressure hydrocephalus, and Chiari malformation.Aqueduct stenosis is the narrowing of the aqueduct of Sylvius which blocks the flow of CSF, causing fluid buildup in the brain called hydrocephalus. The symptoms depend on the cause of the blockage, the person's age, and how much brain tissue has been damaged by the swelling.In infants with hydrocephalus, CSF builds up in the central nervous system (CNS), causing the fontanelle (soft spot) to bulge and the head to be larger than expected. Mechanism
Hydrocephalus is usually due to blockage of CSF outflow in the ventricles or in the subarachnoid space over the brain. 
MR arthrography of the shoulder: do we need local anesthesia? [SEP] Use
Shoulder arthrography can be used to study tears of the rotator cuff, glenoid labrum and biceps. MR arthrography is most often used in evaluation of the hip and acetabular labrum, of the shoulder rotator cuff and glenoid labrum, and less often in the wrist. Therapeutic arthrograms often distend the joint with cortisone and lidocaine, with a common site being the shoulder. This block is particularly useful in providing anesthesia and postoperative analgesia for surgery to the clavicle, shoulder, and arm. This results in rapid onset times and, ultimately, high success rates for surgery and analgesia of the upper extremity, excluding the shoulder.Surface landmarks can be used to identify the appropriate location for injection of local anesthetic, which is typically lateral to (outside) the lateral border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and above the clavicle, with the first rib generally considered to represent the limit below which the needle must not be directed (the pleural cavity and uppermost part of the lung are located at this level). Local anesthesia is any technique to induce the absence of sensation in a specific part of the body, generally for the aim of inducing local analgesia, i.e. Regional anesthesia is aimed at anesthetizing a larger part of the body such as a leg or arm. Unlike other forms of anesthesia, a local can be used for a minor procedure in a surgeon's office as it does not put you into a state of unconsciousness. 
Does cognitive function predict frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition? [SEP] This article is about Compressed sensing in speech signals. In communications technology, the technique of compressed sensing (CS) may be applied to the processing of speech signals under certain conditions. Cognitive hearing science is an interdisciplinary science field concerned with the physiological and cognitive basis of hearing and its interplay with signal processing in hearing aids. Theoretically the research in cognitive hearing science combines a physiological model for the information transfer from the outer auditory organ to the auditory cerebral cortex, and a cognitive model for how language comprehension is influenced by the interplay between the incoming language signal and the individual's cognitive skills, especially the long-term memory and the working memory.Researchers examine the interplay between type of hearing impairment or deafness, type of signal processing in different hearing aids, type of listening environment and the individual's cognitive skills. Research in cognitive hearing science has importance for the knowledge about different types of hearing impairment and its effects, as for the possibilities to determine which individuals can make use of certain type of signal processing in hearing aid or cochlear implant and thereby adapt hearing aid to the individual.Cognitive hearing science has been introduced by researchers at the Linköping University research centre Linnaeus Centre HEAD (HEaring And Deafness) in Sweden, created in 2008 with a major 10-year grant from the Swedish Research Council. The frequency format hypothesis is the idea that the brain understands and processes information better when presented in frequency formats rather than a numerical or probability format. A number of studies have demonstrated that the average person is capable of relatively easily comprehending speech delivered at higher-than-normal rates, with the peak occurring at around 25% compression (that is, 25% faster than normal); this facility has been demonstrated in several languages. Comprehension rates in older blind subjects have been found to be as good, or in some cases better than those found in younger sighted subjects.Other studies have determined that the ability to comprehend highly time-compressed speech tends to fall off with increased age, and is also reduced when the language of the time-compressed speech is not the listener's native language. 
Should cavitation in proximal surfaces be reported in cone beam computed tomography examination? [SEP] See also
Computed tomography
Cone beam reconstruction


== References == Cavitation is a significant cause of wear in some engineering contexts. Cavitation damage
Cavitation is usually an undesirable occurrence. This is cavitation. Control valves
Cavitation can occur in control valves. For cavitation in the engineering field, visit [1]
Kornfelt, M. (1944). "On the destructive action of cavitation". "Nonthermal issues: Cavitation—Its nature, detection and measurement;". 
Do supervised colorectal trainees differ from consultants in terms of quality of TME surgery? [SEP] Qureshi was appointed as a Consultant Laparoscopic Surgeon at Poole NHS Foundation Trust and was asked to introduce the latest laparoscopic techniques for bowel cancer surgery. Qureshi’s expertise was recognised in 2011 when he was selected by the Department of Health to become a national trainer in Laparoscopic Surgery (LAPCO). This role required him to teach and assess other Consultant Surgeons around the UK, to ensure they were safe to perform laparoscopic surgery. In more recent years, Qureshi was asked to form part of a faculty which trains consultant surgeons in other countries. In 2016, the American College of Surgeons reported on its partnership with the ASCRS in developing technical skill assessments in the colorectal surgery field. The Definitive Surgical Trauma Skills course (DSTS) is a joint development between the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine and the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Washington DC.Originally designed for the military, the training structure has now been adapted to accommodate civilian surgical consultants and teaches vascular, cardiothoracic and general surgery techniques which are vital in dealing with trauma injuries. The review
The Independent Review of the Shape of Medical Training was launched in March 2012 with economist David Greenaway, Vice-Chancellor of The University of Nottingham, appointed as the chair.The review was jointly sponsored by Academy of Medical Royal Colleges (AoMRC), The Conference of Postgraduate Medical Deans of the UK (COPMeD), the General Medical Council (GMC), Health Education England (HEE), the Medical Schools Council (MSC), NHS Scotland, NHS Wales and Northern Ireland Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety. Through this, ASiT aims to improve the delivery of UK surgical training, and protect the interests and wellbeing of UK surgical trainees. 
Affect-regulated exercise intensity: does training at an intensity that feels 'good' improve physical health? [SEP] Exercise intensity refers to how much energy is expended when exercising. "Physiological adaptations to low-volume, high-intensity interval training in health and disease". Exercise-induced euphoria
Continuous exercise can produce a transient state of euphoria – a positively-valenced affective state involving the experience of pleasure and feelings of profound contentment, elation, and well-being – which is colloquially known as a "runner's high" in distance running or a "rower's high" in rowing. A meta-analytic review found that exercise significantly increases the secretion of β-endorphin and that this secretion is correlated with improved mood states. Moderate intensity exercise produces the greatest increase in β-endorphin synthesis, while higher and lower intensity forms of exercise are associated with smaller increases in β-endorphin synthesis. A review on β-endorphin and exercise noted that an individual's mood improves for the remainder of the day following physical exercise and that one's mood is positively correlated with overall daily physical activity level. Individuals who have recently exercised exhibit improvements in stress coping behaviors. Aerobic exercise increases physical fitness and lowers neuroendocrine (i.e., HPA axis) reactivity and therefore reduces the biological response to psychological stress in humans (e.g., reduced cortisol release and attenuated heart rate response). 
Do socioeconomic differences in mortality persist after retirement? [SEP] Longevity of the population in the United States is also emerging as a crucial factor for future retirement security, average life expectancy in 2017 of males and females at the age of 65 has increased since 1940 by 6 and 7 years to 84 and 87. External links
Health and Retirement Study Mortality at Advanced Ages: A Historical Review (pp. The work found an inverse correlation between socioeconomic status and mortality rate, as well as an increasing strength of this pattern and its reflection of the growth of income inequality in the United States.These findings, although concerned with total mortality of any cause, reflect a similar relationship between socioeconomic status and disease incidence or death in the United States. (2012), socioeconomic status measured early in childhood reared a significant difference in hippocampal size in adulthood, suggesting that there is in fact an impact on brain and cognitive development. Shifting demographics are causing a lower ratio of workers per retiree; contributing factors include retirees living longer (increasing the relative number of retirees), and lower birth rates (decreasing the relative number of workers, especially relative to the Post-WW2 Baby Boom). This is due to two demographic factors: increased life expectancy coupled with a fixed retirement age, and a decrease in the fertility rate. Increased life expectancy (with fixed retirement age) increases the number of retirees at any time, since individuals are retired for a longer fraction of their lives, while decreases in the fertility rate decrease the number of workers. 
Women with synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary: do they have Lynch syndrome? [SEP] Among women with HNPCC who have both colon and endometrial cancer, about half present first with endometrial cancer, making endometrial cancer the most common sentinel cancer in Lynch syndrome. Presence of synchronous or metachronous colorectal or other Lynch syndrome associated cancers (e.g. Lynch syndrome, an autosomal dominant genetic disorder that mainly causes colorectal cancer, also causes endometrial cancer, especially before menopause. Women with Lynch syndrome have a 40–60% risk of developing endometrial cancer, higher than their risk of developing colorectal (bowel) or ovarian cancer. Women with Lynch syndrome represent 2–3% of endometrial cancer cases; some sources place this as high as 5%. Depending on the gene mutation, women with Lynch syndrome have different risks of endometrial cancer. In women with Lynch syndrome-associated endometrial cancer, microsatellite instability is common.Development of an endometrial hyperplasia (overgrowth of endometrial cells) is a significant risk factor because hyperplasias can and often do develop into adenocarcinoma, though cancer can develop without the presence of a hyperplasia. Some women with Lynch syndrome elect to have a prophylactic hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy to greatly reduce the risk of endometrial and ovarian cancer.Transvaginal ultrasound to examine the endometrial thickness in women with postmenopausal bleeding is increasingly being used to aid in the diagnosis of endometrial cancer in the United States. 
Can emergency physicians accurately and reliably assess acute vertigo in the emergency department? [SEP] Emergency physicians are responsible for providing immediate recognition, evaluation, care, and stabilisation to adult and pediatric patients in response to acute illness and injury. Rosen's Emergency Medicine: concepts and clinical practice (7th ed.). An emergency physician (often called an "ER doctor" in the United States) is a physician who works at an emergency department to care for ill patients. The emergency physician is expected to oversee their care, rule out life threatening diseases, stabilize the patient if necessary, and decide if the patient needs to be admitted to the hospital for further care or discharged home to follow up as an outpatient. After the tests and treatment are carried out by emergency staff, an assessment is made as to whether the patient needs further aid at a hospital. Interpretation
Positive test result
A positive test is indicated by patient report of a reproduction of vertigo and clinician observation of nystagmus (involuntary eye movement). Such patients include those who are too anxious about eliciting the uncomfortable symptoms of vertigo, and those who may not have the range of motion necessary to comfortably be in a supine position. Patients may be too tense, for fear of producing vertigo symptoms, which can prevent the necessary brisk passive movements for the test. 
Orthostatic myoclonus: an underrecognized cause of unsteadiness? [SEP] Myoclonic jerks commonly occur in individuals with epilepsy. Myoclonic jerks commonly occur in persons with epilepsy, a disorder in which the electrical activity in the brain becomes disordered leading to seizures. Pathophysiology
Most myoclonus is caused by a disturbance of the central nervous system. Spinal myoclonus is caused by defects in spinal organization or connections, and peripheral myoclonus has symptoms of rhythmic jerks due to a neuron-the most common being the hemifacial spasm. The myoclonic jerks occur during non-REM sleep. Signs and symptoms
Myoclonus can be described as brief jerks of the body;  it can involve any part of the body, but it is mostly seen in limbs or facial muscles. Myoclonus jerks can be epileptic or not epileptic. Differential diagnosis
Myoclonic jerks that are not epileptic may be due to a nervous system disorder or other metabolic abnormalities that may arise in renal (e.g. 
Is the cell death in mesial temporal sclerosis apoptotic? [SEP] Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) or mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) is a neuropathological condition with severe neuronal cell loss and gliosis in the hippocampus. Paraptosis (from the Greek παρά para, "related to" and apoptosis) is a type of programmed cell death, morphologically distinct from apoptosis and necrosis. Paraptosis was not recognized as a form of cell death by the Nomenclature Committee on Cell Death in their 2018 review article. Morphology
Paraptosis is a form of type III programmed cell death with a unique combination of certain apoptotic and necrotic characteristics. This then caused cells to undergo programmed cell death with considerable vacuolization and an absence of DNA fragmentation and caspase inhibition, similar to paraptosis. See also
Apoptosis
Autophagy
Cytotoxicity
Necrosis
Parthanatos
Programmed cell death


== References == Temporal lobe necrosis is a late-stage and serious complication usually occurring in persons who have undergone radiation treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). (Essentially, apoptosis is a process of cell death initiated by the presence or absence of certain stimuli.) 
Contrast-enhanced MR imaging of hand and finger joints in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis: do we really need a full dose of gadobenate dimeglumine for assessing synovial enhancement at 3 T? [SEP] "In magnetic resonance imaging in pregnancy, gadolinium contrast agents in the first trimester is associated with a slightly increased risk of a childhood diagnosis of several forms of rheumatism, inflammatory disorders, or infiltrative skin conditions, according to a retrospective study including 397 infants prenatally exposed to gadolinium contrast. The gadolinium in the contrast fluid yields a bright signal on T1 weighted images allowing for better evaluation of  the joint capsule, the articular surface of the bones and, in particular, the labral cartilage. "Revisiting the Pharmacokinetic Profiles of Gadolinium-Based Contrast Agents: Differences in Long-Term Biodistribution and Excretion". Delayed gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging of cartilage or dGEMRIC measures the fixed-charge density and relative proteoglycan content of articular cartilage using the spin-lattice relaxation time or T1 relaxation time. References
External links
The Impact of the Relaxivity Definition on the Quantitative Measurement of Glycosaminoglycans in Cartilage by MRI dGEMRIC Method
Delayed Gadolinium-enhanced MR Imaging of Articular Cartilage: Three-dimensional T1 Mapping with Variable Flip Angles and B1 Correction
Toward Imaging Biomarkers for Glycosaminoglycans
Longitudinal Evaluation of Cartilage Composition of Matrix-Associated Autologous Chondrocyte Transplants with 3-T Delayed Gadolinium-Enhanced MRI of Cartilage
Association between findings on delayed gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging of cartilage and future knee osteoarthritis
Delayed Gadolinium-enhanced MR to Determine Glycosaminoglycan Concentration in Reparative Cartilage after Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation: Preliminary Results
Glycosaminoglycan Distribution in Cartilage as Determined by Delayed Gadolinium-Enhanced MRI of Cartilage (dGEMRIC): Potential Clinical Applications Real-time MRI promises to add important information about diseases of the joints and the heart. Musculoskeletal imaging in particular benefits from real-time observation. Researchers at the NYU Grossman School of Medicine developed a RT-MRI glove for imaging movement of the hand. 
Does laparoscopic cholecystectomy influence peri-sinusoidal cell activity? [SEP] Meals that are solid and contain a greater macronutrient composition require slower and more forceful contraction in order to extract the maximum amount of nutrients throughout the GI tract.The cells that respond to and secrete these substances include I cells and K cells in the proximal small intestine, whose stimulation is dependent on nutrient exposure and entry into the duodenum, and L cells in the distal small intestine and colon which are stimulated by unabsorbed nutrients and gastric emptying.The frequency of the BER, and thus the contractions, changes throughout the GI tract. Colorectal cancer
Among colorectal cancer patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis cytoreductive surgery, with the addition of HIPEC can be used to prolong overall survival in patients. Postcholecystectomy syndrome (PCS) describes the presence of abdominal symptoms after a cholecystectomy (gallbladder removal). Symptoms occur in about 5 to 40 percent of patients who undergo cholecystectomy, and can be transient, persistent or lifelong. A recent 2008 study shows that postcholecystectomy syndrome can be caused by biliary microlithiasis. Analysis of biliary sludge obtained through endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
SeHCAT or other test for bile acid diarrhea

Treatment
Some individuals may benefit from diet modification, such as a reduced fat diet, following cholecystectomy. The perisinusoidal space (or space of Disse) is a location in the liver between a hepatocyte and a sinusoid. In 1988, laparoscopic multiple punch resection of ovaries on the hypothalamo-pituitary axis, slightly modified from Gjönnaess's operation, caused a reduction in LH pulsation and pituitary responsiveness in the treatment of PCOS. 
Does case-mix based reimbursement stimulate the development of process-oriented care delivery? [SEP] This provides a basis for describing the types of patients a hospital or other health care provider treats (its case mix). Case mix groups are used as the basis for the Health Insurance Prospective Payment System (HIPPS) rate codes used by Medicare in its prospective payment systems.Case mix groups are designed to aggregate acute care inpatients that are similar clinically and in terms of resource use. Case mix, also casemix and patient mix, is a term used within healthcare as a synonym for cohort; essentially, a case mix groups statistically related patients. Whilst a case mix will often include a condition or diagnosis, as well as any treatment received; it can also include demographics, such as gender or age, and a specific time range.Conditions and treatments are often captured using a medical classification system, such as ICD-10, in a process called clinical coding. Background
Prior to the introduction of nationally consistent Activity Based Funding (ABF) by the Commonwealth Government, Casemix based funding was the key funding model used in Australian health care services for reimbursement of the cost of patient care. Classification systems
The casemix system introduces a kind of Activity Based Costing to the health profession. Process denotes the transactions between patients and providers throughout the delivery of healthcare. References: Evans, Armstrong, & Kuppinger, 1996; Evans, Armstrong, Kuppinger, Huz, & McNulty, 1998
RESULTS: Significant group differences were found in favor of the case management/ wraparound program for behavioral and mood functioning. 
Risky sexual behavior among college students With ADHD: is the mother-child relationship protective? [SEP] Drug use is associated with risky sexual behaviors. Counseling has been developed and implemented for people with severe mental illness, may improve participants' knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, behaviors or practices (including assertiveness skills) and could lead to a reduction in risky sexual behavior.There are several studies on the management of risky sexual behavior among youth, with most focusing on the prevention of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) such as HIV. Some evidence suggests that family interventions may be beneficial in preventing long-term risky sexual behavior in early adulthood. References
External links
Drug Use and Sexual Behaviors Reported by Adults: United States, 1999–2002 ADHD hyperactive/impulsive type: Teacher score of 1.78, parent score of 1.44. As children move into the stage of adolescence, the most common reporters of ADHD symptoms, parents and teachers, tend to focus on behaviors affecting academic performance. Learning disorders are found in 20% to 40% of children with ADHD.Another possible explanation of over-diagnosis of ADHD is the "relative-age effect", which applies to children of both sexes. Stimulants
The National Institute of Mental Health recommends stimulants for the treatment of ADHD, and states that, "under medical supervision, stimulant medications are considered safe". 
Rotator cuff tear--an occupational disease? [SEP] This defect is often referred to as a rotator cuff tear. Furthermore, MRI enables the detection or exclusion of complete rotator cuff tears with reasonable accuracy and is also suitable for diagnosing other pathologies of the shoulder joint.The logical use of diagnostic tests is an important component of effective clinical practice.Clinical judgement, rather than over-reliance on MRI or any other modality, is strongly advised in determining the cause of shoulder pain, or planning its treatment, since rotator cuff tears are also found in some without pain or symptoms. Chronic tears occur among individuals who constantly participate in overhead activities, such as pitching or swimming, but can also develop from shoulder tendinitis or rotator cuff disease. Suprascapular neuropathy, shoulder impingement, superior labral anterior-posterior (SLAP) tears and arthritis can all mimic rotator cuff disease and cause persistent pain that does not respond to rotator cuff surgery.One possible long-term consequence result of a rotator cuff tear is called proximal humeral head migration, this is where the "ball" of the shoulder joint rests higher in the shoulder joint "socket" disrupting normal shoulder mechanics. Epidemiology
Rotator cuff tears are among the most common conditions affecting the shoulder.A rotator cuff tear can be caused by the weakening of the rotator cuff tendons. External links
 
Rotator Cuff Tears. A description of rotator cuff tears from Wheeless'
Physiotherpy program for rortator cuff tears In chronic cases caused by impingement tendinosis and tears in the rotator cuff may be revealed. 
Is there a need for pelvic CT scan in cases of renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] Computed tomography (CT) is particularly important for detailed preoperative assessment and evaluation of the radiological Peritoneal Cancer Index (PCI). The main diagnostic tools for detecting renal cell carcinoma are ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) scanning and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the kidneys. The Bosniak classification system for cystic renal lesions classifies them into groups that are benign and those that need surgical resection, based on specific imaging features.The main imaging tests performed in order to identify renal cell carcinoma are pelvic and abdominal CT scans, ultrasound tests of the kidneys (ultrasonography), MRI scans, intravenous pyelogram (IVP) or renal angiography. Computed tomography
Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scanning is routinely used to determine the stage of the renal cell carcinoma in the abdominal and pelvic regions. This radiologic test is important in diagnosing renal cell carcinoma as an aid for examining blood vessels in the kidneys. However, all masses that are not clearly simple cysts should be further evaluated and confirmed by alternate imaging techniques.Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen administered with and without IV contrast is the ideal imaging to diagnose and stage kidney cancer. MRI can also evaluate the inferior vena cava if the mass is suspected to extend outside the kidney.Since the lungs are the most common organ for kidney cancer to spread to, a chest X-ray or CT scan may be ordered based on the person's risk for metastatic disease. Taking a CT scan at this time is useful to evaluate any strictures or masses from within the ureters or from outside but compressing on the ureters. 
Prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy: are signs of spinal cord involvement associated with the neurological prognosis? [SEP] The most common form of myelopathy in humans, cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM), also called degenerative cervical myelopathy, results from narrowing of the spinal canal (spinal stenosis) ultimately causing compression of the spinal cord. Presentation
Clinical signs and symptoms depend on which spinal cord level (cervical, thoracic, or lumbar) is affected and the extent (anterior, posterior, or lateral) of the pathology, and may include:
Upper motor neuron signs—weakness, spasticity, clumsiness, altered tonus, hyperreflexia and pathological reflexes, including Hoffmann's sign and inverted plantar reflex (positive Babinski sign)
Lower motor neuron signs—weakness, clumsiness in the muscle group innervated at the level of spinal cord compromise, muscle atrophy, hyporeflexia, muscle hypotonicity or flaccidity, fasciculations
Sensory deficits
Bowel/bladder symptoms and sexual dysfunction

Diagnosis
Diagnosis of myelopathy
Myelopathy is primarily diagnosed by clinical exam findings. As outlined above, the most common form of myelopathy is secondary to degeneration of the cervical spine. Anterior spinal cord syndrome
A major feature is losing motor function such as voluntary movement, reflexes and coordination as a result of compromised anterior and lateral corticospinal tract, anterior grey matter and spinocerebellar tract. Acute disc herniation, cervical spondylosis, kyphoscoliosis, damage to the spinal column and neoplasia all could result in ischemia from anterior spinal artery occlusion leading to anterior cord syndrome. Damage to the posterior cervical sympathetic chain due to the degeneration of the cervical vertebra was theorized to play a role in this syndrome by the prolapsing of disc in the mid-cervical spine. Prognosis
Delayed diagnosis of cervical spine injury has grave consequences for the victim. About 30% of cases of delayed diagnosis of cervical spine injury develop permanent neurological deficits. 
Parasacral sciatic nerve block: does the elicited motor response predict the success rate? [SEP] A sciatic nerve block is a nerve block that uses local anesthetic to achieve analgesia in the leg. The block works by affecting the sciatic nerve and is used for surgeries at or below the knee.The sciatic nerve is located in the gluteus maximus muscle, where the block is performed. The sciatic nerve can be blocked at different locations. A meta-analysis reported that the incidence of residual neuromuscular paralysis was 41% in patients receiving intermediate neuromuscular blocking agents during anaesthesia. A spinal gives profound block of all motor and sensory function below the level of injection, whereas an epidural blocks a 'band' of nerve roots around the site of injection, with normal function above, and close-to-normal function below the levels blocked. An epidural often does not cause as significant a neuromuscular block as a spinal, unless specific local anaesthetics are also used which block motor fibres as readily as sensory nerve fibres. The anesthesia is produced by blocking the pudendal nerves near the ischial spine of the pelvis. The ischial spine separates the greater and lesser sciatic foramina at the exit of the bony pelvis.The pudendal block gets its name because a local anesthetic, such as lidocaine or chloroprocaine, is injected into the pudendal canal where the pudendal nerve is located. 
Is Bare-Metal Stent Implantation Still Justifiable in High Bleeding Risk Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] A bare-metal stent is a stent made of thin, uncoated (bare) metal wire that has been formed into a mesh-like tube. The first stents licensed for use in cardiac arteries were bare metal – often 316L stainless steel. While plastic stents were first used to treat gastrointestinal conditions of the esophagus, gastroduodenum, biliary ducts, and colon, bare-metal stent advancements led to their use for these conditions starting in the 1990s.Drug-eluting stents are often preferred over bare-metal stents because the latter carry a higher risk of restenosis, the growth of tissue into the stent resulting in vessel narrowing. The study compared stenting as used in PCI to medical therapy alone in symptomatic stable coronary artery disease (CAD). Controversy
The value of stenting in rescuing someone having a heart attack (by immediately alleviating an obstruction) is clearly defined in multiple studies, but studies have failed to find reduction in hard endpoints for stents vs. medical therapy in stable angina patients (see controversies in Percutaneous coronary intervention). The dangerous plaque is soft and fragile, produces no symptoms and would not be seen as an obstruction to blood flow.”A more permanent and successful way to prevent heart attacks in patients at high risk is to give up smoking, to exercise regularly, and take "drugs to get blood pressure under control, drive cholesterol levels down and prevent blood clotting".Some cardiologists believe that stents are overused; however, in certain patient groups, such as the elderly, GRACE and other studies have found evidence of under-use. Coronary stents reduce early complications and improve late clinical outcomes in patients needing interventional cardiology. However, despite the drug-eluting stents superiority over the bare-metal stents, drug-eluting stent implantation had possible concerns over platelet aggregation and significant blood clotting in a localized area.As a result, improvements in the stent material, strut thickness, polymer, and drug choice led to the development of second-generation drug-eluting stents that showcased overall clinical enhancements to its predecessor. 
Ovarian torsion in children: is oophorectomy necessary? [SEP] Ovarian torsion (OT) or adnexal torsion is an abnormal condition where an ovary twists on its attachment to other structures, such that blood flow is decreased. Pathophysiology
The development of an ovarian mass is related to the development of torsion. Diagnosis
Ovarian torsion is difficult to diagnose accurately, and operation is often performed before certain diagnosis is made. Treatment
Surgical treatment of ovarian torsion includes laparoscopy to uncoil the torsed ovary and possibly oophoropexy to fixate the ovary which is likely to twist again. In these cases the ovary must be surgically removed. Epidemiology
Ovarian torsion accounts for about 3% of gynecologic emergencies. The incidence of ovarian torsion among women of all ages is 5.9 per 100,000 women, and the incidence among women of reproductive age (15–45 years) is 9.9 per 100,000 women. : 149

See also
Ovarian torsion – equivalent condition in females. 
Does minimal access major surgery in the newborn hurt less? [SEP] Research suggests that babies exposed to pain in the neonatal period have more difficulty in these areas. Treatment
Where the baby is to undergo some form of planned procedure, health professionals will take steps to reduce pain to a minimum, though in some circumstances it may be not be possible to remove all pain.In case of illness, accident and post operative pain, a graded sequence of treatment is becoming established as standard practice. A number of studies on the measurement of pain in young children, and on ways of reducing the injury response began, and publications on the hormonal and metabolic responses of babies to pain stimuli began to appear, confirming that the provision of adequate anaesthesia and analgesia was better medicine on both humanitarian and physiological grounds.It is now accepted that the neonate responds more extensively to pain than the adult does, and that exposure to severe pain, without adequate treatment, can have long-term consequences. Minimally invasive procedures (also known as minimally invasive surgeries) encompass surgical techniques that limit the size of incisions needed, thereby reducing wound healing time, associated pain, and risk of infection. Benefits
Minimally invasive surgery should have less operative trauma, other complications and adverse effects than an equivalent open surgery. Operative time is longer, but hospitalization time is shorter. It causes less pain and scarring, speeds recovery, and reduces the incidence of post-surgical complications, such as adhesions and wound rupture. Risks and benefits
Risks include damage to nerves or muscles, a cerebrospinal fluid leak, and typical surgical risks, such as infection or a failure to resolve the condition that prompted the surgery.Claims are made that the larger style of MISS has better outcomes than open surgery with respect to fewer complications and shorter hospital stays, but data supporting those claims is non-conclusive. 
Does aerobic fitness influence microvascular function in healthy adults at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] A number of dietary factors such as sugar sweetened drinks and the type of fat in the diet appear to play a role.In one study, those who had high levels of physical activity, a healthy diet, did not smoke, and consumed alcohol in moderation had an 82% lower rate of diabetes. A combination of diet and physical activity promotion through counselling and support programs decrease weight, improve systolic blood pressure, improve cholesterol levels and decrease risk of diabetes.Increasing physical activity may be helpful in preventing type 2 diabetes, particularly if undertaken soon after a carbohydrate rich meal that increases blood sugar levels. This article describes the influence of exercise on the persons who suffer from diabetes. Exercise and diabetes
One danger for diabetes patients is cardiovascular disease, including lipids and blood glucose levels. Poor aerobic exercise has also been linked to cardiovascular diseases, and by improving the level of aerobic activity, and therefore decreasing plasma insulin levels, the danger of cardiovascular disease significantly decreases.The main risk for diabetes patients is controlling glucose levels. Resistance exercise has been shown to improve insulin and glucose levels greatly by helping to manage blood pressure levels, cardiovascular risk, glucose tolerance, and lipids. Exercise and diabetes studies
The New England Journal of Health performed a study on the effect of physical activity on men with diabetes mellitus. About 50 percent of the men who increased their kilocalorie rate by increasing their physical activity were able to avoid getting the disease.The Journal of the American Medical Association looked at the effect that physical activity had on diabetic patients who took diabetes medications. 
Are high flow nasal cannulae noisier than bubble CPAP for preterm infants? [SEP] Heated humidified high-flow therapy, often also high flow nasal cannula(e) or high flow nasal oxygen, is a type of respiratory support method that delivers a high flow (liters per minute) of medical gas to a patient through an interface (nasal cannulae) intended to create a wash-out of the upper airway. History
Nasal cannulae used for medical gas delivery are usually limited to delivery of 1–6 liters of flow per minute. Bubble CPAP is a non-invasive ventilation strategy for newborns with infant respiratory distress syndrome (IRDS). demonstrated that providing CPAP using an anesthesia bag improved oxygenation in preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome. This study first identified the Columbia approach of using bubble CPAP in the delivery room as a possible strategy to reduce the incidence of BPD as compared to mechanical ventilation. The earliest, and most widely used form of adult nasal cannula carries 1–3 litres of oxygen per minute. Cannulae with smaller prongs intended for infant or neonatal use can carry less than one litre per minute. CPAP is also used to assist premature babies with breathing in the NICU setting. 
Nutritional assessment of gluten-free diet. Is gluten-free diet deficient in some nutrient? [SEP] However, an unbalanced selection of food and an incorrect choice of gluten-free replacement products may lead to nutritional deficiencies. Replacing flour from wheat or other gluten-containing cereals with gluten-free flours in commercial products may lead to a lower intake of important nutrients, such as iron and B vitamins. Nutritional complications can be prevented by a correct dietary education.A gluten-free diet may be based on gluten-free foods, such as meat, fish, eggs, milk and dairy products, legumes, nuts, fruits, vegetables, potatoes, rice, and corn. A trial of gluten reintroduction to observe any reaction after 1–2 years of strict gluten-free diet might be performed.A subgroup of people with NCGS may not improve by eating commercially available gluten-free products, which are usually rich of preservatives and additives, because chemical additives (such as sulphites, glutamates, nitrates and benzoates) might have a role in evoking functional gastrointestinal symptoms of NCGS. Eating gluten-free
A gluten-free diet is a diet that strictly excludes gluten, proteins present in wheat (and all wheat varieties such as spelt and kamut), barley, rye, oat, and derivatives of these grains such as malt and triticale, and foods that may include them, or shared transportation or processing facilities with them. Risks
An unbalanced selection of food and an incorrect choice of gluten-free replacement products may lead to nutritional deficiencies. Replacing flour from wheat or other gluten-containing cereals with gluten-free flours in commercial products may lead to a lower intake of important nutrients, such as iron and B vitamins and a higher intake of sugars and saturated fats. It is recommended that anyone embarking on a gluten-free diet check with a registered dietitian to make sure they are getting the required amount of key nutrients like iron, calcium, fiber, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin and folate. 
Standardizing care in medical oncology: are Web-based systems the answer? [SEP] Oncology Information System (OIS) is a software solution that manages departmental, administrative and clinical activities in cancer care. It aggregates information into a complete oncology-specific electronic health record to support medical information management. The OIS allows the capture of patient history information, the documentation of the treatment response, medical prescription of the treatment, the storage of patient documentation and the capture of activities for billing purposes.Unlike a hospital information system (HIS), intended to manage patient records more generally, or radiological information system (RIS), intended to track and manage radiology requests and workflow, the OIS supports the delivery of integrated care and long-term treatment for cancer patients by collecting data during various phases of treatment, maintaining a history of treatment fractions, screening, prevention, diagnosis, image reviews, palliative care and end-of-life care. The need for standardization and refined development of these tools is underscored by the HITECH Act and other efforts to develop electronic medical records. Clinical protocols - Tools used to standardize and automate care in a common clinical scenario. While the prospects for benefits such as increased quality of care and increased return on investments abound, the critical need to deal with the underlying socio-technical implications of these technologies and how they affect workflow, coordination, and collaboration in medical practice must be addressed by systems designers, healthcare decision makers, and care providers. Our step by step guidance on diagnosis, prognosis, treatment and prevention is updated daily using robust evidence based methodology and expert opinion. Abstracting and indexing
This journal is abstracted and indexed in:

Emerging Sources Citation Index
Index Medicus/MEDLINE/PubMed
Scopus

See also
Journal of Clinical Oncology
Journal of Oncology Practice

References
External links
Official website 
Antiretroviral therapy related adverse effects: Can sub-Saharan Africa cope with the new "test and treat" policy of the World Health Organization? [SEP] Preventing HIV transmission from pregnant women to children
The Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS reported that the following sixteen African nations in 2012 "ensure[d] that more than three-quarters of pregnant women living with HIV receive antiretroviral medicine to prevent transmission to their child": Botswana, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Rwanda, São Tomé and Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Eswatini, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The AIDS/HIV epidemic has led to the rise in unethical medical experimentation in Africa.Since the epidemic is widespread, African governments sometimes relax their laws in order to get research conducted in their countries which they would otherwise not afford. The director of the Centre for Disease Control – Uganda, Wuhib Tadesse, said in 2011 that,

for every person started on antiretroviral therapy, there are three new HIV infections[,] and this is unsustainable. The initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy in persons coinfected with tuberculosis can cause an immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome with a worsening, in some cases severe worsening, of tuberculosis infection and symptoms.An estimated 874,000 people in Sub-Saharan Africa were living with both HIV and tuberculosis in 2011, with 330,000 in South Africa, 83,000 in Mozambique, 50,000 in Nigeria, 47,000 in Kenya, and 46,000 in Zimbabwe. See also
28: Stories of AIDS in Africa
Demographics of Africa
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
HIV/AIDS in Eswatini
HIV/AIDS in Malawi
HIV/AIDS in Asia
HIV/AIDS in Australia
HIV/AIDS in Europe
HIV/AIDS in North America
HIV/AIDS in South America
Origin of AIDS
President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
South African model of the pandemic
Syphilis in sub-Saharan Africa
United Nations Special Envoy for HIV/AIDS in Africa

Notes
References
Further reading
External links

AIDS: Voices From Africa Archived 28 December 2010 at the Wayback Machine - slideshow by Life magazine
AIDS at UNFPA
Visualization tool for HIV/AIDS prevalence in sub-Saharan Africa from 2000 to 2017 Treatment guidelines
Initiation of antiretroviral therapy
Antiretroviral drug treatment guidelines have changed over time. Concerns
There are several concerns about antiretroviral regimens that should be addressed before initiating:

Intolerance: The drugs can have serious side-effects which can lead to harm as well as keep patients from taking their medications regularly. Public health: Individuals who fail to use antiretrovirals as directed can develop multi-drug resistant strains which can be passed onto others. 
Are the elderly with oropharyngeal carcinoma undertreated? [SEP] Nearly three fourths of the patients present in Stage III or later.The stages of oropharyngeal cancer are as follows:
• Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ): This stage indicates a good prognosis as most patients with stage 0 survive for a long period without the requirement of an intensive treatment. Prognosis
People with HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer tend to have higher survival rates. The prognosis for people with oropharyngeal cancer depends on the age and health of the person and the stage of the disease. Management
Traditionally, oropharyngeal cancer has been managed through combination of surgery and radiotherapy. Geriatric oncology is a branch of medicine that is concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of cancer in the elderly, usually defined as aged 65 and older. Hackensack University Medical Center Geriatric Oncology Division
Cleveland Clinic, Geriatric oncology clinic
University of Chicago Medical Center Geriatric Oncology Clinic
World oncology network, Geriatric oncology
AACR Task Force on Aging and Cancer Oropharyngeal cancer has been linked in some cases to HPV. Consequently, less intensive (de-intensification) use of radiotherapy or chemotherapy, as well as specific therapy, is under investigation, enrolling HPV+OPC in clinical trials to preserve disease control and minimise morbidity in selected groups based on modified TNM staging and smoking status.HPV+ cancer of the oropharynx are staged as (AJCC 8th ed. 
Preoperative staging of patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. Does PET/CT really add something to multidetector CT? [SEP] Benefits of PET-CT 
By diagnosing with the help of a PET-CT, the advantages of the two individual methods are combined, and the result considerably exceeds images obtained by the two devices taken separately. Definitive staging can only be done after surgery and histopathology of colorectal carcinoma. Preoperative staging of rectal cancers may be done with endoscopic ultrasound. Adjunct staging of metastasis include abdominal ultrasound, MRI, CT, PET scanning, and other imaging studies. Computed tomography (CT) is particularly important for detailed preoperative assessment and evaluation of the radiological Peritoneal Cancer Index (PCI). A PET-MR preclinical system can be used for simultaneous multi-modality imaging. Cancer research: The combination of MR and PET imaging is far more time efficient than using one technique at a time. The procedure, mostly used in combination with systemic chemotherapy, plays a role in the treatment of liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). 
Can myometrial electrical activity identify patients in preterm labor? [SEP] Fetal electroencephalography, also known as prenatal EEG includes any recording of electrical fluctuations arising from the brain of a fetus. The three most common techniques for recording electrical brain activity before birth include:

Attaching electrodes directly onto the fetus' scalp during surgical removal of the fetus
Attaching electrodes on the maternal abdomen or cervix to record activity from the fetus in the third trimester
Attaching electrodes to the scalp of an infant during labor and delivery.The recording of the youngest fetus was performed between 43 and 45 days gestation and revealed some EEG features observed in newborns. From 1955 to 1976, many scientific groups made EEG recordings from electrodes placed on the maternal abdomen, or placed on the cervix using a speculum, and techniques continued improving.In the 1980s, functional MRI or magnetoencephalography became the primary research tools for the prenatal study of human brain development; however, fetal EEG prevailed in clinical settings for determining sleep states in the unborn, or fetal distress. However, electrical activity from the mother's heart, abdominal and uterine muscles all create artifacts in the fetal EEG recording. Muscles create electrical activity in the range of 20–100 Hz, and the uterine wall creates slow-wave activity and fast-wave activity related to the intrauterine pressure. Both before and during labor, trace alternant patterns can be observed in the fetal EEG. It has also been used to assess the likelihood of spontaneous preterm delivery. Motivated by exploring the electrophysiological behavior of the uterus prior to childbirth, MMG was used mainly on health monitoring during pregnancy. 
Schizophrenia patients with high intelligence: A clinically distinct sub-type of schizophrenia? [SEP] Disorganized schizophrenia, or hebephrenia, was a subtype of schizophrenia prior to 2013. "What is schizophrenia? their personality before and after the onset of overt psychosis). Schizophrenia is a mental disorder characterized by experiencing persistent hallucinations, delusions, paranoia, and thought disorder. Schizophrenia has been hypothesized to be unique to human beings and existing for a long time.Schizophrenia has raised a perplexing question for evolutionary psychologists and anthropologists. This is important in that, since schizophrenia is often correlated with a basal level of intelligence within individuals, it becomes increasingly vital to examine the morphology of schizophrenic brains, as compared to brains without psychosis, to examine if there are physical changes underlying this lapse in intelligence. Schizophrenia is a psychotic disorder, but is not synonymous with psychosis. Simple-type schizophrenia is a sub-type of schizophrenia included in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10), in which it is classified as a mental and behaviour disorder. 
Is ankle/arm pressure predictive for cardiovascular mortality in older patients living in nursing homes? [SEP] Measurement of ankle blood pressures in a seated position will grossly overestimate the ABI (by approximately 0.3).A Doppler ultrasound blood flow detector, commonly called Doppler wand or Doppler probe, and a sphygmomanometer (blood pressure cuff) are usually needed. Interpretation of results
In a normal subject the pressure at the ankle is slightly higher than at the elbow (there is reflection of the pulse pressure from the vascular bed of the feet, whereas at the elbow the artery continues on some distance to the wrist).The ABPI is the ratio of the highest ankle to brachial artery pressure. Studies have shown the importance of central aortic pressure and its implications in assessing the efficacy of antihypertensive treatment with respect to cardiovascular risk factors. "Central pressure more strongly relates to vascular disease and outcome than does brachial pressure: the Strong Heart Study". "Monitoring arterial blood pressure: what you may not know". Toe pressures below 30 mmHg (in diabetics 50mmHg) are pathological and associated with reduced viability of the tissue and risk of amputation. Ankle and toe systolic pressures comparison of value and limitations in arterial occlusive disease. PMID 12593494 Kröger K, Stewen C, Santosa F, Rudofsky G. Toe pressure measurements compared to ankle artery pressure measurements. 
Is nasogastric decompression useful in prevention of leaks after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] Sleeve gastrectomy or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is a surgical weight-loss procedure, typically performed laparoscopically, in which approximately 75 - 85% of the stomach is removed, along the greater curvature, which leaves a cylindrical, or "sleeve"-shaped stomach the size of a banana. In many cases, sleeve gastrectomy is as effective as gastric bypass surgery, including improvements in glucose homeostasis before substantial weight loss has occurred. Recent data suggested that an ESG can safely be performed after the surgical sleeve gastrectomy (sometimes referred to as a “revisional ESG”), with total body weight loss of approximately 16-18% at 12 months. Nasogastric aspiration is mainly used to remove gastrointestinal secretions and swallowed air in patients with gastrointestinal obstructions. Nasogastric aspiration can also be used in poisoning situations when a potentially toxic liquid has been ingested, for preparation before surgery under anaesthesia, and to extract samples of gastric liquid for analysis.If the tube is to be used for continuous drainage, it is usually appended to a collector bag placed below the level of the patient's stomach; gravity empties the stomach's contents. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Sleeve gastrectomy also carries a small risk of stenosis, staple line leak, and gastro-esophageal reflux disease (also known as GERD, or heartburn).In addition to procedure-specific risks, patients also face risks to surgery in general. Gastric banding is performed using laparoscopic surgery and usually results in a shorter hospital stay, faster recovery, smaller scars, and less pain than open surgical procedures. 
The objective structured clinical examination: can physician-examiners participate from a distance? [SEP] An objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) is an approach to the assessment of clinical competence in which the components are assessed in a planned or structured way with attention being paid to the objectivity of the examination which is basically an organization framework consisting of multiple stations around which students rotate and at which students perform and are assessed on specific tasks. As an educational tool to provide immediate feedback.Objective structured clinical examinations evaluate learners “showing how” to perform complex clinical tasks including those infrequently observed and those core to practice. Objective Structured Video Examinations (OSVE). Team Objective Structured Clinical Examination (TOSCE). Limited doctor-patient relationship
Conducting an independent medical examination does not establish a typical doctor/therapist-patient relationship as exists when a clinician treats a patient in the hospital or at an outpatient clinic. However, the independent, objective (unbiased) nature of the examination does not absolve the doctor from all professional responsibilities. Thus, a "limited doctor-patient relationship" exists when conducting independent medical examinations. See also
National Board of Osteopathic Medical Examiners
United States Medical Licensing Examination


== References == 
CPAP therapy in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and obstructive sleep apnea: does it offer a better quality of life and sleep? [SEP] CPAP therapy is highly effective for managing obstructive sleep apnea. Medical uses
Severe to moderate obstructive sleep apnea
CPAP is the most effective treatment for moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea, in which the mild pressure from the CPAP prevents the airway from collapsing or becoming blocked. CPAP has been shown to be 100% effective at eliminating obstructive sleep apneas in the majority of people who use the therapy according to the recommendations of their physician. In addition, a meta-analysis showed that CPAP therapy may reduce erectile dysfunction symptoms in male patients with obstructive sleep apnea. CPAP can be used to treat UARS as the condition progresses, in order to prevent it from developing into obstructive sleep apnea. This has the additional benefit of reducing or eliminating the extremely loud snoring that sometimes accompanies sleep apnea.The CPAP machine blows air at a prescribed pressure (also called the titrated pressure). CPAP treatment can be highly effective in treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. For some patients, the improvement in the quality of sleep and quality of life due to CPAP treatment will be noticed after a single night's use. 
Does open access endoscopy close the door to an adequately informed patient? [SEP] Journal of Minimal Access Surgery is a peer-reviewed open access journal published on behalf of the Indian Association of Gastrointestinal Endo Surgeons. It is the official journal of the Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons and the European Association for Endoscopic Surgery.Surgical Endoscopy covers the surgical aspects of interventional endoscopy, ultrasound, and other techniques in gastroenterology, obstetrics, gynecology, and urology. Gastrointestinal Endoscopy is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering gastroenterology, especially as relating to endoscopy. "The core purpose of the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy is to be the leader in advancing and promoting excellence in gastrointestinal endoscopy." ASGE benefits the profession and the public by promoting valuable, ongoing research in endoscopy and its application to disease management and prevention. Improve the quality of endoscopy delivered to the public. "The American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy: a history". Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. 
Is hypoalbuminemia an independent prognostic factor in patients with gastric cancer? [SEP] Hypoalbuminemia (or hypoalbuminaemia) is a medical sign in which the level of albumin in the blood is low. If present, hypoalbuminemia is generally considered to be a sign of advanced hepatic cirrhosis, or irreversible damage to the liver. Amongst patients admitted to intensive care units (ICUs), hypoalbuminemia is specifically associated with ICU-acquired muscle weakness. In chronic kidney disease, hypoalbuminemia is an indicator of frailty, which is itself associated with complications, mental distress, quality of life impairment, resource utilization, and mortality. References
External links
Treating Hypoalbuminemia In Critically Ill Patients Infections
Helicobacter pylori infection is an essential risk factor in 65–80% of gastric cancers, but only 2% of people with H. pylori infections develop stomach cancer. In particular, HER2 is overexpressed in 13–22% of patients with gastric cancer. Prognosis
The prognosis of stomach cancer is generally poor, because the tumor has often metastasized by the time of discovery, and most people with the condition are elderly (median age is between 70 and 75 years) at presentation. 
Can the postoperative pain level be predicted preoperatively? [SEP] Activity in the body's pain signalling system during surgery produces "sensitization"; that is, it  increases the intensity of post-operative pain. Reducing activity in the body's pain-signalling system by the use of analgesics before, during and immediately after surgery is thought to reduce subsequent sensitization, and consequently the intensity of post-surgery pain. The types of nerve activity targeted in preventive analgesia include pre-surgery pain, all pain-system activity caused during surgery, and pain produced post-surgery by damage and inflammation. A person's assessment of pain intensity from standard experimental stimuli prior to surgery is correlated with the intensity of their post-surgery pain. Pain intensity immediately post-surgery
is correlated with pain intensity on release from hospital, and correlated with the likelihood of experiencing chronic post-surgery pain. It is not known whether reducing post-operative sensitization by the use of preventive analgesia will affect the likelihood of acute post-operative pain becoming chronic. The focus is on computer-aided objective recognition of pain, implemented on the basis of machine learning.Automated pain recognition allows for the valid, reliable detection and monitoring of pain in people who are unable to communicate verbally. This is achieved using machine learning techniques that are able to provide an assessment of the pain after training (learning), e.g., "no pain," "mild pain," or "severe pain." 
Proliferative index obtained by DNA image cytometry. Does it add prognostic information in Auer IV breast cancer? [SEP] Consequently, the evaluation of a tumor proliferative index (or growth fraction) has clinical significance in characterizing many solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. Diagnostic role of proliferation index
The various methods of characterizing the proliferation index have found roles in both the diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of tumors. Among solid tumors, the clinical significance of the proliferation index on breast cancer has been extensively studied. Mitotic counting has also been shown in multiple studies to have prognostic value in breast cancer, where a lower count of mitotic cells correlates with a more favorable outcome, and thus has been incorporated into part of the histological grading system. The Ki-67 labelling index has also been found to have prognostic significance where in many clinical practice guidelines, evaluation of Ki-67 in newly diagnosed invasive breast carcinomas is recommended. The Nottingham prognostic index (NPI) is used to determine prognosis following surgery for breast cancer. Genomics assays that measure specific gene expression patterns in a patient's primary tumor have become important prognostic tools for breast cancer patients. "A prospective evaluation of a breast cancer prognosis signature in the observational RASTER study". 
Does skin care frequency affect the severity of incontinence-associated dermatitis in critically ill patients? [SEP] Differential diagnosis
Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome
Drug-induced linear immunoglobulin A dermatosis
Acute graft versus host disease
Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis
Erythroderma
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms aka DRESS
A generalized morbilliform eruption

Treatment
The primary treatment of TEN is discontinuation of the causative factor(s), usually an offending drug, early referral and management in burn units or intensive care units, supportive management, and nutritional support.Current literature does not convincingly support use of any adjuvant systemic therapy. Loss of the skin leaves patients vulnerable to infections from fungi and bacteria, and can result in sepsis, the leading cause of death in the disease. Severity score
The "Severity of Illness Score for Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis" (SCORTEN) is a scoring system developed to assess the severity of TEN and predict mortality in patients with acute TEN.One point is given for each of the following factors:
age >40
heart rate >120 beats/minute
carrying diagnosis of cancer
separation of epidermis on more than ten percent of body surface area (BSA) on day 1. During the COVID-19 pandemic, healthcare workers and general public need to use personal protective equipment, sometimes for extended duration, which may result in skin problems due to friction, pressure, long-term sealing and moisture retention. Repeated hand washing and contact with irritant sanitising agents can result in contact dermatitis. Confluent erythematous rash
The erythematous rashes (redness caused by increased blood flow through skin capillaries) seen in COVID-19 are mostly present on the trunk and limbs, and associated with itching. The delay in diagnosis of perianal streptococcal dermatitis can result in prolonged discomfort and additional symptoms of constipation, anal discharge or oozing, and anal fissures. Potential risk factors for perianal streptococcal dermatitis include: poor living conditions, atopic dermatitis, and malnutrition. 
Is primary angioplasty an acceptable alternative to thrombolysis? [SEP] Angioplasty, also known as balloon angioplasty and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), is a minimally invasive endovascular procedure used to widen narrowed or obstructed arteries or veins, typically to treat arterial atherosclerosis. Chronic limb-threatening ischemia
Angioplasty can be used to treat advanced peripheral artery disease to relieve the claudication, or leg pain, that is classically associated with the condition.The bypass versus angioplasty in severe ischemia of the leg (BASIL) trial investigated infrainguinal bypass surgery first compared to angioplasty first in select patients with severe lower limb ischemia who were candidates for either procedure. The BASIL trial found that angioplasty was associated with less short term morbidity compared with bypass surgery, however long term outcomes favor bypass surgery.Based on the BASIL trial, the ACCF/AHA guidelines recommend balloon angioplasty only for patients with a life expectancy of 2 years or less or those who do not have an autogenous vein available. Risks and complications
Relative to surgery, angioplasty is a lower-risk option for the treatment of the conditions for which it is used, but there are unique and potentially dangerous risks and complications associated with angioplasty:

Embolization, or the launching of debris into the bloodstream
Bleeding from over-inflation of a balloon catheter or the use of an inappropriately large or stiff balloon, or the presence of a calcified target vessel. See also
Angioplasty


== References == Coronary angioplasty
The benefit of prompt,  primary angioplasty over thrombolytic therapy for acute STEMI is now well established. Due to the number of antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants used during primary angioplasty, the risk of bleeding associated with the procedure is higher than during an elective procedure. For the treatment of a massive pulmonary embolism, catheter-directed therapy is a safer and more effective alternative to systemic thrombolysis. 
Should HIV-infected patients be screened for silent myocardial ischaemia using gated myocardial perfusion SPECT? [SEP] A lowered BMI in HIV patients is also associated with cardiomyopathy. HIV-related cardiomyopathy is often not associated with any specific opportunistic infection, and approximately 40% of patients have not experienced any opportunistic infection before the onset of cardiac symptoms. In situ hybridization or polymerase chain reaction studies illustrate a high frequency of cytomegalovirus and HIV-1 in AIDS patients with lymphocytic myocarditis and severe left ventricular dysfunction. The intensity of the stains for TNF-α and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)   of the myocardium was greater in patients with HIV associated cardiomyopathy (as opposed to idiopathic cardiomyopathy), myocardial viral infection and was inversely correlated with CD4 count with antiretroviral therapy having no effect. Autoimmune cardiomyopathy
Cardiac autoimmunity affects the pathogenesis of HIV-related heart disease as HIV-infected patients with dilated cardiomyopathy are more likely to have cardiac-specific autoantibodies (anti-α-myosin autoantibodies) than HIV-infected patients with healthy hearts and HIV-negative controls. Treatment
Mortality in HIV-infected patients with cardiomyopathy is increased independently of CD4 count, age, sex, and HIV risk group. IVIGs can also help patients with HIV-associated myocarditis as mentioned earlier. Introduction
CMR perfusion is increasingly used in cardiac imaging to test for inducible myocardial ischaemia and has been well validated against other imaging modalities such as invasive angiography or FFR. 
Does the aggressive use of polyvalent antivenin for rattlesnake bites result in serious acute side effects? [SEP] Medical uses
Antivenom is used to treat certain venomous bites and stings. Some promising research results have also been reported for administering the drug nasally as a "universal antivenom" for neurotoxic snakebite treatment.A monovalent antivenom is specific for one toxin or species, while a polyvalent one is effective against multiple toxins or species.The majority of antivenoms (including all snake antivenoms) are administered intravenously; however, stonefish and redback spider antivenoms are given intramuscularly. The venom may cause bleeding, kidney failure, a severe allergic reaction, tissue death around the bite, or breathing problems. Bites may result in the loss of a limb or other chronic problems or even death.The outcome depends on the type of snake, the area of the body bitten, the amount of snake venom injected, the general health of the person bitten and whether or not anti-venom serum has been administered by a doctor in a timely manner. Antivenom is effective at preventing death from bites; however, antivenoms frequently have side effects. Symptoms may become more life-threatening over time, developing into hypotension, tachypnea, severe tachycardia, severe internal bleeding, altered sensorium, kidney failure, and respiratory failure.Bites by some snakes, such as the kraits, coral snake, Mojave rattlesnake, and the speckled rattlesnake, may cause little or no pain, despite their serious and  potentially life-threatening venom. It is not recommended for bites from non-neurotoxic snakes such as those found in North America and other regions of the world. Antivenom
Until the advent of antivenom, bites from some species of snake were almost universally fatal. 
Do resident's leadership skills relate to ratings of technical skill? [SEP] The development of leadership styles has led to increased efficiency and virtual team spirit in virtual teams. Leadership, both as a research area and as a practical skill, encompasses the ability of an individual, group or organization to "lead", influence or guide other individuals, teams, or entire organizations. Leadership is a matter of intelligence, trustworthiness, humaneness, courage, and discipline ... Reliance on intelligence alone results in rebelliousness. They would then identify if these particular behaviors are reflective of leadership effectiveness. A variety of leadership behaviors are expected to facilitate these functions. Despite these assertions, however, it is largely recognized and accepted by practitioners and researchers that leadership is important, and research supports the notion that leaders do contribute to key organizational outcomes
To facilitate successful performance it is important to understand and accurately measure leadership performance. Campbell identified a number of specific types of performance dimensions; leadership was one of the dimensions that he identified. Some have argued that the majority of administrative, organizational, team- building, and self-assessment skills of quality leaders are not taught in medical training programs. 
The FOOTSTEP self-management foot care programme: are rheumatoid arthritis patients physically able to participate? [SEP] The class includes people with arthritis and osteoporosis, or ankylosis of the knee. Medically, this class includes people with arthritis and osteoporosis, or ankylosis of the knee. The Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life Questionnaire (RAQoL) is a disease-specific patient-reported outcome measure which determines the effect rheumatoid arthritis has on a patient’s quality of life. It was the first patient completed quality of life questionnaire that focused on rheumatoid arthritis  and is distinct from other questionnaires as it includes physical contact as a dimension of quality of life. The RAQoL has been used in clinical studies in order to confirm the efficacy of proposed treatments of rheumatoid arthritis. The American College of Rheumatology (ACR; until 1985 called American Rheumatism Association) is an organization of and for physicians, health professionals, and scientists that advances rheumatology through programs of education, research, advocacy and practice support relating to the care of people with arthritis and rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases.It organizes scientific meetings, publishes three medical journals (Arthritis & Rheumatology, Arthritis Care & Research, and ACR Open Rheumatology), and promotes (through the Research and Education Foundation) research into rheumatological conditions, including the formulation of diagnostic criteria for diseases. Its division, the Association of Rheumatology Health Professionals, represents non-physician health care professionals in the field. Conditions associated with a steppage gait
Foot drop
Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease
Polio
Multiple sclerosis
Syphilis
Guillain–Barré syndrome
Spinal disc herniation
Anterior Compartment Muscle Atrophy
Deep fibular nerve injury
Spondylolisthesis
Slipped Femoral Epiphysis
ALS/PLS

References
External links
A video of a neuropathic gait 
CYP2D6*4 allele and breast cancer risk: is there any association? [SEP] Cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the CYP2D6 gene. CYP2D6, a member of the cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is one of the most important enzymes involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics in the body. Genotype/phenotype variability
CYP2D6 shows the largest phenotypical variability among the CYPs, largely due to genetic polymorphism. Ethnic factors in variability
Ethnicity is a factor in the occurrence of CYP2D6 variability. Cytochrome P450 2B6 is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the CYP2B6 gene. CYP2B6 is a member of the cytochrome P450 group of enzymes. The CYP2A6 gene is part of a large cluster of cytochrome P450 genes from the CYP2A, CYP2B and CYP2F subfamilies on chromosome 19q. Sequence variants of these genes that are relatively common in the population may be associated with a small to moderate increased relative risk for breast cancer. 
Does base deficit predict mortality in patients with severe traumatic brain injury? [SEP] In physiology, base excess and base deficit refer to an excess or deficit, respectively, in the amount of base present in the blood. It correlates with mortality, morbidity and hospitalization time after trauma. The Disability Rating Scale (DRS) was developed as a way to track a traumatic brain injury (TBI) patient from 'Coma to Community'. Notes
References
Eliason & Topp (1984) Predictive Validity of Rappaport's Disability Rating Scale in Subjects with Acute Brain Dysfunction. (2011) Measuring Functional and Quality of Life Outcomes Following Major Head Injury: Common Scales and Checklists. (1982) Disability Rating Scale for Severe Head Trauma Patients: Coma to Community. Shulka, Devi, & Agrawal (2011) Outcome Measures for Traumatic Brain Injury. The Center for Outcome Measurement in Brain Injury. 
Does increased use of private health care reduce the demand for NHS care? [SEP] Private health care has continued parallel to the NHS, paid for largely by private insurance: it is used by about 8% of the population, generally as an add-on to NHS services. The Act has also become associated with the perception of increased private provision of NHS services. The involvement of private companies regularly draws the suspicion of NHS staff, the media and the public.Outsourcing and privatisation has increased in recent years, with NHS spending to the private sector rose from £4.1 billion in 2009–10 to £8.7 billion in 2015–16. The self-pay healthcare market doubled in value between 2010 and 2021.The inability of the NHS to meet waiting time targets for planned surgery led to an increase in the numbers paying personally for private operations. Forecast
The UK private healthcare market was forecast to grow from $11.8bn in 2017 to $13.8bn by the end of 2023.A 40% increase in private hospital capacity in London is expected between 2018-2023. NHS use of the private sector
Jeremy Hunt points out that "independent hospitals fish from the same pool of doctors for their workforce" so relying on the private sector sucks doctors and nurses out of NHS hospitals, making waiting lists even longer.The 1997 Labour Party manifesto made a specific commitment to end the Conservatives’ internal market in health care, but in government they retained the split between purchasers and providers of healthcare. Since early 2017 private provision had been steadily about 6% of the total NHS caseload for elective surgery according to NHS Gooroo.As of recent years, the private sector accounts for approximately 10% of elective care, with this split evenly between NHS funded and private funding of care costs. Private health care has continued parallel to the NHS, paid for largely by private insurance, but it is used by less than 8% of the population, and generally as a top-up to NHS services. 
Does confined placental mosaicism account for adverse perinatal outcomes in IVF pregnancies? [SEP] Confined placental mosaicism (CPM) represents a discrepancy between the chromosomal makeup of the cells in the placenta and the cells in the fetus. Prognosis
Most pregnancies that are diagnosed with confined placental mosaicism continue to term with no complications and the children develop normally. The pregnancy loss rate in pregnancies with confined placental mosaicism, diagnosed by chorionic villus sampling, is higher than among pregnancies without placental mosaicism. "Confined placental mosaicism". "Uniparental disomy with and without confined placental mosaicism: a model for trisomic zygote rescue". "Confined placental mosaicism". "Molecular cytogenetic detection of confined gonadal mosaicism in a conceptus with trisomy 16 placental mosaicism". "Prospective prenatal investigations on potential uniparental disomy in cases of confined placental trisomy". 
Utility of unenhanced fat-suppressed T1-weighted MRI in children with sickle cell disease -- can it differentiate bone infarcts from acute osteomyelitis? [SEP] Bone disease refers to the medical conditions which affect the bone. Turbo inversion recovery magnitude
Turbo inversion recovery magnitude (TIRM) measures only the magnitude of a turbo spin echo after a preceding inversion pulse, thus is phase insensitive.TIRM is superior in the assessment of osteomyelitis and in suspected head and neck cancer. "Susceptibility-weighted MR imaging: a review of clinical applications in children". "Magnetic resonance frequency shifts during acute MS lesion formation". T2*-weighted imaging is an MRI sequence to quantify observable or effective T2 (T2* or "T2-star"). Plain radiographs are a valuable tool for detecting and classifying osteosclerotic disorders. Localized osteosclerosis can be caused by Legg–Calvé–Perthes disease, sickle-cell disease and osteoarthritis among others. Fat suppression is a technique in MRI imaging where fat signals from adipose tissues are suppressed to better visualise uptake of contrast materials of bodily tissues, reduce chemical shift artifact, and to characterise the type of lesions such as adrenal gland tumors, bone marrow infiltration, fatty tumors, and steatosis by determining the fat content of the tissues. 
Cancer of the buccal mucosa: are margins and T-stage accurate predictors of local control? [SEP] Local
The tumor may spread locally to soft palate and pillars, base of tongue, pharyngeal wall and hypopharynx. Initial staging
Histological differentiation
Loco-regional control of the primary tumor.The records of 471 male patients with tonsillar carcinoma seen at the Veterans Administration Medical Center, Hines, Illinois, have been reviewed to establish the incidence and site of distant metastasis. Finally, the M stage indicates if the cancer has spread beyond the head and neck or not. Stage
The stage at which the cancer presents itself affects the type of definitive treatment, chance of cure, recurrence of cancer and survival rate of the patient. Nearly three fourths of the patients present in Stage III or later.The stages of oropharyngeal cancer are as follows:
• Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ): This stage indicates a good prognosis as most patients with stage 0 survive for a long period without the requirement of an intensive treatment. Metastasis
Spread of cancer cells to local structures like tissues, vessels, large nerves and lymphatics worsens a patient's prognosis.A study that analyzed the survival rate in HPV-related oropharynx carcinoma to that in HPV-unrelated oropharynx carcinoma. Persons with a positive family history of cancer in the mouth. Pathological T stage (pT)
pT2: organ confined
pT2a: Unilateral, one-half of one side or less
pT2b: Unilateral, involving more than one-half of side but not both sides
pT2c: Bilateral disease
pT3: Extraprostatic extension
pT3a: Extraprostatic extension or microscopic invasion of bladder neck
pT3b: Seminal vesicle invasion
pT4:Invasion of rectum, levator muscles, and/or pelvic wall

Evaluation of the regional lymph nodes ('N')
NX: cannot evaluate the regional lymph nodes
N0: there has been no spread to the regional lymph nodes
N1: there has been spread to the regional lymph nodes

Evaluation of distant metastasis ('M')
MX: cannot evaluate distant metastasis
M0: there is no distant metastasis
M1: there is distant metastasis
M1a: the cancer has spread to lymph nodes beyond the regional ones
M1b: the cancer has spread to bone
M1c: the cancer has spread to other sites (regardless of bone involvement)

Evaluation of the histologic grade ('G')
Usually, the grade of the cancer (how different the tissue is from normal tissue) is evaluated separately from the stage. 
Can mass drug administration lead to the sustainable control of schistosomiasis? [SEP] Background
Intestinal parasitic worms (most of them falling in the category of soil-transmitted helminths) affect approximately 1.5 billion people, according to WHO estimates, with 218 million needing preventive treatment for schistosoma-type worms in 2015.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends mass deworming of children who live in endemic areas, in order to reduce morbidity by reducing the overall worm burden. Methods
Pills
Deworming programmes for children usually administer an anthelmintic drug such as albendazole or mebendazole (or praziquantel in a weight based or height based dose for schistosomiasis). However, for schistosomiasis, mass deworming might have been effective for weight but probably was ineffective for height, cognition, and school attendance. History
Following World War II, the World Health Organization "has been the principal body concerned with the international support of research and control programmes" of schistosomiasis. Schistosomiasis affects over 200 million people worldwide, mainly in rural agricultural and peri-urban areas of the third world, and approximately 10% suffer severe health complications from the infection. While chemotherapeutic drugs, such as praziquantel, oxamniquine and metrifonate both no longer on the market, are currently considered safe and effective for the treatment of schistosomiasis, reinfection occurs frequently following drug treatment, thus a vaccine is sought to provide long-term treatment. Unlimit Health’s area of focus is the elimination of schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminthiases (intestinal worms). By 2007, the SCI had facilitated delivery of approximately 40 million treatments of praziquantel against schistosomiasis, and many more deworming doses of albendazole. 
Can D-dimer become a new diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis? [SEP] Its main use, therefore, is to exclude thromboembolic disease where the probability is low.D-dimer levels are used as a predictive biomarker for the blood disorder, disseminated intravascular coagulation and in the coagulation disorders associated with COVID-19 infection. Indications
D-dimer testing is of clinical use when there is a suspicion of deep venous thrombosis (DVTl), pulmonary embolism (PE) or disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).For DVT and PE, there are possible various scoring systems that are used to determine the a priori clinical probability of these diseases; the best-known is the Wells score. Coagulation activation markers, particularly D-dimer, are useful in the diagnosis of acute venous thromboembolism. A score of 5 or 6 is compatible with the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. A score of 7 or 8 indicates a probable appendicitis, and a score of 9 or 10 indicates a very probable acute appendicitis. Significance
It carries high significance in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. "The use of the clinical scoring system by Alvarado in the decision to perform computed tomography for acute appendicitis in the ED". "Application of Alvarado scoring system in diagnosis of acute appendicitis". 
Is there a relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease? [SEP] At least 16 systemic diseases have been linked to periodontitis. These systemic diseases are associated with periodontal disease because they generally contribute to either a decreased host resistance to infections or dysfunction in the connective tissue of the gums, increasing patient susceptibility to inflammation-induced destruction. Periodontal disease, also known as gum disease, is a set of inflammatory conditions affecting the tissues surrounding the teeth. Diabetes and periodontal disease
A positive correlation between raised levels of glucose within the blood and the onset or progression of periodontal disease has been shown in the current literature. Both periodontal disease and cancer risk are associated with genetic susceptibility and it is possible that there is a positive association by a shared genetic susceptibility in the two diseases. A variety of cardiovascular diseases can also be associated with periodontal disease. Chronic periodontitis can be associated with local predisposing factors (e.g. Diabetes Mellitus
Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes have shown a link with the treatment and progression of chronic periodontitis. 
Do clinical variables predict pathologic radiographs in the first episode of wheezing? [SEP] Individuals who are typically labeled as having RAD generally have a history of wheezing, coughing, dyspnea, and production of sputum that may or may not be caused by asthma. Symptoms may include shortness of breath (on exertion and later at rest), wheezing, and sputum production. "Creola bodies in wheezing infants predict the development of asthma". "Creola Bodies in Infancy with Respiratory Syncytial Virus Bronchiolitis Predict the Development of Asthma". Focal wheezing is a characteristic, if not specific, physical examination finding. Imaging
Simple chest X-rays may reveal collapse due to airway obstruction. Roles in asthma
Asthmatic subjects in 9 to 11 years old, 80% to 85% of asthma exacerbations that were associated with reduced peak expiratory flow rates and wheezing were due to viral upper respiratory tract infections (URIs). The standard radiographs provide differing types ("shape and size") and severity ("profusion") of abnormalities seen in persons with pneumoconiosis, including Coal Workers’ Pneumoconiosis, silicosis, and asbestosis. 
Globulomaxillary cysts--do they really exist? [SEP] The globulomaxillary cyst is a cyst that appears between a maxillary lateral incisor and the adjacent canine. The globulomaxillary cyst often causes the roots of adjacent teeth to diverge. Tumor-induced secondary cysts are caused by a tumor. "True" sebaceous cysts,  which originate from sebaceous glands and which contain sebum, are relatively rare and are known as steatocystoma simplex or, if multiple, as steatocystoma multiplex. Areas consistent with proliferation can be found in some cysts. Clinically, they appear similar to a cyst on examination. "Choroid Plexus Cysts in the Fetus: A Benign Anatomic Variant or Pathologic Entity? Mechanism/Pathophysiology
The mechanism of cyst formation in Glomerulocystic kidney disease is not well understood. 
MiraLAX vs. Golytely: is there a significant difference in the adenoma detection rate? [SEP] The M2-PK Test is able to detect 80.3% of colorectal cancers. On the other hand, adenomatoid tumors are the most common tumors of testicular adnexa. Imaging
In order to see adenomatoid tumors multiple imaging modalities are used. In 1967 – an article, published in The Medical Journal of Australia proved the results of 1964 US study and confirmed the efficiency of using Microlax as part of preparation for sigmoidoscopy. The DecisionDx-UM test was clinically validated on these tumors of the uveal tract. Both are highly effective with ‘cure’ rates above 90%. Tumor biopsy collection is critical for the successful reporting of metastatic risk Class assignment following DecisionDx-UM testing. Systemic metastases are detected by Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging at the time of the original diagnosis in less than 4% of UM patients  Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) has recently been reported more sensitive than PET for identifying metastasis from choroidal melanoma, but MRI requires tumor mass greater than 5mm in size. 
Does government assistance improve utilization of eye care services by low-income individuals? [SEP] Government support and local innovation has produced rapid improvements in eye care in India. Around half the eye care in India in 2018 is provided by non-government organisations. New Eyes for the Needy is a non-profit organization started in 1932 as New Eyes (incorporated 1948) and based in Short Hills, New Jersey, which provides people in the United States with eyeglasses and sends recycled eyeglasses to needy people overseas. In 2011-12, in partnership with social service agencies and optical dispensers across the country, New Eyes helped 6,066 underserved residents of the U.S. to get the eyeglasses they needed but could not afford. Voucher program
New Eyes for the Needy purchases prescription eyeglasses for indigent people in the U.S. through a well-established voucher program. Donations and volunteer work
New Eyes for the Needy depends primarily on volunteer work and donations. Global Eyeglasses partners with new eyes for the needy IRIS equips new eye clinics, strengthens existing ones, conducts eye screening, provides cataract surgery for poor people, primary eye care training for staff.IRIS has partnered with other NGOs to provide funding for services, such as with The Vision Charity in Sri Lanka. 
Does telmisartan prevent hepatic fibrosis in rats with alloxan-induced diabetes? [SEP] It is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist and works by blocking the effects of angiotensin II.Telmisartan was patented in 1991 and came into medical use in 1999. Medical uses
Telmisartan is used to treat high blood pressure, heart failure, and diabetic kidney disease. Pharmacology
Mechanism of action
Telmisartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker that shows high affinity for the angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AT1), with a binding affinity 3000 times greater for AT1 than AT2. In addition to blocking the renin–angiotensin system, telmisartan acts as a selective modulator of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ), a central regulator of insulin and glucose metabolism. It is believed that telmisartan's dual mode of action may provide protective benefits against the vascular and renal damage caused by diabetes and cardiovascular disease (CVD).Telmisartan's activity at the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPAR-δ) receptor has prompted speculation around its potential as a sport doping agent as an alternative to GW 501516. Telmisartan activates PPAR-δ receptors in several tissues.Also, telmisartan has a PPAR-γ agonist activity. "Effects of the angiotensin-receptor blocker telmisartan on cardiovascular events in high-risk patients intolerant to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors: a randomised controlled trial". Fimasartan has been shown to reduce cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, remodelling, and unnecessary cell proliferation via blockage of AT1 activation   conceivably through decreased Endothelin 1 production, a result of AT1 activation. 
Two-year follow-up survey of patients with allergic contact dermatitis from an occupational cohort: is the prognosis dependent on the omnipresence of the allergen? [SEP] Symptoms include atopic dermatitis, food allergy, allergic rhinitis and asthma. Allergic inflammation is an important pathophysiological feature of several disabilities or medical conditions including allergic asthma, atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis and several ocular allergic diseases. See also
Allergy
Inflammation


=== References === It may cause allergic contact dermatitis in some individuals. Allergen of the Year is an annual award voted upon by the American Contact Dermatitis Society. This is "designed to draw attention to allergens that are very common, under-recognized, merit more attention because they are causing significant allergic contact dermatitis or are no longer causing significant relevant disease (as in thimerosal)". Photodermatitis, sometimes referred to as sun poisoning or photoallergy, is a form of allergic contact dermatitis in which the allergen must be activated by light to sensitize the allergic response, and to cause a rash or other systemic effects on subsequent exposure. The European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) is a non-profit organisation for European clinicians, researchers and allied health professionals in the field of allergy and clinical immunology, covering asthma, rhinitis, eczema and occupational allergy, food and drug allergy, severe anaphylactic reactions, autoimmune disorders, and immunodeficiencies. 
Can calprotectin predict relapse risk in inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] Elevated faecal calprotectin indicates the migration of neutrophils to the intestinal mucosa, which occurs during intestinal inflammation, including inflammation caused by inflammatory bowel disease. Use as a surrogate marker
The main diseases that cause an increased excretion of faecal calprotectin are  inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), coeliac disease, infectious colitis, necrotizing enterocolitis in infants, intestinal cystic fibrosis and colorectal cancer.Although a relatively new test, faecal calprotectin is regularly used as indicator for IBD during treatment and as a diagnostic marker. Measurement of faecal calprotectin has been shown to be strongly correlated with 111-indium-labelled leucocytes – considered the gold standard measurement of intestinal inflammation. Faecal calprotectin has been used to detect intestinal inflammation (colitis or enteritis) and can serve as a biomarker for inflammatory bowel diseases. As people with active inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease have as much as a 10-fold increase in faecal calprotectin levels, the measurement of faecal calprotectin can serve as a biochemical test for these diseases. Although a relatively new test, faecal calprotectin is regularly used as an indicator for IBD during treatment and as a diagnostic marker. Elevations in fecal calprotectin correlate with the extent of intestinal inflammation.Computed tomography (CT) imaging may show evidence of colitis, though the sensitivity is relatively low (50%). Fecal calprotectin, a stool test and marker of inflammation, may be used to follow improvement in colitis. 
Can nurse-led preoperative education reduce anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] Preoperational anxiety, or preoperative anxiety, is a common reaction experienced by patients who are admitted to a hospital for surgery. Causes of anxiety
A variety of fears can cause preoperative anxiety. Effects of preoperative anxiety
Physiological effects
Anxiety can cause physiological responses such as tachycardia, hypertension, elevated temperature, sweating, nausea, and a heightened sense of touch, smell, or hearing.A patient may also experience peripheral vasoconstriction, which makes it difficult for the hospital staff to obtain blood. Effects
Preparation for surgery
On the positive side, if a patient experiences moderate amounts of anxiety, the anxiety can aid in the preparation for surgery. Post-operation
Anxiety has also been proven to cause higher analgesic and anaesthetic requirement, postoperative pain, and prolonged hospital stay.Irving L. Janis separates the effects of preoperative anxiety on postoperative reactions into three levels:
Low anxiety: The defenses of denial and other reassurances that were created to ward off the worry and apprehension preoperatively are not effective long-term. High anxiety: Because the reassurances given by hospital personnel were not effective pre-operatively, there aren't any real reassurances available to aid with the stress stimuli that are subsequently encountered. Treatment
Treatment of preoperative anxiety may include:

Preoperative patient teaching or tours
Accurate and thorough information about the operation
Relaxation therapy
Cognitive behavioural therapy
Permitting family members to be present before the operation
Anti-anxiety medication such as benzodiazepines or melatonin. Cardiac nurses perform postoperative care on a surgical unit, stress test evaluations, cardiac monitoring, vascular monitoring, and health assessments. 
Is there a discrepancy between patient and physician quality of life assessment? [SEP] EQ-5D can also be referred to as a patient-reported outcome (PRO) measure, because patients can complete the questionnaire themselves to provide information about their current health status and how this changes over time. For example, a patient may rate their current health as 50 on the scale, but after a medical intervention the respondent's rating may be 85, reflecting a substantial improvement in health status. Theoretical and psychometric properties
The validity, reliability, and responsiveness of EQ-5D-3L have been assessed for EQ-5D versions in many different health conditions, including cardiovascular disease, mental health populations, aged care, skin conditions, cancer, and total knee arthroplasty.The brevity of EQ-5D-3L is likely to be a major factor in its widespread use, but the three-level format can be a limitation in some clinical areas. As with any situation involving multiple perspectives, patients' and physicians' rating of the same objective situation have been found to differ significantly. Consequently, health-related quality of life is now usually assessed using patient questionnaires. Although often used interchangeably with the measurement of health status, both health-related quality of life and health status measure different concepts. Quality of life measuring tools can fail to account for effective therapeutic strategies that can alleviate health burdens, and thus can promote a self-fulfilling prophecy for patients. See also
Medical law
Patient-reported outcome
Pharmacoeconomics
Medical ethics

References
External links
ProQolid (Patient-Reported Outcome & Quality of Life Instruments Database)
Mapi Research Trust ("Non-profit organization involved in Patient-Centered Outcomes")
PROLabels(Database on Patient-Reported Outcome claims in marketing authorizations)
Quality-of-Life-Recorder (Project to bring QoL measurement to routine practice. 
Impact of MPH programs: contributing to health system strengthening in low- and middle-income countries? [SEP] The Alliance for Health Policy and Systems Research (the Alliance) is an international partnership hosted at World Health Organization Headquarters that works to improve the health of those in low- and middle-income countries by supporting the generation and use of evidence that strengthens health systems. The MPH degree focuses on public health practice, as opposed to research or teaching. Core disciplines
The traditional MPH degree is designed to expose candidates to five core discipline areas of public health:
Biostatistics
Epidemiology
Environmental Health
Health Policy and Health Administration
Social and behavioral sciences

Doctorate degrees
The Doctor of Public Health (DrPH) degree is for those who intend to pursue or advance a professional practice career in public health and for leaders and future leaders in public health practice. The usual requirement for entry into this program is a master's degree in Public Health (MPH). India
In India, the MPH degree course is a two-year postgraduate course or a postgraduate diploma of one year (DPH), approved by the Medical Council of India, which is open to candidates with a bachelor's degree in any discipline from a recognized university, with at least 50% marks. Malaysia
In Malaysia, the first MPH programme started in 1973 by the Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Malaya. United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, the MPH or MSc in Public Health is usually a one-year full-time program. Health systems strengthening (also health system strengthening, abbreviated HSS) is a term used in global health that roughly means to improve the health care system of a country. 
Is diffusion-weighted imaging a significant indicator of the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions? [SEP] Stroke and hemorrhage
Diffusion weighted imaging offers a powerful means to detect acute stroke. Water molecule diffusion patterns can therefore reveal microscopic details about tissue architecture, either normal or in a diseased state. A variant of diffusion weighted imaging, diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), was used in deriving the Connectome data sets; DSI is a variant of diffusion-weighted imaging that is sensitive to intra-voxel heterogeneities in diffusion directions caused by crossing fiber tracts and thus allows more accurate mapping of axonal trajectories than other diffusion imaging approaches.Diffusion-weighted images are very useful to diagnose vascular strokes in the brain. Clinically, trace-weighted images have proven to be very useful to diagnose vascular strokes in the brain, by early detection (within a couple of minutes) of the hypoxic edema.More extended DTI scans derive neural tract directional information from the data using 3D or multidimensional vector algorithms based on six or more gradient directions, sufficient to compute the diffusion tensor. Mechanism
Diffusion imaging is an MRI method that produces in vivo magnetic resonance images of biological tissues sensitized with the local characteristics of molecular diffusion, generally water (but other moieties can also be investigated using MR spectroscopic approaches). The imaging of this property is an extension of diffusion MRI. Microscopically, a lobular proliferation of bland-appearing hepatocytes with a bile ductular proliferation and malformed vessels within the fibrous scar is the most common pattern. About 20% of FNH lesions are associated with hepatic hemangiomas. 
Are failures of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction associated with steep posterior tibial slopes? [SEP] Normally, the step-off is approximately 1 cm, but is decreased (Grade I) or even absent (Grade II) or inverse (Grade III) in injuries to the posterior cruciate ligament.Patients who are suspected to have a posterior cruciate ligament injury should always be evaluated for other knee injuries that often occur in combination with an PCL injuries. Ligament tears account for more than forty percent of knee injuries and the posterior cruciate ligament is considered one of the less common injuries. An increased amount of anterior tibial translation compared with the opposite limb or lack of a firm end-point may indicate either a sprain of the anteromedial bundle or complete tear of the ACL. Excessive displacement of the tibia anteriorly suggests that the anterior cruciate ligament is injured, whereas excessive posterior displacement of the tibia may indicate injury of the posterior cruciate ligament. The anterior cruciate ligament is one of the four main ligaments of the knee, providing 85% of the restraining force to anterior tibial displacement at 30 and 90° of knee flexion. Other factors that could contribute to higher risks of ACL tears in women include patient weight and height, the size and depth of the intercondylar notch, the diameter of the ACL, the magnitude of the tibial slope, the volume of the tibial spines, the convexity of the lateral tibiofemoral articular surfaces, and the concavity of the medial tibial plateau. Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACL reconstruction) is a surgical tissue graft replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament, located in the knee, to restore its function after an injury. Anterior Cruciate Ligament damage is a very common injury, especially among athletes. 
Does evidence-based practice improve patient outcomes? [SEP] The goal of evidence-based practice is to eliminate unsound or outdated practices in favor of more-effective ones by shifting the basis for decision making from tradition, intuition, and unsystematic experience to firmly grounded scientific research. Use of the term rapidly expanded to include a previously described approach that emphasized the use of evidence in the design of guidelines and policies that apply to groups of patients and populations ("evidence-based practice policies").Whether applied to medical education, decisions about individuals, guidelines and policies applied to populations, or administration of health services in general, evidence-based medicine advocates that to the greatest extent possible, decisions and policies should be based on evidence, not just the beliefs of practitioners, experts, or administrators. By sharing the results of evidence-based practice process, others may benefit. Evidence-based nursing in an attempt to facilitate the management of the growing literature and technology accessible to healthcare providers that can potentially improve patient care and their outcomes. These practices affect patient outcomes. Evidence-based design is especially important in evidence-based medicine, where research has shown that environment design can affect patient outcomes. Webster, L. and Steinke, C., "Evidence-based design: A new direction for health care". Evidence-Based Healthcare Design. 
Multidisciplinary decisions in breast cancer: does the patient receive what the team has recommended? [SEP] Often more than one healthcare professional is involved in a decision, such as professional teams involved in caring for an elderly person who may have several health problems at once. "Evaluation of the Use of Shared Decision Making in Breast Cancer: International Survey". Breast cancer diagnosis and treatment is influenced by different cultural backgrounds. A multidisciplinary team of surgeons, oncologists, and pathologists then decide about the treatment path, possibly involving other modalities such as MRI, computed tomography, and, in some cases PET-CT, in this process. Breast cancer management takes different approaches depending on physical and biological characteristics of the disease, as well as the age, over-all health and personal preferences of the patient. Management of breast cancer is undertaken by a multidisciplinary team, including medical-, radiation-, and surgical- oncologists, and is guided by national and international guidelines. Tumor board review is conducted when teams of expert physicians meet to review and discuss complex patients with a diagnosis of cancer. In cancer treatment, a tumor board review may include that of a medical oncologist (who provides cancer treatment with drugs), a surgical oncologist (who provides cancer treatment with surgery), and a radiation oncologist (who provides cancer treatment with radiation). 
Does quilting suture prevent seroma in abdominoplasty? [SEP] Abdominoplasty or "tummy tuck" is a cosmetic surgery procedure used to make the abdomen thinner and more firm. Partial abdominoplasty
A partial or mini abdominoplasty proceeds as follows:

A smaller incision is made. Conventional abdominoplasty tightens muscles in a vertical line. Floating abdominoplasty or FAB technique
This new technique, also known as an extended mini abdominoplasty, allows for tightening and shaping through a smaller incision that is not placed around the belly button. Risks
Abdominoplasty carries certain risks that may be serious or life-threatening. Infection and blood clots are a serious potential risk after abdominoplasty, but which occur rarely. Possible risks of abdominoplasty include:

Bleeding
Fluid accumulation
Poor wound healing
Skin loss
Numbness or other changes in skin sensation
Anesthesia complications
Skin discoloration and/or prolonged swelling
Fatty tissue found deep in the skin might die (fat necrosis)
Major wound separation
Asymmetry
Recurrent looseness of skin
Pain, which may persist
Persistent swelling in the legs
Nerve damage
Possibility of revisional surgery
Hematoma (may occur in 3–4% of cases)
Keloid (heavy scar)
Seroma
Suture rupture
Swelling
Visible scar
Death

Related procedures
Liposuction, also known as lipoplasty, is a type of surgery that removes fat from the human body in an attempt to change its shape. Bolstering (placing small rolls of gauze under the surface loops prior to tightening) prevents the suture material from cutting down into the skin. 
Does feeding tube insertion and its timing improve survival? [SEP] A variety of feeding tubes are used in medical practice. Feeding tubes can also increase the risk of pressure ulcers, require pharmacological or physical restraints, and lead to distress. Mechanical obstruction and dysmotility
There is at least moderate evidence for feeding tubes improving outcomes for chronic malnutrition in people with cancers of the head and neck that obstruct the esophagus and would limit oral intake, people with advanced gastroparesis, and ALS. There is some evidence to suggest that people with a tube through the nose were able to start eating normally sooner. There is moderate quality evidence suggesting that the risk of aspiration pneumonia may be reduced by inserting the feeding tube into the duodenum or the jejunum (post-pyloric feeding), when compared to inserting the feeding tube into the stomach. See also
Force feeding
Feeding tube


== References == Overview
Enteral feeding via a tube (nasogastric tube, PEG or jejunostomy) is commonly used in the treatment of premature infants and young children to support them during periods of severe illness and health disorders when a child is unable to swallow food safely. It is not recommended if there is a high possibility of an upcoming surgery or intervention that will require further usage of a feeding tube. 
Does prostate morphology affect outcomes after holmium laser enucleation? [SEP] With laser prostate surgery a fiber optic cable pushed through the urethra is used to transmit lasers such as holmium-Nd:YAG high-powered "red" or potassium titanyl phosphate (KTP) "green" to vaporize the adenoma. GreenLight Laser Therapy uses a laser beam to remove prostate tissue. GreenLight Laser Therapy has been increasingly performed as an alternative to transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) in order to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia with several studies demonstrating comparable results with fewer side effects and complications. "High-power (60-watt) potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser vaporization prostatectomy in living canines and in human and canine cadavers". Compared with transurethral resection of the prostate, the standard surgery for treating benign prostatic hyperplasia, this procedure may be less effective in reducing urinary symptoms but may preserve ejaculation and have fewer unwanted effects on erections. Surgical removal of part of the prostate may be carried out in those who do not improve with other measures. Open prostatectomy: not usually performed nowadays due to its high morbidity, even if results are very good.Other less invasive surgical approaches (requiring spinal anesthesia) include:

Holmium laser ablation of the prostate (HoLAP)
Holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (HoLeP)
Thulium laser transurethral vaporesection of the prostate (ThuVARP)
Photoselective vaporization of the prostate (PVP)
Aquablation therapy: a type of surgery using a water jet to remove prostatic tissue. References
External links

Extrinsic Compression by Prostate 
Do acute changes in heart rate by isoproterenol affect aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension? [SEP] Pharmacology
The adverse effects of isoprenaline are also related to the drug's cardiovascular effects. Isoprenaline can produce tachycardia (an elevated heart rate), which predisposes people who take it to cardiac arrhythmias. Isoprenaline has positive inotropic and chronotropic effects on the heart. Its inotropic and chronotropic effects elevate systolic blood pressure, while its vasodilatory effects tend to lower diastolic blood pressure. Increased arterial stiffness is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction, hypertension, heart failure and stroke, the two leading causes of death in the developed world. This effect may be exaggerated if the increase in arterial stiffness results in reduced wave reflection and more propagation of the pulsatile pressure into the microcirculation.An increase in arterial stiffness also increases the load on the heart, since it has to perform more work to maintain the stroke volume. Isoxaprolol is an adrenergic antagonist with antiarrhythmic and antihypertensive properties. Studies have shown the importance of central aortic pressure and its implications in assessing the efficacy of antihypertensive treatment with respect to cardiovascular risk factors. 
"Occult" posttraumatic lesions of the knee: can magnetic resonance substitute for diagnostic arthroscopy? [SEP] The Knee Surgery, Sports Traumatology, Arthroscopy is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal published in English covering orthopaedic surgery, especially related to sports trauma and surgeries, in particular arthroscopies. References
External links
Official website
European Society for Sports Traumatology, Knee-surgery and Arthroscopy Magnetic resonance imaging
The diagnostic performance of MRI in the detection of occult fractures has been shown to be comparable, or better than MDCT. For instance, an occult intertrochanteric extension of a greater trochanter fracture can be most effectively appreciated on MRI Moreover, MRI is extremely helpful in detecting associated soft tissue abnormalities, especially ligamentous lesions. However, in the absence of a history of trauma and linear hypointensities on T1 W images, isolated bone marrow edema may represent other pathologies such as osteoid osteoma and sclerosing osteomyelitis.Although 1.5 T and 3 T MR is considered as the current gold standard for the detection of radiographically occult fractures, ultra-high field MR provide higher signal-to-noise ratio and, therefore, is expected to be superior to 1.5 T and 3 T. Ultra-high field MR seems to be promising in the diagnosis of a variety of musculoskeletal conditions including trauma, but it is not used in daily routine yet. Moreover, MRI helps to detect soft tissue abnormalities which are more frequently seen in femoral, acetabular, and pubic injuries than sacral lesions. Diagnostic arthrograms can be direct, as described above with penetration of the joint, or indirect, by a venous injection of contrast material and delayed imaging with CT or MRI. See also
Knee examination


== References == 
Could ESC (Electronic Stability Control) change the way we drive? [SEP] Electronic stability control (ESC), also referred to as electronic stability program (ESP) or dynamic stability control (DSC), is a computerized technology that improves a vehicle's stability by detecting and reducing loss of traction (skidding). ESC does not improve a vehicle's cornering performance; instead, it helps reduce the chance of the driver losing control of the vehicle. During high-performance driving, ESC can intervene when unwanted, because steering input may not always be indicative of the intended direction of travel (such as during controlled drifting). This has led to some concern that ESC could allow drivers to become overconfident in their vehicle's handling and/or their own driving skills. Most activate a dashboard indicator light and/or alert tone; some intentionally allow the vehicle's corrected course to deviate very slightly from the driver-commanded direction, even if it is possible to more precisely match it.All ESC manufacturers emphasize that the system is not a performance enhancement nor a replacement for safe driving practices, but rather a safety technology to assist the driver in recovering from dangerous situations. Effectiveness
Numerous studies around the world have confirmed that ESC is highly effective in helping the driver maintain control of the car, thereby saving lives and reducing the probability of occurrence and severity of crashes. The IIHS study concluded that ESC reduces the likelihood of all fatal crashes by 43%, fatal single-vehicle crashes by 56%, and fatal single-vehicle rollovers by 77–80%. However, ESC serves a different purpose from that of ABS or traction control.The ESC system uses several sensors to determine where the driver intends to travel. 
The insertion allele of the ACE gene I/D polymorphism. A candidate gene for insulin resistance? [SEP] "ACE Model". It is a possible risk factor in Type II Diabetes, and associated with high levels of glucose in the blood. General information
KIAA0825 is gene that appears to be a genetic factor that increases the risk of Type II Diabetes, possibly by increasing the level of blood glucose levels. This factor is an important regulator for the insulin gene, and a mutation in this gene can lead to Type II diabetes. Insulin induced gene 1, also known as INSIG1, is a protein which in humans is encoded by the INSIG1 gene.INSIG1 is short for insulin-induced gene 1; it is located on chromosome 7 (7q36). This gene is called an insulin-induced gene because the molecule insulin can regulate it. Regulation
INSIG1 is regulated by insulin and highly expressed in liver. See also
Solute carrier family

References
Further reading
External links
Type 2 diabetes genes mapped out, BBC News article 
Do ventricular arrhythmias in athletes subside over time? [SEP] Re-entry ventricular arrhythmia is a type of paroxysmal tachycardia occurring in the  ventricle where the cause of the arrhythmia is due to the electric signal not completing the normal circuit, but rather an alternative circuit looping back upon itself. Some types of arrhythmias have no symptoms. Ventricular arrhythmias include ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia. This can be accomplished in an electrophysiology study, an endovascular procedure that uses a catheter to "listen" to the electrical activity from within the heart, additionally if the source of the arrhythmias is found, often the abnormal cells can be ablated and the arrhythmia can be permanently corrected. In athletes, however, the resting heart rate can be as slow as 40 beats per minute, and be considered normal.The term sinus arrhythmia refers to a normal phenomenon of alternating mild acceleration and slowing of the heart rate that occurs with breathing in and out respectively. Bradycardias may also be present in the normally functioning heart of endurance athletes or other well-conditioned persons. They are relatively rare and can result from the action of anti-arrhythmic drugs, or after depolarizations. The term ventricular arrhythmia refers to the group of abnormal cardiac rhythms originating from the ventricle, which includes ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes.In those who have normal blood pressure and strong pulse, the antiarrhythmic medication procainamide may be used. 
Does ethnicity affect where people with cancer die? [SEP] Breast cancer diagnosis and treatment is influenced by different cultural backgrounds. Cancer
For Asian Americans, the leading cause of death is cancer, a factor unique to their racial/ethnic group. Asian Americans exhibit the highest rates of cancers of the liver, cervix, and stomach. Additionally, Asian Americans have the highest rate of cancer for age categories 25-44 and 45-64 while it is just 45-64 for White people.The cancer burden that affects Asian Americans is unusual because of the nature of the cancers. This manifests itself in the Asian American population in the San Francisco Bay area, where colorectal cancer rates are higher compared with rates of cancer in mainland China.Additionally, Asians born and raised in the United States experience a greater risk of getting breast cancer. For example, Vietnamese men in Franklin County, Ohio, were found to have a smoking rate of 43.4%.Asian Americans, between all racial/ethnic groups in the United States are the only group with the leading cause of death being cancer.Another contributor to the high rates of cancer in the Asian American community are disparities stemming from cultural differences and the health care system. Cancer
Cancer is documented among Native Americans. For cancers that are more prevalent in Native Americans than the white United States population, death rates are higher. 
Are patients with serious mental illness more likely to be admitted to nursing homes with more deficiencies in care? [SEP] In a 2010 study, researchers concluded that, based on statistics from sources including the Bureau of Justice Statistics and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, there are currently three times more seriously mentally ill persons in jails and prisons than in hospitals in the United States, with the ratio being nearly ten to one in Arizona and Nevada. In the 2010 study "More mentally ill persons are in jails and prisons than hospitals: a survey of the states," researchers noted, at least in part due to deinstitutionalization, it is increasingly difficult to find beds for mentally ill people who need hospitalization. The authors of Criminalizing the Seriously Mentally Ill claim many such crimes wouldn't have been committed if the individuals had been receiving proper care. Prevalence of serious mental illness among jail inmates. More mentally ill persons are in jails and prisons than hospitals: A survey of the states (PDF) (Report). There are also instances where poor insight into one's mental illness has resulted in increased psychiatric symptoms which ultimately leads to hospitalization and a lower quality of life generally. Being chronically homeless also means that people with mental illnesses are more likely to experience catastrophic health crises requiring medical intervention or resulting in institutionalization within the criminal justice system. : 192  In relation to homelessness, it is found that 17.3 percent of inmates with severe mental illness experienced a homeless state before their incarceration, compared to 6.5 percent of undiagnosed inmates. 
Does an additional antirotation U-Blade (RC) lag screw improve treatment of AO/OTA 31 A1-3 fractures with gamma 3 nail? [SEP] Complications
At a median 14 years after tibial nailing of isolated tibial fractures, patients' function is comparable to population norms, but objective and subjective evaluation shows persistent sequelae which are not insignificant.One potential complication of intramedullary nailing after a fracture is bone malrotation, where the broken bone is fixated out of alignment and heals incorrectly, causing a rotated limb. For patients who were already fractured, the number needed to treat was 21. Therapeutic irrigation, wound debridement, early wound closure and bone fixation are the main management of open fractures. First generation cephalosporin (cefazolin) is recommended as first line antibiotics for the treatment of open fractures. Some authors recommended that antibiotics to be given for three doses for Gustilo Grade I fractures, for one day after wound closure in Grade II fractures, three days in Grade IIIA fractures, and three days after wound closure for Grade IIIB and IIIC. Surgical management
Early fracture immobilisation and fixation helps to prevent further soft tissue injury and promotes wound and bone healing. Both reamed and unreamed intramedullary nailing are accepted surgical treatments for open tibial fracture. Bone grafting is also helpful in fracture repair. 
The Omega-3 Index: a new risk factor for death from coronary heart disease? [SEP] A meta-analysis of six randomized trials found that replacing saturated fat with omega-6 fats reduced the risk of coronary events by 24%.A healthy ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 is needed; healthy ratios, according to some authors, range from 1:1 to 1:4. Cardiovascular disease
Moderate and high quality evidence from a 2020 review showed that EPA and DHA, such as that found in omega−3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplements, does not appear to improve mortality or cardiovascular health. However, omega−3 fatty acid supplementation greater than one gram daily for at least a year may be protective against cardiac death, sudden death, and myocardial infarction in people who have a history of cardiovascular disease. Omega−3 fatty acids can also reduce heart rate, an emerging risk factor. In this population omega−3 fatty acid supplementation decreases the risk of heart disease by about 25%.A 2019 review found that omega-3 fatty acid supplements make little or no difference to cardiovascular mortality and that patients with myocardial infarction yield no benefit in taking the supplements. A 2021 review found that omega-3 supplementation did not affect cardiovascular disease outcomes. A 2012 meta-analysis published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, covering 20 studies and 68,680 patients, found that omega-3 fatty acid supplementation did not reduce the chance of death, cardiac death, heart attack, or stroke. Omega-3 Fatty Acids American Cancer Society. 
May mean platelet volume levels be a predictor in the diagnosis of pelvic inflammatory disease? [SEP] Mean platelet volume (MPV) is a machine-calculated measurement of the average size of platelets found in blood and is typically included in blood tests as part of the CBC. Since the average platelet size is larger when the body is producing increased numbers of platelets, the MPV test results can be used to make inferences about platelet production in bone marrow or platelet destruction problems.An increased mean platelet volume (MPV) increases the risk to suffer a heart disease MPV may be higher when there is destruction of platelets. Laparoscopic identification is helpful in diagnosing tubal disease; a 65 percent to 90 percent positive predictive value exists in patients with presumed PID.Upon gynecologic ultrasound, a potential finding is tubo-ovarian complex, which is edematous and dilated pelvic structures as evidenced by vague margins, but without abscess formation. Culdocentesis will differentiate hemoperitoneum (ruptured ectopic pregnancy or hemorrhagic cyst) from pelvic sepsis (salpingitis, ruptured pelvic abscess, or ruptured appendix).Pelvic and vaginal ultrasounds are helpful in the diagnosis of PID. Enlarged ovaries accompanied by increased numbers of small cysts correlates with PID.Laparoscopy is infrequently used to diagnose pelvic inflammatory disease since it is not readily available. Signs and symptoms
High platelet counts do not necessarily signal any clinical problems, and can be picked up on a routine full blood count. Diagnosis
Laboratory tests might include: full blood count, liver enzymes, renal function and erythrocyte sedimentation rate.If the cause for the high platelet count remains unclear, bone marrow biopsy is often undertaken, to differentiate whether the high platelet count is reactive or essential. Laboratory results
Septic pelvic thrombophlebitis will show laboratory results reflective of active inflammation such as elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and white blood cell count (WBC).If available, both central and peripheral tip cultures should be sent for testing. 
Do cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice predict the presence of pancreatic diseases? [SEP] Pancreatic juice is a liquid secreted by the pancreas, which contains a number of digestive enzymes, including  trypsinogen, chymotrypsinogen, elastase, carboxypeptidase, pancreatic lipase, nucleases and amylase. Secretin-stimulated pancreatic juice can be collected during endoscopy and provides an important source for diagnostic biomarkers, allowing detection of pancreatic pathology, especially cancer not yet visible on medical imaging..Pancreatic juice is secreted into the duodenum through duodenal papillae. External links
"Pancreatic juice" at Dorland's Medical Dictionary
Nosek, Thomas M. "Section 6/6ch4/s6ch4_18". These signs are not specific just for pancreatitis and may be associated with other gastrointestinal diseases and conditions.Acute pancreatitis can trigger a build-up of fluid, particularly in abdominal and thoracic (chest) areas, acute kidney injury, and cause inflammation in arteries and veins. See also
Pancreatitis


== References == Pancreatitis
Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas. Signs and symptoms
Autoimmune pancreatitis may cause a variety of symptoms and signs, which include pancreatic and biliary (bile duct) manifestations, as well as systemic effects of the disease. Histopathology
Histopathologic examination of the pancreas reveals a characteristic lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate of CD4- or CD8-positive lymphocytes and IgG4-positive plasma cells, and exhibits interstitial fibrosis and acinar cell atrophy in later stages. 
Does the sex of acute stroke patients influence the effectiveness of rt-PA? [SEP] This may be due to its high cost and the fact that it is often not covered by health insurance.There may be citation bias in the literature on alteplase in ischemic stroke, as studies reporting positive results for tissue plasminogen activator are more likely to be cited in following studies than those reporting negative or neutral results.There is a sex difference in the use of intravenous tissue plasminogen activator, as it is less likely to be used for women with acute ischemic stroke than men. As the age of the population increases, the diagnosis and management of CPSP will become increasingly important to improve the quality of life of an increasing number of stroke survivors. This article describes disparities existing between men and women in accessing  and receiving care for a stroke. Disparity in symptom recognition/diagnosis
There are marked differences in the clinical symptom presentation of stroke between men and women.Women who suffer an acute stroke are more likely to present with non-traditional and non-neurological stroke symptoms, for example chest pain and/or shortness of breath. Disparity in treatment
Research findings indicate that physicians treat women experiencing stroke less aggressively than they treat men experiencing stroke. Women with cardiovascular disease, as an example, are less frequently offered invasive procedures when compared with their male counterparts.The use of rt-PA (Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator), a protein enzyme that helps break up blood clots, is a common treatment for stroke. Research indicates that women have between 22% and 30% lower odds of receiving rt-PA treatment for acute stroke than men. When comparing the treatment of men and women with acute stroke, research has found that women are consistently less likely to receive thrombolytic (blood clot dissolving) treatments, despite findings indicating that women experiencing stroke benefit more than men from thrombolytic treatment.Between 1997 and 2006, women hospitalized for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) were less likely to receive cerebro-vascular and cardiac reperfusion/revascularization therapies, intravenous tPA (Tissue Plasminogen Activator to break up clots), catheter angiography (imaging of blood vessels), angioplasty/stent (opening of blocked blood vessels), and carotid endarterectomy (surgical removal of plaque). 
Are head and neck specific quality of life measures necessary? [SEP] The Migraine Specific Quality of Life (MSQoL) is a patient-reported outcome measure (PRO or PROM) which assesses the quality of life of migraineurs. Standard indicators of the quality of life include wealth, employment, the environment, physical and mental health, education, recreation and leisure time, social belonging, religious beliefs, safety, security and freedom. There are many different methods of measuring quality of life in terms of health care, wealth, and materialistic goods. Patients seek treatment from an otorhinolaryngologist for diseases of the ear, nose, throat, base of the skull, head, and neck. Microvascular head and neck reconstruction is used to treat head and neck cancers, including those of the larynx and pharynx, oral cavity, salivary glands, jaws, calvarium, sinuses, tongue and skin. Transfer of the tissue to the head and neck allows surgeons to rebuild the patient's jaw, optimize tongue function, and reconstruct the throat. Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal that covers the field of otolaryngology, especially surgery of the head and neck. JAMA Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal published by the American Medical Association and covering all aspects of prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases of the head, neck, ear, nose, and throat. 
Diabetes mellitus among Swedish art glass workers--an effect of arsenic exposure? [SEP] Arsenic is also found to be an environmental contaminant in drinking water (well water) and an occupational hazard for miners and glass workers. : 640   Arsenic may also causes other conditions including: Bowen's disease, cardiovascular diseases, developmental abnormalities, neurologic and neurobehavioral disorders, diabetes, hearing loss, hematologic disorders, and various types of cancer. Arsenic poisoning is a medical condition that occurs due to elevated levels of arsenic in the body. The final result of arsenic poisoning is coma and death.Arsenic is related to heart disease (hypertension-related cardiovascular disease), cancer, stroke (cerebrovascular diseases), chronic lower respiratory diseases, impaired lung function, compromised immune response to H1N1 (swine) flu (a respiratory virus infection and diabetes. Other effects may include darkening of skin and thickening of skin.Chronic exposure to arsenic is related to vitamin A deficiency, which is related to heart disease and night blindness. Further, the arsenic exposure has been noted to induce atherosclerosis by increasing the platelet aggregation and reducing fibrinolysis. The chronic exposure to arsenic upregulates the expression of tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule and vascular endothelial growth factor to induce cardiovascular pathogenesis. However, the literature provides insufficient scientific evidence to show cause and effect between arsenic and the onset of diabetes mellitus Type 2. 
Does SYNTAX score predict in-hospital outcomes in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] It is effective across the entire spectrum of acute coronary syndromes, and it actually has been shown to reduce the rate of death in patients with STEMI and in patients presenting without ST elevation. ST elevation MI
The 2018 European Society of Cardiology/American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association/World Health Federation Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction for the ECG diagnosis of the ST segment elevation type of acute myocardial infarction require new ST elevation at J point of at least 1mm (0.1 mV) in two contiguous leads with the cut-points: ≥1 mm in all leads other than leads V2-V3. This criterion is problematic, however, as acute myocardial infarction is not the most common cause of ST segment elevation in chest pain patients. The setting was the coronary care unit of a university hospital in the USA.250 patients were included in the study (aged 28 to 94; mean 64, 72% male) with a myocardial infarction. "Prediction of death and nonfatal myocardial infarction in high-risk patients: A comparison between the Duke treadmill score, peak exercise radionuclide angiography, and SPECT perfusion imaging". ST2 signals the presence and severity of adverse cardiac remodeling and tissue fibrosis, which occurs in response to myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndrome, or worsening heart failure.ST2 provides prognostic information that is independent of other cardiac biomarkers such as BNP, NT-proBNP, highly sensitive troponin, GDF-15, and galectin-3. Correlation with mortality
Published and peer-reviewed findings indicate that ST2 is a predictor of mortality at presentation. Clinical utility
ST2 has considerable prognostic value and is used as an aid for risk stratification in identifying patients who are at high risk of mortality and rehospitalization in patients diagnosed with heart failure. 
Is micro-computed tomography reliable to determine the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone? [SEP] It is similar to tomography and X-ray computed tomography. Micro-CT has applications both in medical imaging and in industrial computed tomography. The alveolar process () or alveolar bone is the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the jaw bones (in humans, the maxilla and the mandible). The trabecular bone consists of cancellous bone that is located between the alveolar bone proper and the cortical plates.The alveolar structure is a dynamic tissue which provides the jawbone with some degree of flexibility and resilience for the embedded teeth as they encounter numerous multi-directional forces. Oral and maxillofacial radiology, also known as dental and maxillofacial radiology, is the specialty of dentistry concerned with performance and interpretation of diagnostic imaging used for examining the craniofacial, dental and adjacent structures.Oral and maxillofacial imaging includes cone beam computerized tomography, multislice computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, ultrasound, panoramic radiography, cephalometric imaging, intra-oral imaging (e.g. CBCT has been described as the gold standard for imaging the oral and maxillofacial area. The American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology (AAOMR) suggests cone-beam CT as the preferred method for presurgical assessment of dental implant sites. HU measured from the same anatomical area with both CBCT and medical-grade CT scanners are not identical and are thus unreliable for determination of site-specific, radiographically-identified bone density for purposes such as the placement of dental implants, as there is "no good data to relate the CBCT HU values to bone quality. 
Does use of hydrophilic guidewires significantly improve technical success rates of peripheral PTA? [SEP] Angioplasty, also known as balloon angioplasty and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), is a minimally invasive endovascular procedure used to widen narrowed or obstructed arteries or veins, typically to treat arterial atherosclerosis. Often, peripheral angioplasty is used in conjunction with guide wire, peripheral stenting and an atherectomy. Tapered guidewire is chosen for small occlusion, followed by intermediate type guidewires for tortuous arteries and difficulty passing through extremely narrow channels, and stiff wires for hard, dense, and blunt occlusions. At the conclusion of the procedure, the balloons, wires and catheters are removed and the vessel puncture site is treated either with direct pressure or a vascular closure device.Transradial artery access (TRA) and transfemoral artery access (TFA) are two techniques for percutaneous coronary intervention. After successful dilation of the stenosis with a guide wire and coaxial Teflon catheters, the circulation returned to her leg. Adequate positioning is confirmed with injections of contrast.Once the catheter is in the extraluminal space, a guidewire is advanced in a loop configuration which allows for a more rigid structure that can be used to traverse the subintimal dissection plane when compared to the free end of a straight guidewire. The looped guidewire is further advanced towards the patent portion of the artery distal to the occlusion, where re-entry into the true lumen can now be achieved. 80-90% achieved technical success, defined as adequate antegrade flow post-procedure identified by imaging
50-70% achieved clinical success, defined as relief of claudication, pain at rest, and healing of ulcers
80-90% achieved limb salvage after 1 year

History
Percutaneous intentional extraluminal revascularization was first described in 1990 as an alternative to transluminal angioplasty. 
Does frozen section alter surgical management of multinodular thyroid disease? [SEP] Laser ablation of thyroid nodules is a minimally invasive procedure indicated to treat benign thyroid lesions such as cold nodules or single nodules within a multinodular goiter. A thyroidectomy is an operation that involves the surgical removal of all or part of the thyroid gland. In general surgery, endocrine or head and neck surgeons often perform a thyroidectomy when a patient has thyroid cancer or some other condition of the thyroid gland (such as hyperthyroidism) or goiter. Other indications for surgery include cosmetic (very enlarged thyroid), or symptomatic obstruction (causing difficulties in swallowing or breathing). Subtotal thyroidectomy — Removal of majority of both lobes leaving behind 4-5 grams (equivalent to the size of a normal thyroid gland) of thyroid tissue on one or both sides—this used to be the most common operation for multinodular goitre. Partial thyroidectomy —Removal of gland in front of trachea after mobilization. Near total thyroidectomy — Both lobes are removed except for a small amount of thyroid tissue (on one or both sides) in the vicinity of the recurrent laryngeal nerve entry point and the superior parathyroid gland. Total thyroidectomy — Entire gland is removed. 
Could chest wall rigidity be a factor in rapid death from illicit fentanyl abuse? [SEP] Wooden chest syndrome is a rigidity of the chest following the administration of high doses of opioids during anaesthesia.Wooden chest syndrome describes marked muscle rigidity — especially involving the thoracic and abdominal muscles — that is an occasional adverse effect associated with the intravenous administration of lipophilic synthetic opioids such as fentanyl. Hypoxemia, hypertension, pulmonary hypertension, respiratory acidosis and increased intracranial pressure may supervene.One recent study hypothesized that chest wall rigidity might be at least partially responsible for some deaths related to intravenous injection of fentanyl, which increasingly is appearing in samples of heroin. Reduced sedation, losing a useful early warning sign of opioid toxicity and resulting in levels closer to respiratory-depressant levels.Another related complication of fentanyl overdoses includes the so-called wooden chest syndrome, which quickly induces complete respiratory failure by paralyzing the thoracic muscles, explained in more detail in the Muscle rigidity section below. Muscle rigidity
If high boluses of fentanyl are administered quickly, muscle rigidity of the vocal cords can make bag-mask ventilation very difficult. Wooden chest syndrome
A prominent idiosyncratic adverse effect of fentanyl also includes a sudden onset of rigidity of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm, which induces respiratory failure; this is seen with high doses and is known as wooden chest syndrome. The syndrome is believed to be the main cause of death as a result of fentanyl overdoses.Wooden chest syndrome is reversed by naloxone and is believed to be caused by a release of noradrenaline, which activates α-adrenergic receptors and also possibly via an activation of cholinergic receptors.Wooden chest syndrome is unique to the most powerful opioids—which today comprise fentanyl and its analogs—while other less-powerful opioids like heroin produce mild rigidity of the respiratory muscles to a much lesser degree. The effects being reported in these cases, including rapid heartbeat, hyperventilation and chills, were not symptoms of a fentanyl overdose, and were more commonly associated with a panic attack.A 2021 paper expressed concern that these physical fears over fentanyl may inhibit effective emergency response to overdoses by causing responding officers to spend additional time on unnecessary precautions, and that the media coverage could also perpetuate a wider social stigma that people who use drugs are dangerous to be around. References
Further reading
External links

Fentanyl (Report). 
Is severe pain immediately after spinal augmentation a predictor of long-term outcomes? [SEP] References
External links

Spinal Fractures Can Be Terribly Painful. Long-term safety and efficacy of closed-loop spinal cord stimulation to treat chronic back and leg pain (Evoke):a double -blind, randomized, controlled trial. Signs and symptoms
Cause
Patients who have undergone one or more operations on the lumbar spine and continue to experience pain afterward can be divided into two groups. For patients with continued pain after surgery which is not due to the above complications or conditions, interventional pain physicians speak of the need to identify the "pain generator" i.e. Previous back surgery had a strong worsening effect on surgical results. Surgery for spinal stenosis usually has a good outcome, if the surgery is done in an extensive manner, and done within the first year or so of the appearance of symptoms.Oaklander and North define the Failed Back Syndrome as a chronic pain patient after one or more surgical procedure to the spine. Symptoms occur with extension of spine and are relieved with spine flexion. Beyond two spinal surgeries, any more are likely to make the patient worse, not better. 
Can computerised tomography replace bone scintigraphy in detecting bone metastases from breast cancer? [SEP] A bone scan or bone scintigraphy  is a nuclear medicine imaging technique of the bone. It can help diagnose a number of bone conditions, including cancer of the bone or metastasis, location of bone inflammation and fractures (that may not be visible in traditional X-ray images), and bone infection (osteomyelitis).Nuclear medicine provides functional imaging and allows visualisation of bone metabolism or bone remodeling, which most other imaging techniques (such as X-ray computed tomography, CT) cannot. Bone scintigraphy competes with positron emission tomography (PET) for imaging of abnormal metabolism in bones, but is considerably less expensive. Bone scintigraphy has higher sensitivity but lower specificity than CT or MRI for diagnosis of scaphoid fractures following negative plain radiography. Scintimammography is a type of breast imaging test that is used to detect cancer cells in the breasts of some women who have had abnormal mammograms, or for those who have dense breast tissue, post-operative scar tissue or breast implants.Scintimammography is not used for screening or in place of a mammogram. Digital breast tomosynthesis is associated with a higher detection of poor prognosis cancers compared to digital mammography. Scintimammography
Scintimammography is a type of breast imaging test that is used to detect cancer cells in the breasts of some women who have had abnormal mammograms, or for those who have dense breast tissue, post-operative scar tissue or breast implants, but is not used for screening or in place of a mammogram. Scintimammography is another nuclear medicine breast imaging technique, however it is performed using a gamma camera. 
Does obesity impact the pattern and outcome of trauma in children? [SEP] Family stress
Psychological stress in a family may contribute to childhood obesity. Aggression
Obese adolescents display more aggression than normal-weight peers, particularly in terms of physical and verbal bullying. Smaller body size in children often makes them more prone to poly traumatic injury. "Pediatric Trauma at an Adult Trauma Center" (PDF). "Causes of morbidity and mortality in severe pediatric trauma". Pediatric Trauma: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, and Treatment. Emotional Functioning
Research shows that even witnessing traumatic events can impact the physical development of a child’s brain — potentially leading to lifelong impairments in emotional functioning. With the surfacing of relevant studies, evidence proposes that childhood trauma is a large risk factor in developing depressive disorders that can persist into adulthood. 
Is non-invasive diagnosis of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis possible by duplex Doppler ultrasonography? [SEP] Esophageal varices are extremely dilated sub-mucosal veins in the lower third of the esophagus. Esophageal varices are typically diagnosed through an esophagogastroduodenoscopy. Splenic vein thrombosis is a rare condition that causes esophageal varices without a raised portal pressure. Histology
Dilated submucosal veins are the most prominent histologic feature of esophageal varices. Pediatrics
A study of 15 children, aged 2–12 years old who all had multiple episodes of severe esophageal bleeding varices, and a mean follow-up time of 10 years 4 months, demonstrated 0% mortality and 80% resolution with disappearance of the varices and no evidence of recurrent bleeding. Imaging
Ultrasound is routinely used in the evaluation of cirrhosis. If esophageal varices are found, prophylactic local therapy may be applied such as sclerotherapy or banding, and beta blockers may be used. Diagnosis
Ultrasonography (US) is the first-line imaging technique for the diagnosis and follow-up of portal hypertension because it is non-invasive, low-cost and can be performed on-site.A dilated portal vein (diameter of greater than 13 or 15 mm) is a sign of portal hypertension, with a sensitivity estimated at 12.5% or 40%. 
Is (18)F-FDG a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia? [SEP] 18F-FMISO or fluoromisonidazole is a radiopharmaceutical used for PET imaging of hypoxia. It consists of a 2-nitroimidazole molecule labelled with the positron-emitter fluorine-18.Hypoxia is considered a negative prognostic marker for many solid tumours, and therefore an agent to detect and quantify it is highly desirable. Clinical use
Large scale clinical trials with FMISO have not been carried out, however there is some evidence from small-scale early-stage imaging trials that PET-measured hypoxia (using FMISO, and the alternative radiotracer FAZA) is linked to overall survival and loco-regional control in head and neck cancer patients. Fluorothymidine F-18 (FLT) is a tumor-specific PET tracer and radiopharmaceutical. 18F-Fluorocholine is an oncologic PET tracer. For example, 18F-FDG is commonly used to detect cancer, NaF18F is widely used for detecting bone formation, and oxygen-15 is sometimes used to measure blood flow. Oncology
PET scanning with the tracer 18F-FDG is widely used in clinical oncology. 18F-FDG is used to explore the possibility of cancer spreading to other body sites (cancer metastasis). 
Can dogs prime autistic children for therapy? [SEP] Training for autism assistance dogs is similar to guide dog training. There is a long waiting list for the dogs.Anecdotal evidence of the efficacy of autism assistance dogs is greater than the amount of research on the practice. For example, autism assistance dogs are sometimes trained to prevent children with autism from leaving the house unsupervised. "Factors Affecting Behavior and Welfare of Service Dogs for Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder" (PDF). Canine-assisted therapy
In canine-assisted therapy, therapy dogs interact with patients in animal assisted interventions, to enhance therapeutic activities and well-being including the physical, cognitive, behavioral and socio-emotional functioning of clients. Autism spectrum disorder
Animal-assisted therapy may reduce the symptoms of autism spectrum disorder such as aggressiveness, irritability, are able to be distracted, and hyperactivity. Canine assisted intervention provides a calmer environment by reducing the stress, irritation, and anxiety that children with autism spectrum disorder experience. Playing with dogs increases the positive mood in children with autism spectrum disorder. 
Are 99mTc leukocyte scintigraphy and SBFT studies useful in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] The Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index (SCCAI) is a diagnostic tool and questionnaire used to assess the severity of symptoms in people who suffer from ulcerative colitis. Purpose
For any suspected large bowel disease, colonoscopy is the investigation of choice because tissue sample can be taken for investigation. Some frail subject may not be suitable for barium meal.Barium enemas are most commonly used to check bowel health; they can help diagnose and evaluate the extent of inflammatory bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Findings on CTE that indicate active inflammation in the small bowel, possibly caused by Crohn's disease, include:

Mural hyperenhancement
Mural stratification
Thickening of bowel wall
Mesenteric fat stranding
Enlarged vasa rectaCTE is also used in examining if bowel inflammation improves after therapy and if the disease is progressing in a concerning way. A technetium-99m based radiopharmaceutical kit is also available.Octreotide scanning is reported to have a sensitivity between 75% and 100% for detecting pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.Instead of gamma-emitting 111In, certain octreotide derivatives such as edotreotide (DOTATOC) or DOTATATE are able to be linked by chelation to positron-emitting isotopes such as gallium-68 and copper-64 which in turn can be evaluated with more precise (compared with SPECT) scanning techniques such as PET-CT. 99mTc based octreotide imaging shows slightly higher sensitivity than 111In. Research
Muise's clinical and research program focuses on very early onset inflammatory bowel disease (VEOIBD), a type of inflammatory bowel disease that affects children under the age of six. Honors
Canada Research Chair in Pediatric Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Tier 1), Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Government of Canada, 2019
Young Investigator in Basic Science, American Gastroenterological Association/Gastroenterology Research Group, 2015 


== References == 
Risk factors for avascular necrosis of bone in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: is there a role for antiphospholipid antibodies? [SEP] Lupus vasculitis is a complication of systemic lupus erythematosus in which the autoimmune response causes the deposition of immune complexes, such as rheumatoid factor, within the blood vessels. Secondary antiphospholipid syndrome occurs with other autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus. Risk factors
Risk factors for developing antiphospholipid syndrome include:

Genetic Markers: HLA-DR4, HLA-DR7, and HLA-DRw53
Race: Blacks, Hispanics, Asians, and Native Americans

Pathogenesis
Antiphospholipid syndrome is an autoimmune disease, in which "antiphospholipid antibodies" (anticardiolipin antibodies and lupus anticoagulant) react against proteins that bind to anionic phospholipids on plasma membranes. Clinically important antiphospholipid antibodies (those that arise as a result of the autoimmune process) are associated with thrombosis and vascular disease. Patients with both lupus anticoagulant antibodies and moderate or high titre anticardiolipin antibodies show a greater risk of thrombosis than with one alone.The increased risks of recurrent miscarriage, intrauterine growth restriction and preterm birth by antiphospholipid antibodies, as supported by in vitro studies, include decreased trophoblast viability, syncytialization and invasion, deranged production of hormones and signalling molecules by trophoblasts, as well as activation of coagulation and complement pathways. Indications for testing
The main indication for testing for lupus anticoagulant is a suspected antiphospholipid syndrome, whose main manifestations are blood clots (thrombosis) in both arteries and veins as well as pregnancy-related complications such as miscarriage, stillbirth, preterm delivery, and severe preeclampsia.In a suspected antiphospholipid syndrome, lupus anticoagulant is generally tested in conjunction with anti-apolipoprotein antibodies and anti-cardiolipin antibodies, and diagnostic criteria require one clinical event (i.e. The Sapporo criteria specify that both serological and functional tests must be positive to diagnose the antiphospholipid antibody syndrome.Miscarriages may be more prevalent in patients with a lupus anticoagulant. Anti-thrombin antibodies are autoantibodies directed against thrombin that may constitute a fraction of lupus anticoagulant and are seen an increased levels in systemic lupus erythematosus. 
Prostate bed target interfractional motion using RTOG consensus definitions and daily CT on rails : Does target motion differ between superior and inferior portions of the clinical target volume? [SEP] IGRT is a component of the radiation therapy process that incorporates imaging coordinates from the treatment plan to be delivered in order to ensure the patient is properly aligned in the treatment room.The localization information provided through IGRT approaches can also be used to facilitate robust treatment planning strategies and enable patient modelling, which is beyond the scope of this article. Optically tracked tools are then used to identify the positions of patient reference set-up points and these are compared to their location within the planning CT coordinate system. A computation based on least-squares methodology is performed using these two sets of coordinates to determine a treatment couch translation that will result in the alignment of the patient's planned isocenter with that of the treatment room. These tools can also be used for intra-fraction monitoring of patient position by placing an optically tracked tool on a region of interest to either initiate radiation delivery (i.e. The Clarity system has been further developed to enable intra-fraction prostate motion tracking via trans-perineal imaging. Correction strategies for patient positioning during IGRT
There are two basic correction strategies used while determining the most beneficial patient position and beam structure: on-line and off-line correction. See also
References
Further reading
Cossmann, Peter H. Advances in Image-guided Radiotherapy - The Future is in Motion. "Image Guidance: Treatment Target Localization Systems in IMRT-IGRT-SBRT – Advances in the Treatment Planning and Delivery of Radiotherapy.". 
Esophagogastric devascularization without splenectomy in portal hypertension: safe and effective? [SEP] Splenectomy
Devascularization of the distal 7 cm of the esophagus
Devascularization of the proximal part of the stomach
Vagotomy and pyeloroplasty

References
Khanna AK, Misra MK, Gupta S, Sharma OP, Jain AK, Gupta JP (July 1988). "Hassab's operation as an elective surgical procedure in portal hypertension". The procedure consists primarily of paraesophagogastric devascularization achieved by dividing the perforating veins of the esophagus and the stomach while maintaining the plexus of collaterals that connect the coronary gastric vein to the azygous system. The abdominal esophagus is devascularized from the stomach. A splenectomy is initially performed and is followed by devascularization of the distal esophagus through the diaphragm hiatus and the superior two-thirds of the major and lesser gastric curve taking careful consideration to not ligate the left gastric vein. Splenic vein thrombosis is a rare condition that causes esophageal varices without a raised portal pressure. Esophageal devascularization operations such as the Sugiura procedure can also be used to stop complicated bleeding. Non-selective beta blockers (such as propranolol and nadolol) have been used to decrease the pressure of the portal vein in patients with esophageal varices, and have been shown to regress portal hypertensive gastropathy that has been worsened by medical treatment of varices. 
Does maternal obesity have an influence on feeding behavior of obese children? [SEP] Maternal obesity has a significant impact on maternal metabolism and offspring development. There are numerous factors that contribute to a child's weight and eating habits; while media can have a significant impact on children and their food choices, their parents and friends may play an even more important role in determining childhood obesity. Social factors
External motivation
Children who are externally motivated to eat are at a higher risk for obesity. Family practices
In the recent decades, family practices have significantly changed, and several of these practices greatly contribute to childhood obesity:
With a decreasing number of mothers who breast-feed, more infants become obese children as they grow up and are reared on infant formula instead. They measured weight, waist girth, stretch stature, skinfolds, physical activity, TV viewing, and SES; researchers discovered clear SES inclines to upper class children compared to the lower class children.Childhood inactivity is linked to obesity in the United States with more children being overweight at younger ages. Developmental factors
Various developmental factors may affect rates of obesity. Diet plays an important role in the genesis of obesity. Studies have shown the effects of family meal- time in relation to childhood obesity. 
Is plate clearing a risk factor for obesity? [SEP] Many diseases and health complications are associated with obesity (e.g., Type-II diabetes, heart disease, cancer, stroke). Psychological issues obesity can trigger include low self-esteem, distorted body image, and body shaming. Obesity is the source of about 15% of all preventable cancers.In 2018, Chinese researchers performed a systematic review and comprehensive quantitative meta‐analysis of cohort studies reporting body mass index (BMI) and the risk of 23 cancer types, providing epidemiological evidence supporting the association between BMI and cancer risk. Children who are obese are at a greater risk for social and psychological problems as well, such as peer victimization, increased levels of aggression, and low self-esteem. Family stress
Psychological stress in a family may contribute to childhood obesity. Obesity can cause psychosocial problems that can lead to depression. The prevalence of obesity is a worldwide problem. Results
Obesity is leading to increased levels of illness, including type 2 diabetes and heart diseases and other associated noncommunicable diseases. 
Should lower limb fractures be treated surgically in patients with chronic spinal injuries? [SEP] When treating a person with a spinal cord injury, repairing the damage created by injury is the ultimate goal. Depending on the level of the spinal cord injury, whatever sparing the patient has is optimized. Literature has shown that participants with spinal cord injuries that had massage therapy added into their rehabilitation had significant improvement observed by physical therapist in functional living activities and limb range of motion. In the majority of cases, spinal cord injury leaves the lower limbs either entirely paralyzed, or with insufficient strength, endurance, or motor control to support safe and effective physical training. Gait training with body weight support, among patients with incomplete spinal cord injuries, has also recently been shown to be more effective than conventional physiotherapy for improving the spatial-temporal and kinematic gait parameters.A combination of Body weight supported treadmill training (BWSTT) and robotic-assisted BWSTT is being implemented into some training programs. Restorative neurology offers a different paradigm of treating spinal cord injury by focusing on the residual remaining motor control and on the intrinsic function of the sub-lesional spinal cord segments. Indications
A vertebral fixation procedure may be indicated in cases of vertebral fracture, vertebral deformity, or degenerative vertebral disorders (such as spondylolisthesis). The fracture is often unstable.Treatment may be conservative with the use of a brace or via surgery. 
Is vancomycin MIC creep a worldwide phenomenon? [SEP] However, as the use of vancomycin increased with the spread of MRSA beginning in the 1970s, toxicity risks were reassessed. While cases of ototoxicity have been reported in patients whose vancomycin serum level exceeded 80 µg/mL, cases have been reported in patients with therapeutic levels, as well. Mechanism of action
Vancomycin acts by inhibiting proper cell wall synthesis in Gram-positive bacteria. Acquired resistance
Evolution of microbial resistance to vancomycin is a growing problem, in particular, within healthcare facilities such as hospitals. Vancomycin resistance evolved in more common pathogenic organisms during the 1990s and 2000s, including vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus (VRSA). Early trials used early, impure forms of the drug ("Mississippi mud"), which were found to be toxic to the inner ear and to the kidneys; these findings led to vancomycin's being relegated to the position of a drug of last resort.In 2004, Eli Lilly licensed Vancocin to ViroPharma in the U.S., Flynn Pharma in the UK, and Aspen Pharmacare in Australia. References
External links
"Vancomycin". "Vancomycin hydrochloride". 
Does short-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors cause rebound aggravation of symptoms? [SEP] Characteristic proton-pump inhibitor hepatoxicity usually occurs within the first four weeks of starting the medication.Rabeprazole is associated with elevated serum gastrin levels, which are thought to be dependent upon the degree of CYP2C19 metabolism the drug undergoes. Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) are a class of medications that cause a profound and prolonged reduction of stomach acid production. Proton-pump inhibitors have largely superseded the H2-receptor antagonists, a group of medications with similar effects but a different mode of action, and antacids.PPIs are among the most widely sold medications in the world. Adverse effects
In general, proton pump inhibitors are well tolerated, and the incidence of short-term adverse effects is relatively low. Cancer
A 2022 umbrella review and meta-analysis of observational studies show that proton-pump inhibitor significantly increases the risk of four cancers. Research
COVID-19
According to one study proton-pump inhibitors may increase the severity of symptoms of COVID-19. References
External links
"Proton pump inhibitors". Adverse effects
Adverse effects occurring in at least 1% of people include:
Central nervous system: headache (7%), dizziness (2%)
Respiratory: upper respiratory tract infection (2%), cough (1%)
Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain (5%), diarrhea (4%), nausea (4%), vomiting (3%), flatulence (3%), acid regurgitation (2%), constipation (2%)
Neuromuscular and skeletal: back pain (1%), weakness (1%)
Dermatologic: rash (2%)Other concerns related to adverse effects are:

Recurrence of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea
Osteoporosis-related fractures
HypomagnesemiaConcern has been expressed regarding vitamin B12 and iron malabsorption, but effects seem to be insignificant, especially when supplement therapy is provided.Since their introduction, proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs, especially omeprazole) have also been associated with several cases of acute interstitial nephritis, an inflammation of the kidneys that often occurs as an adverse drug reaction. 
Do family physicians make good sentinels for influenza? [SEP] Sir Jonathan Stafford Nguyen-Van-Tam  (born 2 February 1964) is a British healthcare professional specialising in influenza, including its epidemiology, transmission, vaccinology, antiviral drugs and pandemic preparedness. Family physicians frequently treat illnesses related to obstetrics, pediatrics, adult medicine, orthopedics, outpatient and inpatient care. in family  medicine. In addition to diagnosing and treating illness, they also provide preventive care, including routine checkups, health-risk assessments, immunization and screening tests, and personalized counselling on maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Family physicians also manage chronic illness, often coordinating care provided by other sub-specialists. Family doctors also practice safety-netting, which involves follow-up assessments for uncertain diagnoses associated with symptoms that could innocuous, but may also be a sign of serious illness. In the U.S. for example, nearly one in four of all office visits are made to family physicians. internists, pediatricians, and general practitioners). 
Aberrant loss of dickkopf-3 in gastric cancer: can it predict lymph node metastasis preoperatively? [SEP] Lymphatogenous metastasis is the spread of cancer from the vulva, clitoris and bartholin glands. Risk
If the depth of the cancer on the vulva, clitoris or Bartholin gland is less than 1 mm, lymphatogenous metastasis is relatively unlikely. When the growth is between 1 and 3 mm in depth, the risk of lymphatogenous metastasis approaches 8%. Dickkopf-related protein 3 is a protein in the Dickkopf family that in humans is encoded by the DKK3 gene.This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the dickkopf family. Lymphoepithelioma is also known as "class III nasopharyngeal carcinoma" in the WHO classification system. Its value is calculated using three pathological criteria: the size of the tumour; the number of involved lymph nodes; and the grade of the tumour. Dickkopf (DKK) is a family of proteins consisting of five members as of 2020. Etymology
Dickkopf is a German word meaning "stubborn person", or literally, "thick head". 
Is ganglionated plexi ablation during Maze IV procedure beneficial for postoperative long-term stable sinus rhythm? [SEP] The autonomic nerves (ganglionated plexi) that may cause AF may be eliminated as well. Since then, the Cox-Maze IV procedure is the gold standard surgical treatment for AF with conversion to normal sinus rhythm and freedom from AF at 1 year postoperatively of 93%. Surgical ablation has been used to treat Parkinson's disease. Generally, deep brain stimulation surgery is considered preferable to ablation because it has the same effect and is adjustable and reversible.The advent of deep brain stimulation has been an important advance in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, for patients for whom DBS is not feasible, ablation of the subthalamic nucleus has been shown to be safe and effective. When drug treatment fails, an invasive nerve stimulation procedure shows promise.Cluster headaches have been treated by ablation of the trigeminal nerve, but have not been very effective. The entire lining of sinus is dissected and removed as the success of the operation in chronic rhinosinusitis. Functional endoscopic sinus surgery is the standard surgery for maxillary sinusitis nowadays. 
Double reading of barium enemas: is it necessary? [SEP] A double-contrast barium enema is a form of contrast radiography in which x-rays of the colon and rectum are taken using two forms of contrast to make the structures easier to see. Double-contrast barium enemas are less invasive than a colonoscopy and have comparatively fewer issues in a viable large bowel. The term barium enema usually refers to a lower gastrointestinal series, although enteroclysis (an upper gastrointestinal series) is often called a small bowel barium enema. Some conditions are absolutely contraindicated for barium enema namely: toxic megacolon, pseudomembranous colitis, and recent history rigid endoscopy of the large bowel in the past five days and recent history of flexible endoscopy in the past 24 hours. Some frail subject may not be suitable for barium meal.Barium enemas are most commonly used to check bowel health; they can help diagnose and evaluate the extent of inflammatory bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Additional conditions under which the test may be performed:

CMV gastroenteritis/colitis
Hirschsprung's disease
intestinal obstruction
intussusception (children)

Procedure
Barium enema can be done in two ways, namely double contrast and single contrast methods. In upper gastrointestinal series examinations, the barium sulfate is mixed with water and swallowed orally, whereas in the lower gastrointestinal series (barium enema), the barium contrast agent is administered as an enema through a small tube inserted into the rectum. Barium enema examinations are used to study the large intestine and rectum and are classified as lower gastrointestinal series. 
Is severe macrosomia manifested at 11-14 weeks of gestation? [SEP] Macrosomia is a similar term that describes excessive birth weight, but refers to an absolute measurement, regardless of gestational age. Causes
Multiple factors have been shown to increase likelihood of infant macrosomia, including preexisting obesity, diabetes, or dyslipidemia of the mother, gestational diabetes, post-term pregnancy, prior history of a macrosomic birth, genetics, and other factors. Obesity in the mother
Obesity prior to pregnancy and maternal weight gain above recommended guidelines during pregnancy are another key risk factor for macrosomia or LGA infants. Doctors disagree whether women should be induced for suspected macrosomia and more research is needed to find out what is best for women and their babies.Elective cesarean section has also been presented as a potential delivery method for infants of suspected macrosomia, as it can serve to prevent possible birth trauma. Epidemiology
In healthy pregnancies without pre-term or post-term health complications, fetal macrosomia has been observed to affect around 12% of newborns. In most cases, continued fetal growth between 39 and 43 wk gestation results in a macrosomic infant. Diet, exercise, and oral medication are inadequate to control glucose levels, insulin therapy may become necessary.The development of macrosomia can be evaluated during pregnancy by using sonography. Macrosomia in turn increases the risk of instrumental deliveries (e.g. 
Do older adults with cancer fall more often? [SEP] Falls in older adults are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality and are a major class of preventable injuries. Falling is one of the most common accidents that cause a loss in the quality of life for older adults, and is usually precipitated by a loss of balance and weakness in the legs. Falls are an important aspect of geriatric medicine. Epidemiology
The incidence of falls increases progressively with age. Older Adult Falls – Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Nearly one-third of older people fall each year, half of which fall more than once per year. Risk factors of falls
Older adults
Studies have shown that adults over the age of 65 are more prone to falls than younger, healthy adults. Most falls in older adults are due to:
Gait deviations – These are the main changes that occur in the gait patterns of older adults, which may contribute to the incidence of falls. 
Scrotal approach to both palpable and impalpable undescended testes: should it become our first choice? [SEP] Surgical techniques
For fixation of the undescended testes
For the management of palpable undescended testes (over 80% of undescended testes) the standard inguinal approach is the appropriate procedure.Approximately 50% of non-palpable testis are high in the inguinal canal or abdominal, while the other 50% are atrophic, and usually located in the scrotum. Standard open inguinal orchiopexy is most appropriate procedure for palpable testes. For palpable undescended testes, multi-study analysis has shown that there is no significant difference in safety or success rates between standard open inguinal and laparoscopic approaches, with the latter being more expensive and associated with a higher rate of complications (extensive high retroperitoneal dissection with scrotal hematomas and wound infection, Prentiss maneuvers with hemorrhage from epigastric vessels and wound infection). At ultrasound, the undescended testis usually appears small, less echogenic than the contralateral normal testis and usually located in the inguinal region. Indications
Although the development of new imaging modalities such as computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging have opened a new era for medical imaging, high-resolution sonography remains as the initial imaging modality of choice for evaluation of scrotal
disease. At ultrasound,
the undescended testis usually appears small, less echogenic than the contralateral normal
testis and usually located in the inguinal region [Fig. Conclusion
Ultrasound remains as the mainstay in scrotal imaging not only because of its high accuracy,
excellent depiction of scrotal anatomy, low cost and wide availability, it is also useful in
determining whether a mass is intra- or extra-testicular, thus providing us useful and
valuable information to decide whether a mass is benign or malignant even though
malignancy does occur in extratesticular tumors and vice versa. Orchid (2015)
Testicular self-examination. 
Is grandmultiparity an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcomes? [SEP] A woman who has given birth two, three, or four times is multiparous and is called a multip. Grand multipara describes the condition of having given birth five or more times.Like gravidity, parity may also be counted. This condition can have a profound effect during pregnancy on the mother and fetus. Risk Factors: prior cesarean delivery, pregnancy termination, intrauterine surgery, smoking, multifetal gestation, increasing parity, maternal age. Diabetes mellitus in pregnancy
Lupus in pregnancy
Thyroid disease in pregnancy
Risks arising from previous pregnancies: Complications experienced during a previous pregnancy are more likely to recur.Multiple pregnancies: Individuals who have had greater than five previous pregnancies face increased risks of rapid labor and excessive bleeding after delivery. Multiple gestation (having more than one fetus in a single pregnancy): These individuals have an increased risk of mislocated placenta. Hypertension is considered a risk factor for high-risk pregnancy because it leads to an increased risk of pre-eclampsia, restricted fetal growth, and preterm birth. Common fetal related factors that can create a high risk pregnancy include:

congenital defects
multiple gestations
fetal growth restriction

Pregnancy-related factors
Other reasons a pregnancy may be classified as high-risk include if the mother develops a medical condition during pregnancy or if complications occur during pregnancy. 
Does the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia exist? [SEP] The investing layer of deep cervical fascia is the most superficial part of the deep cervical fascia, and encloses the whole neck. The deep cervical fascia (or fascia colli in older texts) lies under cover of the platysma, and invests the muscles of the neck; it also forms sheaths for the carotid vessels, and for the structures situated in front of the vertebral column. The alar fascia is a portion of the deep cervical fascia. Divisions
The deep cervical fascia is often divided into a superficial, middle, and deep layer. The superficial layer is also known as the investing layer of deep cervical fascia. The deep layer is also known as the prevertebral fascia. It surrounds the paraspinous muscles and cervical vertebrae.The carotid sheath is also considered a component of the deep cervical fascia. Superficial cervical fascia is a thin layer of subcutaneous connective tissue that lies between the dermis of the skin and the deep cervical fascia. 
Is crime associated with over-the-counter pharmacy syringe sales? [SEP] A drug-related crime is a crime to possess, manufacture, or distribute drugs classified as having a potential for abuse (such as cocaine, heroin, morphine and amphetamines). Drugs and crime
Drug abuse and addiction is associated with drug-related crimes. Corporate Crime in the Pharmaceutical Industry is a 1984 book on corporate crime and the pharmaceutical industry by criminologist John Braithwaite.The author writes from the perspective of a criminologist and not from a perspective of expertise in drug law or pharmacology.Various reviewers commented on the book.The author produced a follow up book 30 years later titled, Pharmaceuticals, Corporate Crime and Public Health. Involvement of organized crime
The interest of organized crime towards the illicit trafficking of counterfeit medicines is clearly demonstrated by figures. In other jurisdictions where syringe possession without a prescription remained illegal,  physician-based prescription programmes have shown promise. Based on such laws, the majority of pharmacies do not sell syringes without a prescription and police arrest people who possess syringes without a prescription. For example, despite instituting laws protecting syringe access and possession and adopting NEPs, IDUs and sex workers in Mexico's Northern Border regions report frequent syringe confiscation by law enforcement personnel. In this region as well as elsewhere, reports of syringe confiscation are correlated with increases in risky behaviors, such as groin injecting, public injection and utilization of pharmacies. 
Is prophylactic fixation a cost-effective method to prevent a future contralateral fragility hip fracture? [SEP] FRAX integrates clinical risk factors and bone mineral density at the femoral neck to calculate the 10-year probability of hip fracture and the 10-year probability of a major osteoporotic fracture (clinical spine, forearm, hip or shoulder fracture). Adjustments
Glucocorticoid use is included FRAX as a dichotomous variable, whereas the increased risk for fractures seen with glucocorticoid use is dependent on glucocorticoid dose and duration of use. Some clinicians choose rheumatoid arthritis as an equivalent risk factor instead.FRAX was developed and most commonly used to assess fracture risk for previously untreated individuals, though some have suggested is can also be used in those treated in the past or even on current treatment for osteoporosis. It is the most commonly used implant for extracapsular fractures of the hip, which are common in older osteoporotic patients. Hip protectors are most commonly used in elderly individuals who have a high risk of falls and hip fractures (for example, due to history of a previous fall and underlying osteoporosis).Most hip fractures follow an impact due to a lateral fall. Effectiveness
A 2014 Cochrane review found that hip protectors decrease the number of hip fractures among the elderly.A number of reviews have found that hip protectors are cost-effective, particularly among residents of care homes and for long-stay patients in hospitalA previous review found that the effect for preventing hip fracture among nursing home residents was small and not effective among community dwelling elderly individuals. A 2007 review found a decreased risk of hip fractures in elderly nursing home residents.However, acceptance and long-term compliance towards them has historically been quite low, mainly because of discomfort, dislike of their appearance by the person wearing it, and disagreement about fracture risk. Both of these systems aim to reduce the focused force beneath an estimated fracture threshold.Several different commercially available hip protectors exist. 
Is double-balloon enteroscopy an accurate method to diagnose small-bowel disorders? [SEP] Double-balloon enteroscopy, also known as push-and-pull enteroscopy, is an endoscopic technique for visualization of the small bowel. The process is then continued until the entire small bowel is visualized.The double-balloon enteroscope can also be passed in retrograde fashion, through the colon and into the ileum to visualize the end of the small bowel. Indications
Double-balloon enteroscopy has found a niche application in the following settings:

Bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract of obscure cause
Iron deficiency anemia with normal colonoscopy and gastroscopy
Visualization and therapeutic intervention on abnormalities seen on traditional small bowel imaging
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in post-surgical patients with long afferent limbs

Advantages
Double-balloon enteroscopy offers a number of advantages to other small bowel image techniques, including barium imaging, wireless capsule endoscopy and push enteroscopy:

It allows for visualization of the entire small bowel to the terminal ileum. Disadvantages
The key disadvantage of double-balloon enteroscopy is the time required to visualize the small bowel; this can exceed three hours, and may require that patients be admitted to hospital for the procedure. Enteroscopy is the procedure of using an endoscope for the direct visualization of the small bowel. Various types of enteroscopy exist, as follows:
Video chip enteroscopy
Double-balloon enteroscopy
Single-balloon enteroscopy
Spiral enteroscopy
Wireless endoscopy
Capsule endoscopyAs the small bowel can often be a source of pathology, endoscopy of the small bowel can be a useful diagnostic and therapeutic technique. With the advent of the newer forms of enteroscopy, such as the double-balloon type, visualizing the entire tract is finally a practical reality in at least some cases, although it is still technically demanding. Due to the length of the small bowel, averaging 4–6 meters in the adult, push enteroscopy is still not effective to adequately visualize large portions of the small intestine.Wireless capsule endoscopy has proven to be the endoscopic investigation of choice for visualization of the entire small bowel. 
Does strategy training reduce age-related deficits in working memory? [SEP] Working memory training is intended to improve a person's working memory. It has been claimed that working memory training programs are effective means, both for treating specific medical conditions associated with working memory deficit, as and for general increase in cognitive capacity among healthy neurotypical adults. Overall, the pilot study concludes that working memory training in adult patients that have previously had a stroke can both improve their cognitive function as measured by neuropsychological tests as well as improvements in subjective reports of cognitive failures.Studies have also proven that working memory training can possibly help to improve deficits in working memory caused by anxiety and depression disorders, especially in adolescents. More broadly, it is thought that cognitive training may especially benefit older adults as there is a general decline in fluid intelligence with age as there are decreases in speed of processing, working memory, longterm memory, and reasoning skills. Some researchers argue that the lower performance of older adults on cognitive tasks may not always reflect actual ability as older adults may show performance decrements due to strategy choice, such as avoiding using memory retrieval in memory tasks. A study attempting to train the updating component of executive function in young and older adults showed that cognitive training could lead to improvements in task performance across both of the groups, however, general transfer of ability to new tasks was only shown in young adults and not older adults. Cognitive training improves cognitive functioning, which can increase working memory capacity and improve cognitive skills and functions in clinical populations with working memory deficiencies. One study showed improvements in self-control and delayed reward valuation in participants who completed several working memory training sessions, but those gains did not transfer to other inhibition skills. 
Does the SCL 90-R obsessive-compulsive dimension identify cognitive impairments? [SEP] The Symptom Checklist-90-R (SCL-90-R) is a relatively brief self-report psychometric instrument (questionnaire) published by the Clinical Assessment division of the Pearson Assessment & Information group. The Dimensional Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (DOCS) is a 20-item self-report instrument that assesses the severity of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) symptoms along four empirically supported theme-based dimensions: (a) contamination, (b) responsibility for harm and mistakes, (c) incompleteness/symmetry, and (d) unacceptable (taboo) thoughts. "Assessment of obsessive-compulsive symptom dimensions: Development and evaluation of the Dimensional Obsessive-Compulsive Scale". The obsessive–compulsive spectrum is a model of medical classification where various psychiatric, neurological and/or medical conditions are described as existing on a spectrum of conditions related to obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD). "The obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders". "Obsessive-Compulsive Spectrum Disorders: a Comorbidity and Family History Perspective". "Obsessive-Compulsive Spectrum Disorders in Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and Other Anxiety Disorders". The Schizophrenia Cognition Rating Scale (SCoRS) is a 20 item interview-based clinical assessment that evaluates cognitive deficits and the degree to which these deficits impair patients’ day-to-day functioning. 
Is fetal anatomic assessment on follow-up antepartum sonograms clinically useful? [SEP] The function of the ultrasound is to measure the fetus so that growth abnormalities can be recognized quickly later in pregnancy, to assess for congenital malformations and multiple pregnancies, and to plan method of delivery. The performance of a fetal echocardiogram requires experience and a systematic approach. The International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology (ISUOG) recommends that pregnant women have routine obstetric ultrasounds between 18 weeks' and 22 weeks' gestational age (the anatomy scan) in order to confirm pregnancy dating, to measure the fetus so that growth abnormalities can be recognized quickly later in pregnancy, and to assess for congenital malformations and multiple pregnancies (twins, etc). Performing an ultrasound at this early stage of pregnancy can more accurately confirm the timing of the pregnancy, and can also assess for multiple fetuses and major congenital abnormalities at an earlier stage. Doppler sonography can be used to evaluate the pulsations in the fetal heart and bloods vessels for signs of abnormalities. Ultrasound may also detect fetal organ anomaly. Some resources indicate that there are clear reasons for this and that such scans are also clearly beneficial because ultrasound enables clear clinical advantages for assessing the developing fetus in terms of morphology, bone shape, skeletal features, fetal heart function, volume evaluation, fetal lung maturity, and general fetus well being.Second-trimester ultrasound screening for aneuploidies is based on looking for soft markers and some predefined structural abnormalities. Follow-up one week after the procedure is recommended to undergo ultrasound evaluation for fetal viability and assess healing of the puncture site. 
Is muscle power related to running speed with changes of direction? [SEP] In this sense the power of the muscles is actually amplified. The muscle-powered movements had a higher temperature coefficient (Q10 = 1.77–2.26), signifying thermal dependence. In elite sports, the speed at which an athlete can do a change of direction is especially valuable in court and field sports. It is clear in the vast majority of species that as running speed increases the energetic cost of running increases. In humans there is evidence that the cost to run at a given speed may be predictive of endurance performance. ml/kg/min).Though some recent data may suggest otherwise, it is traditionally well accepted that a strong linear relationship exists between the rate of oxygen consumption and running speed (see figure 1), with energy expenditure increasing with increasing running speed. Also, performance level has been observed to influence the energy expenditure of running at a given speed, even within groups of trained runners. This suggests that running economy, or the energy cost of running at a given submaximal speed, may be a valid predictor of performance especially within homogeneous groups of trained runners. 
Can magnetic resonance imaging accurately predict concordant pain provocation during provocative disc injection? [SEP] On facet joint injection it was stated that "Injecting facet joints with local anaesthetic can cause temporary relief of pain; however, the Framingham Heart Study (3529 participants) did not find an association between radiological osteoarthritis of facet joints and presence of low back pain." The UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) gives the official recommendation "1.3.1 Do not offer spinal injections for managing low back pain". Given the complexity of hip and groin anatomy and clinical conditions, imaging-guided injections are useful both for the diagnostic workup and treatment. General principles for ultrasound-guided injection
Usual standards for musculoskeletal interventional procedures apply include review of previous imaging, informed consent and appropriate local anesthetic. A 20-gauge 3.5 inch regular cutting back spinal needle is directed in-plane under real time ultrasound guidance into the anterior capsular recess. In addition, a recent meta-analysis revealed that ultrasound-guided hip joint injections were significantly more accurate than landmark-guided intra-articular hip injections (accuracies were 100%, 95%CI 98–100%; 72%, 95%CI 56–85%, respectively).To date, many trials examining efficacy of intra-articular corticosteroid injection for osteoarthritis, either under fluoroscopy or ultrasound-guidance, have revealed short-term improvement of hip pain, though no reliable predictors of response to intra-articular corticosteroid injections have been identified. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is in general a safe technique, although injuries may occur as a result of failed safety procedures or human error. Claustrophobia and discomfort
Although painless, MRI scans may be unpleasant for those who are claustrophobic or otherwise uncomfortable with the imaging device surrounding them. 
Is a 9-month treatment sufficient in tuberculous enterocolitis? [SEP] See also
Tuberculosis treatment
Rifampicin + isoniazid + ethambutol


== References == The original tuberculin was a glycerine extract of the tubercle bacilli and was developed as a remedy for tuberculosis. However, the treatment did not result in the anticipated reduction of deaths.When the tuberculin treatment was first given to patients in 1890, a febrile reaction that lasted between four and five hours was recorded in most patients. After these symptoms became recurring in patients, Koch had noted how increasing dosages of the treatment over time resulted in quicker and more effective healing in the mild cases of tuberculosis, along with the more serious cases where progression was slower, yet still progressive.British efforts to set up "dispensaries" for the examination, diagnosis and treatment of poor citizens achieved better results, as the protocol of the Edinburgh System encompassed treatment of the homes and all contacts of the patients with TB. Until that time, the only effective remedy for an infectious disease was quinine, which was used to treat malaria.At the Tenth International Medical Congress held in 1890 in Berlin, Koch unexpectedly introduced a cure for tuberculosis, which he called tuberculin. Ineffectiveness as a cure
In February 1891, a medical trial was performed on 1769 patients to whom tuberculin was administered, and the results made clear that it was not a true cure. With the various clinical trials and observations made through the differing responses to tuberculin in patients with and without tuberculosis, new methods that corresponded to the backbone of this treatment began to arise. Through the failures and successes of tuberculin, more than ever before is known about the causes and symptoms of tuberculosis and the measures to prevent it. 
Does coronary angiography before emergency aortic surgery affect in-hospital mortality? [SEP] Those at moderate to high risk benefit from an early invasive strategy, which includes coronary angiography and, if necessary, revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery.Medical therapy for acute coronary syndromes is based on drugs that act against ischemia and resultant angina and limit the infarct size (i.e., the area of myocardium that is affected), as well as drugs that inhibit clot formation. Patient-dependent initial measures
Because of the relationship between the duration of myocardial ischemia and the extent of damage to  heart muscle, public health services encourage people experiencing possible acute coronary syndrome symptoms or those around them to immediately call emergency medical services. An angiogram can provide detailed anatomy of coronary circulation and lesions. To more accurately determine the severity of stenosis, interventional cardiologists may also employ intravascular ultrasound, which can determine the severity and provide information on the composition of the atheromatous plaque. Noninvasive tests help estimate which patients might benefit from undergoing coronary angiography. Ongoing ischemia might prompt emergency angiography or re-operation. published the Cardiac Comorbidity Risk (CCoR) score for assessing the risk of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) after hip and knee arthroplasty surgeries, that claimed to supersede the RCRI in predictive performance. Electrocardiography in suspected myocardial infarction has the main purpose of detecting ischemia or acute coronary injury in emergency department populations coming for symptoms of myocardial infarction (MI). 
Is bicompartmental knee arthroplasty more favourable to knee muscle strength and physical performance compared to total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] Knee replacement surgery can be performed as a partial or a total knee replacement. Currently there is insufficient quality evidence to support the use of pre-operative physiotherapy in older adults undergoing total knee arthroplasty.Preoperative education is currently an important part of patient care. Promotion and execution of early ambulation on patients reduce the complications, as well as decrease length of stay and costs associated with further hospitalization.Multiple rehabilitation protocols may be used for recovery of total knee arthroplasty. UKA surgery may reduce post-operative pain and have a shorter recovery period than a total knee replacement procedure, particularly in people over 75 years of age. Moreover, UKAs may require a smaller incision, less tissue damage, and faster recovery times.In the United States, the procedure constitutes approximately 8% of knee arthroplasties. Partial knee replacement subjects report that their replaced knee feels more like their original non-replaced knee as compared to a total knee replacement
2, Partial knee replacements leave other options open to further advances. Biarticular muscles are muscles that cross two joints rather than just one, such as the hamstrings which cross both the hip and the knee. "Contribution of mono- and biarticular muscles to extending knee joint moments in runners and cyclists". 
Can gingival crevicular blood be relied upon for assessment of blood glucose level? [SEP] Blood glucose monitoring is the use of a glucose meter for testing the concentration of glucose in the blood (glycemia). Particularly important in diabetes management, a blood glucose test is typically performed by piercing the skin (typically, via fingerstick) to draw blood, then applying the blood to a chemically active disposable 'test-strip'. Monitoring during periods when blood glucose levels are not typically checked (e.g. References

 Media related to Blood glucose monitoring at Wikimedia Commons To determine blood glucose, the measuring beam of infrared light, for example, has to penetrate the tissue for measurement of blood glucose. Noninvasive glucose monitoring (NIGM) is the measurement of blood glucose levels, required by people with diabetes to prevent both chronic and acute complications from the disease, without drawing blood, puncturing the skin, or causing pain or trauma. Blood is drawn at intervals for measurement of glucose (blood sugar), and sometimes insulin levels. An increasingly popular method for measuring blood glucose is to sample capillary or finger-prick blood, which is less invasive, more convenient for the patient and requires minimal training to conduct. 
Predicting admission at triage: are nurses better than a simple objective score? [SEP] Since START was developed, consensus has emerged that triage should be more sophisticated, by incorporating resource limitations and capacity in determining how to prioritize patients. Emergency Severity Index (ESI): A Triage Tool for Emergency Department Care, Version 4. Emergency Severity Index (ESI): A Triage Tool for Emergency Department Care, Version 4. A score less than 3 carries good prognosis but total score more than 8 carries high risk of mortality. The sequential organ failure assessment score (SOFA score), previously known as the sepsis-related organ failure assessment score, is used to track a person's status during the stay in an intensive care unit (ICU) to determine the extent of a person's organ function or rate of failure. According to an observational study at an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in Belgium, the mortality rate is at least 50% when the score is increased, regardless of initial score, in the first 96 hours of admission, 27% to 35% if the score remains unchanged, and less than 27% if the score is reduced. It is applied within 24 hours of admission of a patient to an intensive care unit (ICU): an integer score from 0 to 71 is computed based on several measurements; higher scores correspond to more severe disease and a higher risk of death. The prognostic system of APACHE III has two options:

APACHE III ScoreProvides an initial risk classification of severely ill hospitalized patients in defined groups.APACHE III predictive equationAdds additional variables to the APACHE III Score including the primary reason for ICU admission (from a reference list of 212 conditions classified according to etiology, major organ involved, and distinction between surgical/medical categories); age, sex, race and preexisting comorbidities; and location prior to ICU admission (operating room, recovery or emergency department, transfer or readmission from another hospital or ICU).When possible, the time between the patient's arrival at the hospital and their ICU admission is recorded. 
Target Serum Urate: Do Gout Patients Know Their Goal? [SEP] High serum uric acid levels may result in gout, kidney stones, and other medical conditions. Development of gout – which is a painful, short-term disorder – is the most common consequence of hyperuricemia, which causes deposition of uric acid crystals usually in joints of the extremities, but may also induce formation of kidney stones, another painful disorder. Not all people with hyperuricemia develop gout. For people who have recurring attacks of gout, one of these two categories of drugs is recommended. If the person has chronic gout or known tophi, then large quantities of uric acid crystals may have accumulated in joints and other tissues, and aggressive and/or long duration use of medications may be needed. Prognosis
Increased levels predispose for gout and, if very high, kidney failure. "A concise history of gout and hyperuricemia and their treatment". Medical uses
Gout
Allopurinol is used to reduce urate formation in conditions where urate deposition has already occurred or is predictable. 
Diagnosis and follow-up in constipated children: should we use ultrasound? [SEP] The experience of going to a doctor for this can be stressful.Too often, children at doctors receive unnecessary health care when they get medical imaging for constipation. Children who do not respond to constipation treatment for six months should also raise suspicion of such disease. Although constipation may be a diagnosis, it is typically viewed as a symptom that requires evaluation to discern a cause. Imaging and laboratory tests are typically recommended for those with alarm signs or symptoms.The laboratory tests performed depends on the suspected underlying cause of the constipation. More than four million Americans have frequent constipation, accounting for 2.5 million physician visits a year. With constipation accounting for approximately 5% of general pediatrician visits and 25% of pediatric gastroenterologist visits, the symptom carries a significant financial impact upon the healthcare system. If obstructing kidney stones are suspected, the kidneys can be evaluated by ultrasound for signs of obstruction, called hydronephrosis. Many practitioners use point-of-care ultrasound in diagnosing other urgent and emergency problems, including appendicitis, testicular torsion, and abscesses. 
Are neighbourhood social capital and availability of sports facilities related to sports participation among Dutch adolescents? [SEP] About two thirds of the population older than 15 years participates in sports weekly.Football (soccer) is the most popular sport in the Netherlands, with field hockey and korfball as the second and third most popular team sports. Sport for social development is a method of bringing about social change through the use of sports. Sport refers to the physical activity and development in any individual, health, social and economic benefits. Promote youth development
Since the advent of modern Olympics in 1896, athletes have shown that sports enable people to come together in an effort to bring about global peace and to share a desire for self-improvement. Youth sport can help them grow towards positive development and good relationships with others. Sport is a tool utilized to get young people involved in their communities. Through being involved in sports youth can gain self-esteem when they are enjoying the experience of taking part in a sport. Class, Sports, and Social Development. 
Did the call for boycott by the Catholic bishops affect the polio vaccination coverage in Kenya in 2015? [SEP] The Kousseri vaccination campaign took place between February 13 and 17 2008. Figures released on 21 February 2008 show that a total of 35,615 children were vaccinated against poliomyelitis, while 32,624 were vaccinated against measles. References
Cameroon: Over 35,000 children vaccinated against polio and measles (press release), United Nations, 21 February 2008 Background: polio vaccines
Two vaccines are used throughout the world to combat poliomyelitis. In 1960, Koprowski wrote in the British Medical Journal, "The Belgian Congo trials have enlarged considerably and ... more vaccination campaigns organized in several provinces of the Belgian Congo are raising the number of vaccinated individuals into the millions."(p. Current oral polio-vaccine campaign in Africa
Rumours that polio vaccines are unsafe disrupted the longstanding effort of the WHO and UN to achieve poliomyelitis eradication worldwide through use of the oral polio vaccine of Albert Sabin, which is thought to be safe and effective by virtually all medical authorities. Since 2003, these fears have spread among some in the Muslim community, with Datti Ahmed, of the Supreme Council for Sharia in Nigeria stating that:

We believe that modern-day Hitlers have deliberately adulterated the oral polio vaccines with anti-fertility drugs and viruses which are known to cause HIV and AIDS. As evidence to the success of polio eradication efforts, the vaccine-derived polioviruses (cVDPVs) nowadays cause more cases of polio paralysis than the wild type virus itself in many places, such as the Congo.Polio has also resurged in areas of Pakistan, India and Bangladesh. 
Recurrent spontaneous abortion and skewed X-inactivation: is there an association? [SEP] Clinical significance
Skewed X-inactivation has medical significance due to its impacts on X-linked diseases. Women have a predisposition towards the condition, and research indicates that this might in part be due to skewed X-inactivation. Recurrent miscarriages
Skewed X-chromosome inactivation has been implicated in miscarriages in the past. A study hypothesized that skewed X-inactivation may play a role in these miscarriages. However, a 2003 study found that there was no significant correlation between miscarriages and skewed X-inactivation, with only 6.6% of the patients showing significant skewing as compared to the 3.9% rate in the control group. It also stated that there had been a lack of controlling for age-related skewing in similar studies and concluded that it is unlikely for skewed X-inactivation to influence recurrent miscarriages. X-inactivation is part of the activation cycle of the X chromosome throughout the female life. For an individual cell or lineage the inactivation is therefore skewed or 'non-random', and this can give rise to mild symptoms in female 'carriers' of X-linked genetic disorders. 
Does increased patient awareness improve accrual into cancer-related clinical trials? [SEP] Breast cancer awareness is an effort to raise awareness and reduce the stigma of breast cancer through education about screening, symptoms, and treatment. Breast cancer advocates raise funds and lobby for better care, more knowledge, and more patient empowerment. Marketing approaches
The goal of breast cancer awareness campaigns is to raise the public's brand awareness for breast cancer, its detection, its treatment, and the need for a reliable, permanent cure. Increased awareness has increased the number of women receiving mammograms, the number of breast cancers detected, and the number of women receiving breast biopsies. Overall, as a result of awareness, breast cancers are being detected at an earlier, more treatable stage. Awareness efforts have successfully utilized marketing approaches to reduce the stigma associated with the disease.Generally speaking, breast cancer awareness campaigns have been highly effective in getting attention for the disease. "Interventions for Raising Breast Cancer Awareness in Women". Drug approval typically requires clinical trials with endpoints that demonstrate a clinical benefit, such as increased survival for cancer patients. 
Does airway surgery lower serum lipid levels in obstructive sleep apnea patients? [SEP] Sleep surgery is a surgery performed to treat sleep disordered breathing. Clinical results
Most obstructive sleep apnea sufferers have multiple points of obstruction in their airway and therefore require multilevel sleep surgery in order to maximize the efficacy of treatment. This reduction in sleep apnea severity via surgical means compares well against the AHI reduction for best case CPAP patients where an overall AHI reduction of 66% was achieved. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the most common sleep-related breathing disorder and is characterized by recurrent episodes of complete or partial obstruction of the upper airway leading to reduced or absent breathing during sleep. Studies have shown that weight loss in obese adolescents can reduce sleep apnea and thus the symptoms of OSA. Subsequently, in clinical practice, concerns of OSA have matched or exceeded interest in speech outcomes following pharyngeal flap surgery.The surgical treatment for velopalatal insufficiency may cause obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Children with obstructive sleep-disordered breathing also show a faster heart rate during wakefulness and during sleep.In adult patients, OSA has been shown to be associated with insulin resistance. Obstructive sleep apnea
Tonsillectomy improves obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in most children. 
Is withdrawal-induced anxiety in alcoholism based on beta-endorphin deficiency? [SEP] Psychosis including severe anxiety and depression are commonly induced by sustained alcohol, opioid, benzodiazepine, and other drug use which in most cases abates with prolonged abstinence. Alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) is a set of symptoms that can occur following a reduction in alcohol use after a period of excessive use. About half of people with alcoholism will develop withdrawal symptoms upon reducing their use, with four percent developing severe symptoms. To be classified as alcohol withdrawal syndrome, patients must exhibit at least two of the following symptoms: increased hand tremor, insomnia, nausea or vomiting, transient hallucinations (auditory, visual or tactile), psychomotor agitation, anxiety, generalized tonic–clonic seizures, and autonomic instability.The severity of symptoms is dictated by a number of factors, the most important of which are degree of alcohol intake, length of time the individual has been using alcohol, and previous history of alcohol withdrawal. Symptoms can include a craving for alcohol, inability to feel pleasure from normally pleasurable things (known as anhedonia), clouding of sensorium, disorientation, nausea and vomiting or headache.Insomnia is a common protracted withdrawal symptom that persists after the acute withdrawal phase of alcohol. Dysfunction of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis and increased release of corticotropin-releasing hormone occur during both acute as well as protracted abstinence from alcohol and contribute to both acute and protracted withdrawal symptoms. This in turn leads to more profound withdrawal symptoms including anxiety, convulsions and neurotoxicity.Binge drinking is associated with increased impulsivity, impairments in spatial working memory and impaired emotional learning. the DRD2-A1 allele increases the desire for alcohol and has been shown to be associated with a low γ-endorphin count. 
Do older patients receive adequate stroke care? [SEP] Follow-up is usually facilitated by the patient's primary care provider.The initial severity of impairments and individual characteristics, such as motivation, social support, and learning ability, are key predictors of stroke recovery outcomes. After that, the focus became how to treat patients with stroke. Interventions for age-related visual problems in patients with stroke
With the prevalence of vision problems increasing with age in stroke patients, the overall effect of interventions for age-related visual problems is currently uncertain. It is also not sure whether people with stroke respond differently from the general population when treating eye problems. As the age of the population increases, the diagnosis and management of CPSP will become increasingly important to improve the quality of life of an increasing number of stroke survivors. References
Sources
External links
"Life After Stroke". American Stroke Association. This article describes disparities existing between men and women in accessing  and receiving care for a stroke. 
Doppler examination of uteroplacental circulation in early pregnancy: can it predict adverse outcome? [SEP] A Doppler fetal monitor is a hand-held ultrasound transducer used to detect the fetal heartbeat for prenatal care. The Doppler fetal monitor is commonly referred to simply as a Doppler or fetal Doppler. Doppler fetal monitors provide information about the fetus similar to that provided by a fetal stethoscope. Heart rate display: some Dopplers automatically display the heart rate on a built-in LCD; for others the fetal heart rate must be counted and timed by the practitioner.A major advantage of being able to record and share the recording is that it can be emailed to a healthcare professional to be checked if there are any concerns about whether or not it is the fetus's heart rate and whether or not is normal. Fetal cardiovascular changes
There is decrease in magnitude of umbilical venous volume flow. The failure of the circulatory system of the newborn to adapt to these changes by lowering PVR leads to persistent fetal circulation. To diagnose a fetus with pulmonary hypertension, PVR must be higher than systemic vascular resistance, resulting in high afterload and decreased systemic blood flow. A gradient of 10% or more in oxygenation saturation between simultaneous preductal and postductal arterial blood gas values in absence of structural heart disease documents persistent fetal circulation. 
Can vitamin C prevent complex regional pain syndrome in patients with wrist fractures? [SEP] Background
Vitamin C is an essential nutrient used in the production of collagen and other biomolecules, and for the prevention of scurvy. Burns
One clinical trial used high intravenous doses of vitamin C (66 mg/kg/hour for 24 hours, for a total dose of around 110 grams) after severe burn injury, but despite being described as promising, it has not been replicated by independent institutions and thus is not a widely accepted treatment. Prevention
Vitamin C supplementation may be useful in prevention of the syndrome following fracture of the forearm, foot, or ankle. Vitamin C is available as an inexpensive generic and over-the-counter medication. However, taking vitamin C in the form of sodium ascorbate and calcium ascorbate may minimize this effect. Medical imaging
X-ray of the affected wrist is required if a fracture is suspected. X-ray of the uninjured wrist should also be taken to determine if any normal anatomic variations exist before surgery.A CT scan is often performed to further investigate the articular anatomy of the fracture, especially for fracture and displacement within the distal radio-ulnar joint.Various kinds of information can be obtained from X-rays of the wrist:Lateral view

Carpal malalignment - A line is drawn along the long axis of the capitate bone and another line is drawn along the long axis of the radius. Remedies and causes
After applying hot or cold pads in the first moments, if there is no inflammation, the use of a simple leather or neoprene wrist brace (or even a steel-reinforced one),  is recommended in order to rest the wrist.Wrist pain can be caused by one or more of a number of different disorders, such as:

Carpal tunnel syndrome
Wrist osteoarthritis
Kienbock's disease
Scaphoid fracture
Scapholunate dissociation
Carpal boss
Ganglion cyst
Ulnar nerve entrapment, sometimes due to wrist or elbow abnormalities such as Guyon's canal syndrome or cubital tunnel syndrome
Wrist fracture, wrist sprain
Tendonitis wrist (Extensor) or thumb (DeQuervains)
Psoriatic arthritis

See also
Sprained ankle
Wrist brace

References
Bibliography
"Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Fact Sheet". 
Is digoxin use for cardiovascular disease associated with risk of prostate cancer? [SEP] Digoxin increased the risk of death in women by 23%. A 2008 study suggested digoxin has beneficial effects not only for the heart, but also in reducing the risk of certain kinds of cancer. The interaction of digoxin and cancer has also been studied. Several studies have suggested that digoxin may have anticancer properties, others not.Digoxin, as a cardiac glycoside, has a chemical structure basically similar to that of estradiol. Digoxin has the ability to bind oestrogen receptors, and therefore it has been proposed that it might increase the risk of oestrogen-sensitive breast and uterine cancers. A large Danish study found a complicated picture, with slightly increased risk of breast cancer amongst women taking digoxin, but better prognostic features. The Nurses' Health Study found a similar slight increase of risk.Digoxin inhibits the proliferation of many cancerous cell lines in vitro, but its relevance to cancer in vivo remains unclear. Digoxin is a medication used for heart failure or atrial fibrillation. 
Are income-related differences in active travel associated with physical environmental characteristics? [SEP] Due to its prevalence, cycling is sometimes considered separately from the other forms of active mobility.Public policies promoting active mobility tend to improve health indicators by increasing the levels of physical fitness and reducing the rates of obesity and diabetes, whilst also reducing the consumption of fossil fuels and consequent carbon emissions. Health
Health benefits of active mobility include alleviating urban pressures, reduced energy consumption and production, and improved quality of life. Active mobility improves health by decreasing air pollution from cars. Multiple U.S. studies advocate for increased access to active transportation for everyone, including children, due to multiple health benefits.Sedentary people can lower their BMI by increasing physical activity. In a study of 7 European cities, it was found that individual changes in active travel come with significant lifecycle carbon emissions benefits, even in European urban contexts with already high walking and cycling shares. Active mobility is often more time-consuming than commuting by vehicle, and the effects of distance, geographic features such as hills, and climate may make outdoor exertion uncomfortable or impractical. United States
Residents of the United States use active mobility as a mode of transportation less often than residents of other countries. Women’s and men’s perception of danger and safety offer differential travel experience. 
Can Roux-en-Y gastric bypass provide a lifelong solution for diabetes mellitus? [SEP] Long term weight loss through the standard of care procedures (Roux en-Y bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, and biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch) is largely achieved by altering  gut hormone levels responsible for hunger and satiety, leading to a new hormonal weight set point. Long-term studies from 2009 show the procedures result in significant long-term loss of weight, recovery from diabetes, improvement in cardiovascular risk factors, and a mortality reduction from 40% to 23%. Short-term complications from laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding are reported to be lower than laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery, and complications from laparoscopic Roux-en-Y surgery are lower than conventional (open) Roux-en-Y surgery.Risks of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass include anastomotic stenosis (narrowing of the intestine where the two segments are rejoined), marginal ulcers (ulcers near the rejoined segment), internal hernia, small bowel obstruction, kidney stones, and gall stones. It has been found to produce a weight loss comparable to that of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery (RYGB)
Main article: Gastric bypass surgery
The Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is designed to alter the gut hormones that control hunger and satiety. Compared to the Sleeve Gastrectomy and Rou-en-Y Gastric Bypass, BPD/DS produces the best results in terms of durable weight loss and resolution of Type 2 Diabetes. The long-term mortality rate of gastric bypass patients has been shown to be reduced by up to 40%. Operations that make use of a Roux-en-Y
Some gastric bypasses for obesity. 
Does the severity of obstructive sleep apnea predict patients requiring high continuous positive airway pressure? [SEP] Medical uses
Severe to moderate obstructive sleep apnea
CPAP is the most effective treatment for moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea, in which the mild pressure from the CPAP prevents the airway from collapsing or becoming blocked. In addition, people with moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea have a higher risk of concomitant symptoms such as anxiety and depression, which can make it more difficult to change their sleep habits and to use CPAP on a regular basis. Positive airway pressure (PAP) is a mode of respiratory ventilation used in the treatment of sleep apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the most common sleep-related breathing disorder and is characterized by recurrent episodes of complete or partial obstruction of the upper airway leading to reduced or absent breathing during sleep. Obstructive sleep apnea has been associated with neurocognitive morbidity and there is a link between snoring and neurocognitive disorders. In OSA, recurrent interruptions of respiration during sleep are associated with temporary airway obstruction. Positive airway pressure therapy
If left untreated, UARS can develop into obstructive sleep apnea. See also
Airway resistance
Sleep apnea


== References == 
Do the changes in the serum levels of IL-2, IL-4, TNFalpha, and IL-6 reflect the inflammatory activity in the patients with post-ERCP pancreatitis? [SEP] One study indicated that 57% dogs followed for six months after an acute pancreatitis attack, either continued to exhibit inflammation of the organ or had decreased acinar cell function, though they had no pancreatitis symptoms. Other tests used to determine chronic pancreatitis are serum trypsinogen, computed tomography, ultrasound and biopsy.When chronic pancreatitis is caused by genetic factors, elevations in ESR, IgG4, rheumatoid factor, ANA and anti-smooth muscle antibody may be detected.On CT scan, pancreatic and bile duct dilatation, atrophy of pancreas, multiple calcifications of the pancreas, and enlargement of pancreatic glands can be found.On MRI scan, there is a low T1 signal due to inflammation, fibrosis, focal lesions, and calcifications. "Models of Acute and Chronic Pancreatitis". Pancreatitis is a condition characterized by inflammation of the pancreas. Additional tests that may be useful in evaluating chronic pancreatitis include hemoglobin A1C, immunoglobulin G4, rheumatoid factor, and anti-nuclear antibody.For imaging, abdominal ultrasound is convenient, simple, non-invasive, and inexpensive. In mild pancreatitis, there is inflammation and edema of the pancreas. As part of the initial injury there is an extensive inflammatory response due to pancreatic cells synthesizing and secreting inflammatory mediators: primarily TNF-alpha and IL-1. A hallmark of acute pancreatitis is a manifestation of the inflammatory response, namely the recruitment of neutrophils to the pancreas. 
Is routine intraoperative frozen-section examination of sentinel lymph nodes in breast cancer worthwhile? [SEP] The lymph nodes located in the axilla area that are affected by breast cancer are called the guardian or sentinel lymph nodes. If there are only one or two affected guardian lymph nodes, then it may not be necessary for the patient to undergo the axillary dissection procedure. In a sentinel node procedure, a sentinel node containing tumor tissue prompts a further lymph node dissection, while a benign node will avoid such a procedure.If surgery is explorative, rapid examination of a lesion might help identify the possible cause of a patient's symptoms. The review concluded that for tumors that were clearly either benign or malignant on frozen section, the accuracy of the diagnosis was good, as confirmed later by regular biopsy. It is used primarily for sentinel lymph node mapping and parathyroid surgery. Clinical use
To locate the draining lymph nodes or sentinel lymph node from a breast cancer tumour a Technetium-99m based radiopharmaceutical is common. Donald Lee Morton (September 12, 1934 – January 10, 2014) was an American surgical oncologist who was best known for developing sentinel lymph node evaluation, a procedure that, by some estimates, saves the U.S. healthcare system nearly $4 billion annually in the treatment of melanoma and breast cancer. Regional anaesthesia is superior compared to general anaesthesia for the prevention of persistent postoperative pain three to 12 months after breast cancer surgery.In post-surgical medical imaging, many findings can easily be mistaken for cancer. 
Preoperative platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: is it a prognostic factor? [SEP] These proteins include platelet factor V, von Willebrand factor, fibrinogen, thrombospondin-1, and osteonectin. Rockall risk scoring system  attempts to identify patients at risk of adverse outcome following acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding. The increased possibility of bleeding when the platelet count is over 1 million is due to von Willebrand factor (vWF) sequestration by the increased mass of platelets, leaving insufficient vWF for platelet adhesion. Platelet count > 400 × 103/µL for at least 2 months. Low-dose aspirin is used to reduce the risk of blood clot formation unless the platelet count is very high, where there is a risk of bleeding from the disease, and hence this measure would be counter-productive as aspirin-use increases the risk of bleeding.The PT1 study compared hydroxyurea plus aspirin to anagrelide plus aspirin as initial therapy for ET. In people with symptomatic ET and extremely high platelet counts (exceeding 1 million), plateletpheresis can be used to remove platelets from the blood to reduce the risk of thrombosis. However, well-documented medical regimens can reduce and control the number of platelets, which reduces the risk of these thrombotic or hemorrhagic events. For life-threatening complications, the platelet count can be reduced rapidly using plateletpheresis, a procedure that removes platelets from the blood and returns the remainder to the patient. 
Can we predict urinary stone composition based on an analysis of microelement concentration in the hair and urine? [SEP] The composition of urine reflects not only the functioning of the kidneys, but numerous other aspects of the body's regulatory processes. Urine can also be stained before analysis to make its components easier to identify.There are automated microscopy systems that use flow cytometry technology or pattern recognition to identify microscopic elements in unconcentrated urine. He believed that materials obtained from distillation and precipitation of the urine could provide diagnostic information. Signs and symptoms
Bladder stones are small mineral deposits that can form in the bladder. Diagnosis
The diagnosis of bladder stone includes urinalysis, ultrasonography, x rays or cystoscopy (inserting a small thin camera into the urethra and viewing the bladder). Ultrasonography is also useful for identifying bladder stones. Crystals identified in a urinalysis may help identify the stones, but analysis of the stones is necessary for identification of the complete chemical composition. Background
In hair analysis the levels of minerals and metals in the hair sample are analyzed. 
Could ADMA levels in young adults born preterm predict an early endothelial dysfunction? [SEP] Research
Atherosclerosis
Endothelial dysfunction may be involved in the development of atherosclerosis and may predate vascular pathology. Endothelial dysfunction and stents
Stent implantation has been correlated with impaired endothelial function in several studies. ADMA interferes with L-arginine in the production of nitric oxide (NO), a key chemical involved in normal endothelial function and, by extension, cardiovascular health. Today biochemical and clinical research continues into the role of ADMA in cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, erectile dysfunction and certain forms of kidney disease. Thus a spiralling effect occurs with high endothelial LDL levels causing greater ADMA values, which in turn inhibit NO production needed to promote vasodilation. ADMA and suggested lines of therapeutic research
With raised levels of ADMA seemingly to be associated with adverse human health consequences for cardiovascular disease, metabolic diseases, and also a wide range of diseases of the elderly, the possible lowering of ADMA levels may have important therapeutic effects. The association of ADMA with abnormalities of lipid regulation suggested that supplements of free fatty acids might manipulate ADMA levels. The endothelium as a target and mediator of cardiovascular disease. 
Can fractional lasers enhance transdermal absorption of topical lidocaine in an in vivo animal model? [SEP] Fraxel lasers cause fractional photothermolysis for skin resurfacing. Complications observed in a study of 961 fractional laser treatments included acne and herpes outbreaks. Lidocaine mixtures may also be applied directly to the skin or mucous membranes to numb the area. Medical uses
Local numbing agent
The efficacy profile of lidocaine as a local anaesthetic is characterized by a rapid onset of action and intermediate duration of efficacy. There is tentative evidence for topical lidocaine for neuropathic pain and skin graft donor site pain. As a local numbing agent, it is used for the treatment of premature ejaculation.An adhesive transdermal patch containing a 5% concentration of lidocaine in a hydrogel bandage, is approved by the US FDA for reducing nerve pain caused by shingles. "Lidocaine Transdermal Patch". Clinical use
Indications
The lidocaine/prilocaine combination is indicated for dermal anaesthesia. 
Does intra-abdominal desmoid disease affect patients with an ileal pouch differently than those with an ileorectal anastomosis? [SEP] The ileal pouch-anal anastomosis is created in the management of patients with ulcerative colitis, indeterminate colitis, familial adenomatous polyposis, cancer, or rarely, other colitides.A variety of mechanisms can be the cause of pouchitis including inflammatory factors such as a disbiosis sparked inflammation or Crohn's disease of the pouch, surgical causes including surgical join leaks and pelvic sepsis, or infectious from Clostridium difficile (C Diff) or Cytomegalovirus (CMV). While life with a pouch is typically viewed by some people plus some medical professionals as a significant improvement compared to life with an ileostomy, patients living with a pouch may still face daily pains and discomforts including the inability to sleep through the night, a changed diet, severe or frequent gas pain, nutrient deficiencies, and the inability to digest certain foods. "Ileal pouch–anal anastomosis". Intestinal Connective tissue abnormality may cause Intestinal Desmosis The absence of the tendinous plexus layer was first described in 1998 by Meier-Ruge. Desmosis is implicated in disturbed gut motility.Normal peristalsis depends upon the interaction between muscles, nerve cells and tendinous connective tissue. Diagnosis
Classification
Desmoid tumors may be classified as extra-abdominal, abdominal wall, or intra-abdominal (the last is more common in patients with FAP). FAP patients presenting with an abdominal wall desmoid pre-operatively are at an increased risk of developing an intra-abdominal desmoid post-operatively.Desmoid tumors of the breast are rare. Wide surgical resection with clear margins is the most widely practiced technique with radiation, chemotherapy, or hormonal therapy being used to reduce the risk of recurrence.Intestinal transplant is a treatment option for those patients with complicated desmoid tumor, such as those involving the mesenteric root, or those with intestinal failure resulting from the tumor or prior interventions. 
Does anastomotic leakage affect functional outcome after rectal resection for cancer? [SEP] Low anterior resection syndrome
Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) comprises a collection of symptoms mainly affecting patients after surgery for rectal cancer characterized by fecal incontinence (stool and gases), fecal urgency, frequent bowel movements and bowel fragmentation, while some patients only experience constipation and a feeling of incomplete bowel emptying. It is possible to rejoin the two ends of the colon; however, most patients require a temporary ileostomy pouch to bypass the colon, allowing it to heal with less risk of infection, perforation or leakage.TME has become the "gold standard" treatment for rectal cancer Worldwide. An abdomino perineal resection, formally known as abdominoperineal resection of the rectum and abdominoperineal excision of the rectum is a surgery for rectal cancer or anal cancer. Complications of the procedure may include anastomotic leak or dehiscence, hernias, or adhesions causing partial or complete bowel obstruction. Complications
Anastomotic leaks/Dehiscence
An anastomotic leak is a fault in the surgical connection between the two remaining sections of bowel after a resection is performed. Anastomotic leaks may cause infection, abscess development, and organ failure if untreated. A hand sewn anal anastomosis may be necessary when ulcerative colitis, FAP, or cancer patients retain disease in the anal canal to remove all remaining disease. Salvage surgery to redo an IPAA's anal anastomosis
If a pouch has a troubled anal-anastomosis that leaks and causes sepsis or if a person retained more than the recommended amount of rectum (a rectal cuff of no more than 2 cm follows global colorectal surgery recommendations for an ulcerative colitis person), then an experience surgeon may be able to 'redo' the anal anastomosis by removing excess rectum. 
Health care for immigrants in Europe: is there still consensus among country experts about principles of good practice? [SEP] Immigrant health care in the United States refers to the collective systems in the United States that deliver health care services to immigrants. The subject of health care benefits for immigrants has become increasingly popular in political discourse. Immigrants coming from English-speaking countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada, or Australia may face less issues in the health care system because the language barrier is not as wide compared to countries whose primary language is not English.Many studies on immigrant women in the United States conclude that advanced research and studies are needed to be done to obtain more statistical data on immigrant women's health. Public opinion
Support for immigrant health care benefits
Proponents of immigrant health care reform contend that children of immigrant families are like native-born children in their need for security in health and nutrition; as such, they argue that the current state of health care access does not appropriately reflect national interest. Proponents also argue that, because immigrants can also join the health sector's work force, their inclusion in receiving benefits is necessary in servicing the expanding population. Additionally, other arguments of support note that limited accessibility of care requires immigrants to seek care through emergency services, which ultimately results in delays in major diagnoses until the later stages of an affliction, thereby increasing a community's level of disease.A fact report published by the Immigration Policy Center in 2009 also suggests that increased immigrant participation in the United States' health care system yields monetary benefits. Healthy Migrant Theory
Although immigrant populations have increasingly become the foci for analyzing health disparities, the issue of providing care within the context of the patient's cultural background was contested by studies that completely denied the presence of rising health issues in immigrants due to inadequate health services. The Healthy Migrant theory assumes that immigrants are able to successfully transition their lives in America, become fluent in English, or retain their health status. 
Can clinical supervision sustain our workforce in the current healthcare landscape? [SEP] Milne (2007) defined clinical supervision as: "The formal provision, by approved supervisors, of a relationship-based education and training that is work-focused and which manages, supports, develops and evaluates the work of colleague/s". For NHS nurses, the use of clinical supervision is expected as part of good practice. In a randomly controlled trial in Australia, White and Winstanley looked at the relationships between supervision, quality of nursing care and patient outcomes, and found that supervision had sustainable beneficial effects for supervisors and supervisees. Waskett believes that maintaining the practice of clinical supervision always requires managerial and systemic backing, and has examined the practicalities of introducing and embedding clinical supervision into large organisations such as NHS Trusts (2009, 2010). Clinical supervision has some overlap with managerial activities, mentorship, and preceptorship, though all of these end or become less direct as staff develop into senior and autonomous roles.Key issues around clinical supervision in healthcare raised have included time and financial investment. United Kingdom
Clinical supervision is used in many disciplines in the British National Health Service. See also
The works of Lawrence Shulman
Behavioral psychotherapy

References
Citations
Sources
External links
Clinical Supervision for Nurses and Allied Health Professionals: the 4S Model
Models of Clinical Supervision
Implementing clinical supervision in healthcare https://web.archive.org/web/20170916091813/http://www.supervisionandcoaching.com/
Clinical Supervision: 8 Answers to Common Questions and 1 Nobody Knows (But Should) https://therapyinsd.com/mft-lcsw-supervision-8-answers-to-common-questions-and-1-nobody-asks-but-should/ Clinical supervision, or the practice of classroom observation and feedback has been one of the most often used tool in evaluating teacher performance, however the extent to which it helps teachers to improve their instruction is questionable. 
Is the determination of specific IgE against components using ISAC 112 a reproducible technique? [SEP] Indium-111 (111In) is a radioactive isotope of indium (In). Indium-111 chloride (111InCl) solution is produced by proton irradiation of a cadmium target (112Cd(p,2n) or 111Cd(p,n)) in a cyclotron, as recommended by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Indium-111 is commonly used in nuclear medicine diagnostic imaging by radiolabeling targeted molecules or cells. In physics, induced gamma emission (IGE) refers to the process of fluorescent emission of gamma rays from excited nuclei, usually involving a specific nuclear isomer. There is little conceptual difference in an IGE experiment when the target is a nuclear isomer. In 1988 Collins and coworkers reported the first excitation of IGE from a nuclear isomer. That is not an example of IGE. The possible energy release of the gammas alone would make IGE a potential high power "explosive" on its own, or a potential radiological weapon. 
Is the first urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) in women with suspected preeclampsia a prognostic factor for maternal and neonatal adverse outcome? [SEP] Common features of pre-eclampsia which are screened for during pre-natal visits include elevated blood pressure and excess protein in the urine. Proteinuria ≥ 0.3 grams (300 mg) or more of protein in a 24-hour urine sample or a SPOT urinary protein to creatinine ratio ≥0.3 or a urine dipstick reading of 1+ or greater (dipstick reading should only be used if other quantitative methods are not available).Suspicion for pre-eclampsia should be maintained in any pregnancy complicated by elevated blood pressure, even in the absence of proteinuria. In the absence of proteinuria, the presence of new-onset hypertension (elevated blood pressure) and the new onset of one or more of the following is suggestive of the diagnosis of pre-eclampsia:
Evidence of kidney dysfunction (oliguria, elevated creatinine levels)
Impaired liver function (noted by liver function tests)
Thrombocytopenia (platelet count <100,000/microliter)
Pulmonary edema
Ankle edema (pitting type)
Cerebral or visual disturbancesPre-eclampsia is a progressive disorder and these signs of organ dysfunction are indicative of severe pre-eclampsia. Severe pre-eclampsia is a significant risk factor for intrauterine fetal death. Elevations in serum uric acid (hyperuricemia) is used by some to "define" pre-eclampsia, though it has been found to be a poor predictor of the disorder. Angiogenic proteins such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and placental growth factor (PIGF) and anti-angiogenic proteins such as soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) have shown promise for potential clinical use in diagnosing pre-eclampsia, though evidence is insufficient to recommend a clinical use for these markers.A recent study, ASPRE, known to be the largest multi-country prospective trial, has reported a significant performance in identifying pregnant women at high risk of pre-eclampsia yet during the first trimester of pregnancy. Acutely, pre-eclampsia can be complicated by eclampsia, the development of HELLP syndrome, hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke, liver damage and dysfunction, acute kidney injury, and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).Pre-eclampsia is also associated with increased frequency of Caesarean section, preterm delivery, and placental abruption. Laboratory testing
Another common feature of pre-eclampsia is proteinuria, which is the presence of excess protein in the urine. 
Is there awareness of pharmaceutical expenditure in the reformed primary care system? [SEP] Pharmaceutical care is the direct, responsible provision 
of medication-related care for the purpose of achieving definite outcomes that improve a patient’s quality of life. This was a landmark paper because it marked the start of the international movement to make pharmaceutical care more visible, and get the term and the type of care implemented in hospital and community pharmacy practice. Pharmaceutical Care Practice: The Patient-Centered Approach to Medication Management Services. Pharmaceutical policy is a branch of health policy that deals with the development, provision and use of medications within a health care system. Medication costs, also known as drug costs are a common health care cost for many people and health care systems. Effects on healthcare systems
While some have concluded that "drug development is likely to remain an expensive and resource-intensive process", a study found that wide range of medicines in the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines can be profitably manufactured at very low cost by pharmaceutical industries and that "Most EML medicines are sold in the UK and South Africa at prices significantly higher than those estimated from production costs".Global spending on prescription drugs in 2020 may have been ~$1.3 trillion and "The high cost of prescription drugs threatens healthcare budgets, and limits funding available for other areas in which public investment is needed". The high cost of prescription drugs became a major topic of discussion in the new millennium, leading up to the U.S. health care reform debate of 2009, and received renewed attention in 2015. Prescription Shopping Programme
The Prescription Shopping Programme (PSP) has been set up to identify patients who may be getting more PBS subsidised medicines than they need, which is also related to “doctor shopping”. 
Do women with ovaries of polycystic morphology without any other features of PCOS benefit from short-term metformin co-treatment during IVF? [SEP] Polycystic ovarian syndrome
In those with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), tentative evidence shows that metformin use increases the rate of live births. In an updated Cochrane (2020) review on metformin versus placebo/no treatment before or during IVF/ICSI in women with PCOS no conclusive evidence of improved live birth rates was found. The evidence does not support general use during pregnancy for improving maternal and infant outcomes in obese women.The United Kingdom's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence recommended in 2004 that women with PCOS and a body mass index above 25 be given metformin for anovulation and infertility when other therapies fail to produce results. Metformin treatment decreases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes in women with PCOS who exhibited impaired glucose tolerance at baseline. A Cochrane review, though, found that metformin was only slightly effective for decreasing androgen levels in women with PCOS.Metformin also has significant effects on the gut microbiome, such as its effect on increasing agmatine production by gut bacteria, but the relative importance of this mechanism compared to other mechanisms is uncertain. Medications
Medications for PCOS include oral contraceptives and metformin. In many cases, metformin also supports ovarian function and return to normal ovulation. Metformin may not be effective in every type of PCOS, and therefore there is some disagreement about whether it should be used as a general first line therapy. 
Estimated fetal weight by ultrasound: a modifiable risk factor for cesarean delivery? [SEP] These factors include the severity of the anomaly, the background risk of the study population, gestational age at time of scan, the expertise of the ultrasound technician and interpreting obstetrician, and maternal obesity. First trimester
In the first trimester, a standard ultrasound examination typically includes:
Gestational sac size, location, and number
Identification of the embryo and/or yolk sac
Measurement of fetal length (known as the crown-rump length)
Fetal number, including number of amnionic sacs and chorionic sacs for multiple gestations
Embryonic/fetal cardiac activity
Assessment of embryonic/fetal anatomy appropriate for the first trimester
Evaluation of the maternal uterus, tubes, ovaries, and surrounding structures
Evaluation of the fetal nuchal fold, with consideration of fetal nuchal translucency assessment

Second and third trimester
In the second trimester, a standard ultrasound exam typically includes:
Fetal number, including number of amnionic sacs and chorionic sacs for multiple gestations
Fetal cardiac activity
Fetal position relative to the uterus and cervix
Location and appearance of the placenta, including site of umbilical cord insertion when possible
Amniotic fluid volume
Gestational age assessment
Fetal weight estimation
Fetal anatomical survey
Evaluation of the maternal uterus, tubes, ovaries, and surrounding structures when appropriate

Dating and growth monitoring
Gestational age is usually determined by the date of the woman's last menstrual period, and assuming ovulation occurred on day fourteen of the menstrual cycle. This gives an estimate of the weight and size of the fetus and is important when doing serial ultrasounds to monitor fetal growth. Maternal health
The health of the mother during the pregnancy can affect birth weight. Researchers furthered this study and found that maternal stressful events that occur prior to conception have a negative impact on birth weight as well, and can result in a higher risk for preterm and lower birth weight babies. The baby's weight is an indicator of the mother and baby's health. Mothers with high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes are more likely to have infants with low birth weights. Large baby weighing > 4,000 grams (macrosomia)
Umbilical cord abnormalities (vasa previa, multilobate including bilobate and succenturiate-lobed placentas, velamentous insertion)Other complications of pregnancy, pre-existing conditions, and concomitant disease, include:

Previous (high risk) fetus
HIV infection of the mother with a high viral load (HIV with a low maternal viral load is not necessarily an indication for caesarean section)
An outbreak of genital herpes in the third trimester (which can cause infection in the baby if born vaginally)
Previous classical (longitudinal) caesarean section
Previous uterine rupture
Prior problems with the healing of the perineum (from previous childbirth or Crohn's disease)
Bicornuate uterus
Rare cases of posthumous birth after the death of the motherOther

Decreasing experience of accoucheurs with the management of breech presentation. 
Does Mammographic Density have an Impact on the Margin Re-excision Rate After Breast-Conserving Surgery? [SEP] In appropriately selected patients, mastectomy and breast-conserving surgery have equivalent survival rates. Breast conserving surgery at National Breast and Ovarian Cancer Centre www.nbocc.org In resections for breast cancer, there appears to be a difference between European and American radiation oncologists, with the former preferring larger margins of over 5 mm. The therapeutic advantage is the greater volume of breast tissues (glandular, adipose, skin) that can be resected to produce a proportionate breast. Scheduled follow-up consultations ensure a satisfactory outcome to the breast reduction surgery, and facilitate the early identification and management of medical complications.There is limited evidence in showing wound drains have no significant benefit after reduction mammoplasty. Alternatively, some women can choose to have a wide local excision, also known as a lumpectomy, an operation in which a small volume of breast tissue containing the tumor and a surrounding margin of healthy tissue is removed to conserve the breast. The increased amount of skin preserved as compared to traditional mastectomy resections serves to facilitate breast reconstruction procedures. The rationale is that increasing a patient’s functional status prior to surgery will allow for a smoother and faster recovery in the postoperative setting.Recent research has indicated that mammograms should not be done with any increased frequency than the normal procedure in women undergoing breast surgery, including breast augmentation, mastopexy, and breast reduction. 
Are women who are treated for hypothyroidism at risk for pregnancy complications? [SEP] Maternal complications such as miscarriages, anaemia in pregnancy, pre-eclampsia, abruptio placenta and postpartum haemorrhage can occur in pregnant women with overt hypothyroidism. Similar complications have been reported in mothers with subclinical hypothyroidism. A three-fold risk of placental abruption and a two-fold risk of pre-term delivery were reported in mothers with subclinical hypothyroidism. Treatment of hypothyroidism reduces the risks of these adverse obstetric and fetal outcomes; a retrospective study of 150 pregnancies showed that treatment of hypothyroidism led to reduced rates of abortion and premature delivery. Management of hypothyroidism in pregnancy
Medications to treat hypothyroidism have been found to be safe during pregnancy. Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice for hypothyroidism in pregnancy. Maternal hypothyroidism is hypothyroidism in pregnant mothers. "[P]revious pregnancy plays a major role in development of autoimmune overt hypothyroidism in premenopausal women, and the number of previous pregnancies should be taken into account when evaluating the risk of hypothyroidism in a young women [sic]. 
Internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint: is there still a place for ultrasound? [SEP] Examination
The temporomandibular joints can be felt in front of or within the external acoustic meatus during movements of the mandible. Disc displacement
The most common disorder of a temporomandibular joint is disc displacement. pain, limitation of movement, clicking) dysfunction of the temporomandibular joint. In turn, the term temporomandibular disorder is defined as "musculoskeletal disorders affecting the temporomandibular joints and their associated musculature. Temporomandibular disorder is a term that creates confusion since it refers to a group of similarly symptomatic conditions, whilst many sources use the term temporomandibular disorders as a vague description, rather than a specific syndrome, and refer to any condition which may affect the temporomandibular joints (see table). "Surgery for internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint". "Thickness of the soft tissue layers and articular disk in temporomandibular joints with deviations in form". Strain on the temporomandibular joint from orthodontics or orthognathic surgery may be related to the condition. 
Laparoscopic myomectomy: do size, number, and location of the myomas form limiting factors for laparoscopic myomectomy? [SEP] Laparotomy
Traditionally a myomectomy is performed via a laparotomy with a full abdominal incision, either vertically or horizontally. Studies have suggested that laparoscopic myomectomy leads to lower morbidity rates and faster recovery than does laparotomic myomectomy. As with hysteroscopic myomectomy, laparoscopic myomectomy is not generally used on very large fibroids. A study of laparoscopic myomectomies conducted between January 1990 and October 1998 examined 106 cases of laparoscopic myomectomy, in which the fibroids were intramural or subserous and ranged in size from 3 to 10 cm. This may apply primarily to smaller lesions as pointed out by a large study that collected results from 235 patients with submucous myomas who were treated with hysteroscopic myomectomies; in none of these cases was the fibroid greater than 5 cm. Studies have suggested that laparoscopic myomectomy leads to lower morbidity rates and faster recovery than does laparotomic myomectomy. A laparotomic myomectomy (also known as an open or abdominal myomectomy) is the most invasive surgical procedure to remove fibroids. The physician makes an incision in the abdominal wall and removes the fibroids from the uterus.Laparoscopic myomectomy has less pain and shorter time in hospital than open surgery. 
Is intensive chemotherapy safe for rural cancer patients? [SEP] Low-dose chemotherapy and antiangiogenesis
Adam Dicker, an associate professor at Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia in the United States, has written that chemotherapy is often used in the highest possible doses. Dose-dense chemotherapy is a chemotherapy treatment plan in which drugs are given with less time between treatments than in a standard chemotherapy treatment plan.The Gompertzian model of tumor cell growth shows tumor cells growing fastest when the tumor is small. High-dose chemotherapy using the CMVP combination was found to be able to be given safely to younger patients with high-risk breast cancer. The high-dose chemotherapy resulted in a significantly low relapse rate, and high-dose chemotherapy was associated with significantly longer disease-free and overall survival in this patient population. "High-Dose Chemotherapy with Hematopoietic Stem-Cell Rescue for High-Risk Breast Cancer" (PDF). Texas Oncology is a network of 460+ physicians and oncology specialists who provide advanced treatment options (technology, clinical trials, and research) to cancer patients in underserved rural and urban communities throughout Texas, with one office in New Mexico and one in Oklahoma. In Texas, there are Texas Oncology practices in primary metropolitan areas including Austin, Dallas/Fort Worth, and Houston as well as rural areas such as West Texas and the Texas Panhandle. See also
Chemotherapy


== References == 
Does sex affect the outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy? [SEP] Cholecystectomy can be performed either laparoscopically, or via an open surgical technique.The surgery is usually successful in relieving symptoms, but up to 10 percent of people may continue to experience similar symptoms after cholecystectomy, a condition called postcholecystectomy syndrome. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy has a higher risk of bile duct injury than the open approach, with injury to bile ducts occurring in 0.3% to 0.5% of laparoscopic cases and 0.1% to 0.2% of open cases. Other complications
A review of safety data in laparoscopic cholecystectomy found the following complications to be most common:

The same study found the prevalence of bowel injury, sepsis, pancreatitis, and deep vein thrombosis/pulmonary embolism to be around 0.15% each.Leakage from the stump of the cystic duct is a complication that is more common with the laparoscopic approach than the open approach but is still rare, occurring in less than 1% of procedures; it is treated by drainage followed by insertion of a bile duct stent.Another complication singular to the laparoscopic procedure is the phenomenon of the "spilled gallstone" which complicates 0.08–0.3% of cases. If the surgeon has problems identifying anatomical structures, they might need to convert from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy.Peroperative Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio-Pancreaticography (ERCP)/ Laparo-endoscopic rendezvous (LERV) technique
CBDS are found in 10-15% of patients during cholecystectomy when intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) is routinely performed. Laparoscopic surgery is thought to have fewer complications, shorter hospital stay, and quicker recovery than open cholecystectomy. Laparoscopic technique
Erich Mühe performed the first laparoscopic cholecystectomy on September 12, 1985, in Böblingen, Germany. The risk of biliary injury is higher during laparoscopic cholecystectomy than during open cholecystectomy. The Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons formally recognised Mühe as the first surgeon to perform a laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 1999. 
Is atropine needed with ketamine sedation? [SEP] Ketamine is a dissociative anesthetic used medically for induction and maintenance of anesthesia. Medical uses
Anesthesia
The use of ketamine in anesthesia reflects its characteristics. When used at anesthetic doses, ketamine usually stimulates rather than depresses the circulatory system. A 2011 clinical practice guideline supports the use of ketamine as a sedative in emergency medicine, including during physically painful procedures. Adjunctive to morphine or on its own, ketamine reduces morphine use, pain level, nausea, and vomiting after surgery. Ketamine is likely to be most beneficial for surgical patients when severe post-operative pain is expected and for opioid-tolerant patients.Ketamine is especially useful in the prehospital setting, due to its effectiveness and low risk of respiratory depression. Interactions
Ketamine potentiates the sedative effects of propofol and  midazolam. Medical uses
Anesthesia
Esketamine is used for similar indications as ketamine. 
Does implant coating with antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduce bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro? [SEP] There is much research into the prevention of biofilms. Prevention of microbe growth
Antimicrobial coatings
Chemical modifications are the main strategy for biofilm prevention on indwelling medical devices. Surface charge
Modification of the surface charge of polymers has also proven to be an effective means of biofilm prevention. Hydrogel dressings can be designed to prevent bacterial infection, retain moisture, promote optimum adhesion to tissues, and satisfy the basic requirements of biocompatibility. The antimicrobial properties of hydrogel dressings can be enhanced by addition of metal nanoparticles, antibiotics, or other antimicrobial agents. Some coatings which accomplish this include chlorhexidine incorporated hydroxyapatite coatings, chlorhexidine-containing polylactide coatings on an anodized surface, and polymer and calcium phosphate coatings with chlorhexidine.Antibiotic coatings provide another way of preventing the growth of bacteria. Peptide-based gel coating with intrinsic antibacterial activity against  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, was also shown to inhibit colonization of titanium implants in mice. A 2014 Multicenter Cohort Study found that using a silver-alloy hydrogel urinary catheter did reduce symptomatic Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infection (CAUTI) occurrences as defined by both NHSN and clinical criteria. 
Do family physicians know the costs of medical care? [SEP] Family medicine is a medical specialty within primary care that provides continuing and comprehensive health care for the individual and family across all ages, genders, diseases, and parts of the body. Family physicians deliver a range of acute, chronic, and preventive medical care services. Family physicians also manage chronic illness, often coordinating care provided by other sub-specialists. In the U.S., family physicians treat more patients with back pain than any other physician sub-specialist, and about as many as orthopedists and neurosurgeons combined.Family medicine and family physicians play a vital role in the healthcare system of a country. In the U.S. for example, nearly one in four of all office visits are made to family physicians. Today, family physicians provide more care for America's underserved and rural populations than any other medical specialty. Family physicians are trained to manage acute and chronic health issues for an individual simultaneously, yet their appointment slots may average only ten minutes.In addition to facing a shortage of personnel, physicians in family medicine experience some of the highest rates of burnout among medical specialties, at 47 percent. Family physicians frequently treat illnesses related to obstetrics, pediatrics, adult medicine, orthopedics, outpatient and inpatient care. 
Combining process indicators to evaluate quality of care for surgical patients with colorectal cancer: are scores consistent with short-term outcome? [SEP] "Adoption of laparoscopy for elective colorectal resection: a report from the Surgical Care and Outcomes Assessment Program". "Routine leak testing in colorectal surgery in the Surgical Care and Outcomes Assessment Program". In medicine (oncology and other fields), performance status is an attempt to quantify cancer patients' general well-being and activities of daily life. "Rankings versus reality in pancreatic cancer surgery: a real-world comparison". "Rankings versus reality in pancreatic cancer surgery: a real‐world comparison." "Quality Assessment in Pancreatic Surgery: What Might Tomorrow Require?." "A Simple Risk Score to Predict In-Hospital Mortality after Pancreatic Resection for Cancer". "In-hospital mortality for liver resection for metastatic disease: a simple risk score". 
Can APC mutation analysis contribute to therapeutic decisions in familial adenomatous polyposis? [SEP] The second form of FAP, known as attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis has the APC gene functional but slightly impaired. Genetics
Familial adenomatous polyposis can have different inheritance patterns and different genetic causes. "APC-Associated Polyposis Conditions". Polyposis registries  exist for the purpose of understanding the genetic disease familial adenomatous polyposis. This gene is also mutant in familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), a more common disease that also predisposes to colon cancer. Adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) also known as deleted in polyposis 2.5 (DP2.5) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the APC gene. More than 800 mutationsin the APC gene have been identified in families with classic and attenuated types of familial adenomatous polyposis. The most common mutation in familial adenomatous polyposis is a deletion of five bases in the APC gene. 
Do emergency medical services professionals think they should participate in disease prevention? [SEP] Emergency medical personnel in the United Kingdom are people engaged in the provision of emergency medical services. This includes paramedics, emergency medical technicians and emergency care assistants. Emergency medical personnel most often work in an ambulance alongside another member of staff. The majority of emergency medical personnel are employed by the public ambulance services of the National Health Service and respond to emergency calls generated by the 999 system. Many of the pioneers of emergency medicine were family physicians and other specialists who saw a need for additional training in emergency care.During this period, physicians began to emerge who had left their respective practices to devote their work entirely to the ED. The setting of emergency medicine presents a challenge for delivering high quality, patient-centered care. Emergency physicians are responsible for providing immediate recognition, evaluation, care, and stabilisation to adult and pediatric patients in response to acute illness and injury. Emergency physicians usually work on a volunteering basis and are often anesthesiologists but maybe specialists of any kind. 
Is the ability to perform transurethral resection of the prostate influenced by the surgeon's previous experience? [SEP] Transurethral resection of the prostate (commonly known as a TURP, plural TURPs, and rarely as a transurethral prostatic resection, TUPR) is a urological operation. Erectile dysfunction may be seen in some patients, however, many have reported that erectile function improved after TURP.Additionally, transurethral resection of the prostate is associated with a low risk of mortality. See also
Transurethral incision of the prostate
Transurethral greenlight laser therapy
Transurethral steam treatment (Rezum)

References
External links
Medscape: Transurethral Resection of the Prostate Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) syndrome is a rare but potentially life-threatening complication of a transurethral resection of the prostate procedure. Transurethral incision of the prostate (TUIP or TIP) is a surgical procedure for treating prostate gland enlargement (benign prostatic hyperplasia). Benefits
Transurethral incision of the prostate-—one or two small cuts in the prostate gland—can improve urine flow and correct other problems related to an enlarged prostate. Compared with transurethral resection of the prostate, the standard surgery for treating benign prostatic hyperplasia, this procedure may be less effective in reducing urinary symptoms but may preserve ejaculation and have fewer unwanted effects on erections. Transurethral biopsy is a biopsy procedure in which a sample of tissue is removed from the prostate for examination under a microscope. 
Is there a differential in the dental health of new recruits to the British Armed Forces? [SEP] The Royal Army Dental Corps (RADC) is a specialist corps in the British Army that provides dental health services to British Army personnel and their families in war and in peace. History
While army regimental surgeons had been providing dental care services to soldiers since circa 1660, it was not until 1901 that a dental service branch was formally established under the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC), but in 1908 this was dissolved and the Army returned to contracting civilian dentists. Royal Army Dental Corps specialisations
Qualified dentists are all commissioned officers. Dentists and dental mechanics who enlisted in the AIF also provided dental care on an unofficial basis.The AIF's experiences in the Gallipoli Campaign showed the need for proper dental care of soldiers. Fang Farriers, Australian Army Dentistry in War and Peace : A History of the Royal Australian Army Dental Corps. The British Dental Health Foundation. published a report on the gaps in NHS dental provision (or “dental deserts”) in England. As in World War I and World War II, dental personnel served heroically. 
Is laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux surgery feasible? [SEP] Outcomes comparing laparoscopic fundoplication to robotic fundoplication show similar clinical outcomes, but robotic fundoplication is more likely to have an increased length of operative time and financial cost. General complications that can occur using any method of hernia repair are:
problems with anesthesia dosage
difficulty swallowing because the stomach is too high up or esophagus is wrapped too tightly
heartburn
excessive gas
infection or bleeding
esophagus moving out of wrap causing lower esophageal sphincter to not be supported

General laparoscopic procedure
Some complications that can arise from the general laparoscopic procedure are PUR (postoperative urinary retention) Other complications that can arise during this procedure are:
nerve injury that results in prolonged pain
recurrence of hernia
hematomas
excessive bleeding that leads to the switch to open hernia repair
wound infection

Nissen fundoplication procedure
Complications that can arise form this procedure are:
dysphagia
bloating
other gastrointestinal symptomsOverall, the complication rate for this procedure is about 10% to 20%. Procedures are usually performed laparoscopically, though open surgery may be required if prior bariatric surgery has resulted in extensive scarring. This procedure can be performed as a revision procedure for many patients who have had a previous stomach stapling, gastroplasty procedure, or Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery but have regained weight. The procedure is normally performed laparoscopically, though in a small minority of instances prior surgery may have resulted in extensive scarring, requiring open surgery. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is a commonly chosen revision technique,  particularly in patients who have not been successful in meeting their weight loss goals after stomach stapling, gastroplasty, vertical gastric banding, or laparoscopic-adjustable gastric banding. Often the prior procedure still lends itself to a revision to become a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. It may be performed laparoscopically, and the average recovery time is approximately two weeks. 
Does exercise during pregnancy prevent postnatal depression? [SEP] Specifically, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy effectively helps decrease symptoms of antenatal depression. Exercise Therapy
Studies suggest that forms of exercise can help with depressive symptoms both before and after birth, but not prevent it entirely.Exercise options that have been studied to help reduce symptoms:

Yoga
Walking
Stretching
Aerobic exercise

Medications
When discussing medication options for antenatal depression, it is important to ask the prescribing healthcare provider to share more details about all the risks and benefits of the available medications. Depressive symptoms in pregnant women are linked with poor health outcomes in infants. Prevention
A 2013 Cochrane review found evidence that psychosocial or psychological intervention after childbirth helped reduce the risk of postnatal depression. Postpartum depression
Effects of postpartum depression on breastfeeding
Studies indicate mothers with postpartum depression breastfeed their infant with lower frequency. Effects of breastfeeding on postpartum depression
Breastfeeding may provide protection against postpartum depression or reduce some of its symptoms, and it is suggested that the benefits of breastfeeding may outweigh the benefits of antidepressants. Stress is one of the strongest risk factors in the development of depression, and as breastfeeding reduces stress it may decrease the risk of postpartum depression in mothers. Improved sleep patterns, improvements in mother-child bonding and an increased sense of self-efficacy due to breastfeeding also reduces the risk of developing depression. 
Is endometrial polyp formation associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta1? [SEP] Transforming growth interacting factor (TGIF) is a potential repressor of TGF-β pathways in myometrial cells. An endometrial polyp or uterine polyp is a mass in the inner lining of the uterus. Cause
No definitive cause of endometrial polyps is known, but they appear to be affected by hormone levels and grow in response to circulating estrogen. Taking tamoxifen or hormone replacement therapy can also increase the risk of uterine polyps. Diagnosis
Endometrial polyps can be detected by vaginal ultrasound (sonohysterography), hysteroscopy and dilation and curettage. See also
Endometrial polyp

References


== External links == In both cases, the endometrium initially proliferates under the influence of estrogen. Endometrial protection
Estrogens stimulate endometrial proliferation and carcinogenesis. 
Is human cytomegalovirus infection associated with hypertension? [SEP] Cytomegalovirus (CMV) (from cyto- 'cell' via Greek κύτος kútos- 'container' + μέγας mégas 'big, megalo-' + -virus via Latin vīrus 'poison') is a genus of viruses in the order Herpesvirales, in the family Herpesviridae, in the subfamily Betaherpesvirinae. Human CMV is the most studied of all cytomegaloviruses.MX2/MXB was identified as a restriction factor for herpesviruses, which acts at a very early stage of the replication cycle and MX2/MXB restriction of herpesvirus requires GTPase activity. Congenital cytomegalovirus infection can lead to significant morbidity and even death. CMV has also been associated with Guillain–Barré syndrome, type 1 diabetes, and type 2 diabetes.The question of whether latent CMV infection has any negative effects on people who are otherwise healthy has been debated; as of 2016 the answer was not clear, but discussions had focused on whether latent CMV might increase the risk of some cardiovascular diseases and cancers. A study published in 2009 links infection with CMV to high blood pressure in mice, and suggests that the result of CMV infection of blood vessel endothelium in humans is a major cause of atherosclerosis. Researchers also found that when the cells were infected with CMV, they created renin, a protein known to contribute to high blood pressure. COVID-19 symptom severity is associated with CMV, although the exact mechanism has not been elucidated.CMV encodes a protein, UL16, which is involved in the immune evasion of NK cell responses. Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection refers to a condition where cytomegalovirus is transmitted in the prenatal period. 
Is it possible to stop treatment with nucleos(t)ide analogs in patients with e-antigen negative chronic hepatitis B? [SEP] Efficacy or safety concerns were not cited as rationale for discontinuation, but rather "availability of alternative medications"; presumably this refers to tenofovir disoproxil, which became available as a generic medication in 2017, and is a safe and effective treatment for chronic HBV infection. The FDA followed that advice, refusing to approve adefovir as a treatment for HIV.Gilead Sciences discontinued its development for HIV treatment in December 1999, but continued to develop the drug for hepatitis B (HBV), where it is effective with a much lower dose of 10 mg. FDA approval for use in the treatment of hepatitis B was granted on September 20, 2002, and adefovir is sold for this indication under the brand name Hepsera. It is approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults with evidence of active viral replication and either evidence of persistent elevations in serum aminotransferases (primarily ALT) or histologically active disease. Non-structural protein 5B (NS5B) inhibitors are a class of direct-acting antivirals widely used in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C. Depending on site of action and chemical composition, NS5B inhibitors may be categorized into three classes—nucleoside active site inhibitors (NIs), non-nucleoside allosteric inhibitors, and pyrophosphate analogues. Adverse effects
Comparing the virological response of NS5B inhibitors to previous therapy of chronic hepatitis C with the combination of interferon and ribavirin, it was possible to observe a significant difference in efficacy and safety. With the advent of direct-acting antivirals, the duration of the hepatitis treatment has also been impressively reduced. Nucleoside analogue inhibitors
Nucleoside analogue inhibitors terminate the RNA synthesis essential for RNA replication. Adverse effects
Tenofovir disoproxil is generally well tolerated with low discontinuation rates among the HIV and chronic hepatitis B population. 
Does radiotherapy around the time of pregnancy for Hodgkin's disease modify the risk of breast cancer? [SEP] After differentiation of the mammary gland resulting from a full-term pregnancy of the rat, the rate of cell division decreases and the cell cycle length increases, allowing more time for DNA repair.Despite the fact that the Russos' studies found similar risk rates between virgin and pregnancy interrupted rats, their research would be used to support the contention that abortion created a greater risk of breast cancer for the next twenty years. The side effects of radiotherapy on fertility are a growing concern to patients undergoing radiotherapy as cancer treatments. Impacts of radiotherapy on female fertility
Radiation therapy can have a significant impact on female fertility. Changes such as these have significant consequences in regard to pregnancy outcomes; studies suggest cancer patients receiving radiation have a higher chance of experiencing miscarriages or having low birth weight, premature children. Long-term effects of childhood radiotherapy on fertility
The number of childhood cancer survivors is increasing due to technological and diagnostic advancements. Cardiovascular disease
Radiation can increase the risk of heart disease and death as observed in previous breast cancer RT regimens. Effects on reproduction
During the first two weeks after fertilization, radiation therapy is lethal but not teratogenic. High doses of radiation during pregnancy induce anomalies, impaired growth and intellectual disability, and there may be an increased risk of childhood leukemia and other tumours in the offspring.In males previously having undergone radiotherapy, there appears to be no increase in genetic defects or congenital malformations in their children conceived after therapy. 
Should displaced midshaft clavicular fractures be treated surgically? [SEP] A clavicle fracture, also known as a broken collarbone, is a bone fracture of the clavicle. Diagnosis is typically based on symptoms and confirmed with X-rays.Clavicle fractures are typically treated by putting the arm in a sling for one or two weeks. Reasons for surgical repair include an open fracture, involvement of the nerves or blood vessels, or shortening of the clavicle by more than 1.5 cm in a young person.Clavicle fractures most commonly occur in people under the age of 25 and those over the age of 70. However, a meta-analysis of 2 144 midshaft clavicle fractures supports primary plate fixation of completely displaced midshaft clavicular fractures in active adult patients.If the fracture is at the lateral end, the risk of nonunion is greater than if the fracture is of the shaft. Surgical
For breaks in the middle of the clavicle in children surgery resulted in faster recover but more complications. The evidence for different types of surgery for breaks of the middle part of the clavicle is poor as of 2015.Surgery may be considered when one or more of the following is presents

Comminution with separation (bone is broken into multiple pieces)
Skin penetration (open fracture)
Associated nervous and vascular trauma (brachial plexus or supraclavicular nerves)
Nonunion after several months (3–6 months, typically)
Displaced distal third fractures (high risk of nonunion)
Although shortening (as a result of overlap of fracture ends) has often been suggested as an indication for surgery, a review found that people treated without surgery for shortening of mid shaft clavicle fractures did not affect outcomes.A discontinuity in the bone shape often results from a clavicular fracture, visible through the skin, if not treated with surgery. About half of all clavicle fractures occur in children under the age of seven and is the most common pediatric fracture. The clavicle is the most commonly fractured bone. 
Is laparoscopic cholecystectomy safe and acceptable as a day case procedure? [SEP] Cholecystectomy is a common treatment of symptomatic gallstones and other gallbladder conditions. Cholecystectomy can be performed either laparoscopically, or via an open surgical technique.The surgery is usually successful in relieving symptoms, but up to 10 percent of people may continue to experience similar symptoms after cholecystectomy, a condition called postcholecystectomy syndrome. Laparoscopic surgery is thought to have fewer complications, shorter hospital stay, and quicker recovery than open cholecystectomy. For uncomplicated laparoscopic cholecystectomies, people may be discharged on the day of surgery after adequate control of pain and nausea. Considerations
Pregnancy
It is generally safe for pregnant women to undergo laparoscopic cholecystectomy during any trimester of pregnancy. Laparoscopic technique
Erich Mühe performed the first laparoscopic cholecystectomy on September 12, 1985, in Böblingen, Germany. Driven by popularity among patients, the laparoscopic technique became preferred over open surgery and noninvasive treatments for gallstones.By 2013, laparoscopic cholecystectomy had replaced open cholecystectomy as the first-choice of treatment for people with uncomplicated gallstones and acute cholecystitis.By 2014 laparoscopic cholecystectomy had become the gold standard for the treatment of symptomatic gallstones.Laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be a challenging procedure and surgeons must be trained with advanced laparoscopic skills to complete the operation with safety and effectiveness. The risk of biliary injury is higher during laparoscopic cholecystectomy than during open cholecystectomy. 
Is etoricoxib effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after primary total hip arthroplasty? [SEP] A 2016 study demonstrated that palovarotene also inhibited spontaneous heterotopic ossification, maintained limb mobility and functioning, and restored skeletal growth in fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva mouse models. Efficacy
A Cochrane review assessed the benefits of single-dose etoricoxib in reduction of acute post-operative pain in adults. Causes
Heterotopic ossification of varying severity can be caused by surgery or trauma to the hips and legs. About every third patient who has total hip arthroplasty (joint replacement) or a severe fracture of the long bones of the lower leg will develop heterotopic ossification, but is uncommonly symptomatic. Between 50% and 90% of patients who developed heterotopic ossification following a previous hip arthroplasty will develop additional heterotopic ossification.Heterotopic ossification often develops in patients with traumatic brain or spinal cord injuries, other severe neurologic disorders or severe burns, most commonly around the hips. Originally, bisphosphonates were expected to be of value after hip surgery but there has been no convincing evidence of benefit, despite having been used prophylactically.Depending on the growth's location, orientation and severity, surgical removal may be possible. Prophylactic radiation therapy for the prevention of heterotopic ossification has been employed since the 1970s. Certain antiinflammatory agents, such as indomethacin, ibuprofen and aspirin, have shown some effect in preventing recurrence of heterotopic ossification after total hip replacement. 
Should serum pancreatic lipase replace serum amylase as a biomarker of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] Diagnosis
Acute pancreatitis is diagnosed using clinical history and physical examination, based on the presence of at least 2 of 3 criteria: abdominal pain, elevated serum lipase or amylase, and abdominal imaging findings consistent with acute pancreatitis. If the lipase level is about 2.5 to 3 times that of amylase, it is an indication of pancreatitis due to alcohol.Decreased serum calcium
GlycosuriaRegarding selection on these tests, two practice guidelines state:

"It is usually not necessary to measure both serum amylase and lipase. Serum lipase may be preferable because it remains normal in some nonpancreatic conditions that increase serum amylase including macroamylasemia, parotitis, and some carcinomas. In general, serum lipase is thought to be more sensitive and specific than serum amylase in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis""Although amylase is widely available and provides acceptable accuracy of diagnosis, where lipase is available it is preferred for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis (recommendation grade A)"Most, but not all individual studies support the superiority of the lipase. Another study found that the amylase could add diagnostic value to the lipase, but only if the results of the two tests were combined with a discriminant function equation.While often quoted lipase levels of 3 or more times the upper-limit of normal is diagnostic of pancreatitis, there are also other differential diagnosis to be considered relating to this rise. Diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is based on a threefold increase in the blood of either amylase or lipase. CT, MRI, abdominal ultrasound or endoscopic ultrasound can be used for diagnosis.Amylase and lipase are 2 enzymes produced by the pancreas. Elevations in lipase are generally considered a better indicator for pancreatitis as it has greater specificity and has a longer half life. 
Rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane: is partial prostatectomy oncologically adequate? [SEP] Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases is of interest to surgeons, oncologists and clinicians treating patients and to those involved in research into diseases of the prostate. If the cancer is clinically unlikely to have spread beyond the prostate, nerve-sparing surgery should be offered to minimize impotency and to speed up urinary control.An intraoperative electrical stimulation penile plethysmograph may be applied to assist the surgeon in identifying the difficult to see nerves. Indications
Radical retropubic prostatectomy is typically performed in men who have early stage prostate cancer. Radical retropubic prostatectomy may also be used if prostate cancer has failed to respond to radiation therapy, but the risk of urinary incontinence is substantial. References

Klein, EA, Jhaveri, F, Licht, M. Contemporary technique of radical prostatectomy. Surgery
Surgical removal of the prostate, or prostatectomy, is a common treatment either for early-stage prostate cancer or for cancer that has failed to respond to radiation therapy. Radical prostatectomy
Radical prostatectomy is effective for tumors that have not spread beyond the prostate; cure rates depend on risk factors such as PSA level and Gleason grade. A new method to reduce rectal radiation injury in prostate cancer patients involves the use of an absorbable spacer placed between the prostate and rectum. 
Does bone anchor fixation improve the outcome of percutaneous bladder neck suspension in female stress urinary incontinence? [SEP] Injectional materials are used to control stress incontinence. Most of the time this procedure prevents urinary stress incontinence in women. Uses
A urethral bulking injection is one type of treatment for incontinence in women. Woman who benefit most from this treatment are those who have a stable bladder neck and an inadequate muscle strength of the sphincter muscles that close the urethra. Tests are performed to confirm the diagnosis of stress urinary incontinence such as the bladder capacity to hold urine and the strength of the bladder muscle contractions.Diagnosis is aided before the procedure by a thorough evaluation of the woman. The European Association of Urology recommends AUS implantation for moderate-to-severe stress incontinence in men. Additionally, despite the novel treatment options (slings, urethral bulking injections, stem-cell therapy), AUS is considered to be the gold standard surgical management both for stress incontinence in men and for urinary incontinence developed as a complication of surgery, such as prostatectomy, cystectomy and TURP.There are several case reports published in the literature of AUS implantation in children for secondary incontinence resulting from traumatic urethral injury.There is limited data on AUS use in women, and not every product available in the market is designed for use in women. A randomised controlled trial found that the artificial urinary sphincter was non-inferior to the male or synthetic sling with respect to improving incontinence. 
Are intraoperative precursor events associated with postoperative major adverse events? [SEP] The incidence of life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions occurring during surgery and anesthesia is around one in 10,000 procedures. Neuromuscular blocking agents, natural rubber latex, and antibiotics are the most common causes of serious allergic reactions during surgery. Risk factors for intraoperative awareness include anesthetic factors (i.e. cardiac surgery, trauma/emergency, C-sections), and patient factors (i.e. A common but devastating complication of intraoperative awareness with recall is the development of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) from the events experienced during surgery. Signs and symptoms
Intraoperative awareness can present with a variety of signs and symptoms. Depending on the awareness experience, patients may have postoperative psychological problems that range from mild anxiety to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). An adverse outcome pathway (AOP) is structured representation of biological events leading to adverse effects  and is considered relevant to risk assessment. 
Does a family meetings intervention prevent depression and anxiety in family caregivers of dementia patients? [SEP] There are evidences to show that case management can improve care for individuals with dementia and the experience of their caregivers. While family caregivers often care for patients with dementia at home, they also provide a helpful function within nursing or residential aged care facilities. Findings from a 2021 systematic review found caregivers of these patients in nursing homes with dementia do not have sufficient tools or clinical guidance for helping to manage multiple interventions, such as behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) and medication use. However, these results may be due to the lack of high quality studies in this field.According to a more recent 2016 review, respite services provided to families caring for a family member with dementia had positive effects such as stress reduction, increased time for relaxation, socialization, and focusing on personal tasks. Psychological and psychosocial therapies
A 2018, Cochrane Review found that offering personally tailored activity sessions to people with dementia in long-term care homes may help manage challenging behavior. At the same time a program showed that simple measures like talking to people about their interest can improve the quality of life for care home residents living with dementia. Treatment
Educating the caregiver about depression in dementia is of primary importance in addressing the problem. Psychosocial
Controlled trials show that providing pleasant daily activities  or exercise, for someone who has Alzheimer's disease, in conjunction with activities designed to support the caregiver, can produce positive results in addressing the associated depression. 
HIF1A as a major vascular endothelial growth factor regulator: do its polymorphisms have an association with age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] HIF1A expression level is dependent on its GC-rich promoter activation. HIF-1 is known to induce transcription of more than 60 genes, including VEGF and erythropoietin that are involved in biological processes such as angiogenesis and erythropoiesis, which assist in promoting and increasing oxygen delivery to hypoxic regions. HIF1A also controls skin healing. Regulation
HIF1A abundance (and its subsequent activity) is regulated transcriptionally in an NF-κB-dependent manner. HIF1A expression may also regulate breast tumor progression. Similar findings have been reported in brain cancer and ovarian cancer studies as  well, and suggest at regulatory role of HIF1A in initiating angiogenesis through interactions with pro-angiogenic factors such as VEGF. Studies of glioblastoma multiforme show striking similarity between HIF1A expression pattern and that of VEGF gene transcription level. This further suggests the regulatory role of HIF1A in promoting tumor progression, likely through hypoxia-induced VEGF expression pathways. 
Is combined therapy more effective than growth hormone or hyperbaric oxygen alone in the healing of left ischemic and non-ischemic colonic anastomoses? [SEP] A surgical anastomosis is a surgical technique used to make a new connection between two body structures that carry fluid, such as blood vessels or bowel. For example, an arterial anastomosis is used in vascular bypass and a colonic anastomosis is used to restore colonic continuity after the resection of colon cancer. Virtually all elective resections of gastrointestinal organs are followed by anastomoses to restore continuity; pancreaticoduodenectomy is considered a massive operation, in part, because it requires three separate anastomoses (stomach, biliary tract and pancreas to small bowel). The treatment comprises hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT), the medical use of oxygen at an ambient pressure higher than atmospheric pressure, and therapeutic recompression for decompression illness, intended to reduce the injurious effects of systemic gas bubbles by physically reducing their size and providing improved conditions for elimination of bubbles and excess dissolved gas. Scope
Hyperbaric medicine includes hyperbaric oxygen treatment, which is the medical use of oxygen at greater than atmospheric pressure to increase the availability of oxygen in the body; and therapeutic recompression, which involves increasing the ambient pressure on a person, usually a diver, to treat decompression sickness or an air embolism by eliminating bubbles that have formed within the body. The following indications are approved (for reimbursement) uses of hyperbaric oxygen therapy as defined by the UHMS Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy Committee:
Air or gas embolism;
Carbon monoxide poisoning;Carbon monoxide poisoning complicated by cyanide poisoning;
Central retinal artery occlusion;
Clostridal myositis and myonecrosis (gas gangrene);
Crush injury, compartment syndrome, and other acute traumatic ischemias;
Decompression sickness;
Enhancement of healing in selected problem wounds;.Diabetically derived illness, such as short-term relief of diabetic foot, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy;
Exceptional blood loss (anemia);
Idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss;
Intracranial abscess;
Mucormycosis, especially rhinocerebral disease in the setting of diabetes mellitus;
Necrotizing soft tissue infections (necrotizing fasciitis);
Osteomyelitis (refractory);
Delayed radiation injury (soft tissue and bony necrosis);
Skin grafts and flaps (compromised);
Thermal burns.There is no reliable evidence to support its use in autism, cancer, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, Alzheimer's disease, asthma, Bell's palsy, cerebral palsy, depression, heart disease, migraines, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury, sports injuries, or stroke. published on the use of hyperbaric oxygen in the treatment of clostridial gas gangrene.In 1962 Smith and Sharp reported successful treatment of carbon monoxide poisoning with hyperbaric oxygen.The Undersea Medical Society (now Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society) formed a Committee on Hyperbaric Oxygenation which has become recognized as the authority on indications for hyperbaric oxygen treatment. A recently published study documented two prevented amputations which have shown TCOT to be highly effective on diabetic foot ulcers, venous stasis and decubitus ulcers and a study completed in 2010 by Dr. Gary Sibbald documented the effectiveness of TCOT on 9 diabetic foot ulcer patients. 
Does oxybutynin hydrochloride cause arrhythmia in children with bladder dysfunction? [SEP] Oxybutynin, sold as under the brand names Ditropan among others, is a medication used to treat overactive bladder. Medical use
The immediate and slow release versions work equally.In people with overactive bladder, transdermal oxybutynin decreased the number of incontinence episodes and increased average voided volume. Adverse effects
Common adverse effects that are associated with oxybutynin and other anticholinergics include: dry mouth, difficulty in urination, constipation, blurred vision, drowsiness, and dizziness. In those with overflow incontinence because of diabetes or neurological diseases like multiple sclerosis or spinal cord trauma, oxybutynin can worsen overflow incontinence since the fundamental problem is that the bladder is not contracting. Contraindications
Oxybutynin chloride is contraindicated in patients with untreated narrow angle glaucoma, and in patients with untreated narrow anterior chamber angles—since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate these conditions. Oxybutynin chloride is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the product. Pharmacology
Oxybutynin chloride exerts direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle and inhibits the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle. See also
Arecoline

References
External links
"Oxybutynin". 
Do "America's Best Hospitals" perform better for acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] Emergency services
Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems vary considerably in their ability to evaluate and treat patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction. Some Paramedic services are capable of providing thrombolytic therapy in the prehospital setting, allowing reperfusion of the myocardium.With primary PCI emerging as the preferred therapy for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, EMS can play a key role in reducing door-to-balloon intervals (the time from presentation to a hospital ER to the restoration of coronary artery blood flow) by performing a 12-lead ECG in the field and using this information to triage the patient to the most appropriate medical facility. Such hospitals typically serve a proportionately higher number of uninsured, Medicaid, Medicare, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHiP), low-income, and other vulnerable individuals than their "non-safety net hospital" counterpart. The Health and Hospital Corporation in NYC, Cook County Health and Hospital System in Chicago, and Parkland Health & Hospital System in Dallas are three of the United States' largest safety net hospitals. Patients with a satisfying care experience are more likely to recommend hospitals to others. This allowed clinicians to examine the management of myocardial infarction within their hospitals against targets specified by the National Service Framework (NSF) for coronary heart disease. The American Heart Institute (AHI) is the first private hospital to provide non-invasive and invasive cardiology interventions and the entire spectrum of adult Cardiothoracic surgery in Cyprus. The presence of the American Medical Center in the Mediterranean contributes substantially in raising the standards of care in cardiology and cardiac surgery in the area. 
Does preoperative anemia adversely affect colon and rectal surgery outcomes? [SEP] Iatrogenic anemia is of particular concern in intensive care medicine,: 629  because people who are critically ill require frequent blood tests and have a higher risk of developing anemia due to lower hemoglobin levels and impaired production of red blood cells (erythropoesis) at baseline. Preoperative anemia can increase the risk of needing a blood transfusion following surgery. Intestinal inflammation
Certain gastrointestinal disorders can cause anemia. The 2020 Cochrane Anaesthesia Review Group review of Erythropoietin plus iron versus control treatment including placebo or iron for preoperative anaemic adults undergoing non‐cardiac surgery  demonstrated that patients were much less likely to require red cell transfusion and in those transfused, the volumes were unchanged (mean difference -0.09, 95% CI -0.23 to 0.05). Preoperative anemia
An estimated 30% of adults who require non-cardiac surgery have anemia. In order to determine an appropriate preoperative treatment, it is suggested that the cause of anemia be first determined. There is moderate level medical evidence that supports a combination of iron supplementation and erythropoietin treatment to help reduce the requirement for red blood cell transfusions after surgery in those who have preoperative anemia. Chronic bleeding from the GI tract, chronic inflammation, and iron deficiency often leads to anemia, which can affect quality of life.The clinical presentation of ulcerative colitis depends on the extent of the disease process. 
Can early second-look tympanoplasty reduce the rate of conversion to modified radical mastoidectomy? [SEP] When myringoplasty is combined with removal of scar tissue, it is called tympanoplasty. Finally mastoid dressing is performed. Tympanoplasty is the surgical operation performed to reconstruct hearing mechanism of middle ear. After that, surgery may be considered. Surgical approach
Tympanoplasty can be performed through the ear canal (transcanal approach), through an incision in the ear (endaural approach) or through an incision behind the ear (postauricular approach). A graft may be taken to reconstruct the tympanic membrane. Prospective clinical trials, performed over the last 2 decades, have redefined the appropriate indications for tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy (T&A), tonsillectomy alone, and adenoidectomy alone. The mastoid antrum (tympanic antrum, antrum mastoideum, Valsalva's antrum) is an air space in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, communicating posteriorly with the mastoid cells and anteriorly with the epitympanic recess of the middle ear via the aditus to mastoid antrum (entrance to the mastoid antrum). 
Is serum total bilirubin useful to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes? [SEP] "Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale: reproducibility and validity". Bilirubin (BR) (Latin for "red bile") is a red-orange compound that occurs in the normal catabolic pathway that breaks down heme in vertebrates. Toxicity
Unbound bilirubin (Bf) levels can be used to predict the risk of  neurodevelopmental handicaps within infants. The spectrum of clinical effect is called bilirubin encephalopathy. Studies have also revealed that levels of serum bilirubin (SBR) are inversely related to risk of certain heart diseases. Blood tests
Bilirubin is degraded by light. Genetic Tests
Genetic tests examine the hereditary risk factors for blood clots leading to stroke. Moreover, serum bilirubin is positively associated with mortality in patients with severe sepsis or traumatic brain injury. 
Delayed imaging in routine CT examinations of the abdomen and pelvis: is it worth the additional cost of radiation and time? [SEP] Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis is an application of computed tomography (CT) and is a sensitive method for diagnosis of abdominal diseases. Contrast administration
Abdominal imaging is associated with many potential uses for the different phases of contrast CT. The majority of abdominal and pelvic CT’s can be performed using a single-phase, but the evaluation of some tumor types (hepatic/pancreatic/renal), the urinary collecting system, and trauma patients among others, may be best performed with multiple phases.In discussing the numerous phases and indications for CT, best patient care requires individualized CT protocols based upon each patient’s specific symptoms, pathology, and underlying co-morbidities. The most common indications for delayed phase imaging are evaluation of the kidneys, collecting system (ureters and bladder) and specific kidney, liver, and adrenal tumors. Similarly, adrenal masses can be evaluated with multiphase imaging including an unenhanced CT, portal venous phase and a 10 minute delay CT which allows for evaluation and calculation of the enhancement and washout characteristics aiding in distinguishing benign adrenal adenomas from other adrenal masses.Outside of the evaluation of masses, delayed phase images can be used in the evaluation of active vascular extravasation in trauma patients, vascular malformations, and aneurysm disruption. Conclusion

Multiphase CT examinations are very important for the detection and characterization of certain clinical conditions, but should not be generalized for every patient undergoing CT of the abdomen and pelvis. Advantages
CTE provides enough distention of the bowel not present during normal CT imaging to increase the ability to examine in lumen and internal lining of the small intestines. Preoperative cross-sectional imaging with CT or MRI is indicated if there is a concern for local invasion that may alter the patient's staging as well as surgical approach (Figs. 
Suturing of the nasal septum after septoplasty, is it an effective alternative to nasal packing? [SEP] Septoplasty [ˈsɛp.toˌplæ.sti]
(Etymology: L, saeptum, septum; Gk, πλάσσειν plassein – to shape), or alternatively submucous septal resection and septal reconstruction, is a corrective surgical procedure done to straighten a deviated nasal septum – the nasal septum being the partition between the two nasal cavities. Put simply, septoplasty is a surgery that helps repair the passageways in the nose making it easier to breathe. After the septum is straightened, it may then be stabilized temporarily with small plastic tubes, splints, or sutures internally. Indications
Apart from in patients with deviated nasal septum causing airway obstruction leading to difficulty with breathing, recurrent rhinitis, or sinusitis, septoplasty is done as an approach to hypophysectomy. Post-operation
Unless there are unusual complications, there is no swelling or discoloration of the external nose or face with septoplasty alone. Moreover, the Prussian Jacques Joseph (1865–1934) published Nasenplastik und sonstige Gesichtsplastik (Rhinoplasty and other Facial Plastic Surgeries, 1928), which described refined surgical techniques for performing nose-reduction rhinoplasty via internal incisions.In the United States, in 1887, the otolaryngologist John Orlando Roe (1848–1915) performed the first modern endonasal rhinoplasty (closed rhinoplasty) and about his management of saddle nose deformities.In the early 20th century, Freer, in 1902, and Killian, in 1904, pioneered the submucous resection septoplasty (SMR) procedure for correcting a deviated septum; they raised mucoperichondrial tissue flaps, and resected the cartilaginous and bony septum (including the vomer bone and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone), maintaining septal support with a 1.0-cm margin at the dorsum and a 1.0-cm margin at the caudad, for which innovations the technique became the foundational, standard septoplastic procedure. – Open rhinoplasty: The nasal interior. The procedure is usually performed to relieve nasal obstructions. 
Have antiepileptic drug prescription claims changed following the FDA suicidality warning? [SEP] This problem was thought to be serious enough to warrant intervention by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to label greater likelihood of suicide as a risk of using antidepressants. Some studies have shown that the use of certain antidepressants correlate with an increased risk of suicide in some patients relative to other antidepressants. However, these conclusions have faced considerable scrutiny and disagreement: A multinational European study indicated that antidepressants decrease risk of suicide at the population level, and other reviews of antidepressant use claim that there is not enough data to indicate antidepressant use increases risk of suicide. In 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration along with the Neuro-Psychopharmacologic Advisory Committee and the Anti-Infective Drugs Advisory Committee, concluded that there was a causal link between newer antidepressants and pediatric suicidality. Federal health officials unveiled proposed changes to the labels on antidepressant drugs in December 2006 to warn people of this danger.A 2016 review of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) which looked at four outcomes—death, suicidality, aggressive behaviour, and agitation—found that while the data was insufficient to draw strong conclusions, adults taking these drugs did not appear to be at increased risk for any of the four outcomes, but that for children, the risks of suicidality and for aggression doubled. Warnings
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires "black box warnings" on all SSRIs, which state that they double suicidal ideation rates (from 2 in 1,000 to 4 in 1,000) in children and adolescents. Sertraline, tricyclic agents and venlafaxine were found to increase the risk of attempted suicide in severely depressed adolescents on Medicaid. External links
message about antidepressants and suicide in youth from the National Institutes of Health 
Does ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament affect the neurological outcome after traumatic cervical cord injury? [SEP] Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) is a process of fibrosis, calcification, and ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament of the spine, that may involve the spinal dura. The posterior longitudinal ligament is a ligament connecting the posterior surfaces of the vertebral bodies of all of the vertebrae of humans. It may ossify, particularly around cervical vertebrae.The posterior longitudinal ligament has a high density of vasomotor fibres, allowing for increased blood flow to respond to damage to the ligament. This may lead to cervical myelopathy, a deficit in the spinal cord. Further indications for surgery include a neurological decline in spinal cord function in stable patients as well as those who require cervical spinal decompression. University of Alabama at Birmingham Spinal Cord Injury Model System video series
Sexuality and spinal cord injury: Where we are and where we are going. The Free Library
Sexuality in Spinal Cord Injury. Rehabilitation
The injured spinal cord is an “altered” spinal cord. 
Can distal ureteral diameter predict reflux resolution after endoscopic injection? [SEP] Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), also known as vesicoureteric reflux, is a condition in which urine flows retrograde, or backward, from the bladder into one or both ureters and then to the renal calyx or kidneys. Reflux occurs if the ureter enters the bladder without sufficient tunneling, i.e., too "end-on". Vesicoureteral reflux may be diagnosed as a result of further evaluation of dilation of the kidney or ureters draining urine from the kidney while in utero as well as when a sibling has VUR (though routine testing in either circumstance is controversial). Reflux also increases risk of acute bladder and kidney infections, so testing for reflux may be performed after a child has one or more infections. Bladder infections may cause reflux due to the elevated pressures associated with inflammation.Resolution of functional VUR will usually occur if the precipitating cause is treated and resolved. Endoscopic injection
Endoscopic injection involves applying a gel around the ureteral opening to create a valve function and stop urine from flowing back up the ureter. If the contrast moves into the ureters and back into the kidneys, the radiologist makes the diagnosis of vesicoureteral reflux, and gives the degree of severity a score. The early filling of the bladder should be monitored carefully to detect any accidental placement of the catheter in distal ureter or vagina and to detect any reflux of contrast into the ureters. 
Is leptin involved in phagocytic NADPH oxidase overactivity in obesity? [SEP] While it is well-established that leptin is involved in the regulation of the inflammatory response, it has been further theorized that leptin's role as an inflammatory marker is to respond specifically to adipose-derived inflammatory cytokines. Elevated leptin concentrations are associated with elevated white blood cell counts in both men and women.Similar to what is observed in chronic inflammation, chronically elevated leptin levels are associated with obesity, overeating, and inflammation-related diseases, including hypertension, metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease. Thus, it is speculated that leptin responds specifically to adipose-derived inflammation. High leptin levels have been also demonstrated in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.Taken as such, increases in leptin levels (in response to caloric intake) function as an acute pro-inflammatory response mechanism to prevent excessive cellular stress induced by overeating. This response may then protect against the harmful process of ectopic fat storage, which perhaps explains the connection between chronically elevated leptin levels and ectopic fat storage in obese individuals.Leptin increases the production of leukocytes via actions on the hematopoietic niche, a pathway that is more active in sedentary mice and humans when compared to individuals which are physically active. Leptin levels are paradoxically increased in obesity. Role in disease
Obesity
Although leptin reduces appetite as a circulating signal, obese individuals generally exhibit a higher circulating concentration of leptin than normal weight individuals due to their higher percentage body fat. In obese individuals, the increased circulating leptin levels induce unwanted responses, that is, reduced food intake or losing body weight does not occur as there is a resistance to leptin (ref 9). 
Canada's Compassionate Care Benefit: is it an adequate public health response to addressing the issue of caregiver burden in end-of-life care? [SEP] The World Health Organization (WHO) describes palliative care as "an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families facing the problems associated with life-threatening illness, through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems, physical, psychosocial, and spiritual." Although an important part of end-of-life care, palliative care is not limited to individuals near the end of life.Evidence supports the efficacy of a palliative care approach in improvement of a person's quality of life. The overall goal of palliative care is to improve quality of life of individuals with serious illness, any life-threatening condition which either reduces an individual's daily function or quality of life or increases caregiver burden, through pain and symptom management, identification and support of caregiver needs, and care coordination. Evidence that palliative care services increase the likelihood of dying at home and reduce symptom burden without impacting on caregiver grief among the vast majority of Americans who prefer to die at home. In the United States, the physician sub-specialty of hospice and palliative medicine was established in 2006 to provide expertise in the care of people with life-limiting, advanced disease, and catastrophic injury; the relief of distressing symptoms; the coordination of interdisciplinary care in diverse settings; the use of specialized care systems including hospice; the management of the imminently dying patient; and legal and ethical decision making in end of life care.Caregivers, both family and volunteers, are crucial to the palliative care system. References
External links

Official website
Information and resources for Live-in Caregivers in Canada In 2005 the Government of Ontario announced an "end-of-life care strategy" to be implemented by the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care to improve the availability of home-based and community palliative care services. References
Further reading
Quality Hospice Palliative Care Coalition of Ontario (December 2010), Creating an integrate hospice palliative care system in Ontario (PDF), retrieved 29 October 2014{{citation}}:  CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link)

External links
Hospice Palliative Care Ontario 
Fatigue in primary Sjögren's syndrome: is there a link with the fibromyalgia syndrome? [SEP] Burden of illness
Sjögren's syndrome is associated with a high burden of illness, and has been shown to markedly reduce quality of life (QoL), with a significant impact on ability to work resulting from increased rates of disability. Fibromyalgia is a medical condition defined by the presence of chronic widespread pain, fatigue, waking unrefreshed, cognitive symptoms, lower abdominal pain or cramps, and depression. Signs and symptoms
The defining symptoms of fibromyalgia are chronic widespread pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbance. Fatigue
Fatigue is one of the defining symptoms of fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia largely overlaps with chronic fatigue syndrome and may share the same pathogenetic mechanisms.Comorbid fibromyalgia has been reported to occur in 20–30% of individuals with rheumatic diseases. Immune system
Inflammation has been suggested to have a role in the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia. Neurogenic inflammation has been proposed as a contributing factor to fibromyalgia. Other systemic, inflammatory, endocrine, rheumatic, infectious, and neurologic disorders may cause fibromyalgia-like symptoms, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, Sjögren syndrome, ankylosing spondylitis, Ehlers-Danlos syndromes, psoriatic-related polyenthesitis, a nerve compression syndrome (such as carpal tunnel syndrome), and myasthenia gravis. 
Is laparoscopic sonography a reliable and sensitive procedure for staging colorectal cancer? [SEP] Definitive staging can only be done after surgery and histopathology of colorectal carcinoma. Preoperative staging of rectal cancers may be done with endoscopic ultrasound. The benefit is that a more aggressive technique may be employed to resect a colonic mass or polyp: An injury such as a perforation would be visualized and a repair could be attempted laparoscopically immediately. Optical colonoscopy is taken as the "gold standard" for colorectal cancer screening by the vast majority of the medical and research communities. However, some radiologists recommend VC as a preferred approach to colorectal screening. It can detect larger adenomas and neoplasia with high specificity, but less sensitivity than conventional colonoscopy. Laparoscopy (from Ancient Greek  λαπάρα (lapára) 'flank, side', and  σκοπέω (skopéō) 'to see') is an operation performed in the abdomen or pelvis using small incisions (usually 0.5–1.5 cm) with the aid of a camera. The systems enhance the manual possibilities of the surgeon and his/her team, regarding the need of replacing static holding force during the intervention.With laparoscopy providing tissue diagnosis and helping to achieve the final diagnosis without any significant complication and less operative time, it can be safely concluded that diagnostic laparoscopy is a safe, quick, and effective adjunct to non‑surgical diagnostic modalities, for establishing a conclusive diagnosis, but whether it will replace imaging studies as a primary modality for diagnosis needs more evidence. 
Is alexithymia a risk factor for unexplained physical symptoms in general medical outpatients? [SEP] Classification
Alexithymia is considered to be a personality trait that places affected individuals at risk for other medical and mental disorders, as well as reducing the likelihood that these individuals will respond to conventional treatments to these disorders. Associated conditions
Alexithymia frequently co-occurs with other disorders. Alexithymic traits in AS may be linked to clinical depression or anxiety; the mediating factors are unknown and it is possible that alexithymia predisposes to anxiety. Alexithymia is also exhibited by a large proportion of individuals with acquired brain injuries such as stroke or traumatic brain injury.Alexithymia is correlated with certain personality disorders, particularly schizoid, avoidant, dependent and schizotypal, substance use disorders, some anxiety disorders and sexual disorders as well as certain physical illnesses, such as hypertension, inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes and functional dyspepsia. Alexithymia is further linked with disorders such as migraine headaches, lower back pain, irritable bowel syndrome, asthma, nausea, allergies and fibromyalgia.An inability to modulate emotions is a possibility in explaining why some people with alexithymia are prone to discharge tension arising from unpleasant emotional states through impulsive acts or compulsive behaviors such as binge eating, substance abuse, perverse sexual behavior or anorexia nervosa. Due to the inherent difficulties identifying and describing emotional states in self and others, alexithymia also negatively affects relationship satisfaction between couples.In a 2008 study alexithymia was found to be correlated with impaired understanding and demonstration of relational affection, and that this impairment contributes to poorer mental health, poorer relational well-being, and lowered relationship quality. Mendelson's 1982 study showed that alexithymia frequently presented in people with undiagnosed chronic pain. See also
Alexithymia


== References == 
Alcohol consumption and acute myocardial infarction: a benefit of alcohol consumed with meals? [SEP] Alcohol intake and cardiovascular disease
Some early reviews showed that light alcohol consumption may have a protective effect on cardiovascular health. For instance, a meta-analysis from 2010 found that patients with cardiovascular disease who were light to moderate alcohol consumers, were less likely to suffer from cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. As a result, no benefit was found for alcohol consumption of any dosage, moreover, alcohol was detrimental to health even at low doses.The American Heart Association states that drinking too much alcohol increases health risks including cardiovasular disease precursors such as obesity, high blood pressure, high triglycerides and also heart attacks and strokes. While alcohol consumption does not improve overall health, the inverse relation in Western cultures between alcohol consumption and cardiovascular disease has been known for over 100 years. Light-to-moderate alcohol intake is associated with a lower risk of ischemic stroke which is likely to be, in part, causal. Among those who drank regularly, the one-quarter who drank the most were up to 50% less likely to develop the disease compared to the half who drank the least.The researchers noted that moderate alcohol consumption also reduces the risk of other inflammatory processes such as cardiovascular disease. On the other hand, research also shows that drinking moderate amounts of alcohol may protect healthy adults from developing coronary heart disease. Heart
According to the National Institutes of Health, researchers now understand that drinking moderate amounts of alcohol can protect the hearts of some people from the risks of coronary artery disease. 
Do mossy fibers release GABA? [SEP] These axons were first described as mossy fibers by Santiago Ramón y Cajal as they displayed varicosities along their lengths that gave them a mossy appearance. inhibitory) and glutamatergic neurotransmitters within mossy fiber terminals. GABAergic and glutamatergic co-localization in mossy fiber boutons has been observed primarily in the developing hippocampus, but in adulthood, evidence suggests that mossy fiber synapses may alternate which neurotransmitter is released through activity-dependent regulation. The high convergence onto pyramidal cells and divergent projections onto interneurons suggests a primarily modulatory role for the mossy fiber pathway in the hippocampus.The synapses of the mossy fibers contain zinc, which can be stained with a Timm staining. The unmyelinated granule cell axons of the mossy fiber pathway express both GABA receptors and glutamate receptors along their membranes that allow them to be modulated by both excitatory and inhibitory input from nearby glial cells. See also
Mossy fiber (cerebellum)


== References == Mossy fibers are one of the major inputs to cerebellum. It has been traditionally thought that exogenous GABA (i.e. 
The clinical significance of bile duct sludge: is it different from bile duct stones? [SEP] Biliary sludge refers to a viscous mixture of small particles derived from bile. Pathophysiology
The pathophysiology of biliary sludge formation is likely related to gallbladder dysmotility. It is presumed that because the gallbladder is unable to effectively empty, the biliary sludge can start to accumulate. If the biliary sludge has a cause (e.g. Diagnosis
Choledocholithiasis (stones in common bile duct) is one of the complications of cholelithiasis (gallstones), so the initial step is to confirm the diagnosis of cholelithiasis. If the cholangiogram shows a stone in the bile duct, the surgeon may attempt to treat the problem by flushing the stone into the intestine or retrieve the stone back through the cystic duct. The presence of stones in the gallbladder is referred to as cholelithiasis, from the Greek chole- (χολή, 'bile') + lith- (λίθος, 'stone') + -iasis (ἴασις, 'process'). The presence of gallstones in the common bile duct is called choledocholithiasis, from the Greek choledocho- (χοληδόχος, 'bile-containing', from chol- + docho-, 'duct') + lith- + -iasis. 
Can Ambu self-inflating bag and Neopuff infant resuscitator provide adequate and safe manual inflations for infants up to 10 kg weight? [SEP] The other principal type of manual resuscitator (flow-inflation) is heavily used in non-emergency applications in the operating room to ventilate patients during anesthesia induction and recovery.Use of manual resuscitators to ventilate a patient is frequently called "bagging" the patient and is regularly necessary in medical emergencies when the patient's breathing is insufficient (respiratory failure) or has ceased completely (respiratory arrest). An Ambu bag is a self-inflating bag resuscitator from Ambu A/S, which still manufactures and markets self-inflating bag resuscitators.Today there are several manufacturers of self-inflating bag resuscitators. A further examination has recently been made to assess whether a solution to the over-ventilation problem may lie with the use of pediatric-sized manual resuscitators in adults or use of more advanced flow-inflation (or "Mapleson C") versions of manual resuscitators: while "the paediatric self-inflating bag delivered the most guideline-consistent ventilation", it did not lead to full guideline compliance as "participants hyperventilated patients' lungs in simulated cardiac arrest with all three devices." As per a recent Indian study, these flow inflation bags can also be used to provide CPAP in spontaneously breathing children.The study quotes that this mode of CPAP is cost effective in limited resource settings

See also
Artificial ventilation, also known as Artificial respiration – Assisted breathing to support life
Mechanical ventilation – Method to mechanically assist or replace spontaneous breathing
Respiratory therapist – Practitioner in cardio-pulmonary medicine

References
External links

A free transparent reality simulation of the self-inflating manual resuscitator Together with his partner, Danish anesthetist Henning Ruben, he invented the world's first non-electric, self-inflating resuscitator, the Ambu bag, in 1956. Modern day
The ambu-bag was a further advancement in resuscitation. The ambu-bag, unlike the older version of the demand valve (all new models of demand valve now have pressure relief valves set at 60 cm of water to prevent accidental overinflation of the lungs), has a "pop-off" valve to prevent inflation at greater than 40 pounds -per-square-inch (275.79 kilo-pascals), with the result being that it is generally more common in the pre-hospital setting than the demand valve. Newborns who receive Positive Pressure Ventilation (PPV) for either ineffective respirations or bradycardia should not also receive initially sustained inflations greater than 5 seconds. 
Are IgM-enriched immunoglobulins an effective adjuvant in septic VLBW infants? [SEP] Pagibaximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody for the prevention of staphylococcal sepsis in infants with low birth weight. In these situations, immunoglobulin infusions confer passive resistance to infection on their recipients by increasing the quantity/quality of IgG they possess. Immunoglobulin therapy is also used in some treatment protocols for secondary immunodeficiencies  such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), some autoimmune disorders (such as immune thrombocytopenia and Kawasaki disease), some neurological diseases (multifocal motor neuropathy, stiff person syndrome, multiple sclerosis and myasthenia gravis) some acute infections and some complications of organ transplantation.Immunoglobulin therapy is especially useful in some acute infection cases such as pediatric HIV infection and is also considered the standard of treatment for some autoimmune disorders such as Guillain–Barré syndrome. United Kingdom
The United Kingdom's National Health Service recommends the routine use of immunoglobulin for a variety of conditions including primary immunodeficiencies and a number of other conditions, but recommends against the use of immunoglobulin in sepsis (unless a specific toxin has been identified), multiple sclerosis, neonatal sepsis, and pediatric HIV/AIDS. United States
The American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology supports the use of immunoglobulin for primary immunodeficiencies, while noting that such usage actually accounts for a minority of usage and acknowledging that immunoglobulin supplementation can be appropriately used for a number of other conditions, including neonatal sepsis (citing a sixfold decrease in mortality), considered in cases of HIV (including pediatric HIV), considered as a second line treatment in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, but recommending against its use in such conditions as chronic fatigue syndrome, PANDAS (pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infection) until further evidence to support its use is found (though noting that it may be useful in PANDAS patients with an autoimmune component), cystic fibrosis, and a number of other conditions.Brands include

Asceniv (immune globulin intravenous, human – slra)
Bivigam (immune globulin intravenous – human 10% liquid)
Gamunex-C, (immune globulin injection human)
Hizentra (immune globulin subcutaneous human)
Hyqvia (immune globulin 10 percent – human with recombinant human hyaluronidase)
Octagam (immune globulin intravenous, human)
Panzyga (immune globulin intravenous, human – ifas)
Xembify (immune globulin subcutaneous, human – klhw)

Canada
The National Advisory Committee on Blood and Blood Products of Canada (NAC) and Canadian Blood Services have also developed their own separate set of guidelines for the appropriate use of immunoglobulin therapy, which strongly support the use of immunoglobulin therapy in primary immunodeficiencies and some complications of HIV, while remaining silent on the issues of sepsis, multiple sclerosis, and chronic fatigue syndrome. See also
gammaglobulin
interferon

References
External links
"Immune globulin". Pathophysiology
Normally, a newborn's immunoglobulins come from the mother during pregnancy and wane after birth until 3-6 months of age, when the infant begins to start to produce their own IgG. This treatment replenishes Ig subtypes that the person lacks and is given at frequent intervals for life, and is thought to help reduce bacterial infections and boost immune function. 
Is resected stomach volume related to weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] Sleeve gastrectomy or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is a surgical weight-loss procedure, typically performed laparoscopically, in which approximately 75 - 85% of the stomach is removed, along the greater curvature, which leaves a cylindrical, or "sleeve"-shaped stomach the size of a banana. In many cases, sleeve gastrectomy is as effective as gastric bypass surgery, including improvements in glucose homeostasis before substantial weight loss has occurred. Studies by Alqahtani and colleagues have found that sleeve gastrectomy causes large weight loss in children and adolescents aged 5 to 21 years. "Sleeve gastrectomy had the lowest complication and reoperation rates of the three (main weight-loss surgery) procedures.....The percentage of procedures requiring reoperations due to complications was 15.3 percent for the gastric band, 7.7 percent for gastric bypass and 1.5 percent for sleeve gastrectomy," according to a 2012 study by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Most common
Sleeve gastrectomy
Sleeve gastrectomy, or gastric sleeve, is a surgical weight-loss procedure in which the stomach is reduced to about 15% of its original size, by the surgical removal of a large portion of the stomach, following the major curve. After the surgery, the stomach will be smaller and there will be an increase in baseline satiety hormones, to help the patient feel full with less food.The gastric bypass had been the most commonly performed operation for weight loss in the United States, and approximately 140,000 gastric bypass procedures were performed in 2005. The addition of the sleeve gastrectomy, causes further gut hormone set- point alterations by reducing levels of the hunger hormone, Ghrelin. Recent data suggested that an ESG can safely be performed after the surgical sleeve gastrectomy (sometimes referred to as a “revisional ESG”), with total body weight loss of approximately 16-18% at 12 months. 
Resection of colorectal liver metastases after second-line chemotherapy: is it worthwhile? [SEP] The procedure, mostly used in combination with systemic chemotherapy, plays a role in the treatment of liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Although surgical resection remains the standard of care for these liver metastases, majority of patients have lesions that are unresectable. Younger patients with metastases from colorectal cancer confined to one lobe of the liver and up to 4 in number may be treated by partial hepatectomy. Some patients may even be in effect cured.The use of metastasectomy evolved in the field of liver resection for metastasised colorectal cancer, but has evolved to include resection of metastases from different primary cancers (such as breast cancer, melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, etc.) Liver metastasectomy
Colorectal cancer
Among colorectal cancer patients, 15 to 25% will have liver metastases already when the colorectal cancer is discovered, and another 25 to 50% will develop them in the three years after resection of their primary cancer. Of patients who die from metastasised colorectal cancer, 20% have metastasis in the liver alone.Surgical resection of liver metastases from colorectal cancer has been found to be safe and cost-effective. Patients with initially unresectable liver metastases can be pre-treated with chemotherapy (this is called neoadjuvant chemotherapy). In general, only 10% of patients with pulmonary metastases from colorectal cancer are resectable.Blalock reported the first lung resection for metastasis from colorectal cancer in 1944. 
Do ART patients face higher C-section rates during their stage of delivery? [SEP] In the United States as of 2017, about 32% of deliveries are by C-section. In the case of caesarean sections, rates of respiratory death were 14 times higher in pre-labor at 37 compared with 40 weeks gestation, and 8.2 times higher for pre-labor caesarean at 38 weeks. Women who have had a caesarean are more likely to experience pain that interferes with their usual activities than women who have vaginal births, although by six months there is generally no longer a difference. Frequency
Global rates of caesarean section are increasing. Overall, the caesarean section rate was 25.7% for 2004–2008.There is no significant difference in caesarean rates when comparing midwife continuity care to conventional fragmented care. United States
In the United States the rate of C-section is around 33%, varying from 23% to 40% depending on the state. It is believed that the high rate of induced deliveries has also led to the high rate of c-sections because they are twice as likely to lead to one.Hospitals and doctors make more money from C-section births than vaginal deliveries. Maternal treatment with ART therapy prior to delivery decreases the viral load, or the amount of virus present in the mother's blood and other body fluids, which significantly reduces the chance of viral transmission to the fetus during labor. 
Does a preoperative medically supervised weight loss program improve bariatric surgery outcomes? [SEP] Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment causing weight loss and reducing complications of obesity.As of October 2022, the American Society of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) and International Federation for the Surgery of Obesity (IFSO) recommend bariatric surgery for adults with a body mass index (BMI) >35, regardless of obesity-associated conditions, and recommend considering surgery for people with BMI 30.0-34.9 who have metabolic disease. A meta-analysis in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes, respectively. Bariatric surgery is thought to affect the weight "set point," leading to a more durable weight loss. A 2017 meta-analysis found bariatric surgery to be effective for weight loss in adolescents 36 months after the intervention and that additional data was needed to determine whether it is also effective for long-term weight loss in adolescents. Reduced mortality and morbidity
A meta-analysis of 174,772 participants published in The Lancet in 2021 found that bariatric surgery was associated with 59% and 30% reduction in all-cause mortality among obese adults with or without type 2 diabetes respectively. Complications from weight loss surgery are frequent.Surgery for severe obesity is associated with long-term weight loss and decreased overall mortality. For obese individuals with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), bariatric surgery improves or cures the liver.A preoperative diet such as low-calorie diets or very-low-calorie diet, is usually recommended to reduce liver volume by 16-20%, and preoperative weight loss is the only factor associated with postoperative weight loss. Preoperative weight loss can reduce operative time and hospital stay. 
Is solitary kidney really more resistant to ischemia? [SEP] Diseases such as sepsis can cause kidney ischemia too. Genetic Risk Factors
Polymorphisms in genes have been shown to increase or decrease risk of renal ischemic injury. In general, kidney sizes differ in patients with acute kidney ischemia. The duration of kidney ischemia does not affect kidney function either in the short term or long term. This preconditions the kidney to tolerate subsequent ischemia-induced injuries. Moreover, they can give anti-inflammatory and immuno-modulatory properties and therefore protecting the kidney as well as repairing it from ischemic injury. Acute kidney ischemia is associated with high mortality. Researchers have identified that a better matched kidney is correlated with better outcomes. 
Neck pain treatment with acupuncture: does the number of needles matter? [SEP] They consisted of one observational study on acupuncture side effects, and four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating acupuncture treatment for low back pain, knee osteoarthritis, migraine prophylaxis, and tension-type headache. Acupuncture can be painful. A 2013 meta-analysis found little evidence that the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain (compared to sham) was modified by the location of the needles, the number of needles used, the experience or technique of the practitioner, or by the circumstances of the sessions. The same analysis also suggested that the number of needles and sessions is important, as greater numbers improved the outcomes of acupuncture compared to non-acupuncture controls. There has been little systematic investigation of which components of an acupuncture session may be important for any therapeutic effect, including needle placement and depth, type and intensity of stimulation, and number of needles used. : 104  Nine needles were recommended in the Great Compendium of Acupuncture and Moxibustion from 1601, which may have been because of an ancient Chinese belief that nine was a magic number. In hyperalgesic patients, a 25-gauge, 3.8-cm (1.5-in) needle may cause less discomfort, but will not provide the clear feeling of the structures being penetrated by the needle and is more likely to be deflected by the dense contraction knots that are the target... A 27-gauge needle, 3.8-cm (1.5-in) needle is even more flexible; the tip is more likely to be deflected by the contraction knots and it provides less tactile feedback for precision injection". 880.5580 Acupuncture needle is a device intended to pierce the skin in the practice of acupuncture". 
Does fluoridation reduce the use of dental services among adults? [SEP] Water fluoridation reduces cavities in children, while efficacy in adults is less clear. Recent studies suggest that water fluoridation, particularly in industrialized nations, may be unnecessary because topical fluorides (such as in toothpaste) are widely used, and caries rates have become low.Although fluoridation can cause dental fluorosis, which can alter the appearance of developing teeth or enamel fluorosis, the differences are mild and usually not an aesthetic or public health concern. Studies in the U.S. in the 1950s and 1960s showed that water fluoridation reduced childhood cavities by fifty to sixty percent, while studies in 1989 and 1990 showed lower reductions (40% and 18% respectively), likely due to increasing use of fluoride from other sources, notably toothpaste, and also the 'halo effect' of food and drink that is made in fluoridated areas and consumed in unfluoridated ones.A 2000 UK systematic review (York) found that water fluoridation was associated with a decreased proportion of children with cavities of 15% and with a decrease in decayed, missing, and filled primary teeth (average decreases was 2.25 teeth). A 2020 study in the Journal of Political Economy found that water fluoridation significantly improved dental health and labor market outcomes, but had non-significant effects on cognitive ability.Fluoride may also prevent cavities in adults of all ages. A 2016 review found variable quality evidence that, overall, stopping of community water fluoridation programs was typically followed by an increase in cavities.Most countries in Europe have experienced substantial declines in cavities without the use of water fluoridation due to the introduction of fluoridated toothpaste and the large use of other fluoride-containing products, including mouthrinse, dietary supplements, and professionally applied or prescribed gel, foam, or varnish. Water fluoridation reduces cavities in children, while efficacy in adults is less clear. Recent studies suggest that water fluoridation, particularly in industrialized countries, may be unnecessary because topical fluorides (such as in toothpaste) are widely used and cavity rates have become low. Studies from the late 1970s to mid 1990s showed a decrease in (and lower incidence of) dental decay in school children living in areas where water was fluoridated than in areas where water was not fluoridated. 
Pertrochanteric fractures: is there an advantage to an intramedullary nail? [SEP] An intramedullary rod, also known as an intramedullary nail (IM nail) or inter-locking nail or Küntscher nail (without proximal or distal fixation), is a metal rod forced into the medullary cavity of a bone. IM nails have long been used to treat fractures of long bones of the body. Complications
At a median 14 years after tibial nailing of isolated tibial fractures, patients' function is comparable to population norms, but objective and subjective evaluation shows persistent sequelae which are not insignificant.One potential complication of intramedullary nailing after a fracture is bone malrotation, where the broken bone is fixated out of alignment and heals incorrectly, causing a rotated limb. A Proposed Scoring System for Diagnosing Impending Pathologic Fractures". Hip Fractures: A Practical Guide to Management. An intraarticular fracture is a bone fracture in which the break crosses into the surface of a joint. Compared to extraarticular fractures, intraarticular have a higher risk for developing long-term complications, such as posttraumatic osteoarthritis. See also
Intracapsular fracture


== References == 
SPECT study with I-123-Ioflupane (DaTSCAN) in patients with essential tremor. Is there any correlation with Parkinson's disease? [SEP] The term may also refer to a brand name of Ioflupane (123I) which is used for the study. The signal from them is then detected by the use of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) which uses special gamma-cameras to create a pictographic representation of the distribution of dopamine transporters in the brain.DaTSCAN is indicated in cases of tremor in patients, when we are not sure about its origin. Contraindications
pregnancy
breast-feeding
severe renal or hepatic insufficiency
allergy to iodine substances
certain medications – stimulants or noradrenalin and some antidepressants

Differential Diagnosis
Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy or progressive supranuclear palsy
Essential tremor
Lewy body disease

See also
Essential tremor
Multiple system atrophy
Progressive supranuclear palsy

External links
European Parkinson´s Disease Association Archived 2011-12-11 at the Wayback Machine
DaTSCAN Archived 2019-07-20 at the Wayback Machine
Patient´s view Archived 2011-10-14 at the Wayback Machine


=== References === This has led to potential clinical uses in the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease, although selective radioligands such as Ioflupane (¹²³I) are now available for this application. This means that it is distinct from a resting tremor, such as that caused by Parkinson's disease, which is not correlated with movement.Essential tremor is a progressive neurological disorder, and the most common movement disorder. While essential tremor is distinct from Parkinson's disease, which causes a resting tremor, essential tremor is nevertheless sometimes misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease. A number of patients with essential tremor also exhibit many of the same neuropsychiatric disturbances seen in idiopathic Parkinson's disease.Essential tremor with tremor onset after the age of 65 has been associated with mild cognitive impairment, as well as dementia, although the link between these conditions, if any, is still not understood.Essential tremor has two tremor components,  central and peripheral. Iodine-123 (123I) is a radioactive isotope of iodine used in nuclear medicine imaging, including single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or SPECT/CT exams. 
Are the GFRUP's recommendations for withholding or withdrawing treatments in critically ill children applicable? [SEP] Dr. Parichehr Salasel, Rasouli's wife and legal guardian, argued that end-of-life support should not be disconnected from her husband both for religious reasons and due to her belief that his condition was not as dire as the hospital stated, and obtained a court injunction to prevent the hospital from withdrawing support.Rasouli's condition showed slight improvement while the case was in progress, resulting in the hospital upgrading his diagnosis to "minimally conscious".The Supreme Court of Canada issued its decision in October 2013 in favour of Salasel, ruling that consent is required to withdraw treatment. Pediatric Critical Care Medicine is a peer-reviewed medical journal that covers intensive care treatment of children and newborns. Notes
References
External links
Official website
Society of Critical Care Medicine
World Federation of Pediatric Intensive and Critical Care Societies
Pediatric Intensive Care Society (UK)
Latin American Society of Pediatric Intensive Care (in Spanish)
Japanese Society of Pediatric Intensive and Critical Care (in Japanese) "The suitability of the Pediatric Index of Mortality (PIM), PIM2, the Pediatric Risk of Mortality (PRISM), and PRISM III for monitoring the quality of pediatric intensive care in Australia and New Zealand". Pediatric Critical Care Medicine. Pfizer claimed that the dose used was sufficient even though a clinical trial performed by Médecins Sans Frontières recommends a dose of 50–100 mg/kg.Five children given trovafloxacin died, as did six of those given ceftriaxone. If a child was not responding well to Trovan, Pfizer switched his or her treatment to ceftriaxone. The formula is used in therapeutic feeding centres where children are hospitalized for treatment. 
Is inhaled prophylactic heparin useful for prevention and Management of Pneumonia in ventilated ICU patients? [SEP] Heparin derived from natural sources, mainly porcine intestine or bovine lung, can be administered therapeutically to prevent thrombosis. Less frequent subcutaneous dosing than for heparin for postoperative prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism. References
External links
Low+Molecular+Weight+Heparin at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) "Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society consensus guidelines on the management of community-acquired pneumonia in adults". External links
Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society Consensus Guidelines on the Management of Community-Acquired Pneumonia in Adults PDF They defined probably pneumonia, emphasized expedite antibiotic treatment (which is known to improve survival) and drafted criteria for the hospitalization of willing patients. Morrow L. Critical Decisions for the Treatment of Health-care-Associated Pneumonia in the ICU. External links
Hospital-Acquired, Health Care Associated, and Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia from the Cleveland Clinic
Cecil Textbook of Medicine 
Is the h-index predictive of greater NIH funding success among academic radiologists? [SEP] The h-index is an author-level metric that measures both the productivity and citation impact of the publications, initially used for an individual scientist or scholar. The h-index correlates with success indicators such as winning the Nobel Prize, being accepted for research fellowships and holding positions at top universities. Definition and purpose
The h-index is defined as the maximum value of h such that the given author/journal has published at least h papers that have each been cited at least h times. The h-index serves as an alternative to more traditional journal impact factor metrics in the evaluation of the impact of the work of a particular researcher. The h-index is intended to measure simultaneously the quality and quantity of scientific output. "h-index: A Review Focused in its Variants, Computation and Standardization for Different Scientific Fields" (PDF). "Scaling the h-index for different scientific ISI fields". "The h index and career assessment by numbers". 
Is minimally invasive mitral valve repair with artificial chords reproducible and applicable in routine surgery? [SEP] "Mitral valve annuloplasty - A quantitative clinical and mechanical comparison of different annuloplasty devices". Mitral valve repair is a cardiac surgery procedure performed by cardiac surgeons to treat stenosis (narrowing) or regurgitation (leakage) of the mitral valve. The techniques of mitral valve repair include inserting a cloth-covered ring around the valve to bring the leaflets into contact with each other (annuloplasty), removal of redundant/loose segments of the leaflets (quadrangular resection), and re-suspension of the leaflets with artificial (Gore-Tex) cords. The traditional surgical approach to a mitral valve repair is a full or partial sternotomy, in which the surgeon cuts through the breastbone at the center of the chest to access the heart. "Robotic mitral valve repair operations are also being utilized throughout the United States. In the 2000s there have been several trials of a newer strategy of mitral valve repair that does not require major cardiac surgery. Early trial results suggest that it may be a beneficial approach for patients who are at high risk from conventional surgery.As early as January 2000 a team of doctors at the Instituto de Cardiología y Cirugía Cardiovascular in La Habana, Cuba have performed beating heart mitral valve repair or replacement. "Mitral Valve Repair: Past, Present, and Future". 
Does obesity predict knee pain over fourteen years in women, independently of radiographic changes? [SEP] Knee pain is pain in or around the knee. Running long distance can cause pain to the knee joint, as it is a high-impact exercise. Knee pain due to less physical movement
A lower level of physical activity and a work environment where one is required to sit in a chair during the work day is one reason for developing knee joint pain, as the lower degree of physical movement tends to weaken the knee muscles. Effective treatments for knee pain include physical therapy exercises, pain-reducing drugs such as ibuprofen, joint stretching, knee replacement surgery, and weight loss in people who are overweight.Overall, a combination of interventions seems to be the best choice when treating knee pain. Interventions such as exercises that target both the knee and the hip, foot bracing, and patellar taping are all recommended for use with patients who have knee pain.Current evidence suggests that psychological factors are elevated in individuals with patellofemoral pain. Furthermore, studies have found knee pain to be negatively associated with health-related quality of life, and an increase in knee pain to be associated with a reduction in patient-reported quality of life, as compared to those with no or stable knee pain, even in the relatively younger middle-aged population. Epidemiology
About 25% of people over the age of 50 experience knee pain from degenerative knee diseases. Pain during active and passive range of motion is suggestive of pathology in the knee joint. 
Do liquid-based preparations of urinary cytology perform differently than classically prepared cases? [SEP] Liquid-based cytology is a method of preparing samples for examination in cytopathology. Its proponents argue that liquid-based preparations outperform conventional smears because of improved fixation, decreased obscuring factors, and standardization of cell transfer. With both methods, the sample is collected in the conventional manner with one of the brush instruments but, instead of being spread onto a glass slide, it is transferred to a vial of transport medium.The United Kingdom screening programmes changed their cervical screening method from the Pap test to liquid-based cytology in 2008. Comparison to conventional smear
Liquid-based cytology improves specimen adequacy.The most significant alterations seen with the ThinPrep technique include:
Selective loss of extracellular material, which prevents it from obscuring cells, but may cause a loss of diagnostic clues. Urine cytology is a test that looks for abnormal cells in urine under a microscope. Urine typically contains epithelial cells shed from the urinary tract, and urine cytology evaluates this urinary sediment for the presence of cancerous cells from the lining of the urinary tract, and it is a convenient noninvasive technique for follow-up analysis of patients treated for urinary tract cancers. One limitation, however, is the inability to definitively identify low-grade cancer cells and urine cytology is used mostly to identify high-grade tumors.If the test detects atypical or cancerous cells, further tests may be recommended, such as cystoscopy and a CT scan. A liquid biopsy, also known as fluid biopsy or fluid phase biopsy, is the sampling and analysis of non-solid biological tissue, primarily blood. 
Outcomes of severely injured adult trauma patients in an Australian health service: does trauma center level make a difference? [SEP] Major trauma is described as life-altering injury with risk of death or disability.The first major trauma centre opened in England in 2012, with Scotland following in 2018, and in the same year plans were announced for the first MTC in Wales. England
There are 27 major trauma centres within NHS England, in three categories: adult and children; adult only; and children only. A trauma center, or trauma centre, is a hospital equipped and staffed to provide care for patients suffering from major traumatic injuries such as falls, motor vehicle collisions, or gunshot wounds. Trauma centers vary in their specific capabilities and are identified by "Level" designation: Level I (Level-1) being the highest and Level III (Level-3) being the lowest (some states have five designated levels, in which case Level V (Level-5) is the lowest). Definitions in United States
In the United States, trauma centers are ranked by the American College of Surgeons (ACS) or local state governments, from Level I (comprehensive service) to Level III (limited-care). Level I
A Level I trauma center provides the highest level of surgical care to trauma patients. See also
List of trauma centers in the United States
Emergency medicine
Trauma (medicine)
Trauma surgery
Trauma team
Traumatology

References
External links
Injury Prevention & Control: Trauma Care at Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Trauma Centers Fact Sheet at Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Trauma Levels Explained, American Trauma Society
FACS Verified Trauma Center Listing in the United States—American College of Surgeons
Trauma Center Association of America, formerly known as the National Foundation for Trauma Care
U.S. Trauma Center Crisis Report (2004)
Report: U.S. Trauma Center Preparedness for a Terrorist Attack in the Community
Report: Harris Poll: Trauma Care: Public's Knowledge and Perception of Importance 2004
NHS England major trauma centres [1]
NHS England 2012 major trauma centres map Urgent and emergency care services
NHS England Ambulance trauma coding When to call 999
NHS Wales trauma centres Accident and emergency departments
NHS Scotland trauma centres list [2]

State trauma system regulation
Bureau of Emergency Medical Services & Trauma System, Arizona Department of Health Services
Arizona Trauma Center Designation
Arizona Trauma System
Georgia Trauma Commission
PA Trauma Systems Foundation
25 Texas Administrative Code 157.125 (Texas Requirements for Trauma Facility Designation)
Maryland Trauma System To improve the standard and delivery of trauma Services to the Australasian community. 
Does a well developed collateral circulation predispose to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] Collateral circulation is the alternate circulation around a blocked artery or vein via another path, such as nearby minor vessels. Neointimal hyperplasia is the major cause of restenosis after percutaneous coronary interventions such as stenting or angioplasty. Restenosis is the recurrence of stenosis, a narrowing of a blood vessel, leading to restricted blood flow. Restenosis usually pertains to an artery or other large blood vessel that has become narrowed, received treatment to clear the blockage and subsequently become renarrowed. For instance, a coronary stent patient who develops restenosis may experience recurrent chest pain (angina) or have a minor or major heart attack (myocardial infarction), though they may not report it. Treatment
If restenosis occurs without a stent, it is usually treated with more angioplasty. Rates in cardiac procedures
In cardiac procedures, balloon angioplasty without stent implantation has been associated with a high incidence of restenosis, with rates ranging from 25% to 50%, and the majority of these patients need further angioplasty within 6 months.A 2010 study in India comparing coronary drug-eluting stents (DES) with coronary bare-metal stents (BMS) reported that restenosis developed in 23.1% of DES patients vs 48.8% in BMS patients, and female sex was found to be a statistically significant risk factor for developing restenosis.However, in newer-generation DES and BMS the restenosis rates are much lower. A 2003 study of selective and systematic stenting for limb-threatening ischemia reported restenosis rates at 1 year follow-up in 32.3% of selective stenting patients and 34.7% of systematic stenting patients.The 2006 SIROCCO trial compared the sirolimus drug-eluting stent with a bare nitinol stent for atherosclerotic lesions of the subsartorial artery, reporting restenosis at 2 year follow-up was 22.9% and 21.1%, respectively.A 2009 study compared bare nitinol stents with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) in subsartorial artery disease. 
Are home sampling kits for sexually transmitted infections acceptable among men who have sex with men? [SEP] Should people with AIDS have sex? The term was created in the 1990s by epidemiologists to study the spread of disease among all men who have sex with men, regardless of sexual identity, to include, for example, male prostitutes. The U.S. CDC and ACIP recommend hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccination for men who have sex with men. External links
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: HIV/AIDS among Men Who Have Sex with Men It was awarded a contract to provide at-home testing kits for 31 London boroughs, coordinated by Sexual Health London, until at least 2023 as in-person testing was restricted to people with symptoms. Quarantine
Washing techniques are developing that purify sperm from viral load of HIV and hepatitis C, but nevertheless clinics do not offer sperm from carriers of significant STIs. CDC: HIV/AIDS among Men Who Have Sex with Men
British Medical Journal Debate: Should men who have ever had sex with men be allowed to give blood? No
British Medical Journal Debate: Should men who have ever had sex with men be allowed to give blood? 
Does route of delivery affect maternal and perinatal outcome in women with eclampsia? [SEP] Treatment options include blood pressure medications such as hydralazine and emergency delivery of the baby either vaginally or by cesarean section.Pre-eclampsia is estimated to globally affect about 5% of deliveries while eclampsia affects about 1.4% of deliveries. Complications
There are risks to both the mother and the fetus when eclampsia occurs. Eclampsia may also cause problems with the placenta. If the risk to the health of the fetus or the mother is high, the definitive treatment for eclampsia is delivery of the baby. Patients who have experienced eclampsia are at increased risk for pre-eclampsia/eclampsia in a later pregnancy. Pre-eclampsia increases the risk of undesirable as well as lethal outcomes for both the mother and the fetus including preterm labor. Complications
Complications of pre-eclampsia can affect both the mother and the fetus. Fetuses born to mothers who were born small for gestational age (SGA) were 50% more likely to develop pre-eclampsia while fetuses born to both SGA parents were three-fold more likely to develop pre-eclampsia in future pregnancies. 
Surgical management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta: is endoaortic balloon occlusion safe? [SEP] Although intermittent balloon deflation is less technically difficult to perform, partial occlusion of the aorta has been demonstrated to reduce uncontrolled hemorrhage while simultaneously limiting distal ischemia and extending safe occlusion times.Additional potential complications are listed below:

Access site hematoma
Arterial injury
Pseudo-aneurysm
Aortic injury
Local Ischemia 
Metabolic derangement
Acidosis
Limb Amputation
Renal infarct
Thrombosis

See also
Selective aortic arch perfusion
Balloon tamponade


== References == Placing the balloon too distal from the aortic arch may induce occlusion of the renal artery and subsequent kidney failure. The options for repair include traditional open aortic surgery or endovascular repair.Endovascular procedures aim to reduce the morbidity and mortality of treating arterial disease in a patient population that is increasingly older and less fit than when major open repairs were developed and popularized. The benefits of this procedure have been established in open aortic repair and suggested in endovascular aortic repair. Medical uses
Open aortic surgery (OAS) is used to treat patients with aortic aneurysms greater than 5.5 cm in diameter, to treat aortic rupture of an aneurysm any size, to treat aortic dissections, and to treat acute aortic syndrome. The procedure involves using a balloon catheter to dilate the narrowed aortic valve by inflating the balloon. For adults with aortic stenosis, guidelines suggest that balloon aortic valvuloplasty (BAV) is to be used as a temporary procedure to improve blood flow through the aortic valve to alleviate symptoms and stabilize clinically before having more invasive procedures done, including aortic valve replacement (AVR) or transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). Technique
Aortic valvuloplasty relies on placing a catheter with a balloon at the tip in the aortic valve, which is then inflated to widen the narrowed valve. 
Estradiol and Antagonist Pretreatment Prior to Microdose Leuprolide in in Vitro Fertilization. Does It Improve IVF Outcomes in Poor Responders as Compared to Oral Contraceptive Pill? [SEP] Progesterone and progestins
The live birth rate is significantly higher with progesterone for luteal support in IVF cycles with or without intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Oral administration of progestins provides at least similar live birth rate than vaginal progesterone capsules when used for luteal support in embryo transfer, with no evidence of increased risk of miscarriage. Other substances tested in luteal phase
The addition of estrogen or hCG as adjunctives to progesterone do not appear to affect outcomes pregnancy rate and live birth rate in IVF. Levonorgestrel works by preventing ovulation or fertilization from occurring. It is combined with the estrogen ethinylestradiol in these formulations.At very low daily dose of 30 µg, levonorgestrel is used in some progestogen-only pill formulations.Levonorgestrel is the active ingredient in a number of intrauterine devices including Mirena and Skyla. The primary mechanism of action of levonorgestrel as a progestogen-only emergency contraceptive pill is, according to International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), to prevent fertilization by inhibition of ovulation and thickening of cervical mucus. Progesterone elevation on the day of induction of final maturation is associated with lower pregnancy rates in IVF cycles in women undergoing ovarian stimulation using GnRH analogues and gonadotrophins. Evidence suggested that endometrial injury on the day of oocyte retrieval was associated with a lower live birth or ongoing pregnancy rate.Intake of antioxidants (such as N-acetyl-cysteine, melatonin, vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, folic acid, myo-inositol, zinc or selenium) has not been associated with a significantly increased live birth rate or clinical pregnancy rate in IVF according to Cochrane reviews. 
Are opioid dependence and methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) documented in the medical record? [SEP] Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) utilizes methadone to treat dependence on heroin or other opioids, and is administered on an ongoing basis. Methadone maintenance has been termed "a first step toward social rehabilitation" because it increases the retention of patients in treatment, relieves them from the need to find, buy, and use multiple daily doses of street opioids, and offers a legal medical alternative. Modality
Introduced as an analgesic in the US in 1947, methadone has been used in maintenance treatment—also known as substitution treatment, or drug replacement therapy—since 1964. Controversy
Methadone maintenance is also known as drug replacement therapy or opiate replacement therapy (ORT), and has been the subject of much controversy since its inception. A methadone clinic is a medical facility where medications for opioid use disorder (MOUD) are dispensed-—historically and most commonly methadone, although buprenorphine is also increasingly prescribed. Medically assisted drug therapy treatment is indicated in patients who are opioid-dependent or have a history of opioid dependence. Methadone is a schedule II (USA) opioid analgesic, that is also prescribed for pain management. Dole and Nyswander, in establishing methadone maintenance treatment (MMT), improved treatment options in addiction medicine which for a century had been based on the conventional view (circa 1965) that narcotic addiction was the result of an intractable moral defect. 
Can teaching medical students to investigate medication errors change their attitudes towards patient safety? [SEP] Patient safety is a discipline that emphasizes safety in health care through the prevention, reduction, reporting and analysis of error and other types of unnecessary harm that often lead to adverse patient events. The frequency and magnitude of avoidable adverse events, often known as patient safety incidents, experienced by patients was not well known until the 1990s, when multiple countries reported significant numbers of patients harmed and killed by medical errors. The majority of media attention, however, focused on the staggering statistics: from 44,000 to 98,000 preventable deaths annually due to medical error in hospitals, 7,000 preventable deaths related to medication errors alone. Failure to acknowledge the prevalence and seriousness of medical errors. However, USP has reported that medication errors during the course of a surgical procedure are three times more likely to cause harm to a patient than those occurring in other types of hospital care. On average in the medical field, 1 out of 20 prescriptions filled contains an error, considering the billions of prescriptions that get filled ever year there is an insane amount of error happening. The 2006 Institute of Medicine report Preventing Medication Errors recommended "incentives...so that profitability of hospitals, clinics, pharmacies,  insurance companies, and manufacturers (are) aligned with patient safety goals;...(to) strengthen the business case for quality and safety. Medication errors such as overdose, and misuse and abuse of a drug as well as drug exposure during pregnancy and breastfeeding, are also of interest, even without an adverse event, because they may result in an adverse drug reaction.Information received from patients and healthcare providers via pharmacovigilance agreements, as well as other sources such as the medical literature, plays a critical role in providing the data necessary for pharmacovigilance to take place. 
Has the prevalence of health care services use increased over the last decade (2001-2009) in elderly people? [SEP] The continual increase in the elderly population in Germany signifies that there will be a greater need for health care services to be provided to the elderly, notably long-term care services. Health care satisfaction
In a study conducted in 1992, Louis Harris interviewed 948 elderly people over the age of 65 from Germany in order to have a better understanding of their health care access satisfaction and quality of life. Increase in health care expenditures
Despite their current access to short-term and long-term health insurance services, it is often concluded that the increasing elderly population in Germany will have negative consequences on health care expenditures, which may threaten these services. There appears to be a linear relationship between the increase of age and increase of health care costs. Multiple chronic conditions in elderly population
Elderly patients with multiple chronic conditions are also associated with higher health care use and cost. Studies conducted showed that the illness level of the elderly is what directly affects health care use and costs; the illness level was measured as the number of incidences of disease. While the annual inflation rate in healthcare costs has declined in recent decades; it still remains above the rate of economic growth, resulting in a steady increase in healthcare expenditures relative to GDP from 6% in 1970 to nearly 18% in 2015. As the country ages, more persons require more expensive treatments, as the aged tend to be sicker.According to Federal Reserve data, healthcare annual inflation rates have declined in recent decades:

1970-1979: 7.8%
1980-1989: 8.3%
1990-1999: 5.3%
2000-2009: 4.1%
2010-2016: 3.0%While this inflation rate has declined, it has generally remained above the rate of economic growth, resulting in a steady increase of health expenditures relative to GDP from 6% in 1970 to nearly 18% in 2015. 
Does high-dose radiotherapy benefit palliative lung cancer patients? [SEP] In a 2010 study of patients with metastatic non–small-cell lung cancer, "early palliative care led to significant improvements in both quality of life and mood. As compared with patients receiving standard care, patients receiving early palliative care had less aggressive care at the end of life but longer survival" which was increased by approximately three months.There are typically three objectives applied to the treatment of lung cancer and can vary by patient or individual diagnosis: (1) curing lung cancer, (2) controlling lung cancer, and (3) being comfortable. Chemotherapy
In patients with stage 3 lung cancer that cannot be removed, treatment with combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy improves survival significantly. Radical radiotherapy, initially used in the 1950s, was an attempt to use larger radiation doses in patients with relatively early-stage lung cancer, but who were otherwise unfit for surgery. Some of the cells involved in this process can be damaged by the use of radiotherapy. However as a result, there is increasing concern of the long-term effects of cancer treatments, such as radiotherapy treatment. Doctors have found this sometimes allowed them to safely give a higher dose of radiation to the tumor, potentially increasing the chance of a cure. Radiation therapy can be used to cure care or shrink tumors that are interfering with quality of life. 
Is endothelin-1 an aggravating factor in the development of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] Endothelin+receptor at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) References
External links
Endothelin-converting+enzyme+1 at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) In mild pancreatitis, there is inflammation and edema of the pancreas. A hallmark of acute pancreatitis is a manifestation of the inflammatory response, namely the recruitment of neutrophils to the pancreas. The inflammatory response leads to the secondary manifestations of pancreatitis: hypovolemia from capillary permeability, acute respiratory distress syndrome, disseminated intravascular coagulations, renal failure, cardiovascular failure, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis includes:
Perforated peptic ulcer
Biliary colic
Acute cholecystitis
Pneumonia
Pleuritic pain
Myocardial infarction

Biochemical
Elevated serum amylase and lipase levels, in combination with severe abdominal pain, often trigger the initial diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. These signs are not specific just for pancreatitis and may be associated with other gastrointestinal diseases and conditions.Acute pancreatitis can trigger a build-up of fluid, particularly in abdominal and thoracic (chest) areas, acute kidney injury, and cause inflammation in arteries and veins. See also
Pancreatitis


== References == 
Malnutrition, a new inducer for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients? [SEP] The current belief is that in end-stage kidney disease, abnormal calcium and phosphate homeostasis result in the deposition of calcium in the vessels, also known as metastatic calcification. Calciphylaxis with arterial calcification". History
Prior to 1990, traditional therapies for dialysis patients, such as liberalized diet and oral supplements, led to protein and/or calorie malnutrition. Therefore, dialysis patients are at risk for vitamin and mineral deficiencies. Presentation
This condition is characterised by calcification of the peripheral arteries. It represents a systemic disorder of mineral and bone metabolism due to CKD manifested by either one or a combination of the following:
Abnormalities of calcium, phosphorus (phosphate), parathyroid hormone, or vitamin D metabolism
Abnormalities in bone turnover, mineralization, volume, linear growth, or strength
Vascular or other soft-tissue calcificationCKD-MBD explains, at least in part, the high morbidity and mortality of CKD patients, linking kidney and bone disease with cardiovascular complications. More recently, there has been an increasing concern of extraskeletal calcification that may result from the deranged mineral and bone metabolism of CKD and from the therapies used to correct these abnormalities.Numerous cohort studies have shown associations between disorders of mineral metabolism and fractures, cardiovascular disease, and mortality. All three of these processes (abnormal mineral metabolism, abnormal bone, and extraskeletal calcification) are closely interrelated and together make a major contribution to the morbidity and mortality of patients with CKD. 
Does glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy damage the kidney in women with more parities? [SEP] Glomerular hyperfiltration is a situation where the filtration elements in the kidneys called glomeruli produce excessive amounts of pro-urine. Although this disease does not usually affect or spread to the kidneys, these granulomas can sometimes be deposited into glomeruli and cause damage leading to glomerulonephrosis. This can cause an increase of fluid pressure within the glomeruli, thus causing their hypertrophy, or breakdown. Such a blockage will prevent the glomerulus from functioning properly and eventually causes damage.Other forms of secondary glomerulonephrosis can be caused by autoimmune disorders such as HIV, Sjögren's Syndrome, and Hepatitis B, and some cancers, including multiple myeloma. In glomerulonephrosis, these cells are damaged, which allows proteins to pass through glomerular filtration and be lost in urine (proteinuria). However, water will continue to be lost as edema because glomerulonephrosis will continue to cause proteinuria, and prolonged activation of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone system will cause blood pressure to remain elevated and cause hypertension. Reduced vascular growth and endothelial dysfunction manifest primarily in maternal symptoms such as renal failure, edema, and seizures. This impairs extravillus trophoblast cells invasion to the maternal spiral arteries, causing high resistance and low blood flow and low nutrient supply to the fetus. 
Subclavian steal syndrome: can the blood pressure difference between arms predict the severity of steal? [SEP] Subclavian steal syndrome (SSS), also called subclavian steal steno-occlusive disease, is a constellation of signs and symptoms that arise from retrograde (reversed) blood flow in the vertebral artery or the internal thoracic artery, due to a proximal stenosis (narrowing) and/or occlusion of the subclavian artery. This flow reversal is called the subclavian steal or subclavian steal phenomenon, regardless of signs/symptoms being present. This is because of collateral vessels.As in vertebral-subclavian steal, coronary-subclavian steal may occur in patients who have received a coronary artery bypass graft using the internal thoracic artery (ITA), also known as internal mammary artery. Vertebral-subclavian and coronary-subclavian steal can occur concurrently in patients with an ITA CABG. Diagnosis
The evaluation for this condition includes:

Doppler ultrasound
CT angiography

Differential diagnosis
Stroke

Treatment
Management for this condition includes:
Carotid subclavian bypass
Stent and balloon angioplasty
Endarterectomy

Additional images
See also
Vascular access steal syndrome
Peripheral artery disease

References
External links

Subclavian Steal Syndrome - emedicine.com Additional images
See also
Aberrant subclavian artery
Subclavian steal syndrome
Thoracic outlet syndrome

References
This article incorporates text in the public domain from page 575 of the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy (1918)

External links

Subclavian artery at the Duke University Health System's Orthopedics program
Anatomy figure: 21:06-03 at Human Anatomy Online, SUNY Downstate Medical Center
Diagram of branches at informatics.jax.org
MedEd at Loyola Radio/curriculum/Vascular/subclavian_artery.htm Coronary steal (with its symptoms termed coronary steal syndrome or cardiac steal syndrome) is a phenomenon where an alteration of circulation patterns leads to a reduction in the blood flow directed to the coronary circulation. See also
Subclavian steal syndrome
Vascular resistance
Arteriolar vasodilator


== References == 
Can the Internet be used to improve sexual health awareness in web-wise young people? [SEP] Coalition for Positive Sexuality is an internet-based comprehensive sexuality education website, for youth and young adults. The large quantity of explicit sexual content online increases the likelihood of young people to experience early sexual debuts or to have sexual experiences at a young age. Exposure to public platforms
The sexual lifestyles and behaviors of young people are reflective of sexual themes and content in electronic, print and social media platforms. Children and adolescents who are exposed to explicit sexual material are also more likely to encounter sexual experiences at an early age.Children are more likely to be exposed to pornography and other forms of explicit sexual content online as they have easy access to technologies that enable them to connect to the internet, where these resources are widely available. It also does not teach young people about relationship skills and safe sexual practices.Pornographic material may be utilized by young people to pleasure themselves, as well as to explore their sexual identities and other sexual practices. Pornography can teach awareness and can foster acceptance towards personal identities, sexualities and bodies. Sex and the Internet: A Guidebook for Clinicians. As adolescents (12–19 years) and emerging adults (20–29 years) access the Internet more than any other age groups and undertake a higher risk of overuse of the Internet, the problem of Internet behavior disorder is most relevant to young people. 
Is eligibility for a chemotherapy protocol a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer after radical cystectomy? [SEP] Success of the preoperative regimen changed the paradigm of anal cancer treatment from surgical to non-surgical and was the advent of definitive chemoradiation (omitting surgery) being accepted as a standard-of-care for anal squamous cell carcinomas. Invasive urothelial carcinoma is a type of transitional cell carcinoma. Transitional cell carcinoma is the most common type of bladder cancer and cancer of the ureter, urethra, renal pelvis, the ureters, the bladder, and parts of the urethra and urachus. The invading tumors can extend from the kidney collecting system to the bladder.Carcinoma (from the Greek karkinos, or "crab", and -oma, "growth") is a type of cancer. It is believed to function in regulation of embryonic development and in bladder cancer invasion and progression. Since many breast cancers are considered genomically low-risk independent from clinicopathology, a significant number of patients can be saved from overtreatment with chemotherapy. In the MINDACT trial, women with breast cancer who are assessed as “High Risk” by both MammaPrint and clinical-pathologic guidelines are advised to have chemotherapy whereas for women with “Low Risk” concordance, hormonal therapy alone is recommended. Achievement of a complete pathologic response (pCR) to neoadjuvant chemotherapy allows for a better prediction of the prospect for a favorable outcome. 
Does a geriatric oncology consultation modify the cancer treatment plan for elderly patients? [SEP] Geriatric oncology is a branch of medicine that is concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of cancer in the elderly, usually defined as aged 65 and older. An older patient with cancer will benefit from the expertise of a geriatric oncologist. Training and education programs
Training programs specifically in the geriatric oncology subspeciality have been established. Assessment
Typically, new patients meet with either a geriatric oncologist (or sometimes a medical oncologist and geriatrician separately), a psychosocial professional, and a nutritionist, all of whom work together to provide a comprehensive geriatric assessment of the patient's fitness to withstand the therapy necessary to treat his or her cancer. Clinical practiceIntegrate geriatric evaluation (including co morbidities) into oncology decision-making and guidelines
Improve the quality of prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of older patients with malignancies
Address issues of access to care, including the needs of the caregiver
Develop interdisciplinary geriatric oncology clinics3. Hackensack University Medical Center Geriatric Oncology Division
Cleveland Clinic, Geriatric oncology clinic
University of Chicago Medical Center Geriatric Oncology Clinic
World oncology network, Geriatric oncology
AACR Task Force on Aging and Cancer Geriatric oncology: focuses on cancers in elderly population. Geriatric oncology. 
Does left atrial appendage (LAA) occlusion device alter the echocardiography and electrocardiogram parameters in patients with atrial fibrillation? [SEP] Left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO), also referred to as left atrial appendage closure (LAAC), is a treatment strategy to reduce the risk of  blood clots from the left atrial appendage entering the bloodstream and causing a stroke in those with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF). Devices and alternatives
Occlusion of the left atrial appendage can be achieved from an outside perspective (the Lariat device) or an inside (endovascular) blood exposed device (#Watchman first in this endeavor). Transcatheter patch obliteration of the LAA has also been reported.The ULTRASEAL LAA device, from Cardia, is a percutaneous, transcatheter device intended to prevent thrombus embolization from the left atrial appendage in patients who have non-valvular atrial fibrillation. Other devices exist to occlude the left atrial appendage from the inside of the heart such as the Wavecrest device and the Lariat device. The LAA can also be surgically removed simultaneous with other cardiac procedures such as the maze procedure or during mitral valve surgery; specifically it can be occluded or excluded by over-sewing, excision and resection, ligation, stapling with or without amputation of the LAA or application of a clip system 
Finally, the left atrial appendage has been closed in a limited number of patients using a chest keyhole surgery approach. Left atrial appendage occlusion
Left atrial appendage occlusion is an experimental alternative to anticoagulants. Left atrial appendage occlusion
There is growing evidence that left atrial appendage occlusion therapy may reduce the risk of stroke in people with non-valvular AF as much as warfarin. Mechanism of thrombus formation
In atrial fibrillation, the lack of an organized atrial contraction can result in some stagnant blood in the left atrium (LA) or left atrial appendage (LAA). 
Can ki-67 play a role in prediction of breast cancer patients' response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] Antigen KI-67, also known as Ki-67, Ki-67 or MKI67 (Marker Of Proliferation Ki-67), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MKI67 gene (antigen identified by monoclonal antibody Ki-67). Function
Antigen KI-67 is a nuclear protein that is associated with cellular proliferation and ribosomal RNA transcription. Use as a marker of proliferating cells
The Ki-67 protein (also known as MKI67) is a cellular marker for proliferation, and can be used in immunohistochemistry. In breast cancer Ki67 identifies a high proliferative subset of patients with ER-positive breast cancer who derive greater benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy

Antibody labeling
Ki-67 is an excellent marker to determine the growth fraction of a given cell population. The fraction of Ki-67-positive tumor cells (the Ki-67 labeling index) is often correlated with the clinical course of cancer. This study has the following objectives:

Describe the frequency of chemotherapy + endocrine versus endocrine alone decisions in Oncotype DX intermediate score patients
Assess the impact of MammaPrint on chemotherapy + endocrine versus endocrine alone treatment decisions
Assess the distribution of MammaPrint Low and High Risk in patients with an intermediate recurrence score
Assess concordance of TargetPrint ER, PR and Her2 results with Oncotype DX ER, PR and Her2 and with locally assessed IHC/FISH ER, PR and Her2
Compare clinical subtype based on IHC/FISH ER, PR, Her2 and Ki-67 (if available) with BluePrint molecular subtype

I-SPY I and I-SPY II
(CALGB 150007/150012 & ACRIN 6657)
Agendia's MammaPrint signature and its microarray technology are integral components of biomarker analysis and molecular prediction in the landmark National Cancer Institute supported I-SPY I and II I-SPY II breast cancer clinical trials which focus on the prediction of therapeutic response in the neoadjuvant setting. Key Objectives of I-SPY breast cancer trials for which the MammaPrint whole-genome microarray is utilized:

I-SPY I evaluated biomarkers and imaging for predicting response to standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy
I-SPY II will evaluate Phase 2 drugs in combination with standard chemotherapy in a neoadjuvant setting
I-SPY II will use biomarkers to stratify patients based on their predicted likelihood of response to treatment

MINT
Multi Institutional Neo Adjuvant Therapy Mammaprint Project (MINT). "Validation and clinical utility of a 70-gene prognostic signature for women with node-negative breast cancer". 
Intravenous administration of metoclopramide by 2 min bolus vs 15 min infusion: does it affect the improvement of headache while reducing the side effects? [SEP] Metoclopramide is a medication used for stomach and esophageal problems. Migraine
In migraine headaches, metoclopramide may be used in combination with paracetamol (acetaminophen) or in combination with aspirin. Procedures
Intravenous metoclopramide is used in small-bowel follow-through, small-bowel enema, and radionuclide gastric-emptying studies to reduce the time taken for barium to go through the intestines, thus reducing the total time needed for the procedures. Metoclopramide also prevents vomiting after oral ingestion of barium. Consequently, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends that metoclopramide be used for short-term treatment, preferably less than 12 weeks. "Metoclopramide Injection". In addition to its direct anti-emetic effect metoclopramide also stimulates gastric emptying (prokinetic), which is often delayed during migraine attacks, and accelerates the absorption of paracetamol. The injectable form of the drug has been shown to abort a cluster headache within 30 minutes in 77% of cases. 
Is the breast best for children with a family history of atopy? [SEP] Breast eczema  may affect the nipples, areolae, or surrounding skin, with eczema of the nipples being of the moist type with oozing and crusting, in which painful fissuring is frequently seen, especially in nursing mothers. Allergens
In a small percentage of cases, atopic dermatitis is caused by sensitization to foods such as milk, but there is growing consensus that food allergy most likely arises as a result of skin barrier dysfunction resulting from AD, rather than food allergy causing the skin problems. Medication
Topical
Corticosteroids applied directly on skin (topical) have proven effective in managing atopic dermatitis. Diet
The role of vitamin D on atopic dermatitis is not clear, but vitamin D supplementation may improve its symptoms.There is no clear benefit for pregnant mothers taking omega 3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) in preventing the development of AD in their child.Several probiotics seem to have a positive effect, with a roughly 20% reduction in the rate of AD. See also
Atopy


== References == This article proposed to explain the observation that hay fever and eczema, both allergic diseases, were less common in children from larger families, which were presumably exposed to more infectious agents through their siblings, than in children from families with only one child. The skin of the nipple and areola may be red, itchy and inflamed. In addition, one of the physical diagnosis of atopic dermatitis is poor crusted lesions on certain surfaces of the baby, such as scalp and cheek. 
Does escalation of the apical dose change treatment outcome in beta-radiation of posterior choroidal melanomas with 106Ru plaques? [SEP] Relative biological effectiveness factors comparing gamma rays to HZE ions were measured in mice or rats for tumors of the skin and of the Harderian or mammary gland, reaching values as high as 25 to 50 at low doses. Plaque radiotherapy is a type of radiation therapy used to treat eye tumors. References
External links
Plaque radiotherapy entry in the public domain NCI Dictionary of Cancer Terms This article incorporates public domain material from Dictionary of Cancer Terms. Melanomas
Phase I trials on melanomas have shown 213Bi is effective in causing tumour regression. Ocular melanoma is a term commonly used to describe tumors of the uveal tract such as uveal melanoma, choroidal melanoma, ciliary body melanoma, and iris melanoma. Systemic metastases are detected by Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging at the time of the original diagnosis in less than 4% of UM patients  Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) has recently been reported more sensitive than PET for identifying metastasis from choroidal melanoma, but MRI requires tumor mass greater than 5mm in size. Neoadjuvant image-guided helical intensity modulated radiotherapy of extremity sarcomas - a single center experience. Extensive basal cell carcinoma of the forehead and anterior scalp: use of helical tomotherapy as a radiotherapy treatment modality. 
Does septoplasty change the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate? [SEP] Septoplasty [ˈsɛp.toˌplæ.sti]
(Etymology: L, saeptum, septum; Gk, πλάσσειν plassein – to shape), or alternatively submucous septal resection and septal reconstruction, is a corrective surgical procedure done to straighten a deviated nasal septum – the nasal septum being the partition between the two nasal cavities. Often the inferior turbinate on the opposite side enlarges, which is termed compensatory hypertrophy. See also
Rhinoplasty, surgery involving the entire nose
Turbinectomy
Empty nose syndrome
Nose

References
External links
A brief and concise Septoplasty entry on MedlinePlus, a public health encyclopedia
A more in depth Septoplasty and accompanying Turbinates entry on the American Rhinologic Society's website In most cases, turbinate hypertrophy is accompanied by some septum deviation, so the surgery is done along with septoplasty. Indications
A turbinectomy is usually performed to resolve turbinate hypertrophy, where the turbinates are swollen and enlarged. Furthermore, to improve breathing a septoplasty can be performed concurrent to the reconstructive surgery; likewise, if there is turbinate hypertrophy, an inferior turbinectomy can be performed. In such a case the turbinate can be reduced in size by endoscopic nasal surgery (turbinectomy). See also
Rhinoplasty
Septoplasty


== References == 
Can patient coaching reduce racial/ethnic disparities in cancer pain control? [SEP] Modern pain management draws on these understandings in the biopsychosocial model of pain, which holds that pain is best managed through a multifaceted approach addressing the biological, psychological, and social aspects of a patient's life. 2018 studies conducted in Brazil and Spain found significant lasting improvements in pain and quality of life among musculoskeletal pain and cancer patients. Health coaching is the use of evidence-based skillful conversation, clinical interventions and strategies to actively and safely engage client/patients in health behavior change. Overview
Health coaching for clinicians and practitioners is based on evidence-based clinical interventions such as motivational interviewing to facilitate behavior change, the transtheoretical model of change, goal setting, active listening, aggregation and trending of health outcome metrics, and prevention.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention define wellness as "the degree to which one feels positive and enthusiastic about life". Allowing health coaches to connect with their patients by building a strong relationship plays a vital role in improving the health outcomes of patients. Especially when working with underrepresented populations, pairing patients with a health coach of similar race/ethnicity, socio-cultural or linguistic background makes the health coach more relatable, and this too impacts the health outcomes of patients. Coaching had a positive effect on patients' knowledge, skill, self-efficacy and behavior change while a non-coached control group did not show any improvement. Published in the United States (also in 2013) as: You Are Not Your Pain: Using Mindfulness to Relieve Pain, Reduce Stress, and Restore Well-Being. 
Does prior benign prostate biopsy predict outcome for patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy? [SEP] References

Klein, EA, Jhaveri, F, Licht, M. Contemporary technique of radical prostatectomy. Impotence following radical prostatectomy: insight into etiology and prevention. Many prostate cancers missed by conventional biopsy are detectable by MRI-guided targeted biopsy. The higher suspicion on mpMRI and the higher PI-RADS v2 score, the greater the likelihood of aggressive prostate cancer on targeted biopsy. Radical perineal prostatectomy is a surgical procedure wherein the entire prostate gland is removed through an incision in the area between the anus and the scrotum (perineum).It is used to remove early prostate cancer, in select people who have a small well defined cancer in the prostate. Uses
Radical perineal prostatectomy is used to remove early prostate cancer, in select people who have a small well defined cancer in the prostate. When the cancer is small and confined to the prostate, radical perineal prostatectomy achieves the same rate of cure as the retropubic approach but less blood is lost and recovery is faster. See also
Prostate biopsy


== References == 
Does patient position during liver surgery influence the risk of venous air embolism? [SEP] Portal vein embolization (PVE) is a preoperative procedure performed in interventional radiology to initiate hypertrophy of the anticipated future liver remnant a couple weeks prior to a major liver resection procedure. Complication rates from the procedure are low as well (2–3 percent) and include portal vein thrombosis, liver infarction, necrosis, infection, pneumothorax, and other risks as listed above. Risks related to any percutaneous transhepatic procedures such as bleeding and infection. Mechanism
Portal vein embolization is a preoperative procedure performed in interventional radiology to initiate hypertrophy of the anticipated future liver remnant a couple weeks prior to a major liver resection procedure. Causes
Interventional procedures
Interventional radiology procedures, cardiac, and neurosurgical procedures can predispose to air embolism. This is one reason why surgeons must be particularly careful when operating on the brain, and why the head of the bed is tilted down when inserting or removing a central venous catheter from the jugular or subclavian veins.When air enters the veins, it travels to the right side of the heart, and then to the lungs. Venous or pulmonary air embolism occurs when air enters the systemic veins and is transported to the right side of the heart and from there into the pulmonary arteries, where it may lodge, blocking or reducing blood flow. Limits
The Pringle manoeuvre is more effective in preventing blood loss during liver surgery if central venous pressure is maintained at 5 mmHg or lower. 
Do Indigenous Australians age prematurely? [SEP] On average Australian males live to around 78 years of age,  with the life expectancy of an Indigenous Australian male in 2009 being around 67 years of age and non indigenous men in remote areas living to around 70. In 2009 the ABS estimated life expectancy at 67.2 years for Indigenous men (11.5 years fewer than for non-Indigenous) and 72.9 years for Indigenous women (9.7 years fewer than for non-Indigenous). Estimated life expectancy of Indigenous men ranged from 61.5 years for those living in the Northern Territory to a high of 69.9 years for those living in New South Wales, and for Indigenous women, 69.2 years for those living in the Northern Territory to a high of 75.0 years for those living in New South Wales.As of 2010, life expectancy for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander men was estimated to be 11.5 years less than that of non-Indigenous men – 67.2 years and 78.7 years respectively. Indigenous Australians are more likely to die at a younger age than their non-indigenous counterparts due to being unhealthy. Compared with the general Australian population, Indigenous Australians develop type 2 diabetes at a younger age. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians are also more likely to smoke, have poor diets and have high levels of obesity.A 2007 study found that the 11 largest preventable contributions to the indigenous burden of disease in Australia were tobacco, alcohol, illicit drugs, high body mass, inadequate physical activity, low intake of fruit and vegetables, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, unsafe sex, child sexual abuse and intimate partner violence. Contemporary diet
Poor-quality diet among the Indigenous population is a significant risk factor for three of the major causes of premature death in Indigenous Australians – cardiovascular disease, cancer and type 2 diabetes. Aboriginal Australians suffer from high rates of heart disease. 
Are tuberculosis patients adherent to prescribed treatments in China? [SEP] Tuberculosis is a serious public health problem in China. Tuberculosis is one of China's major public health problems. According to the 2015 WHO estimates, China has the world's third largest number of tuberculosis cases, behind only India and Indonesia, comprising around 10% of the world total. China's rapid economic growth depends on them, but if they get tuberculosis, they have to return home for treatment. Other studies confirmed a serious epidemic of MDR tuberculosis in several Chinese provinces, with rates of multidrug resistance in previously untreated cases that were five to ten times higher than the global mean.The inadequate control of tuberculosis can be linked to a malfunctioning health system. China is developing tuberculosis-specific policies and interventions to address these challenges. See also
China-related

Public health in the People's Republic of China
Medicine in China
Pharmaceutical industry in ChinaTuberculosis-related

2007 tuberculosis scare
ATC code J04 Drugs for treatment of TB
Latent tuberculosis
Mycobacterium Tuberculosis Structural Genomics Consortium
National Center for HIV, STD, and TB Prevention
Nontuberculous mycobacteria
Overcrowding
Philip D'Arcy Hart
Tuberculosis in history and art
UNITAID
Nosocomial infection

References
Further reading
China
General and applied

External links

Tuberculosis in China at Curlie
(CDC) - Division of Tuberculosis Elimination News and updates. Various treatment regimens are in use for latent tuberculosis. 
Ultrasound in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis; a useful addition to clinical staging? [SEP] Ultrasound is an excellent method for the study of the penis, such as indicated in trauma, priapism, erectile dysfunction or suspected Peyronie's disease.Ultrasound is an imaging modality that, in addition to being well tolerated and widely available, is considered an excellent method for the evaluation of many penile diseases. Preceding the ultrasound examination with Doppler, the penis must be examined in B mode, in order to identify possible tumors, fibrotic plaques, calcifications, or hematomas, as well as to evaluate the appearance of the cavernous arteries, which can be tortuous or atheromatous. Indications
Although the development of new imaging modalities such as computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging have opened a new era for medical imaging, high-resolution sonography remains as the initial imaging modality of choice for evaluation of scrotal
disease. High-resolution ultrasound helps in better characterize some of the intrascrotal lesions, and suggest a more specific diagnosis, resulting in more appropriate treatments and avoiding unnecessary operation for some of the diseases. Intratesticular tumors
One of the primary indications for scrotal sonography is to evaluate for the presence of
intratesticular tumor in the setting of scrotal enlargement or a palpable abnormality at
physical examination. Ultrasound imaging may also be useful in confirming the diagnosis. Conclusion
Ultrasound remains as the mainstay in scrotal imaging not only because of its high accuracy,
excellent depiction of scrotal anatomy, low cost and wide availability, it is also useful in
determining whether a mass is intra- or extra-testicular, thus providing us useful and
valuable information to decide whether a mass is benign or malignant even though
malignancy does occur in extratesticular tumors and vice versa. Furthermore, ultrasound also
provides information essential to reach a specific diagnosis in patients with testicular
torsion, testicular appendiceal torsion and inflammation such as epididymo-orchitis, Fournier gangrene etc., thus enabling us to avoid unnecessary operation. 
Do oblique views add value in the diagnosis of spondylolysis in adolescents? [SEP] Signs and symptoms
In majority of cases, spondylolysis presents asymptomatically, which can make diagnosis both difficult and incidental. When a patient does present with symptoms, there are general signs and symptoms a clinician will look for:

Clinical signs:Pain on completion of the stork test (placed in hyperextension and rotation)
Excessive lordotic posture
Unilateral tenderness on palpation
Visible on diagnostic imaging (Scottie dog fracture)
Symptoms:Unilateral low back pain
Pain that radiates into the buttocks or legs
Onset of pain can be acute or gradual
Pain that can restrict daily activities
Pain that worsens after strenuous activity
Pain aggravated with lumbar hyperextension
Difficulty in movement in spinal cord

Cause
The cause of spondylolysis remains unknown, however many factors are thought to contribute to its development. Diagnosis
There are several imaging techniques used to diagnose spondylolysis. Since this is difficult to see on the AP (anterior posterior) x-ray view an oblique x-ray of the lumbar spine can usually identify the spondylolysis. If this test is positive, a CT scan is usually ordered to confirm spondylolysis. For this reason the CT scan is much more accurate in detecting spondylolysis than an x-ray. Bone scintigraphy combined with CT scan is considered the gold standard which means that it is best at detecting spondylolysis. MRI
MRI is a newer technique used to diagnose spondylolysis and is favorable for a few reasons. 
Are many colorectal cancers due to missed adenomas? [SEP] The colorectal adenoma is a benign glandular tumor of the colon and the rectum. Most colorectal cancers are due to old age and lifestyle factors, with only a small number of cases due to underlying genetic disorders. Some of the inherited genetic disorders that can cause colorectal cancer include familial adenomatous polyposis and hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer; however, these represent less than 5% of cases. Cause
75–95% of colorectal cancer cases occur in people with little or no genetic risk. Other syndromes that are strongly associated with colorectal cancer include Gardner syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). 15 to 18 percent of colorectal cancer tumours have MMR deficiencies, with 3 percent developing due to Lynch syndrome. Screening
As more than 80% of colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps, screening for this cancer is effective for both early detection and for prevention. Presence of synchronous or metachronous colorectal or other Lynch syndrome associated cancers (e.g. 
Does desflurane alter left ventricular function when used to control surgical stimulation during aortic surgery? [SEP] Desflurane (1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl difluoromethyl ether) is a highly fluorinated methyl ethyl ether used for maintenance of general anesthesia. Desflurane, along with enflurane and to a lesser extent isoflurane, has been shown to react with the carbon dioxide absorbent in anesthesia circuits to produce detectable levels of carbon monoxide through degradation of the anesthetic agent. Desflurane is known to act as a positive allosteric modulator of the GABAA and glycine receptors, and as a negative allosteric modulator of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, as well as affecting other ligand-gated ion channels. Physical properties
Physiologic effects
Desflurane induces a dose dependent reduction in blood pressure due to reduced systemic vascular resistance. However, rapid increases in desflurane may induce a transient sympathetic response secondary to catecholamine release. Like sevoflurane, desflurane vasodilatory properties also cause it to increase intracranial pressure and cerebral blood flow. References
Further reading
External links
"Desflurane". Pharmacological approaches
Beta-blocking medication is sometimes prescribed during cardiac surgery. 
Does gestational age misclassification explain the difference in birthweights for Australian aborigines and whites? [SEP] "On the importance — and the unimportance — of birthweight". External links
The Analysis of Birthweight, by Allen Wilcox Statistics indicate that Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders are much less healthy than other Australians. In the Northern Territory, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander infant mortality rate was over three times as high as the non-Indigenous infant mortality rate (13.6 deaths per 1,000 live births compared with 3.8 deaths per 1,000 live births).Male Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander infant mortality in the Northern Territory was about 15 deaths per 1,000 live births, while female Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander infant mortality was 12 deaths per 1,000. For non-Indigenous males the rate was 4.4 deaths per 1,000 births and for females it was 3.3 deaths per 1,000 (ABS 2009b).Between 1998 and 2008 the Indigenous to non-Indigenous rate ratio (the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander rate divided by the rate for other Australians) for infant mortality declined in the Northern Territory an average of 1.7% per year, while the rate difference (the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander rate minus the rate for other Australians) almost halved from 18.1 to 9.8 deaths per 1,000 births, which suggests that the gap between Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and non-Indigenous infant mortality in the Northern Territory has reduced (ABS 2009b). The overall hypothesis of the authors was that this finding reflected an error in recorded gestational age, described in a strongly bimodal birth-weight distribution at young gestational ages for Mexican-Americans.Many external effects come into play, such as the Mexican diet, extended family ties, low levels of stress, strong religious beliefs and strong ties to their communities. The prevalence of low birth weight has changed over time. Low birth weight can also vary by maternal age. 
Is there any interest to perform ultrasonography in boys with undescended testis? [SEP] Undescended testes are associated with reduced fertility, increased risk of testicular germ-cell tumors, and psychological problems when fully-grown. It is usually treatable if caught early, so urologists often recommend that boys who had orchiopexy as infants be taught testicular self-examination, to recognize testicular masses and seek early medical care for them. At ultrasound, the undescended testis usually appears small, less echogenic than the contralateral normal testis and usually located in the inguinal region. Because of the superficial location of the inguinal canal in children, sonography of
undescended testes should be performed with a high frequency transducer. At ultrasound,
the undescended testis usually appears small, less echogenic than the contralateral normal
testis and usually located in the inguinal region [Fig. Conclusion
Ultrasound remains as the mainstay in scrotal imaging not only because of its high accuracy,
excellent depiction of scrotal anatomy, low cost and wide availability, it is also useful in
determining whether a mass is intra- or extra-testicular, thus providing us useful and
valuable information to decide whether a mass is benign or malignant even though
malignancy does occur in extratesticular tumors and vice versa. See also
Male infertility#Ultrasonography


== References == Proponents of surgery note that it is low-risk, and the undescended testicle is non-functional, and it can be removed with laparoscopy or a very small incision. 
Is peak concentration needed in therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin? [SEP] Vancomycin is a glycopeptide antibiotic medication used to treat a number of bacterial infections. The World Health Organization classifies vancomycin as critically important for human medicine. Spectrum of susceptibility
Vancomycin is considered a last resort medication for the treatment of sepsis and lower respiratory tract, skin, and bone infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria. Following oral administration, the fecal concentration of vancomycin is around 500 µg/mL (sensitive strains of C. difficile have a mean inhibitory concentration of ≤2 µg/mL)
Inhaled vancomycin has also been used (off-label), via nebulizer, for treatment of various infections of the upper and lower respiratory tract.There is an ongoing debate as to whether vancomycin should be given through a central or peripheral line. Therapeutic drug monitoring
Plasma level monitoring of vancomycin is necessary due to the drug's biexponential distribution, intermediate hydrophilicity, and potential for ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity, especially in populations with poor renal function and/or increased propensity to bacterial infection. Vancomycin activity is considered to be time-dependent; that is, antimicrobial activity depends on the duration that the serum drug concentration exceeds the minimum inhibitory concentration  of the target organism. Early authors suggested peak levels of 30 to 40 mg/L and trough levels of 5 to 10 mg/L,
but current recommendations are that peak levels need not be measured and that trough levels of 10 to 15 mg/L or 15 to 20 mg/L, depending on the nature of the infection and the specific needs of the patient, may be appropriate. Using measured vancomycin concentrations to calculate doses optimizes therapy in patients with augmented renal clearance. 
Can autologous platelet-rich plasma gel enhance healing after surgical extraction of mandibular third molars? [SEP] Platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) or leukocyte- and platelet-rich fibrin (L-PRF) is a derivative of PRP where autologous platelets and leukocytes are present in a complex fibrin matrix to accelerate the healing of soft and hard tissue and is used as a tissue-engineering scaffold for endodontics. A platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) membrane containing bone growth enhancing elements can be stitched over the wound or a graft material or scaffold is placed in the socket of an extracted tooth at the time of extraction. Platelet derived growth factor along with bone morphogenetic proteins are among the most researched growth factors in periodontal regeneration. Platelet rich fibrin showed significant improvement in clinical periodontal parameter as well as in radiograph when compared with open flap debridement alone in a meta analysis. Platelet-rich fibrin has shown significant results comparable to DFDBA for periodontal regeneration. Regenerative endodontics
PRF enhances alveolar bone augmentation and  necrotic dental pulp and open tooth apex can be revitalized in regenerative endodontics with platelet-rich fibrin. Mandibular third molar surgery recovery
Platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) is a postoperative method used to heal the alveolar socket following the removal of the mandibular third molar. To date there is no clear correlation between the use of PRF after a mandibular third molar removal surgery and the recovery of jaw spasms, bone restoration and soft tissue healing. 
Are sugars-free medicines more erosive than sugars-containing medicines? [SEP] The tooth-friendly label distinguishes products which are non-cariogenic and non-erosive, i.e. To replace sugar, toothfriendly products often contain sweeteners (polyols, intense sweeteners) that are not fermented by the microflora of the dental plaque. It is less sweet than sugar, but can be blended with high-intensity sweeteners such as sucralose to create a mixture with the same sweetness as sucrose (‘sugar’). Sweeteners and Sugar Alternatives in Food Technology. Thus, arresting fermentation after a significant portion of the sugars have fermented results in a wine where the residual sugar consists mainly of fructose, while the use of Süssreserve will result in a wine where the sweetness comes from a mixture of glucose and fructose. One aspect of the formulation is that sugar is used instead of HFCS. They can take multiple chemical forms, including sucrose (table sugar), glucose (dextrose), and fructose. Medical consensus holds that added sugars contribute little nutritional value to food, leading to a colloquial description as "empty calories". 
