Can masks reduce corona infections when worn by a large proportion of the population? [SEP] face-masks worn by the general population could be an accessible and affordable intervention, if effective when worn under routine circumstances. any type of general mask use is likely to decrease viral exposure and infection risk on a population level, in spite of imperfect fit and imperfect adherence, personal respirators providing most protection. to evaluate the effectiveness of widespread adoption of masks or face coverings to reduce community transmission of the sars-cov-2 virus that causes covid-19. introduction of mask use with 50% efficacy worn by 50% of individuals reduces the cumulative infection attack rate (iar) by 27%, the peak prevalence by 49%, and population-wide mortality by 29%. if 90% of individuals wear 50% efficacious masks, this decreases iar by 54%, peak prevalence by 75%, and population-wide mortality by 55%; similar improvements hold if 70% of individuals wear 75% efficacious masks. even after community transmission of sars-cov-2 has been established, adoption of mask-wearing by a majority of community-dwelling individuals can meaningfully reduce the number and outcome of covid-19 infections over and above physical distancing interventions. this paper shows the impact of widespread adoption of masks in response to the covid-19 pandemic, with varying levels of population adherence, mask efficacy, and timing of mask adoption.the paper's findings help inform messaging to policymakers at the state or local level considering adding or keeping mask mandates, and to communities to promote widespread adoption of high-quality masks.adoption of masks by at least half of the population can reduce cumulative infections and population deaths by more than 25%, while decreasing peak prevalence by about 50%. face masks have traditionally been used in general infection control, but their efficacy at the population level in preventing transmission of influenza viruses has not been studied in detail. a population transmission model was set up to explore the impact of population-wide mask use, allowing estimation of the effects of mask efficacy and coverage (fraction of the population wearing masks) on the basic reproduction number and the infection attack rate. we conclude that population-wide use of face masks could make an important contribution in delaying an influenza pandemic. 
Can homeopathic preparations with Anamirta cocculus help against dizziness? [SEP] this did not improve his dizziness but did cause him to feel as if he were "in a dream." vertigoheel is a homeopathic preparation containing ambra grisea, cocculus indicus, conium maculatum, and petroleum. a possible causal relationship was observed between the homeopathic supplement vertigoheel and an acute episode of psychosis in a young male patient with no comorbidities. as homeopathic remedies contain minute doses of specially prepared substances, unwanted side effects are avoided, making such remedies useful alternatives to use during pregnancy or when treating infants. this article describes various conditions of pregnancy and the homeopathic remedies which can help to alleviate unpleasant or harmful symptoms. homeopathic preparations are used in homeopathy and anthroposophic medicine. this phytopathological model yielded a small to medium effect size and thus might be of interest for homeopathic basic research after further improvement. thus, homeopathic formulations might have a potential for the treatment of plant diseases after further optimization. clinical trials have reported statistically significant and clinically relevant effects of homeopathic preparations. homeopathic centesimal (c) dilutions, 1c to 30c, of copper sulfate (cuso(4)), decimal dilutions of sulfur (s(8)), 1x to 30x, and controls (succussed potentization medium) were prepared, randomized, and blinded. 
Can zeolite alleviate or prevent health problems? [SEP] in the present study, zeolite was investigated for concentrating skin acetone for subsequent semiconductor-based analysis. the use of zeolite ion exchangers, and zeolite w in particular, can alleviate the problems encountered with zirconium phosphate. zeolite and dtpa may alleviate the negative effects of soil pb on tomato growth by decreasing nutrient leaching and increasing plant nutrient uptake. the results showed that the addition of zeolite in compost is good for prolonging high-temperature composting time. the addition of zeolite is beneficial to reduce nitrogen loss during composting. meanwhile, zeolites are of considerable significance to the conversion of lignocellulosic biomass to desirable chemical products on account of fine shape selectivity and moderate acid sites and strength. among numerous zeolites, zsm-5-based catalysts have been most extensively studied, and the acidity and porosity of zsm-5 can be tuned by changing the content of si or al in zeolite. feeding z to rats receiving dietary zeolite resulted in a positive correlation between dietary zeolite and fecal excretion of z but a negative correlation with urinary excretion of z. topical administration of z produced a positive correlation between dietary zeolite and fecal z excretion but no effect on urinary excretion. it may be concluded that protein and alfalfa treatments alleviate z toxicosis through increased metabolism whereas zeolite binds z in the digestive tract to prevent absorption. the membranes reported here have the potential to solve the key problems that have prevented zeolite membranes from widespread use for biofuel production. 
Does paxlovid protect unvaccinated people with risk factors from severe or even fatal covid 19 disease? [SEP] since there is neither a vaccine nor a drug for covid-19, people with an increased risk for severe and fatal courses of disease particularly need protection. a systematic literature review on the risk factors of severe and fatal covid-19 courses is presented. this review aims at summarizing what we have learned about the course and outcome of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in patients with different ieis and what this can potentially teach us about the immune mechanisms that could confer protection or predisposition to severe disease. this study has not demonstrated the presumed critical role of ms therapy in the course of covid-19 but evidenced that people with ms with advanced age and disease, in progressive course, and those who are more disabled have a higher probability of severe and even fatal disease. what do we understand about changes in the immune system that might contribute to the older person's risk of developing severe covid-19? how could immunocompetence in the older and the frailest individuals and populations be supported and enhanced to give protection from serious covid-19 illness? for unvaccinated individuals with mild-to-moderate coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), monoclonal antibodies against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) decrease the risk of severe disease and hospitalization. monoclonal antibodies such as casirivimab and imdevimab, approved under an emergency use authorization, should be considered in unvaccinated pregnant individuals with mild-to-moderate covid-19 to decrease the risk of severe disease. coronavirus diseases 2019 (covid-19) has become a worldwide pandemic affecting people at high risk and particularly at advanced age, cardiovascular and pulmonary disease. the risk of serious complications and the fatality rate due to covid-19 pandemic have proven particularly higher in older persons, putting a further strain in healthcare system as we dramatically observed.covid-19 is not exclusively gerophile (géro "old" and philia "love") as young people can be infected, even if older people experience more severe symptoms and mortality due to their greater frailty. 
Does starting school later improve health, learning success, and quality of life in adolescents? [SEP] later school start times are associated with a number of benefits for adolescents. the purpose of the current review is to summarize the literature regarding the effects of delaying school start times on adolescent psychological health. we identified eight observational studies that examined the relationship between schools' starting times and psychological outcomes. of these, three were longitudinal studies that reported measures of adolescent mental health improved following a start time delay. two cross-sectional studies showed that mental health scores were higher in schools with later compared to earlier start times. in the majority of studies reviewed, later school start times were associated with greater adolescent psychological health. there are a wide range of potential benefits, beyond mental health, that later high school start times offer. as a result of these changes, early middle school and high school start times curtail sleep, hamper a student's preparedness to learn, negatively impact physical and mental health, and impair driving safety. furthermore, a growing body of evidence shows that delaying school start times positively impacts student achievement, health, and safety. these results indicate that remote learning, or later school start times, may extend sleep and improve some subjective symptoms in adolescents. 
Does the F.X. Mayr cure have health benefits? Can it prevent diseases or treat them? [SEP] one candidate is fucoxanthin (fx), a carotenoid abundantly found in edible brown seaweed that has been associated with a number of valuable health-promoting benefits. despite no changes in visceral fat areas and resting energy expenditures after intervention, we observed a significant decline in hba1c levels in the 2 mg/d fx group compared with that in the 0 mg/d group (p < 0·05), which was correlated with an increase in serum fucoxanthinol (fx metabolite) levels. the author reviews demonstrated benefits in select diseases. fucoxanthin (fx) has preventive effect against muscle atrophy and myotube loss in vitro, but it has not yet been examined in vivo. the dex-induced decrease in tibialis anterior muscle mass was ameliorated by fx treatment. these results suggest that fx may be a beneficial material to prevent muscle atrophy in vivo, in addition to the effect of fat loss. altogether our results reveal that cr in form of f. x. mayr therapy is able to positively influence several cellular parameters and especially mitochondrial function. acupuncture does not directly eliminate pathogenic factors or pathological tissue; rather, acupuncture enhances the ability of the human body to self-medicate itself by activating complex regulatory systems and by maintaining physiological homeostasis to prevent or treat diseases. while the majority of studies report positive outcomes following pdl or fx co2 therapy, a number of studies have reported no benefit or worsening of the scar following treatment. overall, fx co2 therapy appears to be modestly more effective at reducing erythema, and improving scar texture and biomechanics. 
Does the consumption of soy foods or soy isoflavones affect the appearance of acne skin? [SEP] isoflavones in soy protein foods are thought to contribute to the cholesterol-lowering effect observed when these products are fed to humans. these results suggest that consumption of soy isoflavones alters regulatory behaviors (such as body weight and food and water intake) and skin temperature regulation that may help explain, in part, the beneficial effects of soy isoflavones on obesity and hot flashes in humans. soybeans and soy foods are an almost exclusive source of isoflavone intake. despite the interest in the role of soy in reducing breast cancer risk concerns have arisen that soy foods, because they contain isoflavones, may increase the likelihood of high-risk women developing breast cancer and worsen the prognosis of breast cancer patients. thirty articles were included for analysis of the potential impacts of soy food intake, isoflavone intake, and circulating isoflavone levels, on both primary and advanced pca. fermented soy food intake, total isoflavone intake, and circulating isoflavones were not associated with pca risk. neither soy food intake nor circulating isoflavones were associated with advanced pca risk, although very few studies currently exist to examine potential associations. for soy-containing foods there has been concern that the phytoestrogen content of soy, which is composed of several isoflavones, could be a separate health issue, due to the oestrogen-like activity of isoflavones. because of the theoretical nature of this model, and the controversy over the nature of whether some of the oestrogen-like effects of phytoestrogens are adverse, the biological effects of soy isoflavones and their potential for adverse effects in man, is also reviewed. we examined if soy isoflavone consumption is associated with age at pubarche (first onset of pubic hair) in a male population with a wide range of soy intake. 
Does extract from the Damiana plant (Turnera diffusa) help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] turnera diffusa willd, commonly known as damiana, is employed in traditional medicine as a stimulant, aphrodisiac, and diuretic. the study was aimed to investigate the anti-aromatse activity and the estrogenic activity of the constituents isolated from turnera diffusa. the extract of turnera diffusa and two isolated compounds pinocembrin and acacetin could significantly suppress aromatase activity. in folk medicine, turnera diffusa wild (turnera diffusa, turneraceae) is considered as an aphrodisiac, but its ability to restore copulation in sexually inhibited subjects has not been reported. to determine whether turnera diffusa recovers sexual behavior in sexually exhausted (sexh) male rats and to identify the main components in an aqueous extract. yohimbine and turnera diffusa (80 mg/kg) significantly increased the percentage of males achieving one ejaculatory series and resuming a second one. in addition, turnera diffusa significantly reduced the post-ejaculatory interval. the results support the use of turnera diffusa as an aphrodisiac in traditional medicine and suggest possible therapeutic properties of turnera diffusa on sexual dysfunction. the objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy of turnera diffusa willd (damiana) on counteracting fenitrothion (fnt) and/or potassium dichromate (crvi)-induced testicular toxicity and oxidative injury in rats. turnera diffusa (damiana) is a shrub that grows throughout mexico and is traditionally used for many illnesses including diabetes. 
Is the homeopathic remedy Neradin effective for erectile dysfunction? [SEP] homeopathic remedies modulate adaptive allostatic responses, with multiple dynamic short- and long-term effects. homeopathy is widely used, and many european physicians practice homeopathy in addition to conventional medicine. homeopathic treatment has been reported to be effective in these patients. such an effect is not in accordance with the general principles of homeopathy. to test this paradigm, we assessed the in vitro effects of homeopathic drugs on escherichia coli derived from patients with nlutd. homeopathy is a popular but implausible form of medicine. previous animal studies demonstrate that homeopathic medicines alter delta electroencephalographic (eeg) slow wave sleep. homeopathic remedies are advocated for the treatment of postoperative ileus, yet data from clinical trials are inconclusive. we therefore performed meta-analyses of existing clinical trials to determine whether homeopathic treatment has any greater effect than placebo administration on the restoration of intestinal peristalsis in patients after abdominal or gynecologic surgery. there is evidence that homeopathic treatment can reduce the duration of ileus after abdominal or gynecologic surgery. 
Does regular HPV testing in addition to the recommended Pap smear detect more precancerous lesions than just the Pap smear alone? [SEP] in most industrialized countries, screening programs for cervical cancer have shifted from cytology (pap smear or thinprep) alone on clinician-obtained samples to the addition of screening for human papillomavirus (hpv), its main causative agent. in addition, hpv testing of self-collected samples in combination with a follow-up pap smear in case of a positive result is more effective in detecting precancerous lesions than a pap smear alone. combining the hpv test with a repeat pap smear did not significantly improve the sensitivity of cytology for detecting high-grade cin. combinative surveillance of hr-hpv infection and pap smear is a useful tool to detect and monitor precancerous lesions in the screening program. when atypical glandular cells were noted on pap smears, the likelihood for histologic diagnosis of adenocarcinoma following pap smear was higher than that of high-risk hpv test results (18.8 and 1.53, respectively). pap smears were more useful than hpv tests in the diagnosis of hsil, scc, and glandular lesions. hpv dna test is currently more expensive than pap smear, it is suggested that we manage precancerous cervical lesions with this latter test. the present study was undertaken to assess precancerous and cancerous cervical lesion by cytology as well as hpv dna identification and their comparison with histopathology in via positive cases. offering self-sampling of vaginal fluid followed by a high-risk hpv test was considerably more effective for detection of histological cin2-3 lesions in comparison with offering pap-test in a midwife reception in women not regularly attending organised screening. the results of our study show that compared to the second pap smear, hpv testing with hc ii is a more sensitive method for detecting high-grade lesions. 
Can monk's pepper reduce PMS symptoms? PMS is the abbreviation for premenstrual syndrome. This refers to complaints that occur in the days before menstruation. [SEP] premenstrual syndrome (pms) is a group of psychological and physical symptoms which regularly occur during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and resolve by the end of menstruation. premenstrual syndrome (pms) is characterized by emotional, behavioral, and physical symptoms that occur during late luteal phase of menstrual cycle and are relieved after the onset of menstruation. premenstrual syndrome (pms) is a cluster of somatic, emotional and behavioural symptoms occurring in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. premenstrual syndrome (pms) is a psychological and somatic disorder of unknown aetiology. the severe and predominantly psychological form of pms is called 'premenstrual dysphoric disorder'. premenstrual tension syndrome (pms) is well known in its epidemiology, etiology, symptomatology and treatment. premenstrual syndrome (pms) is the title applied to a broad range of physical and psychological symptoms that occur cyclically, usually seven to 14 days prior to the onset of a woman's menstruation, and disappear during menstruation. premenstrual syndrome (pms) is a common disorder. this study was carried out to evaluate effects of ginger on severity of symptoms of pms. based on the results of this study, maybe ginger is effective in the reduction of severity of mood and physical and behavioral symptoms of pms and we suggest ginger as treatment for pms. 
Can olive leaf extract reduce high blood pressure? [SEP] extracts of olive leaf, green coffee bean and beetroot may deliver cardiovascular benefits. a specially prepared olive leaf extract (efla 943) has been tested for its blood pressure lowering activity in rats rendered hypertensive by daily oral doses of l-name (ng-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester, 50 mg/kg) for at least 4 weeks. a double-blind, randomized, parallel and active-controlled clinical study was conducted to evaluate the anti-hypertensive effect as well as the tolerability of olive leaf extract in comparison with captopril in patients with stage-1 hypertension. additionally, this study also investigated the hypolipidemic effects of olive leaf extract in such patients. in conclusion, olive (olea europaea) leaf extract, at the dosage regimen of 500 mg twice daily, was similarly effective in lowering systolic and diastolic blood pressures in subjects with stage-1 hypertension as captopril, given at its effective dose of 12.5-25 mg twice daily. olive leaf extract (ole), prepared from the fresh or dried leaves of olea europaea l., is generating interest as a cardiovascular and metabolic disease risk modifier. this study sought to investigate whether olive leaf extract can improve the insulin resistance and inflammation response in rats with type 2 diabetes induced by high-fat diet and streptozotocin. after administering olive leaf extract for 8 weeks (200 and 400 mg/kg body weight), rats given the higher dose showed significantly lower blood glucose, serum total cholesterol, and triglyceride levels compared with those of diabetic control rats (p < .05). olive leaf extract is associated with improved glucose homeostasis in humans. olive leaf extract may represent an effective adjunct therapy that normalizes glucose homeostasis in individuals with diabetes. 
Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] searches for all published controlled trials on the clinical effectiveness of green-lipped mussel, as a nutritional supplement with potential health benefits for arthritis, were carried out from four independent databases. reports of clinical studies, using freeze-dried mussel powder, show mixed outcome measures and are not conclusive, with only two of five randomized controlled trials attesting benefits for rheumatoid and osteoarthritis patients. there is little consistent and compelling evidence, to date, in the therapeutic use of freeze-dried green-lipped mussel powder products for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis treatment, particularly in comparison to other cheaper alternative nutriceutical supplements of proven efficacy. however, further investigations are necessary to determine whether green-lipped mussel supplements, such as seatone, are therapeutic options in the management of arthritis. the aim of this study was to primarily investigate the efficacy of a high-dose new zealand green-lipped mussel (glm) extract in patients diagnosed with oa of the knee and concurrently assess glm impact on gi function. green-lipped mussel significantly improved knee joint pain, stiffness and mobility. additional studies suggest that supplements and diet additives such as glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate, antioxidants, and green-lipped mussel may also have some benefit in managing osteoarthritis. recent clinical studies have posited that extracts from green-lipped mussels may lead to prebiotic activity in the intestinal microbiome that in turn has been reported to improve symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee. our study was designed to test the ability of the mussel extract to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis as both a supplement and an alternative to orthodox anti-inflammatory medication. in rats, extracts from indian celery seed and the nz green-lipped mussel are powerful nutraceuticals that (i) amplify the potency of salicylates and prednisone for treating pre-established chronic inflammation (arthritis, fibrosis) and (ii) reduce the steroid's gastrotoxic and lymphopenic side effects. 
Can probiotics lower blood sugar in type 2 diabetes? [SEP] in addition, consumption of probiotics may have beneficial effects on people with type 2 diabetes. research suggests that in-vivo modulation of the gut microbiome by specific probiotic microorganisms may improve insulin sensitivity and blood sugar management, preventing or delaying the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus. our results showed that probiotic administration reduced bacterial translocation and altered the gut microbiota in japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. according to the current results, the use of probiotic supplements (individually or in combination with cinnamon) leads to a reduction in blood glucose and an increase in antioxidant enzymes in people with type 2 diabetes. background: although many studies have shown that consumption of probiotics is relevant to diabetes, the effects of probiotics improves clinical outcomes in type 2 diabetes have yielded conflicting results. the aim of this meta-analysis was conducted to assess the effects of probiotics supplementation on glycemic, blood lipids, pressure and inflammatory control in type 2 diabetes.methods: pubmed, web of science, embase and the cochrane library databases were searched for relevant studies from february 2015 up to janurary 2020, with no language restrictions. probiotics have been reported to have a positive impact on the metabolic control of patients with type 2 diabetes. our data clearly suggest that probiotics could be a supplementary therapeutic approach in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients to improve dyslipidemia and to promote better metabolic control. according to our analysis, probiotic supplementation is beneficial in type 2 diabetes mellitus. it was found that probiotic treatment had no effect on blood glucose levels in healthy rats, but it reduced them (up to 2-fold; p < 0.01) in diabetic rats. 
Can the so-called Tupler technique help against rectus diastasis? [SEP] the goal of this study is to provide an updated review of the surgical techniques used for rectus diastasis repair and their comparative efficacy. surgical repair of rectus diastasis is safe and effective through both open and laparoscopic approaches. the causes, prevention, and treatment for this type of rectus diastasis are described. advancement of the recti muscles seems to be a reliable method for correcting recurrent rectus diastasis in patients with lateral insertion of the recti muscles. rectus diastasis is treated either conservatively with physiotherapy, or surgically, surgical treatment showing especially convincing results. the primary aim of this study was to describe surgical techniques used to correct abdominal rectus diastasis. studies were included if they described a surgical technique used to repair abdominal rectus diastasis, with or without concomitant ventral hernia. we identified many techniques for repair of abdominal rectus diastasis. in addition, articles about surgical technique comparing continuous and interrupted sutures, in both the anterior and posterior aponeurosis, to correct rectus diastasis are discussed. standard abdominoplasty rectus plication techniques may not suffice for severe cases of rectus diastasis. 
Can CBD (cannabidiol) help with migraines or other headaches? [SEP] this literature study demonstrates that medical cannabis use decreases migraine duration and frequency and headaches of unknown origin. patients suffering from migraines and related conditions may benefit from medical cannabis therapy due to its convenience and efficacy. cannabis use for migraine among headache patients was assessed via the id migraine™ questionnaire, a validated screen used to predict the probability of migraine. comprehensive literature reviews of historical perspectives and evidence supporting cannabis/cannabinoids in the treatment of pain, including migraine and headache, with associated neurobiological mechanisms of pain modulation have been well described. review the medical literature for the use of cannabis/cannabinoids in the treatment of migraine, headache, facial pain, and other chronic pain syndromes, and for supporting evidence of a potential role in combatting the opioid epidemic. there is accumulating evidence for various therapeutic benefits of cannabis/cannabinoids, especially in the treatment of pain, which may also apply to the treatment of migraine and headache. use of cannabis to alleviate headache and migraine is relatively common, yet research on its effectiveness remains sparse. we sought to determine whether inhalation of cannabis decreases headache and migraine ratings as well as whether gender, type of cannabis (concentrate vs flower), delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, cannabidiol, or dose contribute to changes in these ratings. there were significant reductions in headache and migraine ratings after cannabis use. perspective: inhaled cannabis reduces self-reported headache and migraine severity by approximately 50%. 
Can laser irradiation of blood by infusion needle (hemolaser treatment) relieve discomfort or help with diseases? [SEP] recently, it has been shown that laser stimulation improves tissue perfusion. thirty-three healthy non-smoking males were randomly assigned to a control group (n = 15) with no laser irradiation and to an intervention group (n = 18) for which laser needle irradiation was performed on the right forearm at acupuncture point pe6. it has been demonstrated that laser needle stimulation may improve peripheral microcirculation under standardized conditions, whereas tissue oxygenation remained unchanged. a point of this work is to estimate the impact of laser blood irradiation controlled intravenously at the level of an antibiotic. blood irradiation through low-level laser enhances the concentration of moxifloxacin in the serum whatsoever; was the rout of its performance, besides the irradiation help within quickened clearance of blood beginning the drug. the use of intravenous laser blood irradiation (ilbi) within the last 30 years has demonstrated high efficacy in the treatment of vascular, cardiac and other systemic diseases. laser energy at 630-640 nanometers is arguably the most effective for irradiation of blood and the vascular wall. it has recently been shown that nitrosyl complexes of hemoglobin (no-hb) are sensitive to low-level blue laser irradiation, suggesting that laser irradiation can facilitate the release of biologically active nitric oxide (no), which can affect tissue perfusion. the aim of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic value of blue laser irradiation for local tissue perfusion after surgical intervention. this fact suggest that laser irradiation acted to promote the healing of wound. 
In everyday life, when breathing with an FFP2 mask or ordinary mouth-nose protection, do you get as much oxygen as without a mask? [SEP] in all 20 surgeons wearing ffp2 covered by surgical masks, a reduction in arterial o2 saturation from around 97.5% before surgery to 94% after surgery was recorded with increase of heart rates. in conclusion, wearing an ffp2 covered by a surgical mask induces a reduction in circulating o2 concentrations without clinical relevance, while an increase of heart frequency and a sensation of shortness of breath, light-headedness/headaches were recorded. wearing a mask reduces particle penetration into the lungs, regardless of the fe of the mask. when oxygen supplementation is available, face mask ventilation is likely to be superior. we found that type ii medical face masks showed the lowest pressure drop (12.9±6.8 pa/cm2) and therefore additional breathing resistance, whereas respirators such as the kn95 (32.3±7.0 pa/cm2) and ffp2 (26.8±7.4 pa/cm2) showed the highest pressure drops among the tested masks. remarkably, certified type ii medical face masks showed similar (p>0.5) as-worn filtration results (47±20%) than kn95 masks (41±4%) and ffp2 masks (65±27%), despite having a lower pressure drop. all masks resulted in lower inhaled fraction compared to breathing without mask (p < 0.001 in all comparisons), ranging from 41.1% ± 0.3% obtained with a cotton mask at 40 cm distance with polypneic pattern to <1% for certified ffp3 and the combination of ffp2 + surgical mask at all distances and both breathing pattern conditions. while the use of all types of masks resulted relevantly less inhalation compared to distancing alone, only high-grade certified devices (ffp3 and the combination of ffp2 + surgical mask) ensured negligible inhaled fraction in all conditions. the efficiency of our o2 applicator was compared with a face mask in six healthy subjects and patients with copd. significant differences were found between the three situations in terms of self-perceived dyspnea ffp2/n95 > surgical mask > no mask. 
Can CBD help with period pain? [SEP] clinically, canine brief pain inventory and hudson activity scores showed a significant decrease in pain and increase in activity (p < 0.01) with cbd oil. veterinary assessment showed decreased pain during cbd treatment (p < 0.02). although not clearly understood in its mechanism of action, cbd contains potent anti-inflammatory, anti-hyperalgesia, and analgesic qualities now being further analyzed for its use in the treatment of a plethora of diseases. cannabidiol (cbd) is a cannabis derivative that has been popularized as a medicinal product with analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects. given the anecdotal observations that several patients have reported use of cbd for spine-related pain, this study was designed to characterize cbd consumption patterns and perceived effects in patients with spine-related complaints. cbd was initially used for potential relief of back pain (66.7%), neck pain (37.0%), leg pain (35.2%), and/or arm pain (9.3%). most users (63.0%) would recommend cbd to a friend for pain relief. cannabidiol (cbd) is widely advertised as helpful for chronic pain management but research is limited. using a cross-sectional, anonymous survey, we examined patterns of naturalistic cbd use among individuals with fibromyalgia (fm) and other chronic pain conditions. participants used cbd for numerous fm-related symptoms (most commonly pain), and generally reported slight to much improvement across symptom domains. 
Can a bioresonance device like "Bioscan" or "Vieva Vital Analyser" measure mineral and vitamin deficiencies or detect health problems? [SEP] vitamin d deficiency is a widespread medical condition that plays a major role in human bone health. evaluation included measurement of bone mineral density and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level. recent studies show that the vitamin d deficiency is associated with a mineral status of a patient. therefore, it is important to assess the mineral status of the patient to reveal the hidden mineral imbalance associated with vitamin d deficiency. on the other hand, a hair mineral analysis can be considered an accurate, excellent, highly informative tool to measure mineral imbalance associated with vitamin d deficiency. in this study, 118 apparently healthy kuwaiti women were assessed for their mineral levels and vitamin d status by a hair mineral analysis (hma). vitamin d deficiency causes problems in mineral metabolism but also overall health. in recent years, vitamin d deficiency is recognised as a worldwide health problem, which results in disturbances in mineral metabolism and skeletal problems. this study aimed to determine serum vitamin d and other indicators of bone mineral health of delivering mothers and their offspring. this brief review aims to identify the micronutrients (vitamins and minerals) likely to be deficient in women of reproductive age in low- and middle-income countries (lmic), especially during pregnancy, and the impact of such deficiencies. 
Does arthroscopy (joint endoscopy) help with osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] while initial uncontrolled case series suggested that arthroscopy alleviated pain in patients with osteoarthritis, large randomised trials have suggested that arthroscopy has a limited role as a treatment of osteoarthritis. despite the lack of consensus guidelines and randomized control trials, the use of arthroscopy for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee has increased over the last decade. we performed a retrospective, evidence-based review of the current literature on the arthroscopic treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee and provide insight into the study design flaws and difficulties associated with the current research on this controversial topic. we found limited evidence-based research to support the use of arthroscopy as a treatment method for osteoarthritis of the knee. arthroscopic débridement of meniscus tears and knees with low-grade osteoarthritis may have some utility, but it should not be used as a routine treatment for all patients with knee osteoarthritis. arthroscopy of the osteoarthritic knee is a common and costly practice with limited and specific indications. the american academy of orthopedic surgeons guideline on the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee (2008) recommended against performing arthroscopy with a primary diagnosis of oa of the knee, with the caveat that partial meniscectomy or loose body removal is an option in patients with oa that have primary mechanical signs and symptoms of a torn meniscus and/or loose body. consider the complications and consequences when recommending arthroscopy to treat the painful osteoarthritic knee without mechanical symptoms, as there is no proven clinical benefit. arthroscopy continues to be widely used in the management of knee osteoarthritis despite concerns regarding its effectiveness. in light of such variations in national clinical practice this review identifies the evidence based factors which permit identification of patients who will obtain sustained benefit from arthroscopic treatment of knee osteoarthritis. 
Do dietary supplements containing silicon (e.g. as "organic silicon" or silica) have health benefits? [SEP] silicon improves bone matrix quality and facilitates bone mineralization. increased intake of bioavailable silicon has been associated with increased bone mineral density. silicon supplementation in animals and humans has been shown to increase bone mineral density and improve bone strength. for example, silicon has been suggested to exhibit roles in the structural integrity of nails, hair, and skin, overall collagen synthesis, bone mineralization, and bone health and reduced metal accumulation in alzheimer's disease, immune system health, and reduction of the risk for atherosclerosis. it has been proposed that relatively insoluble forms of silica can also release small but meaningful quantities of silicon into biological compartments. collectively, the food supply contributes enough silicon in the forms aforementioned that could be absorbed and significantly improve overall human health despite the negative perception of silica as a health hazard. this review discusses the possible biological potential of the metalloid silicon as bioavailable orthosilicic acid and the potential beneficial effects on human health. sporadic reports have appeared that suggest silicon plays a functional role in immune function by affecting lymphocyte proliferation. dietary silicon supplementation thus appeared to be protective against aluminum accumulation in aging brain. for these beneficial effects, there is growing interest in scientific studies evaluating the efficacy and safety of using dietary supplements containing silicon. 
Can regular intake of cranberry juice or cranberry extract prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] the efficacy of cranberry juice and extracts as a prophylactic agent against recurrent urinary infections is well documented in women. food supplements based on cranberries are said to prevent recurrent urinary tract infections. (2) two randomised controlled trials involving a total of about 300 young women showed that daily use of cranberry juice or tablets reduced the relapse rate for acute cystitis: on average, treating 100 women for one year prevented at least 1 urinary tract infection in 15 to 33 women. cranberry products were more effective reducing the incidence of utis in women with recurrent utis, than elderly men and women or people requiring catheterisation. there is some evidence that cranberry juice may decrease the number of symptomatic utis over a 12 month period, particularly for women with recurrent utis. drinking of cranberry fruit juice and application of commercial preparations containing the cranberry extracts are recommended in the prevention and treatment of urinary tract infections (utis), especially in women with recurrent utis. regular drinking of cranberry juice but not lactobacillus seems to reduce the recurrence of urinary tract infection. the findings of the cochrane collaboration support the potential use of cranberry products in the prophylaxis of recurrent utis in young and middle-aged women. in two good quality rcts, cranberry products significantly reduced the incidence of utis at twelve months (rr 0.61 95% ci:0.40 to 0.91) compared with placebo/control in women. there is some evidence from two good quality rcts that cranberry juice may decrease the number of symptomatic utis over a 12 month period in women. 
Will women who have recurrent bladder infections get rid of them faster if they take cranberry products only after the disease is already there??? [SEP] cranberry has been effective in vitro and in vivo in animals for the prevention of uti. the findings of the cochrane collaboration support the potential use of cranberry products in the prophylaxis of recurrent utis in young and middle-aged women. to review the scientific publications concerning the clinical use and mechanism of action of the north american cranberry (vaccinium macrocarpon) for women with recurrent urinary tract infections (uti) and other health conditions. the use of cranberry products to prevent utis has recently become popular and more clinical studies are needed to explore this use. this open label pilot study examined the ability of a concentrated cranberry preparation to prevent utis in women with a history of recurrent infections. a cranberry preparation with a high phenolic content may completely prevent utis in women who are subject to recurrent infections. although antibiotics are the treatment of choice for uti, cranberry derived products have been used for many years to prevent utis, with limited evidence as to their efficacy. to compare the effectiveness of cranberry extract with low-dose trimethoprim in the prevention of recurrent urinary tract infections (utis) in older women. our findings will allow older women with recurrent utis to weigh up with their clinicians the inherent attractions of a cheap, natural product like cranberry extract whose use does not carry the risk of antimicrobial resistance or super-infection with clostridium difficile or fungi. cranberry juice and related products have been used for the prevention of utis with varying degrees of success. 
Can extract from St. John's wort relieve the symptoms of depression? Is it similarly effective as drugs against depression (antidepressants)? [SEP] st. john's wort extract is a clinically effective equivalent to fluoxetine regarding overall depressive symptoms and main symptoms of depressive episodes. the herbal antidepressant st john's wort offers promising results in the treatment of patients with mild and moderate depression (response rate of 60-70% estimated by analysis of pooled data). preparations from st. john's wort extracts are used in the treatment of depression in many countries and represent an accepted alternative to synthetic antidepressants or behavioural therapy. in summary, pharmacological activity and therapeutic efficacy of st. john's wort extract as an antidepressant are supported by a large number of scientific publications. extracts of st. john's wort have been widely used in the treatment of depression. st john's wort has been shown to alleviate symptoms of mild to moderate depression, and seems to offer significant advantages over conventional antidepressants because it is associated with fewer adverse reactions. some researchers believe that specific chemical constituents of st john's wort produce change in depression in a way similar to that of antidepressant medications, yet this hypothesis is problematic. because st john's wort is considered by some to be an alternative to conventional therapies, clinicians need to know whether it is an effective and safe treatment for different levels of severity of depression. evidence from randomised controlled trials has confirmed the efficacy of st john's wort extracts over placebo in the treatment of mild-to-moderately severe depression. other randomised controlled studies have provided some evidence that st john's wort extracts are as effective as some standard antidepressants in mild-to-moderate depression. 
Does the Zisano bracelet strengthen the immune system, increase endurance and performance or reduce fatigue? [SEP] in this study, we try to establish a new method to assess cancer-related fatigue objectively and accurately by using smart bracelet. all patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer wore smart bracelet for recording the physical activity including step count and sleep time before and after chemotherapy. step count record by smart bracelet reflecting the physical performance dramatically decreased in the initial days of chemotherapy and recovered in the next few days. measuring activity using smart bracelets may be an appropriate method for quantitative and objective measurement of cancer-related fatigue by using smart bracelet devices. the negative effect of mental fatigue on endurance performance seems to be mediated by the higher perception of effort rather than impaired neuromuscular function. treadmill running was used to induce endurance fatigue. shi-quan-da-bu-tang is a traditional chinese herbal medicine formula used to increase vital energy, and strengthen health and immunity. whilst the link between acute responses of training and subsequent training adaptation has not been fully established, there is some evidence suggesting that cumulative effects of fatigue may contribute to limiting optimal endurance development. to limit the carry-over effects of fatigue from resistance to endurance training sessions. sleep deprivation per se does not seem to play a significant role in central fatigue although it still affects performance by elevating ratings of perceived exertion. 
Does microimmunotherapy improve symptoms of allergies, cancer, joint inflammation, autoimmune diseases, dementia or various viral infections? [SEP] in addition to their antiinflammatory effects, many of these drugs influence an otherwise impaired immune system, which may result clinically in decreased resistance to infection and/or increased incidence of malignancies, in stimulation of the immune response and autoimmune diseases, or in allergy or hypersensitivity. recently, it was reported that the application of phytochemicals into patients with inflammatory diseases improves their symptoms. toll-like receptor agonists are being developed for the treatment of cancer, allergies and viral infections, and as adjuvants for potent new vaccines to prevent or treat cancer and infectious diseases. viral infection can affect the immune system and allergy as both 'enhancing effect' and 'protective effect'. the immune-mediated disorders can be linked to intestinal dysbiosis, consequently leading to immune dysfunctions and a cluster of conditions such as asthma, autoimmune diseases, eczema, and various allergies. probiotic bacteria such as lactobacillus and bifidobacterium species are considered probiotic species that have a great immunomodulatory and anti-allergic effect. moreover, recent scientific and clinical data illustrate that probiotics can regulate the immune system, exert anti-viral and anti-tumoral activity, and shields the host against oxidative stress. additionally, microbiota programming by probiotic bacteria can reduce and prevent the symptoms of respiratory infections and ameliorate the neurological status in humans. this review describes the most recent clinical findings, including safe probiotic therapies aiming to medicate respiratory infections, allergies, cancer, and neurological disorders due to their physiological interconnection. control of allergy, eczema, otitis, sinusitis, and viral symptoms result in improved outcomes for asthma patients. 
Can ginkgo extract improve mental performance in dementia patients? [SEP] we have previously found that 1 week of treatment with ginkgo improved attention, memory and mental flexibility in post-menopausal women, but the evidence for any beneficial effects of longer treatment is less well-established. to assess the efficacy of the ginkgo biloba in patients with dementia of the alzheimer type in slowing down the disease's degenerative progression and the patients' cognitive impairment compared with rivastigmine. various preclinical and clinical studies have shown a positive effect of ginkgo biloba to improve cognitive abilities in impaired individuals and reducing anxiety under pathological conditions. ginkgo biloba is a plant extract used to alleviate symptoms associated with cognitive deficits, e.g., decreased memory performance, lack of concentration, decreased alertness, tinnitus, and dizziness. the use of ginkgo extract in either dementias of the alzheimer or multi-infarct type or in the case of cerebral insufficiency, a symptom complex related to age-dependent impairment of cerebral circulation, is based mainly on positive results from good-quality placebo-controlled studies that enrolled approximately 1,200 patients with criteria established by international classification of diseases (9th and 10th revisions, icd-9 and icd-10) or the 3rd revision of the diagnostic and statistical manual (dsm-iii-r) (uncomplicated dementia). to assess the effects of treatment for memory impairment and the ginkgo biloba extract (egb 761) on dementia, mortality, and survival without dementia. to assess the efficacy and safety of ginkgo biloba for dementia or cognitive decline. randomized, double-blind studies, in which extracts of ginkgo biloba at any strength and over any period were compared with placebo for their effects on people with acquired cognitive impairment, including dementia, of any degree of severity. the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ginkgo biloba in patients with dementia in whom administration effects were reported using meta-analysis. taking a 240-mg daily dose of ginkgo biloba extract is effective and safe in the treatment of dementia. 
Does pine wood improve sleep? [SEP] these interactions can be used as a powerful tool to characterize the self-organizational and recreational quality of sleep. in this randomized, blinded and cross-over design study, we investigated cris in 15 subjects over a total of 253 nights who slept in beds made from different materials. we observed a significant increase of vagal activity (measured by respiratory sinus arrhythmia), a decrease in the heart rate (as an indicator of energy consumption during sleep) and an improvement in cris, especially during the first hours of sleep in the stone pine beds as compared to the chipboard beds. subjective assessments of study participants' well-being in the morning and sub-scalar assessments of their intrapsychic stability were significantly better after they slept in the stone pine bed than after they slept in the chipboard bed. our results are in agreement with those of other studies that have reported that exposure to volatile phytochemical ingredients of stone pine (α-pinene, limonene, bornyl acetate) lead to an improvement in vagal activity and studies that show a reduction in stress parameters upon contact with solid wood surfaces. in this study two industrially important turkish wood species, pine (pinus nigraarnold.) in addition, the changes in the mechanical and physical properties studied in pine were larger than that of fir. we conclude that at the studied timescale high stumps of scots pine are not particularly valuable for epixylic lichens and provide a poor substitute for naturally occurring dead wood in mature forests, although their value may increase with age. the high resin content in the pine wood reduce termite palatability. the results showed that the 3 treatments could increase the palatability of subterranean termites c. curvignathus on pine wood. 
Do spermidine supplements or a spermidine-rich diet reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia? Do they help with existing dementia? [SEP] on the basis of the dependence demonstrated it can be concluded that spermidine might be suitable as a biomarker for the diagnosis of neurocognitive changes (senile dementia or alzheimer's disease). they also confirmed that nutritional intervention with the natural polyamine spermidine can prevent memory loss in aging model organisms. this multicentric double-blind preliminary study focused on the effect of oral spermidine supplementation on older adults' cognitive performance. the results demonstrated a clear correlation between the intake of spermidine and the improvement in cognitive performance in subjects with mild and moderate dementia in the group treated with the higher spermidine dosage. therefore, it is our primary goal to determine whether spermidine supplementation has a positive impact on memory performance in this at-risk group, as compared with placebo. this is the first human study to evaluate the impact of spermidine supplementation on memory performance in older adults at risk for the development of alzheimer's disease. cognitively intact participants with subjective cognitive decline (n = 30, 60-80 years of age) were included in this three-months, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind phase iia pilot trial with a spermidine-rich plant extract supplement. in this pilot trial, nutritional spermidine was associated with a positive impact on memory performance in older adults with subject cognitive decline. in addition, spermidine supplementation has been shown to protect against diet-induced obesity in animal models. here, we discuss nutritional and other possible routes to counteract the age-mediated decline of spermidine levels. 
Do green-lipped mussel preparations improve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] freeze-dried extracts of the new zealand green lipped mussel, perna canaliculus, have been promoted extensively as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis for some years though there have been few published trials of its effectiveness. our study was designed to test the ability of the mussel extract to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis as both a supplement and an alternative to orthodox anti-inflammatory medication. searches for all published controlled trials on the clinical effectiveness of green-lipped mussel, as a nutritional supplement with potential health benefits for arthritis, were carried out from four independent databases. reports of clinical studies, using freeze-dried mussel powder, show mixed outcome measures and are not conclusive, with only two of five randomized controlled trials attesting benefits for rheumatoid and osteoarthritis patients. there is little consistent and compelling evidence, to date, in the therapeutic use of freeze-dried green-lipped mussel powder products for rheumatoid or osteoarthritis treatment, particularly in comparison to other cheaper alternative nutriceutical supplements of proven efficacy. however, further investigations are necessary to determine whether green-lipped mussel supplements, such as seatone, are therapeutic options in the management of arthritis. thirty-five patients with rheumatoid arthritis were randomly allocated to either seatone (green-lipped mussel extract) or placebo in order to assess the former's claimed effectiveness in rheumatoid disease. a lipid-rich extract, prepared by supercritical fluid (co2) extraction of freeze-dried stabilized nz green-lipped mussel powder (lyprinol) has shown significant anti-inflammatory (ai) activity when given to animals and humans. this study evaluated the efficacy of green lipped mussel (glm), added to a complete dry diet, for alleviating clinical signs of arthritis in dogs. this study evaluated the efficacy of green lipped mussel (glm), added to a complete dry diet, for alleviating clinical signs of arthritis in dogs. 
Does covid vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting long-lasting symptoms (long covid) in case of corona infection? [SEP] the outbreak of corona virus in late december 2019 (also known as covid-19) raised major concerns when the outbreak started getting tremendous. more than one year since its emergence, corona virus disease 2019 (covid-19) is still looming large with a paucity of treatment options. as opposed to the direct effects of the virus itself, the immune response to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) is believed to be largely responsible for the appearance of these lasting symptoms, possibly through facilitating an ongoing inflammatory process. sars-cov-2-infected patients can experience long-lasting symptoms even after the resolution of the acute infection. we here evaluated the frequency of long covid in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (ibd). vaccines are available to prevent corona virus contagious infection or to reduce the viral load in body but virus is continuously mutating itself to infect people at severity. to investigate the safety of bcg vaccination, we retrospectively assessed coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) and related symptoms in three cohorts of healthy volunteers who either received bcg in the last 5 years or did not. our data suggest that bcg vaccination might be associated with a decrease in the incidence of sickness during the covid-19 pandemic (adjusted odds ratio [aor] 0.58, p < 0.05), and lower incidence of extreme fatigue. corona virus disease 2019 (covid-19) is triggered by the severe acute respiratory syndrome corona virus 2 (sars-cov2) and has rapidly developed into a worldwide pandemic. recent reports of patients who were infected with sars-cov2 suggest persistent health problems even months after the initial infection. 
Can the preventive intake of lysine prevent cold sores (lip herpes) and genital herpes? Can lysine help when the blisters are already there? [SEP] to test the effect of lysine supplementation on herpes infection, 1543 subjects were surveyed by questionnaire after a six-month trial period. eighty-four per cent of those surveyed said that lysine supplementation prevented recurrence or decreased the frequency of herpes infection. overall, 88% considered supplemental lysine an effective form of treatment for herpes infection. to summarize the research evidence for use of l-lysine to prevent hsv disease recurrence, a use not widely recognized by doctors. l-lysine supplementation appears to be ineffective for prophylaxis or treatment of herpes simplex lesions with doses of less than 1 g/d without low-arginine diets. longer duration controlled studies of daily lysine doses exceeding 1.2 g/d are required to definitively test its role in herpes simplex prophylaxis. l-lysine, an essential amino acid, inhibits normal replication of herpes simplex virus (hsv), shortening the normal course and duration of the disease. this study was conducted to determine the effectiveness of a combination of l-lysine with botanicals and other nutrients in relieving the symptoms of facial and circumoral herpes. this study tested the effect of gene-eden-vir/novirin in oral herpes (also called cold sores and fever blisters). we review studies evaluating the efficacy of single-day doses of famciclovir for the treatment of recurrent herpes labialis (cold sores) and genital herpes. 
Do hormonal contraceptives to swallow (the "pill") affect endurance performance in women? [SEP] hormonal contraception is known to cause subtle but widespread behavioral changes. here, we investigated whether changes in cosmetic habits are associated with use of the hormonal contraceptive pill. we found that women not using the contraceptive pill (i.e., naturally cycling women) reported spending more time applying cosmetics for an outing than did women who use the contraceptive pill. because oral contraceptive pills dramatically lower circulating sex hormone levels with potent analogs of those hormones, we performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment to measure amygdala reactivity in response to emotional stimuli in women using oral contraceptives, and compared their amygdala reactivity with that of naturally cycling women. here, we show that women who use oral contraceptive pills have significantly decreased bilateral amygdala reactivity in response to negatively valenced, emotionally arousing stimuli compared with naturally cycling women. we suggest that by modulating amygdala reactivity, oral contraceptive pills may influence behaviors that have previously been shown to be amygdala dependent-in particular, emotional memory. raas triple-a analysis was carried out with lc-ms/ms quantification, and blood pressure measurements (abpm) taken over 24 h. we found that serum aldosterone was higher (475.7 vs. 249.2 pmol/l; p < 0.001) in the combination pill group than in the no contraception group of white women. the purpose of this case-control study was to compare metformin action on lactoctrope function between women receiving oral contraceptive pills and women not using hormonal contraception. combined hormonal contraceptives, despite their high efficacy, are associated with an increased relative risk of cardiovascular events. this observational study was performed to investigate whether hormonal contraception influenced erythrocyte deformability in women with sca. 
Does the pill affect the muscle strength of women?? [SEP] to examine the effects of oral contraceptive use on maximum force production in young women. maximum dynamic and isometric leg strength, maximum isometric strength of the first dorsal interosseus (fdi) muscle, and plasma concentrations of oestradiol and progesterone were measured on days 7 and 14 of pill consumption and day 5 of pill withdrawal. there were no significant changes in the concentration of endogenous oestradiol or progesterone or any measure of muscle strength between pill phases (p<0.05). these data suggest that oral contraceptive use does not significantly affect muscle strength. an accelerated loss of muscle strength and power has been observed in women around the time of the menopause. the aim of the present study was to examine the effects of tibolone, a synthetic steroid with oestrogenic, progestogenic and androgenic activities, on muscle power, endurance and functional ability. the effect of the oral contraceptive cycle phase on exercise-induced muscle damage after eccentric exercise in resistance-trained women. j strength cond res 35(2): 353-359, 2021-to evaluate the influence of the active pill phase versus withdrawal phase of a monophasic oral contraceptive (oc) cycle on exercise-induced muscle damage and inflammation after eccentric resistance exercise. lifestyle is expected to influence muscle strength. the effect of the different phases of the menstrual cycle on skeletal muscle strength, contractile properties and fatiguability was investigated in ten young, healthy females. 
Does whole-body cryotherapy in the cold chamber improve health? [SEP] this review focuses primarily on two methods of cold therapy that have received recent attention: whole-body cryotherapy and partial-body cryotherapy. in whole body cryotherapy the whole human body is exposed to low temperature below -100 degrees c in a special room called cryogenic chamber for a very short period of time (2-3 minutes). based on recent findings, it can be expected that whole body cryotherapy can improve health-reported quality of life by alleviating the symptoms of musculoskeletal pain and fatigue. our aim was to determine whether whole body cryotherapy only can result in improved perceived health and quality of life in fibromyalgia patients. compared with the control group, patients in the whole body cryotherapy group reported significantly improved for health-reported quality of life. based on these findings, whole body cryotherapy can be recommended as an effective clinically adjuvant approach in the improvement of health-related quality of life in fibromyalgia patients. whole-body cryotherapy refers to brief exposure to very cold air for treating symptoms of various illnesses. in sports medicine, whole-body cryotherapy is administered to improve recovery from muscular trauma. based on our results, whole-body cryotherapy at -110 degrees c is not superior to local cryotherapy commonly used in ra patients for pain relief and as an adjunct to physiotherapy. whole-body cryotherapy is a treatment method applied in treatment of motor organ issues, nervous system diseases, psychiatry, dermatology and laryngology. 
Does transcranial pulse stimulation (TPS) improve mental performance in people with Alzheimer's dementia? Can the treatment improve the quality of life of those affected? [SEP] group cognitive stimulation therapy programmes can benefit cognition and quality of life for people with dementia. to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of carer-delivered individual cognitive stimulation therapy (icst) for people with dementia and their family carers, compared with treatment as usual (tau). further research is needed to ascertain the clinical effectiveness of carer-led cognitive stimulation interventions for people with dementia. to test the hypothesis that cognitive stimulation therapy (cst) for older people with dementia would benefit cognition and quality of life. cognitive stimulation therapy (cst) has been shown to have significant benefits in enhancing cognitive functioning and improving the quality of life of people with mild to moderate dementia. the first clinical data indicate that 2-4 weeks of therapy with transcranial pulse stimulation (tps) improve functional networks and cognitive performance of alzheimer's disease (ad) patients for up to 3 months. there is good evidence for the benefits of short-term cognitive stimulation therapy for dementia but little is known about possible long-term effects. to evaluate the effectiveness of maintenance cognitive stimulation therapy (cst) for people with dementia in a single-blind, pragmatic randomised controlled trial including a substudy with participants taking acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (acheis). although cognitive stimulation (cs) is one of the most popular non-pharmacological interventions for people with dementia, its efficacy is still debatable. cs also improved quality of life in people with dementia [95% ci (0.72, 3.38), z=3.02, p=0.003]. 
Can low-level laser therapy reduce pain from knee or hip osteoarthritis? [SEP] single, well-designed studies suggest that topically applied capsaicin and laser treatment reduce pain associated with knee osteoarthritis. low reactive level laser therapy may provide short-term relief of chronic neck and low back pain, and ultrasound may provide short-term pain relief for knee osteoarthritis. there is moderate-quality evidence that acupuncture, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, and low-level laser therapy reduce pain and that psychoeducational interventions improve psychological outcomes. to estimate the effects of low level laser therapy in combination with a programme of exercises on pain, functionality, range of motion, muscular strength and quality of life in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. our findings suggest that low level laser therapy when associated with exercises is effective in yielding pain relief, function and activity on patients with osteoarthritis of the knees. the aim of this study was to investigate the analgesic efficacy of low power laser therapy in patients with knee osteoarthritis (oa). sixty patients with knee oa according to the american college of rheumatology criteria were included and randomly assigned to three treatment groups: active laser with dosage of 3 j/per painful point, active laser with a dosage of 1.5/j per painful point and placebo laser treatment groups. with the chosen laser type and dose regimen the results that we obtained in this study, suggest that low-level laser therapy has no effect on pain in patients with knee oa. in previous studies we have reported the benefits of low level laser therapy (lllt) for chronic pain in the shoulder joints, elbow, hand, finger and the lower back. they received low level laser therapy. 
Can low-level laser therapy reduce wrist osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] there is moderate-quality evidence that acupuncture, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, and low-level laser therapy reduce pain and that psychoeducational interventions improve psychological outcomes. this study investigated the efficacy of low-level laser therapy (lllt) for the management of temporomandibular joint (tmj) osteoarthritis. to estimate the effects of low level laser therapy in combination with a programme of exercises on pain, functionality, range of motion, muscular strength and quality of life in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. in intragroup analysis, participants in the laser group had significant improvement, relative to baseline, on pain (p = 0.001), range of motion (p = 0.01), functionality (p = 0.001) and activity (p < 0.001). our findings suggest that low level laser therapy when associated with exercises is effective in yielding pain relief, function and activity on patients with osteoarthritis of the knees. single, well-designed studies suggest that topically applied capsaicin and laser treatment reduce pain associated with knee osteoarthritis. concluded that the low-level laser therapy (lllt) did not reduce knee osteoarthritis pain when applied as an adjunct to exercise therapy. the aim of this study was to investigate the analgesic efficacy of low power laser therapy in patients with knee osteoarthritis (oa). sixty patients with knee oa according to the american college of rheumatology criteria were included and randomly assigned to three treatment groups: active laser with dosage of 3 j/per painful point, active laser with a dosage of 1.5/j per painful point and placebo laser treatment groups. with the chosen laser type and dose regimen the results that we obtained in this study, suggest that low-level laser therapy has no effect on pain in patients with knee oa. 
Does blood type affect the likelihood that Covid 19 disease will take a severe course or lead to death? [SEP] we focused mainly on the effect of polymorphic variants of the host proteins that have been shown to take part in and/or affect the pathogenesis of covid-19. patients with essential arterial hypertension and renal complications are at particular risk of the fatal course of this infection. it is believed that covid-19, in those with underlying health conditions or comorbidities, has an increasingly rapid and severe progression, often leading to death. this paper examined the comorbid conditions, the progression of the disease, and mortality rates in patients of all ages, infected with the ongoing covid-19 disease. from what is known at the moment, patients with covid-19 disease who have comorbidities, such as hypertension or diabetes mellitus, are more likely to develop a more severe course and progression of the disease. microthrombosis is a prominent clinical feature of covid-19, and 91.3% of dead patients had microthrombosis.endothelial damage caused by sars-cov-2 cell invasion and subsequent host response disorders involving inflammation and coagulation pathways play a key role in the progression of severe covid-19. it can lead to the disease covid-19, which has caused more than 1 million deaths already. most patients with covid-19 have a mild disease course and remain as asymptomatic carrier; however, few patients of older age and with co-morbidites develop severe disease leading on to fatality. as of june 2021, coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) exceeded 180 million reported cases and was responsible for almost 4 million deaths globally. presently, it appears asthma is neither associated with an increased risk of contracting covid-19 nor with a risk of severe covid-19 or covid-19 related death. 
Do mouth rinses with hydroxyapatite, for example the products "Linola sept mouth rinse" and "Karex Abwehr", protect against SARS-CoV-2 infection? [SEP] published studies on the reduction of sars-cov-2-induced cytotoxic effects by mouth rinses do not exclude antiseptic mouth rinse-associated cytotoxicity. the new infectivity assay, with limited impacts of mouth rinse-associated cytotoxicity, showed the differential effects of mouth rinses on sars-cov-2 infection. our results indicate that mouth rinses can significantly reduce virus infectivity, suggesting a potential benefit for reducing sars-cov-2 spread. here, we determined the effect of commercially available mouth rinses and antiseptic povidone-iodine on the infectivity of sars-cov-2 virus and of a non-pathogenic, recombinant, sars-cov-2 infection vector (pseudotyped sars-cov-2 virus). our results indicate that mouth rinses can significantly reduce virus infectivity, suggesting a potential benefit for reducing sars-cov-2 spread. the mouth rinsing solutions successfully inactivated infectious sars-cov-2 particles, the causative agent of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), within 30 s. to determine the effective components, chx, cpc, h2o2, and a combination of chx and cpc, were tested against sars-cov-2 in addition. some new generations of mouth rinses currently on the market have ingredients that could contribute to lower the sars-cov-2 viral load, and thus facilitate the fight against oral transmission. oral mouthwashes decrease the infectivity of several respiratory viruses including sars-cov-2. we also found that cpc-containing mouth rinses decreased more than a thousand times the infectivity of sars-cov-2 in vitro, while the corresponding vehicles had no effect. we conclude that the mouth and nasal rinse with agnps helps in the prevention of sars-cov-2 infection in health personnel who are exposed to patients diagnosed with covid-19. 
Does CBD (cannabidiol) relieve symptoms of mild to moderate covid-19 disease? [SEP] importance: owing to its anti-inflammatory properties and antiviral "in vitro" effect against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2), cannabidiol (cbd) has been proposed as a potential treatment for coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). objective: to investigate the safety and efficacy of cbd for treating patients with mild to moderate covid-19. conclusions and relevance: daily administration of 300 mg cbd for 14 days failed to alter the clinical evolution of covid-19. in this review, we present advantages and disadvantages of cannabidiol (cbd), a non-intoxicating phytocannabinoid from the cannabis plant, as a potential agent for the treatment of covid-19. cannabis and/or its product-cannabidiol (cbd) are being advertised for the treatment of covid-19 associated mental/neurological complications and substance use disorders. research shows that currently there is no clinical evidence to support the use of cannabis or any of its compounds including cbd for treating any of the neuropsychiatric complications of covid-19. among all cannabinoids, cannabidiol (cbd) has demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory effects in a variety of pathological conditions. conclusion: our results suggest a potential protective role for cbd during ards that may extend cbd as part of the treatment of covid-19 by reducing the cytokine storm, protecting pulmonary tissues, and re-establishing inflammatory homeostasis. we suggest the hypothesis that cannabidiol (cbd), a non-psychotropic phytocannabinoid, has the potential to limit the severity and progression of the disease for several reasons:- (a) high-cannabidiol cannabis sativa extracts are able to down-regulate the expression of the two key receptors for sars-cov2 in several models of human epithelia, (b) cannabidiol exerts a wide range of immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory effects and it can mitigate the uncontrolled cytokine production responsible for acute lung injury, (c) being a pparγ agonist, it can display a direct antiviral activity and (d) pparγ agonists are regulators of fibroblast/myofibroblast activation and can inhibit the development of pulmonary fibrosis, thus ameliorating lung function in recovered patients. we hypothesize that cannabidiol (cbd), a chemical isolated from cannabis sativa with reported anxiolytic properties, could be a therapeutic option for the treatment of covid-19-related anxiety disorders. 
Does CBD or cannabis use protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] cannabis and/or its product-cannabidiol (cbd) are being advertised for the treatment of covid-19 associated mental/neurological complications and substance use disorders. research shows that currently there is no clinical evidence to support the use of cannabis or any of its compounds including cbd for treating any of the neuropsychiatric complications of covid-19. in this review, we present advantages and disadvantages of cannabidiol (cbd), a non-intoxicating phytocannabinoid from the cannabis plant, as a potential agent for the treatment of covid-19. cbd has been shown to downregulate proteins responsible for viral entry and to inhibit sars-cov-2 replication. clearly, further clinical studies are necessary to prove the suitability of cbd for the treatment of covid-19. the extracts of our most successful novel high-cbd c. sativa lines, pending further investigation, may become a useful and safe addition to the prevention/treatment of covid-19 as an adjunct therapy. cannabis products such as cannabidiol (cbd) are being advertised for the treatment of covid-19 associated mental health problems and substance use disorders. this commentary will briefly clear the myth that cbd can ameliorate a wide range of covid-19 associated health effects including anxiety, depression, or any substance use disorder, and show that there is a clear lack of sufficient unbiased clinical evidence from well-designed double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials to prove the antianxiety or antidepression therapeutic properties of cbd and support its wide use as medicine to treat covid-19- associated mental health conditions or substance use disorders. there is some scientific evidence that vaping cannabidiol (cbd), an active ingredient in cannabis that is obtained from the hemp plant, or other substances is associated with more severe manifestations of covid-19. however, there is also inaccurate information that vaping can aid covid-19 treatment, as well as expert opinion that cbd, possibly administered through vaping, can mitigate covid-19 symptoms. 
Do sedatives and sleeping pills such as benzodiazepines and related substances increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia? [SEP] falls at somatic wards were associated with the use of sleeping pills with benzodiazepines. fractures were associated with the use of neuroleptics, sleeping pills and sleeping pills with benzodiazepines. reduced sleep was associated with a 75% increased all-cause dementia risk (hazard ratio: 1.75; 95% confidence interval: 1.04-2.93; wald = 4.55, df = 1, p = 0.035) and double the risk of ad (hazard ratio: 2.01; 95% confidence interval: 1.12-3.61; wald = 5.47, df = 1, p = 0.019) after adjusting for age, gender, and education. no evidence supported a moderating effect of the use of sleeping pills, and the sleep-dementia relationship remained after controlling for the presence of the apolipoprotein e ε4 allele. self-reported sleep problems may increase the risk for dementia, and depressive symptoms may explain this relationship. sleep disturbance is common in dementia and often treated with z-drugs (zopiclone, zaleplon, and zolpidem). while some observational studies suggest that z-drugs are associated with adverse events such as falls and fracture risks in older people, this has not been studied in dementia. higher dose z-drug use in dementia is associated with increased fracture and stroke risks, similar or greater to that for higher dose benzodiazepines. there has been a growing interest in the relationship between sedative-hypnotics use and the risk of alzheimer's dementia (ad) risk. the risk of ad was increased regardless of dose of sedative-hypnotics and half-life among benzodiazepines, especially in exposure to more than 360 ddd of sedative-hypnotics (hr: 1.78; 95% ci: 1.60-1.99) and the long-acting benzodiazepine (hr:1.77; 95% ci: 1.65-1.89). 
Does taking polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as omega-3 and omega-6, reduce ADHD symptoms in children? [SEP] in this regard, supplementation with omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids is used as adjuvant therapy in adhd. in order to assess the effect of the intake of common foods containing high amounts of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, a food frequency questionnaire was administered to parents of children with adhd (n = 48) and to parents of normally developing children (control group) (n = 87), and the intake of dietary omega-3 lc-pufa, such as eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) and docosahexaenoic acid (dha), was estimated. to evaluate whether higher omega-6:omega-3 (n-6:n-3) long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid ratio in cord plasma is associated with more symptoms of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (adhd) at 4 and 7 years of age. a higher omega-6:omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid ratio in cord plasma was associated with a higher adhd index (incidence rate ratio, 1.13; 95% ci, 1.03, 1.23) at 7 years old. high prenatal omega-6:omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid ratio preceded the appearance of subclinical adhd symptoms during mid-childhood. the present findings demonstrated that nutritional enrichment with omega-3 fatty acids was associated with reduced motor activity in an established animal model of adhd and support the notion that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids may play a role in the pathophysiology of adhd. the aim of this review is to examine the effectiveness of omega-3 supplementation at reducing adhd symptoms in children and adolescents. there is some evidence that children and young adults with adhd have lower omega-3 levels and that supplementation with omega-3 can improve both adhd and affective symptoms. to review the impact of polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufa) in reducing adhd symptoms in children. a subgroup of children and adolescents with adhd, characterized by inattention and associated neurodevelopmental disorders, treated with omega 3/6 fatty acids for 6 months responded with meaningful reduction of adhd symptoms. 
Do infusions of vitamin C relieve symptoms of chronic fatigue or long covid? [SEP] the aim of this review is to gather information regarding post-covid syndrome so as to highlight its etiological basis and the nutritional regimes and supplements that can mitigate, alleviate or relieve the associated chronic fatigue, gastrointestinal disorders and continuing inflammatory reactions. in this pilot observational study, we evaluated the effect of a food supplement containing hydroxytyrosol, acetyl l-carnitine and vitamins b, c and d in improving perceived fatigue in patients who recovered from covid-19 but had post-covid syndrome characterized by chronic fatigue. therefore, the present knowledge on the pathophysiology of fatigue and the potential positive impact of treatment with vitamin c is illustrated. additionally, the effectiveness of high-dose iv vitamin c in fatigue resulting from various diseases was assessed by a systematic literature review in order to assess the feasibility of vitamin c in post-viral, especially in long covid, fatigue. three of the four controlled trials observed a significant decrease in fatigue scores in the vitamin c group compared to the control group. these results suggest that persistent fatigue and reduced exercise tolerance following covid-19 are independent of vitamin d. current evidence from published systematic reviews indicate that oral intake of vitamin c may assist with symptoms of acute viral respiratory infections (ari) by reducing fever and chills, relieving chest pain and assist in reducing symptoms of common cold-induced asthma. intravenous (iv) vitamin c administration may reduce the need for vasopressor support and the duration of mechanical ventilations in critically ill patients in hospital. oral vitamin c may assist with the symptoms of acute respiratory viral infections (ari) and common cold-induced asthma but no studies have been identified justifying oral vitamin c for the prevention or treatment of coronavirus infections including covid-19. for individuals admitted to hospital with community-acquired pneumonia, vitamin c may improve respiratory function in more severe cases. 
Does taking probiotics shorten the duration of acute infectious diarrhea? [SEP] in conclusion, selected strains of probiotics result in a statistically significant but clinically moderate benefit in shortening the duration of diarrhoea caused by acute infectious gastroenteritis. probiotics may be of benefit in treating acute infectious diarrhea and reducing antibiotic-associated diarrhea. our objective was to evaluate the association between probiotics administration and reduction of acute infectious diarrhea duration in children dwelling in developed countries. our meta-analysis of 18 eligible studies suggests that coadministration of probiotics with standard rehydration therapy reduces the duration of acute diarrhea by approximately 1 day [random-effects pooled estimate = -0.8 days (-1.1, -0.6), p < 0.001]. in conclusion, bacterial probiotic therapy shortens the duration of acute diarrheal illness in children by approximately one day. we evaluate the clinical, microbiologic, and immunologic effects of probiotics in acute infectious diarrhea. this probiotics mixture reduced the severity of diarrhea and length of hospital stay in children with acute diarrhea. in recent years, the consumption of probiotics has been proposed for the treatment of infectious diarrhea. additionally, significant differences in the average length of hospitalization in probiotic consumers (3.16 days) and control (3.66 days), (p value = 0.02) could be claimed that the consumption of probiotics is effective in reducing the duration of dysentery and diarrhea. the results of this study suggest that the use of probiotics can be effective in reducing the duration of blood in diarrhea. 
Does high-dose vitamin D slow down the course of disease in multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of vitamin d in the management of multiple sclerosis. in particular, vitamin d status has been shown to influence both the incidence and the course of ms. high vitamin d levels are probably protective against the development of ms, although the efficacy of vitamin d supplementation in slowing progression of ms remains to be established. we here present the protocol of an interventional clinical phase ii study to test the hypothesis, that high-dose vitamin d supplementation of multiple sclerosis patients is safe and superior to low-dose supplementation with respect to beneficial therapeutic effects. low vitamin d status has been associated with multiple sclerosis (ms) prevalence and risk, but the therapeutic potential of vitamin d in established ms has not been explored. high-dose vitamin d (approximately 10,000 iu/day) in multiple sclerosis is safe, with evidence of immunomodulatory effects. this trial provides class ii evidence that high-dose vitamin d use for 52 weeks in patients with multiple sclerosis does not significantly increase serum calcium levels when compared to patients not on high-dose supplementation. these results suggest that exposure to vitamin d before ms onset might slow disease-related neurodegeneration and thus delay progression to disability among patients with the progressive subtype. apart from its principal role in bone metabolism and calcium homeostasis, vitamin d has been attributed additional effects including an immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, and possibly even neuroprotective capacity which implicates a possible role of vitamin d in autoimmune diseases like multiple sclerosis (ms). in this review, we summarise and critically evaluate the existing data on the possible link between vitamin d and multiple sclerosis in light of the crucial question whether optimization of vitamin d status may impact the risk and/or the course of multiple sclerosis. here, we review the current understanding of the molecular effects of vitamin d beyond calcium homeostasis, the potential beneficial action in ms and hazards including complications of chronic and high-dose therapy. 
Does taking taiga root extract strengthen the immune system? Can it make vaccinations more effective or tolerable? [SEP] immunization represents one of the most effective tools in preventive medicine. vaccination is one of the most effective methods available to prevent infectious diseases. moreover, vaccination through the mucosal immune system could induce effective systemic immune responses together with mucosal immunity in contrast to parenteral vaccination, which is a poor inducer of effective immunity at mucosal surfaces. here, we review the characteristics of the oral mucosal immune system and delineate strategies to design effective oral mucosal vaccines with an emphasis on mucosal vaccine adjuvants. vaccines aim to establish or strengthen immune responses but are also effective for the treatment of allergy. the molecular allergy vaccines allow sophisticated targeting of the immune system and may eliminate side effects which so far have limited the use of traditional allergen extract-based vaccines. to develop protective immune responses against mucosal pathogens, the delivery route and adjuvants for vaccination are important. by taking advantage of the common mucosal immune system, the targeting of mucosal dendritic cells and microfold epithelial cells may facilitate the induction of effective mucosal immunity. thus, novel routes of immunization and antigen delivery systems also show great potential for the development of effective and safe mucosal vaccines against various pathogens. the purpose of this review is to introduce several recent approaches to induce mucosal immunity to vaccines, with an emphasis on mucosal tissue targeting, new immunization routes and delivery systems. 
Can ozone therapy, in which autologous blood is treated with ozone and recycled, favorably influence the course of COVID-19 disease? [SEP] in this study, we aimed to investigate the effectiveness of ozone therapy, which is one of the integrative medicine applications that has been used safely for many years, on the prevalence of mortality in patients receiving covid-19 treatment. ozone therapy (major autohemotherapy) was applied to 37 patients who were being treated with the appropriate covid-19 treatment protocol determined by the infectious diseases committee of our hospital. in this study, the findings suggested that the administration of ozone therapy along with the conventional medical treatment in patients hospitalised for covid-19 could reduce mortality. the main objective of this narrative review is to describe the available evidence on the possible antiviral activity of ozone in patients with covid-19 and its therapeutic applicability through hospital protocols. some data suggest the possible role of ozone therapy in sars, either as a monotherapy or, more realistically, as an adjunct to standard treatment regimens; therefore, there is increasing interest in the role of ozone therapy in covid-19 treatment the pubmed and scopus databases and the italian scientific society of oxygen ozone therapy website were used to identify articles focused on ozone therapy. systemic ozone therapy in combination with antivirals in covid-19-positive patients may be justified, helpful and synergic. ozone therapy has antiviral properties, improves blood flow, facilitates the transfer of oxygen in hypoxemic tissues, and reduces blood coagulation phenomena in covid-19 patients. in general, many studies have shown the positive effect of ozone therapy as a complementary therapy in the recovery of covid-19 patients. medical ozone rationale in covid-19 is the possibility of contrasting endothelial dysfunction, modulating the immune response and acting as a virustatic agent. medical ozone therapy has immunomodulatory, antioxidant and antiviral effect, and, therefore, it can be explored as prophylaxis for covid-19. 
Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea better than a placebo? [SEP] dimenhydrinate, which is an ethanolamine group h1 receptor blocker, appeared to be effective compared with the placebo in relieving renal colic pain and nausea and vomiting symptoms in patients. in the dimenhydrinate group, more patients remained completely free from post-operative nausea and vomiting compared with placebo (dimenhydrinate: 38.8%; placebo: 15.1%; p = 0.004). intra-operative dimenhydrinate, followed by three further administrations after surgery, reduces the incidence and the severity of post-operative nausea and vomiting without side effects. although dimenhydrinate has been used for treatment and prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting (ponv) since the fifties, there have been few controlled studies about its efficacy. in comparison with placebo, dimenhydrinate reduced the incidence of postoperative vomiting from 60.1% to 30.7%. one tts-scopolamine, two tts-scopolamine and dimenhydrinate caused a statistically significant reduction in nausea when compared with placebo. dimenhydrinate was somewhat more effective against nausea than one tts-scopolamine. dimenhydrinate and tts-scopolamine are both effective against motion sickness, the latter provided it is applied 6 to 8 hours before exposure to the stimulus causing the motion sickness. dimenhydrinate and metoclopramide significantly decrease postoperative nausea, vomiting, and the need for rescue antiemetic medication. dimenhydrinate plus droperidol significantly reduced the overall incidence of vomiting, but not nausea, when compared with droperidol alone. 
Does dimenhydrinate relieve travel nausea as well as the proven drug scopolamine??? [SEP] the effect of transdermally administered scopolamine (tts-scopolamine) (2.5 cm2 surface area, one and two patches) and dimenhydrinate (100 mg) on experimental motion sickness was examined in 16 healthy volunteers in a randomized double-blind study. one tts-scopolamine, two tts-scopolamine and dimenhydrinate caused a statistically significant reduction in nausea when compared with placebo. dimenhydrinate was somewhat more effective against nausea than one tts-scopolamine. vertigo was significantly reduced after dimenhydrinate and two tts-scopolamine. dimenhydrinate and tts-scopolamine are both effective against motion sickness, the latter provided it is applied 6 to 8 hours before exposure to the stimulus causing the motion sickness. tts-scopolamine and dimenhydrinate significantly reduced vertigo induced by calorization of the ears, nausea provoked with coriolis maneuvre, and nystagmus in caloric and rotatory tests. tts-scopolamine afforded 73% protection against motion-induced nausea, compared to 46% protection with dimenhydrinate. our results suggest that dimenhydrinate, 100 mg, adversely affects psychomotor function, whereas single doses of cinnarizine, 50 mg, and transdermal scopolamine appear to be free of side-effects on performance and seem to be a preferable anti-seasickness drug for use by a naval crew. efficacy of transdermal scopolamine was compared with oral dimenhydrinate and placebo. comparison with placebo indicated that transdermal scopolamine provided protection against motion sickness at a significance level of p = 0.0001 and oral dimenhydrinate at a level of p = 0.05. 
Does short-term fasting improve quality of life in cancer? [SEP] a few preliminary studies have documented the safety and feasibility of repeated short-term fasting in patients undergoing chemotherapy. however, there is a lack of data from larger randomized trials on the effects of short-term fasting on quality of life, reduction of side effects during chemotherapy, and a possible reduction of tumor progression. we aim to investigate whether the potentially beneficial effects of short-term fasting can be confirmed in a larger randomized trial and can compare favorably to a plant-based wholefood diet. one hundred fifty patients, including 120 breast cancer patients and 30 patients with ovarian cancer, are to be randomized to one of two nutritional interventions accompanying chemotherapy: (1) repeated short-term fasting with a maximum energy supply of 350-400 kcal on fasting days or (2) repeated short-term normocaloric plant-based diet with restriction of refined carbohydrates. preclinical data and a small number of clinical studies suggest that repeated short-term fasting may reduce the side effects of chemotherapy, enhance quality of life, and eventually slow down tumor progression. this study is the first confirmatory, randomized controlled, clinical study, comparing the effects of short-term fasting to a short-term, plant-based, low-sugar diet during chemotherapy on quality of life and histological tumor remission. we sought to investigate the feasibility and effect of short-term fasting in patients receiving chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancy. fasting patients maintaining a water-only fast for 24 h before and 24 h following each chemotherapy cycle were compared to nonfasting patients. a 48-h fast is well tolerated without increasing weight loss, hospital admissions, or chemotherapy dose reduction/delays. fasting resulted in fewer treatment modifications and improved quality of life scores over the course of treatment. 
Does short-term fasting reduce the side effects of chemotherapy for cancer??? [SEP] preclinical data and a small number of clinical studies suggest that repeated short-term fasting may reduce the side effects of chemotherapy, enhance quality of life, and eventually slow down tumor progression. short-term fasting (48 hours) was shown to be effective in protecting normal cells and mice but not cancer cells against high dose chemotherapy, termed differential stress resistance (dsr), but the feasibility and effect of fasting in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy is unknown. the six patients who underwent chemotherapy with or without fasting reported a reduction in fatigue, weakness, and gastrointestinal side effects while fasting. short-term fasting prior to chemotherapy may help protect normal cells from the toxic effects of chemotherapy by allowing them to conserve energy for maintenance and repair. short-term starvation (or fasting) protects normal cells, mice, and potentially humans from the harmful side effects of a variety of chemotherapy drugs. we sought to investigate the feasibility and effect of short-term fasting in patients receiving chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancy. fasting patients maintaining a water-only fast for 24 h before and 24 h following each chemotherapy cycle were compared to nonfasting patients. according to a series of studies, fasting results in overall reduction in chemotherapy side effects in cancer patients. in a recent article, 10 patients who fasted in combination with chemotherapy, reported that fasting was not only feasible and safe but caused a reduction in a wide range of side effects accompanied by an apparently normal and possibly augmented chemotherapy efficacy. preclinical evidence shows that short-term fasting (stf) protects healthy cells against side effects of chemotherapy and makes cancer cells more vulnerable to it. 
Are extracts of Artemisa annua (annual mugwort) or the active ingredient artemisinin obtained from it effective against coronavirus? [SEP] new active ingredients of artemisia annua extract with potential anticancer activity have been identified. artemisia annua tea has been proven to be a very effective treatment for malaria in various clinical trials, but to date its efficacy has not been investigated in vitro. artemisinin, a sesquiterpene lactone produced by artemisia annua glandular secretory trichomes, is the active ingredient in the most effective treatment for uncomplicated malaria caused by plasmodium falciparum parasites. as a traditional chinese herb, artemisia annua is a major source of artemisinin, an antimalarial drug. artemisia annua is a small herbaceous plant belonging to the asteraceae family declared therapeutic by the world health organisation, in particular for its artemisinin content, an active ingredient at the base of most antimalarial treatments, used every year by over 300 million people. artemisinin, isolated from the chinese medicinal herb artemisia annua, is the active ingredient in artemisinin-based combination therapies used to treat the disease. we report in vitro efficacy of artemisia annua extracts as well as artemisinin, artesunate, and artemether against sars-cov-2. artemisia annua (annual mugwort) is a species that has long been used in traditional asian medicine, mainly chinese and hindu. artemisia annua l. (annual wormwood, asteraceae) and its secondary metabolite artemisinin, a unique sesquiterpene lactone with an endoperoxide bridge, has gained much attention due to its antimalarial properties. this review addresses these questions, discussing evidence of the potential utility of artemisinin in protecting the plant from insects and other herbivores, as well as pathogens and competing plant species. 
Can zinc mitigate the progression of Covid-19? [SEP] given the established roles of zinc in combating oxidative damage and viral infections, zinc is being trialed as a treatment modality against covid-19. zinc and the combination with zinc ionophore have been reported in basic research and several clinical investigations as a potentially viable and economical preventive and therapeutic options for covid-19 treatment. moreover, zinc may also prevent viral entry, suppress viral replication, and mitigate the damages due to oxidative stress and hyperinflammatory reaction in patients with respiratory infections. zinc balances immune responses, and also has a proven direct antiviral action against some viruses. we hypothesize that serum zinc content (szc) influences covid-19 disease progression, and thus might represent a useful biomarker. our study demonstrates a correlation between serum zinc levels and covid-19 outcome. zinc, one of the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant micronutrient found in food with well-established role in immunity, is currently being used in some clinical trials against covid-19. this review integrates the contemporary studies of role of zinc in antiviral immunity along with discussing its potential role against covid-19, and ongoing covid-19 clinical trials using zinc. this paper evaluates the most recent literature on zinc status related to antiviral immunity and its possible role in covid-19. as zinc depletion impairs antiviral immunity, it is hypothesised to increase susceptibility for covid-19. 
Does zinc preventively protect against covid-19 disease??? [SEP] this paper evaluates the most recent literature on zinc status related to antiviral immunity and its possible role in covid-19. it is concluded that zinc is a critical factor for antiviral immunity. as zinc depletion impairs antiviral immunity, it is hypothesised to increase susceptibility for covid-19. as zinc is essential to preserve natural tissue barriers such as the respiratory epithelium, preventing pathogen entry, for a balanced function of the immune system and the redox system, zinc deficiency can probably be added to the factors predisposing individuals to infection and detrimental progression of covid-19. zinc possesses potential health benefits against covid-19 pandemic by improving immune response, minimizing infection and inflammation, preventing lung injury, inhibiting viral replication through the interference of the viral genome transcription, protein translation, attachment, and host infectivity. however, this review focuses on the various mechanisms of action of zinc and its supplementation as adjuvant for vaccines an effective therapeutic regimen in the management of the ravaging covid-19 pandemic. hence, achieving a significant therapeutic approach against covid-19 could imply the use of zinc as a supplement together with available drugs and vaccines waiting for emergency authorization to win the battle of covid-19. given the established roles of zinc in combating oxidative damage and viral infections, zinc is being trialed as a treatment modality against covid-19. zinc and the combination with zinc ionophore have been reported in basic research and several clinical investigations as a potentially viable and economical preventive and therapeutic options for covid-19 treatment. moreover, zinc may also prevent viral entry, suppress viral replication, and mitigate the damages due to oxidative stress and hyperinflammatory reaction in patients with respiratory infections. 
Does a cold spray with trypsin protect against colds or covid-19? Does the spray reduce symptoms and duration of illness? [SEP] nasal or oral sprays are often marketed as medical devices (mds) in the european union to prevent common cold (cc), with coldzyme®/viruprotect® (trypsin/glycerol) mouth spray claiming to prevent colds and the covid-19 virus from infecting host cells and to shorten/reduce cc symptoms as an example. clinical: efficacy, proportion of users protected against virus (compared with non-users) and safety associated with trypsin/glycerol. preclinical data showed that exogenous trypsin enhances sars-cov-2 infectivity and syncytia formation in host models, while culture passages in trypsin presence induce spike protein mutants. exogenous trypsin exposure even raises concerns (higher sars-cov-2 infectivity, mutations), whereas its clinical protective performance against respiratory viruses as published remains poor and substandard. to determine whether hypertonic saline nasal spray relieves nasal symptoms and shortens illness duration in patients with the common cold or acute rhinosinusitis. this study investigated the efficacy of a carrageenan-containing nasal spray on the duration of the common cold and nasal fluid viral load in adult patients. in adults with common cold virus infections, direct local administration of carrageenan with nasal sprays reduced the duration of cold symptoms. clinical trials applying iota-carrageenan nasal spray have previously shown to reduce duration of virus-confirmed common cold. administration of carrageenan nasal spray in children as well as in adults suffering from virus-confirmed common cold reduced duration of disease, increased viral clearance and reduced relapses of symptoms. carrageenan nasal spray appeared as an effective treatment of common cold in children and adults. 
Does injecting low-dose Corona vaccine into the skin (mesotherapy vaccination, microvaccination) protect against Covid-19 as well as proven full-dose vaccination into muscle? [SEP] the complete series of multidose covid-19 vaccines offers stronger protection against infection by sars-cov-2 compared to single-dose injections with the same vaccines. to evaluate the utility of covid-19 vaccine and vaccine excipient skin testing in both patients with an allergic reaction to their first messenger rna covid-19 vaccine dose and patients with a history of polyethylene glycol allergy who have not yet received a covid-19 vaccine dose. there were 101 patients who received a covid-19 vaccine after the skin testing, which was tolerated in 90 patients (89.1%) with no allergic symptoms, including 5 of 6 patients with positive skin testing results who received a covid-19 vaccine after the skin testing. we report two cases of leukocytoclastic vasculitis following chadox1 ncov-19 corona virus vaccine (recombinant) that bring out potential new dermatological manifestations of recombinant corona virus vaccine being administered across the european, south american, and asian countries. skin testing results in conjunction with clinical phenotyping of the first-dose mrna covid-19 vaccine reaction guided second-dose vaccination recommendation. three patients with positive peg-3350 intradermal (methylprednisolone) testing tolerated second-dose mrna covid-19 vaccination. covid 19 vaccination will protect us from getting covid-19. cutaneous reactions after messenger rna (mrna)-based covid-19 vaccines have been reported but are not well characterized. our data support that cutaneous reactions to covid-19 vaccination are generally minor and self-limited, and should not discourage vaccination. the results indicate that the vaccine provides effective protection against covid-19 infection. 
Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish (Kren) prevent recurrent cystitis? [SEP] the present study examines the antimicrobial activity of nasturtium herb (tropaeoli maji herba) and horseradish root (armoraciae rusticanae radix) against clinically important oral bacterial pathogens involved in periodontitis, gingivitis, pulpitis, implantitis and other infectious diseases. the trials of complementary interventions (vitamin a, probiotics, cranberry, nasturtium and horseradish) generally gave favourable results but were not conclusive. the world health organization has recommended herbal medicine for treatment and control of recurrent cystitis. this study was conducted to determine effect of eshnan on the prevention of recurrent cystitis. the present triple-blind clinical trial was conducted on 126 women (63 women per group) with recurrent cystitis. the present findings showed that the incidence rate of cystitis and symptoms of cystitis was significantly lower in the eshnan group compared with the placebo group 2, 4, and 6 months after the intervention (p < .05). the consumption of eshnan can improve the symptoms of cystitis and prevent the incidence of recurrent cystitis in women of reproductive age. to demonstrate non-inferiority of an herbal combination (horseradish root and nasturtium herb) to an antibiotic (co-trimoxazole) in acute uncomplicated cystitis. a review of the recent literature including on nonantibiotic options for management of utis, symptoms of cystitis and prevention of recurrent utis. the article provides an overview on alternative therapy to antibiotics in the treatment of cystitis and recurrent uti prophylaxis, including alkalinization of urine, cranberry products, probiotics, nsaids, d-mannose, herbal medicine, methenamine hippurate, oral immunostimulants (immunotherapy), topical oestrogens, vitamins and acupuncture. 
Do herbal remedies with nasturtium and horseradish alleviate the symptoms of cystitis as well as an antibiotic??? [SEP] to demonstrate non-inferiority of an herbal combination (horseradish root and nasturtium herb) to an antibiotic (co-trimoxazole) in acute uncomplicated cystitis. adult patients (median age, 38.5 years; 90% female) with acute uncomplicated cystitis confirmed via urinalysis and bacterial counts. this clinical trial indicates comparable efficacy of the herbal combination and antibiotic, although non-inferiority was not proved. the present study examines the antimicrobial activity of nasturtium herb (tropaeoli maji herba) and horseradish root (armoraciae rusticanae radix) against clinically important oral bacterial pathogens involved in periodontitis, gingivitis, pulpitis, implantitis and other infectious diseases. again, the cystitis resolved within a week. the trials of complementary interventions (vitamin a, probiotics, cranberry, nasturtium and horseradish) generally gave favourable results but were not conclusive. a review of the recent literature including on nonantibiotic options for management of utis, symptoms of cystitis and prevention of recurrent utis. the article provides an overview on alternative therapy to antibiotics in the treatment of cystitis and recurrent uti prophylaxis, including alkalinization of urine, cranberry products, probiotics, nsaids, d-mannose, herbal medicine, methenamine hippurate, oral immunostimulants (immunotherapy), topical oestrogens, vitamins and acupuncture. although there is a general lack of evidence from clinical studies on the potential efficacy of medicinal herbs for the treatment of endometriosis-associated symptoms, our review highlights the anti-inflammatory and pain-alleviating mechanisms of action of herbal remedies. medicinal herbs and their active components exhibit cytokine-suppressive, cox-2-inhibiting, antioxidant, sedative and pain-alleviating properties. 
Does mistletoe therapy help against cancer or can it improve the quality of life of cancer patients? [SEP] the aim of this systematic review is to give an extensive overview about the current state of evidence concerning mistletoe therapy of oncologic patients regarding quality of life and side effects of cancer treatments. the addition of mistletoe to chemotherapy showed to have a positive effect on hrqol of women treated for breast cancer. the treatment of cancer patients with mistletoe extract is said to prolong their survival and, above all, improve their quality of life. we studied whether the quality of life of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer could be improved by mistletoe extract. in patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic carcinoma, mistletoe treatment significantly improves the quality of life in comparison to best supportive care alone. various studies on mistletoe therapy for breast cancer patients revealed similar findings concerning possible benefits on survival time, health-related quality of life (hrqol), remission rate, and alleviating adverse reactions to conventional therapy. mistletoe extracts are used as an adjunct therapy for cancer patients, but there is dissent as to whether this therapy has a positive impact on quality of life (qol). mistletoe extracts produce a significant, medium-sized effect on qol in cancer. physicians have reported better quality of life in breast cancer patients additionally treated with mistletoe preparations during chemotherapy. mistletoe therapy (mt) is widely used in patient-centered integrative cancer care. 
Can homeopathic remedies prevent colds in children? [SEP] to undertake a systematic review and meta-analysis of trials with the highest level of evidence, to establish the benefits and risks for oral homeopathic remedies used to treat and prevent artis in children. double-blinded randomized trials in children, treated with oral homeopathic remedies versus placebo or conventional treatments for arti. nine children with intoxication from homeopathic remedies were reported, with minor symptoms only. the aim of this study was to carry out a preliminary trial evaluating the effectiveness of homeopathy in the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). this pilot study provides no evidence to support a therapeutic effect of individually selected homeopathic remedies in children with adhd. there is little evidence that the decongestant, antihistamine, or cough suppressant medications commonly used to treat cold symptoms in preschool children are effective. one option for treating cold symptoms in young children is with homeopathy. this study was conducted to determine if a homeopathic syrup was effective in treating cold symptoms in preschool children. children 2-5 years old diagnosed with an upper respiratory tract infection were randomized to receive a commercial homeopathic cold syrup or placebo. the homeopathic syrup appeared to be effective in reducing the severity of cold symptoms in the first day after beginning treatment. 
Can homeopathic remedies relieve colds in children?? [SEP] nine children with intoxication from homeopathic remedies were reported, with minor symptoms only. double-blinded randomized trials in children, treated with oral homeopathic remedies versus placebo or conventional treatments for arti. homeopathic remedies are a useful alternative to conventional medications in acute uncomplicated upper respiratory tract infections in children, offering earlier symptom resolution, cost-effectiveness, and fewer adverse effects. this study aimed to determine the efficacy of a homeopathic complex on the symptoms of acute viral tonsillitis in african children in south africa. the homeopathic complex used in this study exhibited significant anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving qualities in children with acute viral tonsillitis. there is little evidence that the decongestant, antihistamine, or cough suppressant medications commonly used to treat cold symptoms in preschool children are effective. one option for treating cold symptoms in young children is with homeopathy. this study was conducted to determine if a homeopathic syrup was effective in treating cold symptoms in preschool children. children 2-5 years old diagnosed with an upper respiratory tract infection were randomized to receive a commercial homeopathic cold syrup or placebo. the homeopathic syrup appeared to be effective in reducing the severity of cold symptoms in the first day after beginning treatment. 
Do agents containing uridine and/or cytidine improve the symptoms of polyneuropathy? [SEP] the uridine in both species of rna was shown to contain (14)c and the cytidine to contain both (3)h and (14)c. comparison of the labeling of 4-thiouridine and pseudouridine, obtained from an enzymatic digest of the rna, indicates that their biosynthetic precursor is uridine, not cytidine. detailed investigation of the intracellular metabolism of our newly discovered uridine prodrugs, as well as of sofosbuvir, has now revealed the formation of both uridine and cytidine triphosphates. cytidine and uridine are produced commercially by bacillus subtilis. because cytidine and uridine both stimulate synthesis of cytidine 5'-diphosphocholine (cdp-choline, a critical substrate for phospholipid synthesis), we examined whether uridine would also produce antidepressant-like effects in rats. uridine dose-dependently reduced immobility in the fst, an antidepressant-like effect. cytidine was degraded to carbon dioxide and incorporated into rna at about the same rates as was uridine. however, cytidine was converted to cytidine diphosphate and cytidine triphosphate more effectively than was uridine. cytidine also was converted into cytidylic acid of rna much more extensively and into rna uridylic acid less extensively than was uridine. azaserine, an antagonist of reactions involving glutamine (including the conversion of uridine triphosphate to cytidine triphosphate), inhibited the conversion of cytidine into rna uridylic acid with less effect on its incorporation into cytidylic acid. the results suggest that cytidine is in part metabolized by direct conversion to uridine and in part by conversion to cytidine triphosphate through reactions not involving uridine nucleotides. 
Can treatments with ultrasound relieve the pain of osteoarthritis? [SEP] to assess the effectiveness and safety of therapeutic ultrasound with sham ultrasound on pain relief and functional improvement in knee osteoarthritis patients. randomized controlled trials comparing therapeutic ultrasound with sham ultrasound in knee osteoarthritis patients were included. meta-analyses demonstrated that therapeutic ultrasound significantly relieved pain (p < 0.00001) and reduced the western ontario and mcmaster universities (womac) physical function score (p = 0.03). therapeutic ultrasound is a safe treatment to relieve pain and improve physical function in patients with knee osteoarthritis. ultrasound-guided radiofrequency neurotomy of genicular nerves alleviates intractable pain and disability in the majority of patients with advanced osteoarthritis of the knee. ultrasound combined with transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (ultratens) and phonophoresis of piroxicam (php) are combined modality therapy that frequently used in musculoskeletal pain including knee osteoarthritis (oa). ultrasound increases soft tissue extensibility and may be an effective adjunct in the treatment of knee contractures secondary to connective tissue shortening. a randomized clinical trial was conducted to determine the effectiveness of ultrasound in relieving stiffness and pain in patients (age mean = 67.5 years, sd = 13.0) who had osteoarthritis (oa) and a chronic knee contracture. although ultrasound may not contribute to the management of patients with chronic knee stiffness and oa, benefits of the exercise program and increased activity secondary to program participation probably influenced the overall improvement. ultrasound-guided intraarticular hip corticosteroid injections may be useful for emergency care providers treating patients with painful exacerbations of osteoarthritis of the hip. 
Does regular exercise reduce the severity and duration of colds and other respiratory infections? [SEP] moderate exercise may reduce the risk of upper respiratory tract infections, but intense training can increase that risk. though the average cold does not appear to hinder athletic performance, short-term symptomatic treatment consisting of topical decongestants and/or nasal ipratropium bromide may be useful for active patients. regular moderate exercise is associated with a reduced incidence of infection compared with a completely sedentary state. our aim was to assess the effect of a moderate-intensity, year-long exercise program on the risk of colds and other upper respiratory tract infections in postmenopausal women. poisson regression was used to estimate the effect of exercise on colds and other upper respiratory tract infections. over 12 months, the risk of colds decreased in exercisers relative to stretchers (p = .02): in the final 3 months of the study, the risk of colds in stretchers was more than threefold that of exercisers (p = .03). this study suggests that 1 year of moderate-intensity exercise training can reduce the incidence of colds among postmenopausal women. regular moderate exercise reduces the risk of infection compared with a sedentary lifestyle, but very prolonged bouts of exercise and periods of intensified training are associated with increased infection risk. in athletes, a common observation is that symptoms of respiratory infection cluster around competitions, and even minor illnesses such as colds can impair exercise performance. to determine if exercise training affects the severity and duration of a naturally acquired upper respiratory tract infection (urti) in sedentary subjects. 
Can regular exercise prevent you from getting a cold or other respiratory infections??? [SEP] regular moderate exercise reduces the risk of infection compared with a sedentary lifestyle, but very prolonged bouts of exercise and periods of intensified training are associated with increased infection risk. in athletes, a common observation is that symptoms of respiratory infection cluster around competitions, and even minor illnesses such as colds can impair exercise performance. our aim was to assess the effect of a moderate-intensity, year-long exercise program on the risk of colds and other upper respiratory tract infections in postmenopausal women. poisson regression was used to estimate the effect of exercise on colds and other upper respiratory tract infections. over 12 months, the risk of colds decreased in exercisers relative to stretchers (p = .02): in the final 3 months of the study, the risk of colds in stretchers was more than threefold that of exercisers (p = .03). this study suggests that 1 year of moderate-intensity exercise training can reduce the incidence of colds among postmenopausal women. there were some studies reporting that regular, moderate-intensity exercise increases immunity and prevents the common cold. we conducted a meta-analysis to determine the effects of exercise on prevention of the common cold. the effect of exercise on the prevention of the common cold had a relative risk (rr) of 0.73 (95% confidence interval [ci], 0.56 to 0.95; i(2) = 7%). in this meta-analysis, regular, moderate-intensity exercise may have an effect on the prevention of the common cold. 
Can cold showers, cold baths or cold water treading according to Kneipp prevent colds and respiratory infections in adults? [SEP] this pilot study analyses the effect and feasibility of hydrotherapeutic kneipp arm affusions on secretory immunoglobulin a (siga) and classic cold symptoms in children 3-6 years of age. the water variables that were examined included ingestion of cold and hot tap water as well as of bottled water, showering and bathing. cold water is primarily used for ingestion while a mixture of cold water and hot water is used for showering, bathing others, dish washing, etc. treading water following cold-water immersion increased mcav by 30% above resting values despite maintained cold-shock-induced hyperventilation. six inexperienced swimmers (three men and three women; mean age 22.8) received 1 wk of cold-water head-out immersions (10 x 3 min at 15 degrees c) alongside mental skills training to improve their treading water technique and to control hyperventilation upon immersion. inexperienced swimmers could benefit from cold-water habituation combined with mental skills training in order to improve voluntary control over the respiratory portion of the cold shock response as part of learning to tread water. this study compared physiological, psychological, and behavioral responses of humans treading water and swimming in cold and temperate water. tasks performed in cold water-generated higher cardiorespiratory responses (hr = 145 ± 16 vs 127 ± 21 bpm) and were perceived about 2 points more strenuous on the borg scale on average (rpe = 14.9 ± 2.8 vs 13.0 ± 2.0). the voluntary durations of both treading water (60 ± 32 vs 91 ± 33 seconds) and swimming at a comfortable pace (66 ± 22 vs 103 ± 34 seconds) were significantly reduced in cold water. training treading water and swimming skills in temperate water seems to transfer to cold water, but we recommend training these skills in a range of water conditions to help adapt to the initial "cold-shock" response. 
Can the Wim Hof method - consisting of breathing training, meditation and acclimatization to cold - strengthen the immune system of healthy people and thus prevent infectious diseases? [SEP] here we present a case study of a 57-year old dutch national, wim hof, the so-called "iceman", with the ability to withstand frequent prolonged periods of extreme cold exposure based on the practice of a self-developed technique involving a combination of forced breathing, cold exposure and meditation (collectively referred to as the wim hof method, henceforth "whm"). herein, we evaluated the effects of a training program on the autonomic nervous system and innate immune response. subjects in the intervention group were trained for 10 d in meditation (third eye meditation), breathing techniques (i.a., cyclic hyperventilation followed by breath retention), and exposure to cold (i.a., immersions in ice cold water). (pnas 111:7379-7384, 2014) on the ability to voluntarily influence the physiological stress response in healthy men after a training program consisting of meditation, breathing techniques, and exposure to cold, which found highly promising results on the clinical, autonomic, and immune response to experimentally induced inflammation (using the experimental human endotoxemia model). this proof-of-principle study provides first indications for potential innovative treatments to change immune-modulating responses by means of psychological mechanisms. potential mechanisms of action include stress reduction, emotion regulation, strengthening of respiratory muscles, reduction of inflammation, and enhanced immune function. meditation can help regulate overall health through the neural-endocrine-immune network. these results indicate that long-term vegan meditation plays a positive role in improving the body's immunity and adjusting endocrine and metabolic levels, enabling the body to be in a state of good health. we recently demonstrated that the sympathetic nervous system can be voluntarily activated following a training program consisting of cold exposure, breathing exercises, and meditation. meditation practice is mental health training. 
Do saw palmetto preparations improve the symptoms of benign enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia) in the longer term compared to placebo? [SEP] a literature search of studies that have assessed the mechanism of action and clinical results of saw palmetto in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia was performed. the use of saw palmetto in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia is safe with no recognized adverse effects. placebo controlled trials and meta-analyses have suggested that saw palmetto leads to subjective and objective improvement in men with lower urinary tract symptoms. evidence suggests that saw palmetto may have a significant effect on urinary flow rates and symptom scores compared to placebo in men with lower urinary tract symptoms. saw palmetto is used by over 2 million men in the united states for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia and is commonly recommended as an alternative to drugs approved by the food and drug administration. in this double-blind trial, we randomly assigned 225 men over the age of 49 years who had moderate-to-severe symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia to one year of treatment with saw palmetto extract (160 mg twice a day) or placebo. saw palmetto is an herbal product used in the treatment of symptoms related to benign prostatic hyperplasia. studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of saw palmetto in reducing symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia. several lines of evidence suggest that saw palmetto may exert physiologic effects consistent with a beneficial clinical effect on the mechanisms of benign prostatic hyperplasia. we tested the effects of a saw palmetto herbal blend in men with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) via a randomized, placebo controlled trial. 
Does honey help against acute cough in children? [SEP] to evaluate the efficacy of honey and/or lozenges in the management of children with chronic non-specific cough. data from acute studies suggest a potential role for honey in relieving cough, but whether this is applicable to chronic cough is unknown. honey is recommended for non-specific acute paediatric cough by the australian guidelines. several remedies, including honey, have been used to alleviate cough symptoms. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. several remedies, including honey, have been used to alleviate cough symptoms. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. to compare effectiveness of honey, salbutamol and placebo in the treatment of cough in children with acute onset cough. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. to evaluate the effectiveness of honey for acute cough in children in ambulatory settings. 
Can Artemisia tea cure malaria as well as drugs? [SEP] in an open, randomized, controlled pilot trial, we investigated the efficacy and safety of traditional tea preparations of artemisia annua in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria. prior small-scale clinical trials showed that artemisia annua and artemisia afra infusions, decoctions, capsules, or tablets were low cost, easy to use, and efficient in curing malaria infections. this study merits further investigation for possible inclusion of artemisia tea infusions as an alternative for fighting and eradicating malaria. in african countries a tea infusion prepared from artemisia annua has been used for the treatment of malaria only for the past 10-20 years. several informal claims in africa exist that the artemisia annua tea infusions are also able to inhibit hiv. the objective of this study was to provide quantitative scientific evidence that the artemisia annua tea infusion exhibits anti-hiv activity through in vitro studies. artemisinin plasma concentrations after intake of this herbal tea are sufficient for clinical effects, but insufficient to recommend such preparations as equivalent substitutes for modern artemisinin drugs in malaria therapy. the apolar fractions of both artemisia afra and artemisia annua showed activity against p. falciparum while activity was only found in the tea infusion of artemisia annua. the plant artemisia annua l. (asteraceae) is listed in the chinese pharmacopoeia as a remedy for various fevers including malaria, and contains the well-established antimalarial compound artemisinin. five malaria patients who were treated with a. annua tea showed a rapid disappearance of parasitaemia within 2-4 days. 
Does thyme help against cough? [SEP] the objective of the study was to assess the efficacy and tolerability of a fixed combination of dry extracts of thyme herb and primrose root (thyme-primrose combination) and matched placebo in patients suffering from acute bronchitis with productive cough. in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre phase iv study, 361 outpatients with acute bronchitis and > or = 10 coughing fits during the day, onset of bronchial mucus production with impaired ability to cough up at a maximum of 2 days prior to recruitment, and a bronchitis severity score (bss) > or = 5 score points were randomly assigned to an 11-day treatment (1 tablet three times daily) with either thyme-primrose combination (bronchipret tp fct; n = 183) or placebo (n = 178). the mean reduction in coughing fits on days 7 to 9 relative to baseline (primary endpoint) was 67.1% under thyme-primrose combination compared to 51.3% under placebo (p < 0.0001). in the thyme-primrose combination group, a 50% reduction in coughing fits from baseline was reached about 2 days earlier compared to the placebo group. oral treatment of acute bronchitis with thyme-primrose combination for about 11 days was superior to placebo in terms of efficacy. the meta-analysis revealed strong evidence for a. paniculata (smd = -1.00, 95% ci = -1.85, -0.15; p<0.001) and ivy/primrose/thyme (rr = 1.40, 95% ci = 1.23, 1.60; p<0.001) in treating cough; moderate evidence for p. sidiodes (rr = 4.60; 95% ci = 2.89,7.31; p<0.001), and limited evidence for echinacea (smd = -0.68; 95% ci = -1.32, -0.04; p = 0.04). this review found strong evidence for a. paniculata and ivy/primrose/thyme-based preparations and moderate evidence for p. sidoides being significantly superior to placebo in alleviating the frequency and severity of patients' cough symptoms. only one rct (n = 360) investigating an ivy/thyme combination used a placebo control and showed statistically significant superiority in reducing the frequency and duration of cough. considering the traditional use of ivy leaves, thyme herb, aniseed and marshmallow root in preparations for cough, the reduction in the symptom score as well as the good tolerability the investigated combined herbal cough syrup seems to alleviate cough in consequence of common cold, bronchitis or respiratory tract diseases with formation of mucus. efficacy and safety of an oral thyme/ivy syrup for the treatment of acute cough was previously demonstrated in a randomized clinical trial. 
Does coenzyme Q10 relieve muscle discomfort during treatment with statins? [SEP] the aim of this study is to determine whether coenzyme q10 supplementation would reduce the degree of muscle pain associated with statin treatment. in contrast, no changes in pain severity (+9%, p = ns) or pain interference with daily activities (-11%, p = ns) was observed in the group treated with vitamin e. in conclusion, results suggest that coenzyme q10 supplementation may decrease muscle pain associated with statin treatment. muscle-related problems are a frequently reported adverse effect of statins, and it has been hypothesised that a reduced endogenous coenzyme q10 concentration is a cause of statin-induced myopathy. coenzyme q10 supplementation has therefore been proposed to reduce the adverse muscular effects sometimes seen with statins. here, we consider whether coenzyme q10 has a place in the management of statin-induced myopathy. herein, we tested whether coenzyme q10 supplementation could decrease statin-associated muscular pain in a specific group of patients with mild-to-moderate muscle symptoms. coenzyme q10 supplementation decreased statin-related muscle symptoms in 75% of patients. the present results show that coenzyme q10 supplementation (50 mg twice daily) effectively reduced statin-related mild-to-moderate muscular symptoms, causing lower interference of statin-related muscular symptoms with daily activities. although studies have repeatedly demonstrated a reduction in circulating coenzyme q10 concentrations with statin therapy, it is unclear as to whether tissue levels of coenzyme q10 are significantly affected. coenzyme q10 supplementation has been shown to reverse statin-induced decreases in circulating coenzyme q10 concentrations, although the effect of supplementation on tissue coenzyme q10 concentrations and any resulting clinical benefit has not been adequately assessed. 
Does Chaga mushroom help against cancer or other diseases? [SEP] chaga mushroom (inonotus obliquus) has continued to receive attention as a folk medicine with indications for the treatment of cancers and digestive diseases. thus chaga mushroom may act as a natural anticancer product by preventing the inhibition of gjic through the inactivation of erk1/2 and p38 map kinase. chaga mushrooms have been used in folk and botanical medicine as a remedy for cancer, gastritis, ulcers, and tuberculosis of the bones. chaga mushrooms (inonotus obliquus) are commonly used in traditional treatments in eastern europe and asia due to their diverse pharmacological effects, including anti-tumor and immunologic effects. thus, many cancer patients take chaga mushrooms as a complementary medicine, even during chemotherapy or radiotherapy. herein, we examined the anticancer effects of chaga mushrooms in different types of breast cancer cell lines, and explored the underlying molecular mechanism to better understand their effects and benefits. our data suggest chaga mushrooms may be a beneficial complementary medicine for breast cancer patients. chaga (inonotus obliquus) mushroom is considered as one of the most powerful antioxidants across the world. the chaga mushroom (inonotus obliquus) is claimed to have beneficial properties for human health, such as anti-bacterial, anti-allergic, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities. the fruiting body of inonotus obliquus, a medicinal mushroom called chaga, has been used as a traditional medicine for cancer treatment. 
Can filtering out blue light using blue filter glasses or night mode settings on smartphone, tablet or laptop screens have a beneficial effect on sleep? [SEP] the reduction of melatonin secretion after exposure to blue light emitted from smartphone's screen has been reported to be associated with the negative impact of smartphone use at night on sleep. using sunglasses with amber lenses, or smartphone applications which decrease the users' exposure to blue light before sleep, at least to some extent, can decrease the risk of circadian rhythm disruption and breast cancer. in this study, we examined the effects of covering the screens of smartphones with different filters (changing the effective wavelength of the light) on sleep delay time in 43 healthy students. altogether, these findings lead us to this conclusion that blocking the short-wavelength component of the light emitted by smartphones' screens improves human sleep. using a blue light filter in the evening partially reduces these negative effects. no evidence was found that simply filtering blue light or simply removing relevant content improved sleep quality. our results show disruptive consequences of short-wavelength light for sleep and circadian rhythmicity with a partially attenuating effect of blue-light filters. specifically, we theorize that wearing blue-light filtering glasses creates a form of physiologic darkness, thus improving both sleep quantity and quality. we then argue that wearing blue-light filtering glasses is related to work engagement, task performance, and nontask performance via sleep quantity and sleep quality. in study 1a, we collected data from 63 managers (519 daily observations) and found that wearing blue-light filtering glasses is an effective intervention to improve physiological (sleep), attitudinal (work engagement), and behavioral (task performance, organizational citizenship behavior, and counterproductive work behavior) outcomes. 
Is strophanthin an effective cardiovascular drug? [SEP] a theory of the action of strophanthin is formulated which reconciles the results which point to the importance of the total amount taken up by the heart with those inidicate that the concentration of the drug is the determining factor. single drop 0.01 m k-strophanthin delivery lowered pressure in rabbits and cats to a maximal decrease of 5-6 mm hg 3-4 h after drug administration. the tested compounds showed a less potent or similar toxicity towards reference drugs, were devoid of an antiarrhythmic activity in the model of barium arrhythmia, yet some of them (compounds 9 and 12) increased the arrhythmogenic dose of strophanthin. the myocardial effects of g-strophanthin and the partial beta 1-adrenoceptor agonist xamoterol were compared to the effects of isoprenaline in the isolated spontaneously beating rabbit heart. g-strophanthin at a concentration of 268 nm acted additively with xamoterol with regard to maximum contractility and without causing any further increase in myocardial oxygen consumption except at the highest concentrations but there was a slightly increased nodal rhythm at xamoterol concentrations higher than about 20 nm. hemodynamic effects of k-strophanthin (0.005 mg/kg i.v.) in normal subjects k-strophanthin exerted small effects without peripheral vasoconstriction. cad patients showed different response to k-strophanthin in vascular tone: an increase (group 1) or a decrease (group 2) in total systemic resistance (tsr). in group 2 the indexes of "pump" function increased after k-strophanthin and the end-systolic pressure-volume points shifted upward and to the left, while in group 1 no improvement in cardiac function was observed and the end-systolic pressure-volume points shifted upward and to the right. our results show that k-strophanthin in cad non-failing patients can have either a positive effect or a lack of improvement in ventricular performance. 
Can regular intake of vitamin C prevent colds? [SEP] regular vitamin c supplementation (> or =1 g/day) has quite consistently reduced the duration of colds, but the size of the benefit has varied greatly. our literature review revealed that vitamin c is not effective at preventing the common cold in the general adult population; however, it is effective at preventing colds when consumed regularly by athletes training in subarctic conditions. we also found that regular vitamin c consumption may reduce the duration of cold symptoms in both adults and children, but it does not decrease the severity of cold symptoms. vitamin c has been reported to reduce the incidence of colds. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). regularly administered vitamin c has shortened the duration of colds, indicating a biological effect. the objective of this review was to answer the following two questions: (1) does regular high dosage supplementation with vitamin c reduce the incidence of colds? long term daily supplementation with vitamin c in large doses daily does not appear to prevent colds. there appears to be a modest benefit in reducing duration of cold symptoms from ingestion of relatively high doses of vitamin c. the relation of dose to therapeutic benefit needs further exploration. although the role of vitamin c in common cold incidence had been studied extensively, the level of vitamin c intake has not been unequivocally shown to affect the incidence of colds. 
Can taking vitamin C after the onset of a cold relieve symptoms or shorten the illness? [SEP] vitamin c prophylaxis may modestly reduce the duration and severity of the common cold in the general population and may reduce the incidence of the illness in persons exposed to physical and environmental stresses. in the evaluation of vitamin c, administration of extra therapeutic doses at the onset of cold despite routine supplementation was found to help reduce its duration (mean difference (md) = -0.56, 95% confidence interval (ci) [-1.03, -0.10], and p = 0.02), shorten the time of confinement indoors (md = -0.41, 95% ci [-0.62, -0.19], and p = 0.0002), and relieve the symptoms associated with it, including chest pain (md = -0.40, 95% ci [-0.77, -0.03], and p = 0.03), fever (md = -0.45, 95% ci [-0.78, -0.11], and p = 0.009), and chills (md = -0.36, 95% ci [-0.65, -0.07], and p = 0.01). extra doses of vitamin c could benefit some patients who contract the common cold despite taking daily vitamin c supplements. in children, 1 to 2 g/day vitamin c shortened colds by 18%. the severity of colds was also reduced by regular vitamin c administration.seven comparisons examined the effect of therapeutic vitamin c (3249 episodes). doses of vitamin c in excess of 1 g daily taken shortly after onset of a cold did not reduce the duration or severity of cold symptoms in healthy adult volunteers when compared with a vitamin c dose less than the minimum recommended daily intake. the objective of this review was to answer the following two questions: (1) does regular high dosage supplementation with vitamin c reduce the incidence of colds? (2) does taking vitamin c in high doses at the onset of a cold have a therapeutic effect? however in trials that tested vitamin c after cold symptoms occurred, there was some evidence that a large dose produced greater benefits than lower doses. there appears to be a modest benefit in reducing duration of cold symptoms from ingestion of relatively high doses of vitamin c. the relation of dose to therapeutic benefit needs further exploration. 
Do saline nasal rinses and nasal sprays or inhaling with steam from saline solution help with colds? [SEP] to compare the effect of two saline nasal sprays on nasal patency and mucociliary clearance in patients with rhinosinusitis. buffered physiological saline significantly affected nasal airway patency (p = 0.006). buffered physiological and buffered hypertonic saline nasal sprays both improve mucociliary clearance, which is beneficial for treatment of rhinosinusitis. for adults, antihistamines, intranasal corticosteroids, codeine, nasal saline irrigation, echinacea angustifolia preparations, and steam inhalation are ineffective at relieving cold symptoms. to determine whether hypertonic saline nasal spray relieves nasal symptoms and shortens illness duration in patients with the common cold or acute rhinosinusitis. hypertonic saline does not improve nasal symptoms or illness duration in patients with the common cold or rhinosinusitis. the purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of three doses of ib nasal spray versus either vehicle or no treatment in relieving rhinorrhea in patients with naturally acquired colds. the use of ib nasal spray appears to be a rational and safe approach to relieving rhinorrhea associated with the common cold. twenty volunteers used a buffered preservative-free acidified solution in a saline nasal spray and a benzalkonium chloride-containing saline nasal spray for 1 week each, separated by a 1-week washout period. ipratropium bromide treatment significantly increased nasal conditioning capacity when compared with saline. 
Do remedies with ginseng help with erectile dysfunction? [SEP] this systematic review evaluates the current evidence for the effectiveness of red ginseng for treating erectile dysfunction. subgroup analyses also showed beneficial effects of red ginseng in psychogenic erectile dysfunction (n = 135, risk ratio, 2.05; 95% ci of 1.33, 3.16, p = 0.001, heterogeneity: chi(2) = 0.08, p = 0.96, i(2) = 0%). the overall therapeutic efficacies on erectile dysfunction were 60% for ginseng group and 30% for placebo and trazodone treated groups, statistically confirming the effect of ginseng (p < 0.05). we investigated the efficacy of korean red ginseng for erectile dysfunction using the international index of erectile function, rigiscan (urohealth systems, laguna niguel, california), hormonal levels and penile duplex ultrasonography with audiovisual sexual stimulation. our data show that korean red ginseng can be as effective alternative for treating male erectile dysfunction. the objectives of this study were to assess the effects of ginseng on erectile dysfunction. ginseng appears to have a trivial effect on erectile dysfunction when compared to placebo based on the erectile function domain of the international index of erectile function (iief)-15 instrument (mean difference [md] 3.52, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.79 to 5.25; i²=0%; 3 studies; low coe). however, arginine, yohimbine, panax ginseng, maca, and ginkgo biloba all have some degree of evidence they may be helpful for erectile dysfunction. korean ginseng and mountain ginseng (panax ginseng ca meyer) are important traditional herbal plants whose ginsenosides are generally accepted as serving to improve sexual functions, such as penile erection. we investigated the effects of tissue-cultured mountain ginseng extract (tmge) on male patients with erectile dysfunction (ed). 
Can taking spermidine prolong life? Can it prevent diseases? [SEP] exogenous supply of spermidine prolongs the life span of several model organisms including yeast (saccharomyces cerevisiae), nematodes (caenorhabditis elegans) and flies (drosophila melanogaster) and significantly reduces age-related oxidative protein damage in mice, indicating that this agent may act as a universal anti-aging drug. spermidine, a natural polyamine, plays a critical role in molecular and cellular interactions involved in various physiological and functional processes. spermidine has been shown to modulate aging, suppress the occurrence and severity of age-related diseases, and prolong lifespan. however, the precise mechanisms through which spermidine exerts its anti-aging effects have not been established. in this review, we elucidate on the mechanisms and roles underlying the beneficial effects of spermidine in aging from a molecular and cellular perspective. moreover, we provide new insights into the promising potential diagnostic and therapeutic applications of spermidine in aging and age-related diseases. in preclinical models, dietary supplementation with spermidine prolongs life span and health span. spermidine is an abundant, ubiquitous polyamine that has been found to display strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. to further investigate whether spermidine is an effective intervention for alcohol-induced liver disease, we examined its hepatoprotective properties using a two-hit, chronic ethanol and acute lipopolysaccharide (lps)-induced mouse model of liver injury. together, our results indicate that spermidine is an antioxidant thereby conferring anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic effects associated with alcoholic liver injury. 
Can capsules or tablets with lactase improve the symptoms of lactose intolerance and make dairy products more tolerable? [SEP] however, in lactase-deficient individuals, lactose feeding supports the growth of lactose-digesting bacteria in the colon, which enhances colonic lactose processing and possibly results in the reduction of intolerance symptoms. in conclusion, endogenous lactase expression does not depend on the presence of dietary lactose, but in susceptible individuals, dietary lactose might improve intolerance symptoms via colonic adaptation. the aim was to study the effect of lactase chewable tablets on clinical symptoms and hydrogen breath excretion in patients with lactose intolerance. orally supplemented lactase enzyme significantly reduced the clinical symptoms and hydrogen breath excretion in patients with lactose intolerance. many products are marketed nowadays as alternatives to dairy products for lactose-intolerant individuals. as scientific knowledge on lactose intolerance has notably advanced in recent decades, the aim of this work was to review the current state of the knowledge on lactose and lactose intolerance, its diagnosis and clinical management, and the various food products that are offered specifically for non-tolerant individuals. these results indicate, therefore, that coingestion of lactose and lactase-containing tablets significantly reduces both breath hydrogen excretion and clinical symptoms associated with lactose intolerance. to compare the efficacy of three commercially available oral lactase preparations in adults with lactose intolerance. lactrase and dairy ease influenced symptoms: lactrase reduced pain, bloating and total symptomatic scores (p < 0.05), whereas dairy ease only reduced pain (p < 0.05). to review current clinical practice and identify published literature on the management of lactose intolerance. 
Can weighted blankets help with sleep disorders? [SEP] to assess the effectiveness of a weighted-blanket intervention in treating severe sleep problems in children with autism spectrum disorder (asd). the use of a weighted blanket did not help children with asd sleep for a longer period of time, fall asleep significantly faster, or wake less often. this study aimed to evaluate the effect of weighted chain blankets on insomnia and sleep-related daytime symptoms for patients with major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. the intervention by the weighted blanket resulted in a significantly better sleep-maintenance, a higher daytime activity level, and reduced daytime symptoms of fatigue, depression, and anxiety. weighted chain blankets are an effective and safe intervention for insomnia in patients with major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, also improving daytime symptoms and levels of activity. the aim of this study was to investigate whether the use of a weighted blanket has a positive impact on sleep and everyday activities in individuals with adhd and/or asd. findings demonstrated that a weighted blanket improved abilities related to falling asleep, sleeping the whole night, and relaxing during the day. weighted blankets showed positive impact on falling asleep, sleeping the whole night, and relaxing during the day, and they were used frequently by children and adults with adhd and/or asd. the findings based on using a weighted blanket intervention were enhanced morning mood after night use and a significantly decreased time to fall asleep for participants, though they were not strong enough to recommend for clinical use. weighted blankets may be an appropriate therapeutic tool in reducing anxiety; however, there is not enough evidence to suggest they are helpful with insomnia. 
Does the drug remdesivir prevent COVID-19 deaths? [SEP] furthermore, remdesivir use could have prevented 7639 deaths due to covid-19, which implies a 27.51% reduction (95% ci 14.25%-34.07%). remdesivir is a prodrug of an adenosine triphosphate analogue and is currently the only drug formally approved for the treatment of hospitalised covid-19 patients. remdesivir, a drug originally designed to be used for ebola virus, has antiviral activity against sars-cov-2 and has been included in the covid-19 treatment regimens. remdesivir (gs-5734) is a nucleotide analogue prodrug with broad antiviral activity1,2 that is currently being investigated in covid-19 clinical trials and recently received emergency use authorization from the us food and drug administration3,4. the purpose of the article is to review available preclinical, clinical, and post-marketing data to assess the safety and efficacy of remdesivir in the treatment of covid-19 patients. the substantial evidence of its effectiveness in a few trials together with the favorable safety profile makes remdesivir a primary therapeutic candidate for treatment in adult and pediatric patients who are hospitalized with covid-19 and requiring oxygen supplementation. while remdesivir does not improve mortality, it has been shown to reduce the recovery time and increase the odds for clinical improvement, specifically in patients with early presentation and moderate covid-19 disease. list the clinical data of the role of remdesivir in covid-19, and try to make an objective evaluation and analyze its feasibility. in this review, we summarize clinical case of using remdesivir in the treatment of covid-19, analyzed the final treatment results, and judged whether the drug was effective for the treatment of covid-19. according to the clinical results, it was found that remdesivir was effective in the treatment of covid-19. 
Does magnetic resonance therapy improve complaints of knee osteoarthritis or herniated discs (e.g. pain)? [SEP] magnetic resonance imaging at follow-up examination 3 months later demonstrated complete resolution of the disc herniation. future magnetic resonance imaging studies should correlate direction of disc herniation with age and symptomatology to validate or improve classifications of infectious spondylitis, which presently include only the last two parameters. significant improvement was obtained of psoriatic skin lesions, low-back pain and mri findings through a six-month treatment period. retrospective clinical and magnetic resonance imaging study of patients with groin pain associated with lower lumbar disc herniation. patients with lumbar disc herniation sometimes report groin pain. little mention has been made, however, regarding the clinical features of groin pain stemmed from lower lumbar disc herniation until now, with only murphey referring to groin pain in disc disease. although radiography of the knee joint showed slight osteoarthritic change, the pain remained unexplained. mri is an accurate modality in the diagnosis of disc herniation, as well as recurrent disc herniation, degenerative disc disease, and other abnormalities that may present as back pain. magnetic resonance imaging can identify most of the painful discs but still has relatively high false-negative and false-positive rates. it was demonstrated that examination performed during the acute phase using magnetic resonance imaging is necessary for elucidation of the pathogenesis of cervical disc herniation, and that migrating, lateral-type herniations regress so frequently that conservative treatment should be chosen not only for patients with radicular pain, but also for those with upper limb amyotrophy. 
Are oral zinc supplements effective for treating a cold (chill)? [SEP] thus, we aim to assess the effects of providing micronutrients singly through oral means, on cold incidence, and/or management (in terms of cold duration and symptom severity) in healthy adults from systematically searched randomized controlled trials. however, zinc supplementation was observed to potentially reduce cold duration by 2.25 days (when zinc is provided singly, 95% ci: -3.39, -1.12). this suggests that zinc supplementation may reduce the overall burden due to common cold among healthy adults. zinc has generally been administered by the oral route in studies of prevention or treatment of the common cold. zinc treatment had no effect on total symptom score, rhinorrhea, nasal obstruction, or the proportion of infected volunteers who developed clinical colds. we suggest that the antibiotic enhanced zinc absorption from the oral supplement thereby effecting resolution of the patient's zinc deficiency. is oral zinc associated with a shorter duration, decreased severity, and reduced incidence of the common cold compared with placebo? when initiated within 24 hours of symptom onset, oral zinc is associated with a shorter duration of the common cold in healthy people. used prophylactically, oral zinc is associated with a reduced cold incidence in children. this article aims at reviewing recent literature on the effects of oral zinc for treating acute diarrhea in children. 
Do oral zinc supplements prevent a cold??? [SEP] thus, we aim to assess the effects of providing micronutrients singly through oral means, on cold incidence, and/or management (in terms of cold duration and symptom severity) in healthy adults from systematically searched randomized controlled trials. however, zinc supplementation was observed to potentially reduce cold duration by 2.25 days (when zinc is provided singly, 95% ci: -3.39, -1.12). this suggests that zinc supplementation may reduce the overall burden due to common cold among healthy adults. considering zinc, the supplementation may shorten the duration of colds by approximately 33%. in conclusion, the current evidence of efficacy for zinc, vitamins d and c, and echinacea is so interesting that cc patients may be encouraged to try them for preventing/treating their colds, although further studies are needed on this topic. zinc has generally been administered by the oral route in studies of prevention or treatment of the common cold. compared to the placebo group, the zinc group had shorter mean duration of cold symptoms and decreased total severity scores for cold symptoms (p<0.0001). is oral zinc associated with a shorter duration, decreased severity, and reduced incidence of the common cold compared with placebo? when initiated within 24 hours of symptom onset, oral zinc is associated with a shorter duration of the common cold in healthy people. used prophylactically, oral zinc is associated with a reduced cold incidence in children. 
Is colloidal gold good for health? [SEP] as colloidal gold is a good labeling substance that can accelerate antibody-antigen reaction which result can be read directly by naked eyes, the colloidal gold particles could replace the enzyme to be labeled to antibody in aflatoxin b(1) (afb(1)) immunoassay. at first, the colloidal gold was synthesized and colloidal gold-monoclonal antibody (mcab) conjugates against afb(1) were prepared at ph 7.0 of colloidal gold solution, 0.018mg/ml of mcab. amplification with latex particles gave a higher signal than did that with colloidal gold. application of colloidal gold led to a sensitivity increase of approximately three orders of magnitude compared with nonamplified detection. we describe a synthetic procedure for preparation of large quantities of monodisperse thiol-stabilized gold colloids in toluene solution. absorption spectra from colloids containing different concentrations of spherical gold nanoparticles in water were measured with a spectrophotometer. its good resolution, high contrast, and good labeling efficiency offers a promising approach to the specific localization of cell surface antigenic sites labeled with particles of colloidal gold. preparation of colloidal gold entrapped in liposomes was achieved by a modified method of hong, et al. in this report, a gold chloride/citrate solution of low ph (3.4) was used to inhibit the formation of gold granules during the liposome preparation. silver-enhanced gold particles were clearly observed in both liver and implanted tumor. 
Do probiotics alleviate the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome? [SEP] the results indicate that this probiotic mixture is effective in alleviating irritable bowel syndrome symptoms. this multispecies probiotic seems to be an effective and safe option to alleviate symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome, and to stabilize the intestinal microbiota. a multispecies probiotic has shown beneficial effects in irritable bowel syndrome. probiotics are live microbial food supplements.the aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials study was to evaluate the efficacy of probiotics in alleviating symptoms in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. probiotics may have a role in alleviating some of the symptoms of ibs, a condition for which currently evidence of efficacy of drug therapies is weak. scientific bases for possible benefits of selected probiotics on irritable bowel symptoms have been identified. the notion of treating irritable bowel syndrome with probiotics is particularly attractive to patients and generates great interest, although clinical evidence is not yet sufficient to enable clear guidelines to be designed. this study was designed to evaluate whether probiotics improve symptoms in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. probiotics may improve symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome and can be used as supplement to standard therapy. the efficacy of probiotics in alleviating the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) appears to be both strain- and dose-related. 
Do you get a stomach ache if you eat cherries or other stone fruit and then drink water? [SEP] rats given saccharin to drink by mouth drank more fluid than rats given cherry-flavored water to drink. on the other hand, infusions of 6% carbohydrate had no effect on the intake of rats given cherry-flavored water to drink. in an attempt to determine whether rats could be trained to respond to cherry flavor at all, rats were infused with a liquid diet whenever they drank cherry or saccharin-flavored water. the processing of fruits, such as cherries, is characterized by generating a lot of waste material such as fruit stones, skins, etc. as a result of considerable rain in may of 2009 and 2011, an ornamental planting of kwanzan cherries in middletown, rhode island (ri), a planting of sweet cherry cvs. later, it was learned that the patient had the habit of eating stone. sour (tart) cherry is an industrial fruit where a considerable amount of by-products remain after processing. sour cherry by-products consist of pomace (skin and flesh) and seeds (pit, stone) which remain after the fruit juice and iqf processes. in july 2010, 20 sweet cherry fruit (prunus avium) of unknown variety with symptoms resembling brown rot were collected from one commercial orchard in maryland. this study shows that tart cherries are largely not susceptible to d. suzukii when unripe and become susceptible as soon as the fruits change color, suggesting that fruits should be protected as soon as they begin to ripen and d. suzukii populations begin to rise. 
Can acoustic CR ® neuromodulation according to Tass help with tinnitus? [SEP] to evaluate the current evidence on acoustic cr neuromodulation as a method for the treatment of tinnitus and to assess whether the method can be implemented in daily clinical practice. studies regarding acoustic cr neuromodulation as a treatment method for tinnitus were included in the present review. the main findings in the included studies were that acoustic cr neuromodulation was safe and well tolerated and most patients reported reduction of tinnitus symptoms. the limited level of evidence suggests that acoustic cr neuromodulation may have positive effects on tinnitus symptoms. in a previous proof of concept study acoustic cr neuromodulation, employing stimulation tone patterns tailored to the dominant tinnitus frequency, was compared to noisy cr-like stimulation, a cr version significantly detuned by sparing the tinnitus-related pitch range and including substantial random variability of the tone spacing on the frequency axis. sixty-six patients with subjective tonal tinnitus were treated with acoustic cr neuromodulation with a retrospective review of patient records being performed in order to identify changes of visual analog scale (vas, n = 66) and in the score of the tinnitus handicap questionnaire (thq, n = 51). acoustic cr neuromodulation therapy appears to be a practical and promising treatment for subjective tonal tinnitus. in a prospective, randomized, single blind, placebo-controlled trial in 63 patients with chronic tonal tinnitus and up to 50 db hearing loss we studied safety and efficacy of different doses of acoustic cr neuromodulation. this method is based on cr neuromodulation, which has been demonstrated to be an effective treatment for chronic tonal tinnitus. our results suggest that hta-cr neuromodulation might be at least comparable to standard cr neuromodulation providing another effective therapeutic option for the treatment of chronic tonal tinnitus. 
Is ivermectin an effective drug for treating covid 19 disease? [SEP] these limited in vitro results triggered the investigation of ivermectin as a treatment option to alleviate covid-19 disease. in april 2021, the world health organization stated, however, the following: "the current evidence on the use of ivermectin to treat covid-19 patients is inconclusive". in the view of the available evidence, the frontline covid-19 critical care alliance (flccc) recommends the use of oral ivermectin for both prophylaxis and early-treatment of covid-19. ivermectin has recently emerged as one of the therapies having a beneficial effect on covid-19. ivermectin, owing to its properties, continues to be a possible treatment against the covid-19 disease. in this article, we have reviewed recent studies and explored the effectiveness of ivermectin in hospitalized covid-19 patients. thus, we document the potential use of ivermectin and remdesivir in the management of covid -19. ivermectin, an antiparasitic agent, is not recommended for prophylaxis or treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). fda-approved anti-parasite drug ivermectin is also an antibacterial, antiviral, and anticancer agent, which offers more potentiality to improve global public health, and it can effectively inhibit the replication of sars-cov-2 in vitro. these findings demonstrate the broad-spectrum antiviral property of ivermectin benefiting for covid-19 treatment in the context of predictive, preventive, and personalized medicine in virus-related diseases. 
Does ivermectin lower the risk of death in covid-19? [SEP] the therapeutic and preventive role of ivermectin in coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) is being investigated. hcws who had taken two doses of oral ivermectin had a significantly lower risk of contracting covid-19 infection during the following month (arr 0.17; 95% ci, 0.12-0.23). we assessed the efficacy of ivermectin treatment in reducing mortality, in secondary outcomes, and in chemoprophylaxis, among people with, or at high risk of, covid-19 infection. meta-analysis of 15 trials found that ivermectin reduced risk of death compared with no ivermectin (average risk ratio 0.38, 95% confidence interval 0.19-0.73; n = 2438; i2 = 49%; moderate-certainty evidence). low-certainty evidence found that ivermectin prophylaxis reduced covid-19 infection by an average 86% (95% confidence interval 79%-91%). moderate-certainty evidence finds that large reductions in covid-19 deaths are possible using ivermectin. does ivermectin benefit hospitalized coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) patients? ivermectin treatment was associated with lower mortality during treatment of covid-19, especially in patients with severe pulmonary involvement. the effect of ivermectin on mortality in patients with novel coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) has been investigated in many studies. we observed a preliminary beneficial effect on mortality associated with ivermectin use in patients with covid-19 that warrants further clinical evidence in appropriately designed large-scale randomized controlled trials. 
Can green tea protect against coronavirus infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] we reviewed the antiviral activities of two polyphenols derived from tea, epigallocatechin-3-gallate (egcg) from green tea and theaflavins from black tea. both green tea and black tea polyphenols have been reported to exhibit antiviral activities against various viruses, especially positive-sense single-stranded rna viruses. this review summarizes the available reports and evidences which support the use of tea polyphenols as potential candidates in prophylaxis and treatment of covid-19. the role of tea polyphenols in prophylaxis and treatment of covid-19 was established in this study. these results can provide a lead in exploring both the tea polyphenols in prophylaxis as well as treatment of covid-19. recently, egcg, a green tea polyphenol, was reported to inhibit sars-cov-2 3cl-protease, however the effect of egcg on coronavirus replication is unknown. pre-clinical studies highlighted the antiviral activities of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (egcg), a catechin primarily found in green tea, against various viruses, including sars-cov-2. epigallocatechin gallate (egcg) is a major catechin found in green tea, and there is mounting evidence that egcg is potentially useful for the treatment of coronavirus diseases, including coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). egcg is a major constituent of brewed green tea, and several studies have reported that egcg inhibits the enzymatic activity of the coronavirus 3cl protease. in conclusion, egcg can be considered a potential safe natural supplement to counteract hyper-inflammation growing in covid-19. 
Does vitamin D alleviate autism symptoms in children? [SEP] children with autism spectrum disorders (asd) have lower serum vitamin d and higher serotonin and interleukin (il)-6 levels compared with healthy children. the aim of this study was to assess the effects of vitamin d supplementation on the core symptoms of autism in children. the autism symptoms of the children improved significantly, following 4-month vitamin d3 supplementation, but not in the placebo group. this study demonstrates the efficacy and tolerability of high doses of vitamin d3 in children with asd. depending on the parameters measured in the study, oral vitamin d supplementation may safely improve signs and symptoms of asd and could be recommended for children with asd. objectives: this study was designed to investigate the vitamin a (va) and vitamin d (vd) levels in children with autism spectrum disorders (asd) and to determine whether co-deficiency of va and vd exacerbates clinical symptoms in autistic children. high prevalence of vitamin d deficiency was previously reported in children with autism spectrum disorder (asd), but little is known about the efficacy of vitamin d3 treatment in asd, although data from pilot studies seem promising. we conducted a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to explore whether vitamin d supplementation is beneficial for symptom improvement in children with autism spectrum disorder. furthermore, we analyzed baseline serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels and outcome scores including the social responsiveness scale and child autism rating scale scores after vitamin d supplementation. vitamin d supplementation improves the typical symptoms of autism spectrum disorder, as indicated by reduced social responsiveness scale and child autism rating scale scores; thus, it is beneficial for children with autism spectrum disorder. 
Does glutathione improve the tolerability of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] overexpression of fzd7 activated the oncogenic factor tp63, driving upregulation of glutathione metabolism pathways, including glutathione peroxidase 4 (gpx4), which protected cells from chemotherapy-induced oxidative stress. evidence is increasing that improved protection against reactive oxygen species (ros) participates in therapy resistance of chronically hypoxic cancer cells. altered glutamine utilization of the anoxia-tolerant cancer cells contributed to the observed decrease in cellular ros levels, the increase in cellular glutathione levels, and improved cell survival on ros-inducing treatments, including exposure to ionizing radiation. importantly, targeting glutamine-dependent antioxidant capacity or glutathione metabolism allowed us to hit anoxia-tolerant cancer cells and to overcome their increased resistance to radiation-induced cell death. targeting glutathione metabolism by piperlongumine also improved the radiation response of anoxia-tolerant nci-h460 cells in vivo. improved antioxidant capacity downstream of up-regulated got1-expression is a characteristic of anoxia-tolerant cancer cells and is predictive for a specific vulnerability to inhibition of glutamine utilization or glutathione metabolism, respectively. glutathione is an important intracellular antioxidant and redox potential regulator that plays a vital role in drug detoxification and elimination and in cellular protection from damage by free radicals, peroxides, and toxins. molecular alterations reported in many of the components of the glutathione system in various tumors and cancer cell lines can lead to increased survival and enhanced chemotherapy drug resistance. several glutathione analogues that target this system have been developed and used experimentally and clinically in an attempt to improve cancer chemotherapy. continuing development and optimization of glutathione analogues will lead to more specific targeting of this system in cancer treatment, allowing an increased therapeutic response. 
Does carnosine relieve autism symptoms in children? [SEP] the aim of this trial study was to examine the effects of carnosine supplementation on the sleep disorders and severity of autism core symptoms in autistic patients. in this double-blind, randomized clinical trial, 43 autistic patients (31 boys and 12 girls; aged 4 to 16 years) were divided into two groups of carnosine and control that received 500 mg of carnosine and 500 mg of placebo per day for 2 months, respectively. gilliam autism rating scale 2 was used to assess the effects of carnosine supplementation on the autism severity. carnosine supplementation did not change anthropometric indices (p > 0.05) and showed no effect on autism severity (p > 0.05), whereas it significantly reduced sleep duration (p = 0.04), parasomnias (p = 0.02) and total sleep disorders score by 7.59% (p = 0.006) when compared with the control group. there is a paucity of data about the effectiveness of l-carnosine in the management of autism spectrum disorder (asd) in children. this study aimed at investigating the effectiveness of l-carnosine as adjunctive therapy in the management of asd. after 8 weeks on l-carnosine, children showed statistically significant improvements on the gilliam autism rating scale (total score and the behavior, socialization, and communication subscales) and the receptive one-word picture vocabulary test (all p < .05). the findings indicate that supplementation of carnosine could not change advanced glycation end products and precursor of advanced lipoxidation end products in autistic children. this study aimed at investigating the efficacy and tolerability of l-carnosine as an add-on to risperidone in the management of children with autism. this review aimed to assess the effect of l-carnosine in the management of asd in children. 
Can echinacea protect against Sars-CoV-2 infection or help treat covid-19? [SEP] therefore we investigated the virucidal and antiviral potential of echinacea purpurea (echinaforce®) against human coronavirus (hcov) 229e, highly pathogenic mers- and sars-covs, as well as the newly identified sars-cov-2, in vitro. the observed virucidal activity of echinaforce® was not restricted to common cold coronaviruses, as both sars-cov-1 and mers-covs were inactivated at comparable concentrations. finally, the causative agent of covid-19, sars-cov-2 was also inactivated upon treatment with 50μg/ml echinaforce®. therefore we hypothesize that echinacea purpurea preparations, such as echinaforce®, could be effective as prophylactic treatment for all covs due to their structural similarities. recently, echinacea preparations, particularly e. purpurea, have been suggested to be an important antiviral agent to be useful in covid-19 by modulating virus entry, internalization and replication. considering the pharmacological effects, therapeutic potential, and molecular mechanisms of echinacea, we hypothesize that it could be a reasonably possible candidate for targeting infection, immunity, and inflammation in covid-19 with recent recognition of cannabinoid-2 (cb2) receptors and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (pparγ) mediated mechanisms of bioactive components that make them notable immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory and antiviral agent. our proposition is to scientifically contemplate the therapeutic perspective and prospect of echinacea on infection, immunity, and inflammation with a potential in covid-19 to limit the severity and progression of the disease. we do hope that echinacea could be a candidate agent for immunomodulation in the prevention and treatment of covid-19. will sars-cov-2 vaccines work? in this manuscript, we discuss the different monoclonal antibody and vaccine therapies available against covid-19 and how the efficacy of these therapies is affected by the emergence of variants of sars-cov-2. 
Does amygdalin, the toxin from the seeds of apricots and other stone fruits, help against cancer? [SEP] apricot seeds are potentially useful in human nutrition and amygdalin is the major cyanogenic glycoside present therein. our findings suggest dose-dependent negative effect of pure amygdalin, but not apricot seeds on the rabbit spermatozoa parameters. apricot seeds due to the presence of cyanogenic glycoside amygdalin belong to the popular "alternative cancer cures", although anticancer effect of amygdalin remains controversial. this in vivo study points to the effect of long-term peroral administration of bitter apricot seeds on bone microstructure of rabbits since chronic amygdalin toxicity in relation to bone parameters has not been investigated yet. the present in vivo study was designed to reveal whether pure amygdalin intramuscularly injected or apricot seeds oral consumption induce changes in overall health status of rabbit as a biological model. bitter apricot seeds possess a number of pharmacological properties including antitumor activity and amygdalin from bitter apricot seeds can induce apoptosis. in this study, we investigated the cyto/genotoxic effects of bitter apricot ethanolic extract (baee) and amygdalin on human pancreatic cancer panc-1 and normal epithelial 293/kdr cells. amygdalin (vitamin b-17) is a naturally occurring vitamin found in the seeds of the fruits of prunus rosacea family including apricot, bitter almond, cherry, and peach. amygdalin is a natural anti-cancer agent, which can be used for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. amygdalin is a cyanogenic glycoside occurring among others in almonds and bitter apricot seeds with interesting levels of dietary protein. 
Can ginkgo extract relieve the symptoms of tinnitus? [SEP] this study aimed to investigate the effect of hearing aids and/or ginkgo biloba extract egb 761 on tinnitus in patients with hearing loss. we observed a significant improvement in self-perception of tinnitus loudness and severity after 90 days of treatment with ginkgo biloba extract egb 761 and/or hearing aids. ginkgo biloba also is effective in improving tinnitus grading and matching in 31.8% cases and improvement was sustained in ginkgo biloba group even after 3 month of cessation of treatment i.e. there are a number of reports in the literature suggesting that ginkgo biloba may be effective in the management of tinnitus. to assess the effect of ginkgo biloba in patients who are troubled by tinnitus. to determine whether ginkgo biloba is effective in treating tinnitus. 50 mg ginkgo biloba extract li 1370 given 3 times daily for 12 weeks is no more effective than placebo in treating tinnitus. there are a number of reports in the literature suggesting that ginkgo biloba may be effective in the management of tinnitus. to assess the effect of ginkgo biloba in patients who are troubled by tinnitus. the ginkgo biloba extract egb 761® has been shown to be effective in reducing neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with dementia and tinnitus. 
Do remedies with ginkgo help against tinnitus in people with dementia? [SEP] the use of dietary supplements to treat tinnitus is common, particularly with ginkgo biloba, lipoflavonoids, magnesium, melatonin, vitamin b12, and zinc. ginkgo biloba is commonly used in the treatment of early-stage alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia, peripheral claudication, and tinnitus of vascular origin. multiple trials investigating the efficacy of ginkgo for treating cerebrovascular disease and dementia have been performed, and systematic reviews suggest the herb can improve the symptoms of dementia. there are a number of reports in the literature suggesting that ginkgo biloba may be effective in the management of tinnitus. to assess the effect of ginkgo biloba in patients who are troubled by tinnitus. three trials (1143 participants) included patients with a primary complaint of tinnitus and one (400 participants) included patients with mild to moderate dementia, some of whom had tinnitus.there was no evidence that gingko biloba was effective in patients with a primary complaint of tinnitus. the limited evidence does not demonstrate that ginkgo biloba is effective for tinnitus when this is the primary complaint. the published evidence suggests that ginkgo is of questionable use for memory loss and tinnitus but has some effect on dementia and intermittent claudication. to determine whether ginkgo biloba is effective in treating tinnitus. 50 mg ginkgo biloba extract li 1370 given 3 times daily for 12 weeks is no more effective than placebo in treating tinnitus. 
Does garlic protect against corona infections? [SEP] in this article, we have taken medicines related to corona and conceptualized their mechanism, which gave us a chance to understand garlic's mechanism of action, how garlic can be a weapon in the lane with this disease. garlic extract was administered as treatment for a mouse pulmonary infection model. the garlic treatment initially provoked a higher degree of inflammation, and significantly improved clearing of the infecting bacteria. a single dose of α, β-arteether with three oral doses of garlic provides almost 95% protection. these results suggest that garlic extract in combination with an antimonial drug, may provide effective therapy against l. major. the immunomodulatory properties of garlic were elucidated in terms of shifting the cytokine response to a th1-type pattern and therefore causing the protective response. the results showed that garlic offers antifungal potential with s. schenckii. the oral taking of garlic extracts influences the releasing of cytokines by macrophages, regular consuming shows anti-inflammatory effect, and its acute use may take to an inflammatory response. mice that consumed garlic responded more effectively to fight against the infection. these results showed that oral administration of crude garlic ameliorated the adverse impacts of hepatic coccidiosis on rabbits when used as a prophylactic, but garlic was less effective as a therapeutic. 
Does garlic protect against a cold (chill)?? [SEP] cold acclimation enhances chilling tolerance, but it is not clear that the process of cold adaption involves dna damage responses, as cold acclimation does not form real chilling stress. here we showed with cucumber fruit that pre-storage cold acclimation (psca) reduces chilling injury and upregulates dna damage inducible protein1 (csddi1), suggesting that the chilling tolerance induced by cold acclimation involves csddi1 transcription. taken together, csddi1 positively regulates chilling tolerance induced by cold acclimation in cucumber. increased chill tolerance) whilst rapid cold hardening does not. we conclude that sestrin and spargel are important in the chill coma response, independent of their role in exercise. most colds are caused by rhinovirus infection, perhaps facilitated by chilling or stress. kissing does not efficiently spread cold infection. prophylactic treatment with interferon does not protect against cold infection. cold stress suppressed the transcription of invinh1 and increased that of cell wall invertase genes, lin6 and lin8 in tomato seedlings. meanwhile, application of aba protected plant from chilling damage caused by the different expression of invinh1. 
Do dietary supplements with magnesium and/or zinc improve symptoms in children with ADHD? [SEP] this review presents the evidence regarding the role of nutritional pufa, zinc, iron, and magnesium supplements in the treatment of adhd with a focus on the critical evaluation of the relevant literature published from 2014 to april 2016. zinc, iron, and magnesium supplementation may reduce adhd symptoms in children with or at high risk of deficiencies in these minerals. although there is limited evidence to support treating adhd with mineral/vitamin supplements, research does exist showing that patients with adhd may have reduced levels of vitamin d, zinc, ferritin, and magnesium. we need more evidence for indicating the effect of zinc, magnesium, and iron supplementation in the treatment of adhd among children. in conclusion, zinc supplements in adjuvant to the main treatment significantly improved symptoms of adhd children. however, a combined zinc and iron supplements was superior to zinc alone in alleviating adhd symptoms as well as iq improvement. the present systematic review and dose-response meta-analysis was conducted to quantify the efficacy of zinc supplementation on clinical symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) in children. our findings showed a significant effect of zinc supplementation on adhd total scores (smd: -0.62 hedges' g; 95% ci: -1.24 to -0.002, p = 0.04) but not in hyperactivity scores (smd: -0.93 hedges' g; 95% ci: -3.31 to 1.45, p = 0.44) and inattention scores (smd: 0.21 hedges' g; 95% ci: -0.09 to 0.51, p = 0.17) compared to the control group. zinc supplementation may have beneficial effects in improving adhd symptoms in children with adhd. zinc supplementation accompanied by the main treatment significantly improves symptom of attention-deficit disorder subtype of adhd. 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae relieve discomfort from a cold ("chill")? [SEP] iota-carrageenan (i-c) is a sulfate polysaccharide synthesized by red algae, with demonstrated antiviral activity and clinical efficacy as nasal spray in the treatment of common cold. this study investigated the efficacy and safety of an iota-carrageenan nasal spray in patients with common cold symptoms. administration of iota-carrageenan nasal spray reduced the symptoms of common cold (p = 0.046) and the viral load in nasal lavages (p = 0.009) in patients with early symptoms of common cold. iota-carrageenan nasal spray appears to be a promising treatment for safe and effective treatment of early symptoms of common cold. clinical trials applying iota-carrageenan nasal spray have previously shown to reduce duration of virus-confirmed common cold. administration of carrageenan nasal spray in children as well as in adults suffering from virus-confirmed common cold reduced duration of disease, increased viral clearance and reduced relapses of symptoms. carrageenan nasal spray appeared as an effective treatment of common cold in children and adults. this study investigated the efficacy of a carrageenan-containing nasal spray on the duration of the common cold and nasal fluid viral load in adult patients. in adults with common cold virus infections, direct local administration of carrageenan with nasal sprays reduced the duration of cold symptoms. nasal carrageenan increased the recovery rate from all colds by 54% (95% ci 15%-105%; p = .003). 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent colds? [SEP] iota-carrageenan (i-c) is a sulfate polysaccharide synthesized by red algae, with demonstrated antiviral activity and clinical efficacy as nasal spray in the treatment of common cold. can a nasal spray with iota-carrageenan be useful in the prophylaxis of covid-19 in health care workers managing patients with covid-19 disease? this study investigated the efficacy and safety of an iota-carrageenan nasal spray in patients with common cold symptoms. administration of iota-carrageenan nasal spray reduced the symptoms of common cold (p = 0.046) and the viral load in nasal lavages (p = 0.009) in patients with early symptoms of common cold. iota-carrageenan nasal spray appears to be a promising treatment for safe and effective treatment of early symptoms of common cold. clinical trials applying iota-carrageenan nasal spray have previously shown to reduce duration of virus-confirmed common cold. administration of carrageenan nasal spray in children as well as in adults suffering from virus-confirmed common cold reduced duration of disease, increased viral clearance and reduced relapses of symptoms. carrageenan nasal spray appeared as an effective treatment of common cold in children and adults. this study investigated the efficacy of a carrageenan-containing nasal spray on the duration of the common cold and nasal fluid viral load in adult patients. in adults with common cold virus infections, direct local administration of carrageenan with nasal sprays reduced the duration of cold symptoms. 
Can the "Miracle Mineral Supplement" MMS (sodium chlorite) cure diseases or alleviate ailments? [SEP] over the past decade, miracle mineral solution (sodium chlorite) has been promoted as a cure-all for many conditions. takeaway for physicians: miracle mineral solution is a commonly purchased potentially lethal compound that can cause methemoglobinemia with respiratory failure, hemolytic anemia requiring transfusion and renal failure requiring dialysis. we present a case report of a 41-year-old woman of malay ethnicity who presented with an 11-day history of fever and left-sided lymphadenopathy after consuming 'miracle mineral solution' (sodium chlorite solution) for the first time. in this case, we hypothesise that oxidative injury from sodium chlorite initiated an inflammatory response, which triggered the onset of kikuchi-fujimoto disease. however, the technique can be a supplement to conventional treatments in tmds, facial pain, pain management sjoegrens syndrome, and in phobias and anxiety. subjects were randomized to four groups, and received either one tablet of high-dose multivitamin and mineral supplement (mms), or one tablet of low-dose mms (low mms), or calcium 162 mg (calcium) or identical placebo (placebo) daily during the study. multimixtures (mms) are dietary supplements prepared with low-cost ingredients and food by-products that are widely used in various countries to counteract malnutrition. although mms have a high content of minerals, they also contain high levels of dietary fiber and associated compounds, which might bind minerals and impair their absorption. in this study, we investigated the hypothesis that the increased dietary fiber content of mms would impair gastrointestinal mineral absorption due to the metal-binding capacity of dietary fiber. thus, we concluded that the increased dietary fiber levels in the mms increased the mineral levels, and mms with intermediate and high fiber levels may be used to improve the mineral balance of poor diets. 
Does MMS help with an infection with the coronavirus (Covid-19)? [SEP] hence, diagnostic imaging has emerged as a fundamental component of the current management of covid-19. and also help in rapid decision-making regarding the management of covid-19 patients. infection control inside the ct suites is also important to prevent hospital-related transmission of covid-19. what does a formal approach to population health science teach us about covid-19? however, although the pandemic of covid-19 has not yet ended, it seems that covid-19 compared to the other coronavirus infections (the middle east respiratory syndrome [mers] and severe acute respiratory syndrome [sars]) is more likely to target the heart. coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) is a novel infection of which we still have much to learn. regarding the management of these patients and positivity to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2), currently, limited data are available and information is evolving. the covid-19 emergency pandemic does not imply undertreatment of existing skin conditions, which together with the sars-cov-2 infection may jeopardize the patient's life. resources have been appropriately allocated toward combating this outbreak, but where does this leave patients with severe non-covid-19 diseases? the t403r ratg13 s is neutralized by sera from individuals vaccinated against covid-19 indicating that vaccination might protect against future zoonoses. 
Does colloidal silver ("silver water") work against infection with the coronavirus or other pathogens? Does it have any other health benefits? [SEP] this study reports the results of in vitro tests of colloidal silver's antimicrobial activity against several pathogenic or non-pathogenic microorganisms. as the tested colloidal silver solutions did not show any antimicrobial effect in vitro on the microorganisms, claims of colloidal silver's antimicrobial potency are misleading and there is no place for it as an antiseptic. the goal of this study was to further evaluate the antimicrobial efficacy of colloidal silver. colloidal silver nanoparticles (nps) are attracting interest as novel effective antimicrobial agents for the prevention of several infectious diseases. colloidal silver is an alternative medicine consisting of silver particles suspended in water. the aim of this study was to determine whether colloidal silver has any direct bactericidal effects on these biofilms in vitro. colloidal silver directly attenuates in vitro s. aureus biofilms. silver has attracted a lot of attention as a powerful, broad spectrum and natural antimicrobial agent since the ancient times because of its nontoxic nature to the human body at low concentrations. additionally silver also provides protection against alcohol toxicity, upper respiratory tract infections and stomach ailments. colloidal silver has particularly benefited from this rush given its empirically and scientifically documented anti-bacterial and anti-viral actions. 
Is whole-body vibration therapy effective in preventing bone fractures in osteoporosis sufferers? [SEP] clinical guidelines for osteoporosis recommend dietary and pharmacologic interventions and weight-bearing exercise to prevent bone fractures. whole body vibration increases the level of growth hormone and testosterone in serum, preventing sarcopenia and osteoporosis. the aim of this study was to review the literature on vibration exercise in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis based on the pubmed and medline database. to review the research literature on the effectiveness of whole-body vibration (wbv) therapy in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. implication of rehabilitation osteoporosis is the leading underlying cause of fractures in postmenopausal women, whole body vibration (wbv) has received much attention as a potential intervention for the management of osteoporosis in recent years. whole body vibration is beneficial for enhancing maximal isometric knee extensor strength in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. whole body vibration has no overall treatment effect on bone mineral density, bone turnover markers, anthropometric parameters and maximal isotonic knee extensor strength in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. mechanical stimulation of bone through whole body vibration therapy appears to be much less effective than bisphosphonate therapy for treating osteoporosis in children. whole-body vibration (wbv) has been recently proposed as a potential alternative to bone stimulation, which combined with therapies, could provide a new treatment for osteoporosis prevention. vibration platforms are used in rehabilitation of osteoporosis, based on the concept that noninvasive, short-duration, mechanical stimulation could have an impact on osteoporosis risk. 
Does regular gargling with antimicrobial mouthwashes protect against contracting coronavirus? Does it help get better faster if you have Covid 19 disease? [SEP] gargling is effective for reducing infection in the respiratory tract. most antiseptic gargles have antimicrobial properties against common respiratory pathogens. this article reviewed available literature on methods and solutions available for gargling and their effect on respiratory tract infections. therefore, we hypothesize that using statins-based prophylactic mouthwashes will reduce covid-19 transmission in dental settings. we have developed a new method for concentrating biological samples, which enabled us to use gargle and mouthwash samples to be used in rt-pcr, for the diagnosis of covid-19, as an alternative to nasopharyngeal swab samples. when concentrated by our new method, gargle and mouthwash samples can be used instead of nasopharyngeal samples in identification of sars-cov-2 by rt-pcr, with the same or better sensitivity. the aim of this study was to report a case series of patients diagnosed with covid-19 that used the phthalocyanine derivate mouthwash to reduce clinical symptoms. all patients presented a significant reduction in clinical symptoms with the use of the mouthwash for gargling/rinsing after few days of use, without hospitalization. daily use of this mouthwash rapidly reduced clinical symptoms such as sore throats, cough and mouth ulcers. efficacy of gargling 0.23% pvp-i mouthwash in japan demonstrated to be efficacious in lowering the prevalence of urtis when compared with placebo. 
Can inhalation with budesonide spray relieve symptoms of covid-19? [SEP] budesonide, an inhaled corticosteroid is used routinely in the treatment of bronchial asthma and rhinitis. the aim of this study was to determine whether budesonide inhalation through a metered dose inhaler, when exhaled through the nose could result in a reduction in the dose requirement of budesonide metered nasal spray in patients having perennial allergic asthma with rhinitis. the results of this study reveal that when a budesonide inhaler is exhaled through the nose, it results in an improvement in symptom scores and peak nasal inspiratory flow rates, which were significantly less than those obtained in the group using both a budesonide nasal spray and a metered dose inhaler. in addition, exhaling budesonide through the nose results in a 40.1% reduction in the dose requirement of a budesonide nasal spray, which is statistically significant (p < 0.001). inhaled glucocorticoids are currently being discussed in the context of treatment for covid-19, partly based on a previous study that reported reduced recovery times in cases of mild covid-19 after inhalative administration of the glucocorticoid budesonide. our results are encouraging as they could indicate a multimodal mode of action of budesonide against sars-cov-2 and covid-19, which could contribute to an improved clinical performance. budesonide/formoterol as maintenance and reliever significantly reduced severe exacerbation risk by 45% to 47% compared with the other 2 treatments and improved symptoms, awakenings, and lung function. budesonide represents an effective topical corticosteroid in the management of allergic rhinitis. budesonide aqueous nasal spray treatment also induced significant symptom relief (p = .006). this study shows that budesonide aqueous nasal spray is effective in exerting immunomodulatory activity by reducing cytokine pattern and relieving symptoms. 
Can budesonide spray inhalation for covid-19 reduce the risk of hospitalization, severe or even fatal outcome? [SEP] a previous efficacy trial found benefit from inhaled budesonide for covid-19 in patients not admitted to hospital, but effectiveness in high-risk individuals is unknown. we aimed to establish whether inhaled budesonide reduces time to recovery and covid-19-related hospital admissions or deaths among people at high risk of complications in the community. inhaled budesonide improves time to recovery, with a chance of also reducing hospital admissions or deaths (although our results did not meet the superiority threshold), in people with covid-19 in the community who are at higher risk of complications. our results are encouraging as they could indicate a multimodal mode of action of budesonide against sars-cov-2 and covid-19, which could contribute to an improved clinical performance. the efficacy of inhaled budesonide for managing moderate-to-severe acute exacerbations in children is not clear. children receiving nebulized budesonide had 43% lower risk of being hospitalized (rr 0.57; 95% ci, 0.39; 0.85) and 66% lower risk of requiring systemic corticosteroids (rr 0.34; 95 % ci, 0.21; 0.55) compared with those receiving placebo. the findings of this meta-analysis support the use of inhaled budesonide in reducing risk of hospitalization and the need for systemic corticosteroids among children with acute moderate-to-severe asthma exacerbation. the aim of this study was to determine whether budesonide inhalation through a metered dose inhaler, when exhaled through the nose could result in a reduction in the dose requirement of budesonide metered nasal spray in patients having perennial allergic asthma with rhinitis. the results of this study reveal that when a budesonide inhaler is exhaled through the nose, it results in an improvement in symptom scores and peak nasal inspiratory flow rates, which were significantly less than those obtained in the group using both a budesonide nasal spray and a metered dose inhaler. in addition, exhaling budesonide through the nose results in a 40.1% reduction in the dose requirement of a budesonide nasal spray, which is statistically significant (p < 0.001). 
Does a nasal spray with carrageenan from red algae prevent infection with coronavirus? Can it alleviate a covid 19 disease that has already broken out? [SEP] it seems that use of carrageenan or other herbal ingredients nasal spray may block the sars-cov-2 virus entering to the lung cells of a contaminated person and also can prevent virus transmission to other susceptible persons. can a nasal spray with iota-carrageenan be useful in the prophylaxis of covid-19 in health care workers managing patients with covid-19 disease? the purpose of this review was to summarize the evidence supporting carrageenan subtypes' antiviral activity against the emerging severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (sars-cov-2), the causative agent of covid-19. carrageenan has been shown to have potent antiviral activity against both coronaviruses (coronavirus nl63, sars-cov-2) and non-coronaviruses such as dengue virus, herpes simplex virus, cytomegalovirus, vaccinia virus, vesicular stomatitis virus, sindbis virus, human immunodeficiency virus, influenza virus, human papillomavirus, rabies virus, junin virus, tacaribe virus, african swine fever, bovine herpes virus, suid herpes virus, and rhinovirus. thus, application of carrageenan-containing nasal and mouth sprays may reduce the risk of acquiring sars-cov-2 infection and may limit viral spread, warranting further clinical evaluation. carrageenan nasal spray showed significant antiviral efficacy in all three virus subgroups, the highest effectiveness was observed in human corona virus-infected patients. administration of carrageenan nasal spray in children as well as in adults suffering from virus-confirmed common cold reduced duration of disease, increased viral clearance and reduced relapses of symptoms. carrageenan nasal spray appeared as an effective treatment of common cold in children and adults. this study investigated the efficacy of a carrageenan-containing nasal spray on the duration of the common cold and nasal fluid viral load in adult patients. in adults with common cold virus infections, direct local administration of carrageenan with nasal sprays reduced the duration of cold symptoms. 
Does the product "BestProvita Diabetin" improve blood glucose levels in type 2 diabetes or does it prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] as most patients with diabetic nephropathy suffer from type 2 diabetes, the aim of this study was to investigate whether par-1 inhibition also limits diabetic nephropathy in experimental type 2 diabetes. overall, we thus show that par-1 inhibition reduces blood glucose levels during the progression of diabetic nephropathy in experimental type 2 diabetes but does not improve renal function. some have hypothesized that dietary phytoestrogens and soy peptides in fermented soybean foods consumed in traditional asian diets may help prevent and slow the progression of type 2 diabetes. this review evaluates the existing evidence from animal studies and clinical and epidemiologic investigations on fermented soybeans in the prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes. several studies revealed improvements in insulin resistance and insulin secretion with the consumption of these fermented products. therefore, fermented soybean products may help prevent or attenuate the progression of type 2 diabetes. although the lack of human intervention trials does not permit definitive conclusions, the evidence does suggest that fermented soy products may be better for preventing or delaying the progression of type 2 diabetes compared with nonfermented soybeans. unfortunately insulin therapy alone does not prevent the formation of diabetic complications. type 2 diabetes is a chronic disease and maintaining a tight glycemic control is essential to prevent both microvascular and macrovascular complications, as demonstrated in previous studies. treating patients who have early signs of hyperglycemia, including elevated postprandial glucose level, with intensive glucose control that does not lead to weight gain, and ideally may be associated with weight reduction, may be vital to preventing or reducing later cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. 
Do blueberries improve blood sugar levels in type 2 diabetes or do they prevent secondary diseases? [SEP] blueberries were observed to significantly extend the postprandial glucose response beyond the period observed for a sugar-matched control, characteristic of a beneficial glycaemic response. furthermore, blueberries were observed to reduce peak postprandial glucose levels, although statistical significance was not achieved. blueberry supplementation has the potential to protect and improve health conditions for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes patients. wild blueberries have a high content of polyphenols, but there is limited data evaluating their health benefits in adults at risk for type 2 diabetes. the objective of the study was to investigate whether consumption of 100% wild blueberry juice improves cardiometabolic biomarkers associated with type 2 diabetes risk. this outcome warrants longer-term human studies of blueberries, including defined amounts of either the whole fruit or juice, to clarify whether polyphenol-rich foods can be efficacious for improving cardiometabolic biomarkers in adults at risk for type 2 diabetes. in summary, fruit wines made from blueberry should be primarily taken into consideration as a medicinal food targeting diabetes mellitus type 2 in the early stage, if additional studies would confirm their therapeutic potential for the control of postprandial hyperglycemia. the consumption of blueberries, as well as the phenolic compounds they contain, may alter metabolic processes related to type 2 diabetes. additional research is needed to determine whether blueberries and other flavonoid-rich foods reduce type 2 diabetes risk by modifying gastrointestinal hormones and perceived appetite. blueberries improve insulin sensitivity through an antioxidant effect. 
Do self-performed nasal drill tests in symptom-free individuals detect coronavirus infection as reliably as professionally performed rapid tests using swabs from the nasopharynx? [SEP] nose and nasopharyngeal swab is the preferred and worldwide-accepted method to detect the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) within the nose and nasopharynx. this article shows a pilot study of sars-cov-2 detection with nasal and nasopharyngeal lavage fluids (level of evidence: 3). the mainstay of diagnostic testing for coronavirus disease 2019 is molecular polymerase chain reaction testing of a respiratory specimen, obtained with a viral swab. this paper draws attention to a complication of viral swab testing in the nasopharynx and describes the premature engagement of a viral swab breakpoint, resulting in impaction in the nasal cavity. the paper outlines a safe technique of nasal foreign body removal in a suspected coronavirus disease 2019 patient and suggests alternative testing materials. this manufacturer-independent, prospective diagnostic accuracy study, compared professional anterior nasal and nasal mid-turbinate sampling for a who-listed sars-cov-2 antigen-detecting rapid diagnostic test. nasal self-sampling will facilitate scaling of sars-cov-2 antigen testing. we designed a study to evaluate the preferred test sensitivity and sample type (saliva and nasal swab) for detecting early infections of covid-19. the aim of this study was to compare the sensitivity of self-collected versus healthcare worker (hcw)-collected swabs for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) testing. in conclusion, we found that self-collected oropharyngeal and nasal swabs for sars-cov-2 testing can be reliable compared to hcw-collected oropharyngeal samples. 
Are rapid antigen tests as reliable as slower PCR tests? Does a negative (inconspicuous) rapid test result reliably exclude an infection with the coronavirus? [SEP] to this end, we compared the rapid diagnostic kit of canine parvovirus, coronavirus and rotavirus antigen (quicking(®)) to pcr, which is considered as the most reliable diagnostic method. the sensitivity of the quicking rapid diagnostic test compared to pcr in the total number of samples, in samples from non-vaccinated dogs and in samples tested directly after collection were 22.22% (95% ci: 13.27-33.57%), 26.67% (95% ci: 16.08-39.66%) and 76.47% (95% ci: 50.10-93.04%) respectively, while the specificity of the test was 100% in any case. in this real-life evaluation of the panbio™ covid-ag rapid test, the assay reliably identified sars-cov-2 infected individuals with low ct-values by rt-pcr. negative results of rapid influenza tests do not rule out infection with the new influenza a (h1n1) virus. although rapid antigen tests for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) is convenient, some articles have demonstrated their low sensitivity indicating false-negative results should always be considered. here, we raise the issue of false-positive on rapid antigen tests for sars-cov-2 with the first case of acute hiv infection who repeatedly positive for the rapid antigen test. considering the increasing, significant burden that coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) imposes on the healthcare system, the need for simple, rapid, and affordable diagnostic tests to support the existing costly and demanding polymerase chain reaction (pcr) assay becomes required. this prospective diagnostic test accuracy study aims to evaluate the performance of four different covid-19 rapid antigen tests compared to real-time reverse transcription pcr (rrt-pcr) between june and july 2020 to determine the feasibility of integrating these tests into the diagnostic algorithm in clinical settings. this study aims to evaluate the analytical performance of rapid antigen tests used for the detection of sars-cov-2 viral antigen compared to rt-pcr sars-cov-2 molecular assay. this comparison study shows that rapid antigen tests are less sensitive than rt-pcr tests and are not reliable tests for testing asymptomatic patients, who often carry low viral load. 
Does CBD help with sleep disorders? [SEP] to determine whether cbd helps improve sleep and/or anxiety in a clinical population. a large retrospective case series at a psychiatric clinic involving clinical application of cbd for anxiety and sleep complaints as an adjunct to usual treatment. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a clinically anxiolytic dose of cbd on the sleep-wake cycle of healthy subjects in a crossover, double-blind design. different from anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs such as benzodiazepines and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, acute administration of an anxiolytic dose of cbd does not seem to interfere with the sleep cycle of healthy volunteers. the present findings support the proposal that cbd do not alter normal sleep architecture. here, we describe sleep and vigilance in five consecutive patients with cbd. observational and pre-clinical data also support cbd's therapeutic value in improving sleep (increased sleep duration/quality and reduction in nightmares) and depression, which are often comorbid with anxiety. we found that cbd administered during the lights-on period increased wakefulness (w) and decreased rapid eye movement sleep (rems). in conclusion, we found that cbd modulates waking via activation of neurons in the hypothalamus and drd. since cbd induces alertness, it might be of therapeutic value in sleep disorders such as excessive somnolence. 
Are heavy (ex-)smokers less likely to die of lung cancer if they regularly participate in lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT)? [SEP] it is now debated whether the screening of heavy smokers for lung cancer with low dose computed tomography (low dose ct) might lower their mortality due to lung cancer. the screening of heavy smokers for lung cancer can lower their risk of dying of lung cancer by 20% in relative terms, corresponding to an absolute risk reduction of 0.3 percentage points. some randomized controlled trials have evaluated the effects of low-dose computed tomography (ct) screening on lung cancer mortality in heavy smokers. the primary objective of this study was to shed light on the frequency of death from a "competing" cause among persons who enter into computed tomography (ct) screening for lung cancer and to determine the 5- and 10-year rates of death from causes other than lung cancer in a cohort of older smokers and former smokers with the initiation of ct screening for lung cancer. older smokers and former smokers seeking and receiving ct screening for lung cancer have a low 10-year risk of dying from causes other than lung cancer, and early treatment of screen-diagnosed cancer can be life-saving. in one large study that included both smokers and non-smokers comparing annual chest x-ray screening with usual care there was no reduction in lung cancer mortality (rr 0.99, 95% ci 0.91 to 1.07). there was one large methodologically rigorous trial in high-risk smokers and ex-smokers (those aged 55 to 74 years with ≥ 30 pack-years of smoking and who quit ≤ 15 years prior to entry if ex-smokers) comparing annual low-dose ct screening with annual chest x-ray screening; in this study the relative risk of death from lung cancer was significantly reduced in the low-dose ct group (rr 0.80, 95% ci 0.70 to 0.92). annual low-dose ct screening is associated with a reduction in lung cancer mortality in high-risk smokers but further data are required on the cost effectiveness of screening and the relative harms and benefits of screening across a range of different risk groups and settings. the national lung screening trial (nlst) recently reported that annual computed tomography (ct) screening is associated with decreased lung cancer mortality in high-risk smokers. by combining clinical risk variables with a gene-based risk score, even greater reductions in lung cancer mortality can be achieved with ct. we suggest a biomarker-led outcomes-based approach may help to better define which eligible smokers might defer screening (low risk of lung cancer), discontinue screening (high risk of overtreatment with little benefit) or continue screening to achieve the greatest reduction in lung cancer mortality. 
Can lung cancer screening by computed tomography (CT) also do harm??? [SEP] objectives low-dose computed tomography lung cancer screening has been shown to reduce lung cancer mortality but has a high false-positive rate. this paper covers new developments in screening eligibility criteria and the possible benefits and the harm of screening with ct. to make the screening process more feasible and help reduce the rate of missed lung nodules, computer-aided detection (cad) has been introduced to assist radiologists in lung nodule detection. lung cancer screening by low-dose computed tomography (ct) has been proven to reduce lung cancer-related mortality by 20%, in the national lung cancer screening trial (nlst). screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography (ct) is controversial. in addition, there are important harms from ct screening, including false-positive test results and overdiagnosis. annual computed tomography (ct) is now widely recommended for lung cancer screening in the united states, although concerns remain regarding the potential harms, including those from overdiagnosis. two large-scale rcts have shown computed tomography (ct) lung cancer screening to be efficacious in reducing lung cancer mortality (8-24% in men, 26-59% in women). low-dose computed tomography (ct) screening was shown to reduce lung cancer-specific mortality in a large randomized trial of a high-risk population. to discuss the evidence for use of chest x-rays and low-dose ct in screening for lung cancer; to describe potential benefits, harms, and uncertainties of ct screening; and to review current guidelines for ct screening. low-dose ct screening has been associated with a 20% reduction in lung cancer mortality in a large randomized controlled trial (national lung screening trial [nlst]) of a high-risk population. 
Does hydroxychloroquine reduce the likelihood of dying from covid-19 disease? [SEP] hydroxychloroquine is not efficacious as post-exposure prophylaxis against coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). the cumulative incidence of confirmed covid-19, by pcr or serology, was compared between patients with and without hydroxychloroquine as part of their treatment of autoimmune inflammatory diseases. during the seventeen-week study period, 10 (3.4% [95% ci: 1.7%-6.7%] cases of covid-19 were registered among patients with hydroxychloroquine and 13 (3.0% [1.6%-5.1%]) (p = 0.565) in those without hydroxychloroquine. initial reports suggested that hydroxychloroquine could have a positive impact on the course of covid-19, however larger prospective studies have not supported this. to evaluate whether use of hydroxychloroquine was associated with a reduced likelihood of intensive care unit (icu) admission in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in the early weeks of the pandemic. hydroxychloroquine use was significantly associated with increased risks of icu admission and intubation in patients with mild, moderate, and severe symptoms of covid-19. this review highlights the mechanistic, clinical and safety data with regards to hydroxychloroquine use in novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) in people with or without metabolic syndrome. small, in-human studies have shown hydroxychloroquine to improve outcomes in covid-19, either alone or in combination with azathioprine and other antiviral medications. ongoing uncertainty about the multiple potential mechanisms contributing to the therapeutic effect of hydroxychloroquine in rheumatic and viral disease led to a natural avenue for exploration in the treatment of covid-19. despite overall negative findings, the intense study of hydroxychloroquine against covid-19 infection has enhanced our overall understanding of how hydroxychloroquine operates in autoimmune disease and beyond. 
Does hydroxychloroquine prevent covid-19 infection??? [SEP] despite overall negative findings, the intense study of hydroxychloroquine against covid-19 infection has enhanced our overall understanding of how hydroxychloroquine operates in autoimmune disease and beyond. hydroxychloroquine has been proposed as a primary prophylactic agent against coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). this study aimed to investigate if patients treated with hydroxychloroquine for a non-covid-19 indication had a lower risk of verified infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (sars-cov-2) compared with matched controls. use of hydroxychloroquine for non-covid-19 indications was not associated with any change in confirmed sars-cov-2 (hazard ratio 0.90, 95% confidence interval 0.76-1.07). this study, which is the largest to date to investigate the primary prophylactic effect of hydroxychloroquine against sars-cov-2, does not support any prophylactic benefit of hydroxychloroquine in the prevention of infection with sars-cov-2. hydroxychloroquine has been proposed as a postexposure therapy to prevent coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), but definitive evidence is lacking. postexposure therapy with hydroxychloroquine did not prevent sars-cov-2 infection or symptomatic covid-19 in healthy persons exposed to a pcr-positive case patient. hydroxychloroquine has gained popularity as a potential preventative and treatment of covid-19 pneumonia due to its in vitro activity against the virus. whether hydroxychloroquine can prevent symptomatic infection after sars-cov-2 exposure is unknown. after high-risk or moderate-risk exposure to covid-19, hydroxychloroquine did not prevent illness compatible with covid-19 or confirmed infection when used as postexposure prophylaxis within 4 days after exposure. 
Do preparations containing rockrose have a preventive or soothing effect on colds (chills) and other upper respiratory tract infections? Can they protect against infections with the coronavirus? [SEP] the objective of this review was to assess the effects of preparations containing extracts of echinacea in the prevention and treatment of the common cold. randomised and quasi-randomised trials comparing preparations containing an extract of echinacea compared with a placebo, no treatment, or another treatment for common colds. however there is not enough evidence to recommend a specific echinacea product, or echinacea preparations for the treatment or prevention of common colds. echinacea preparations are commonly used to prevent and treat upper respiratory tract infection. to assess current evidence for the safety and efficacy of echinacea containing preparations in preventing and treating upper respiratory tract infection. randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trials using an echinacea preparation to prevent or treat upper respiratory tract infections. our review presents evidence that echinacea might have a preventative effect on the incidence of upper respiratory tract infections but whether this effect is clinically meaningful is debatable. the present review outlines recent research on the effectiveness of nanoplatforms as diagnostic and antiviral tools against coronaviruses. the aim of this research was to investigate the effects of naturally occurring colds on mood and objective measures of performance. similar effects were obtained for both rhinovirus and coronavirus colds. 
Can Medistus Antivirus Lozenges protect against colds, flu, covid-19, or other respiratory infections? [SEP] the bacterial classification revealed that enterobacteriaceae was predominant in influenza patients, while staphylococcus and pseudomonas were significantly enriched in the covid-19 patients. influenza viruses accounted for a large proportion of respiratory virus infection even during the epidemic of covid-19 in beijing. this observation led us to perform epidemiological analysis, using data in the public domain, to study the correlation of covid-19 with the prevalence and vaccination strategies for two respiratory pathogens: flu and tuberculosis (tb). the implications of this global study are discussed with respect to the roles of respiratory infections and vaccinations in lowering covid-19 deaths. prior to the present pandemic of covid-19, there have been multiple large-scale epidemics and pandemics of other viral respiratory infections, such as seasonal flu, spanish flu (h1n1), severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars), middle east respiratory syndrome (mers), and others. it has been proposed that vaccines may exert an unspecific protective effect against infectious agents, different than expected. we have designed a study aimed at investigating whether the influenza vaccine may reduce the susceptibility and severity of sars-cov-2 infection. covid-19-positive patients older than 65 years reported a lower prevalence of flu vaccination when compared to the general population residing in the lazio (p = 0.004). after correction for gender, age, and comorbidities, we found a lower risk of death at 60 days in patients with flu vaccination than in not vaccinated patients (p = 0.001). our study shows that flu vaccination could reduce the mortality of covid-19. 
Does Spirulina help with obesity? [SEP] spirulina maxima consumption is known to be associated with enhanced cardiovascular and metabolic health. after three months of spirulina supplementation significant decrease in body mass (p < 0.001), body mass index (bmi; p < 0.001) and waist circumference (wc; p = 0.002) were observed in spirulina group. the present study evaluates the protective effect of spirulina against diet-induced obesity and metabolic disorders in psammomys obesus, an animal model of metabolic syndrome. spirulina improved insulin sensitivity, glucose and lipid metabolism. these findings highlight the positive effect of spirulina on weight maintenance. spirulina maxima supplementation synergistically improves the effects of systematic exercise on body composition and cardiorespiratory fitness parameters in overweight, but mostly in individuals with obesity. spirulina supplementation significantly reduces body weight, especially in obese individuals. this study showed that spirulina platensis protein hydrolysate possessed anti-obesity effect in mice. the objectives of the current study were to determine the effects of spirulina platensis on anthropometric parameters, serum lipids, appetite and serum vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) in obese individuals. the spirulina under hiit increased levels of nesfatin-1 and omentin-1 with no effects on the levels of lipid profiles in overweight and obese females. 
Does spirulina have a health-promoting effect??? [SEP] studies conducted on spirulina suggest that it is safe in healthy subjects, but attitude to eating probably affects the acceptability of spirulina containing foods. because of its apparent ability to stimulate whole human physiology, spirulina exhibits therapeutic functions such as antioxidant, anti-bacterial, antiviral, anticancer, anti-inflammatory, anti-allergic and anti-diabetic and plethora of beneficial functions. spirulina consumption appears to promote the growth of intestinal micro flora as well. the review discusses the potential of spirulina in health care management. research findings have associated spirulina to improvements in animal growth, fertility, aesthetic and nutritional product quality. spirulina intake has also been linked to an improvement in animal health and welfare. numerous in vivo evidence has provided support for the brain health potential of spirulina, highlighting antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective mechanisms. evidence of the central effect of spirulina on appetite regulation has also been shown. here, we discuss the antioxidant, immunomodulatory, and anti-inflammatory activities of spirulina in both animals and humans, along with the underlying mechanisms. this review provides new insight into the potential therapeutic applications of spirulina and may provide new ideas for future studies. 
Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) help against coronavirus or others in throat infections? [SEP] this study evaluated the effectiveness of hydrogen peroxide (h2o2) as mouthwash and nasal spray on symptom relief in coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) patients. h2o2 was not effective for the relief of covid-19 symptoms and was associated with reports of transient adverse effects. hydrogen peroxide is produced physiologically by oral bacteria and plays a significant role in the balance of oral microecology since it is an important antimicrobial agent. therefore, nose/mouth/throat washing with hydrogen peroxide may enhance those local innate responses to viral infections and help protect against the current coronavirus pandemic. therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of a 1% hydrogen peroxide mouthrinse on reducing the intraoral sars-cov-2 load. the hydrogen peroxide mouthrinse led to no significant reduction of intraoral viral load. a 1% hydrogen peroxide mouthrinse does not reduce the intraoral viral load in sars-cov-2-positive subjects. to evaluate the effectiveness of hydrogen peroxide (h2o2) in the form of mouthwash and nasal spray as an auxiliary treatment for coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). h2o2 as a mouthwash and nasal spray is safe to use. there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that h2o2 is effective as an auxiliary treatment for hospitalized covid-19 patients. 
Does gargling with hydrogen peroxide have health risks? [SEP] the recommendation of a preprocedural mouthrinse with hydrogen peroxide before intraoral procedures is questionable and thus should not be supported any longer, but strict infection prevention regimens are of paramount importance. the complications of hydrogen peroxide across medicine are well distinguished; however, the risks within orthopaedic surgery and hip arthroplasties are not well known. beyond cytotoxicity, the most dangerous reported risk associated with hydrogen peroxide in hip arthroplasties was an oxygen embolism in an unvented femoral canal and acrylic bone cement, consequentially leading to cardiac arrest. in this narrative review, we present the current uses of hydrogen peroxide while evaluating its associated risks. tooth whitening products containing hydrogen peroxide or carbamide peroxide were evaluated in this review for potential oral cancer risk from their use. hydrogen peroxide is genotoxic in vitro, but not in vivo. the animal toxicology data relevant to the assessment of the carcinogenicity of hydrogen peroxide do not indicate that it has significant carcinogenic activity at any site, including the oral cavity. exposures to hydrogen peroxide received by the oral cavity are exceedingly low, of short duration (30-60 minutes), and could not plausibly enhance any carcinogenic risk associated with exposure of the oral cavity to chemicals in cigarette smoke or to alcohol, both known risk factors for the development of oral cancer. based on a comprehensive review of the available literature and research, the use of tooth whitening products containing hydrogen peroxide or carbamide peroxide does not appear to pose an increased risk of oral cancer in the general population, including those persons who are alcohol abusers and/or heavy cigarette smokers. gargling with bzc reduced the concentrations of methyl mercaptan and hydrogen sulfide and the ors, but did not affect the tcs or prevalence of periodontal pathogens. 
Can vitamin C prevent infection with coronavirus or prevent deaths from covid-19? [SEP] few studies were done on the effect of dietary components on prevention of covid-19, but supplementation with these nutrients may be effective in improving the health status of patients with viral infections. several recent scientific studies have shown that medicinal plants and vitamins can benefit and improve the health of covid-19 patients. considering the role of vitamin c, it would be imperative to administrate vitamin c for the management of severe covid-19. in this review, we provide a scientific view on the potential role of vitamin d in sars-cov-2 virus/covid-19 disease. therefore, supplementation of vitamin d has the potential to reduce the incidence, severity and the risk of death from pneumonia resulting from the cytokine storm of many viral infections including covid-19. we suggest that supplementation of subjects at high risk of covid-19 with vitamin d (1.000 to 3.000 iu) to maintain its optimum serum concentrations may be of significant benefit for both in the prevention and treatment of the covid-19. the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic has focused attention on the potential role of vitamin d supplementation to prevent covid-19. it has also been proposed that vitamin d at physiological concentration has preventive effects on many viral infections, including covid-19. herein, we present a thorough review focusing on the possible molecular mechanism by which vitamin d could alter host cell redox status and block viral entry, thereby preventing covid-19 infection or reducing the severity of the disease. vitamin c, e, d, a, zinc are considered to be essential in preventing and treating of acute respiratory infections (ari) including covid-19. 
Does vitamin D prevent covid-19 disease? Does vitamin D mitigate the course of Covid 19 disease? [SEP] this narrative review summarizes the current knowledge about the epidemiology and pathophysiology of covid-19, the evidence linking vitamin d and rtis, especially covid-19, the mechanistic reasons behind the possible protective effect of vitamin d in covid-19, and the evidence with regard to vitamin d supplementation in rtis. it concludes with some recommendations regarding supplementation of vitamin d in patients with covid-19. the aim of the study is to present the current state of knowledge on the influence of vitamin d levels on the severity of the course of covid-19. vitamin d supplementation has been suggested as a potential option to prevent covid-19 infections, severe courses, and deaths from the disease, but is not widely practiced. this article provides an up-to-date summary of recent epidemiological and intervention studies on a possible role of vitamin d supplementation for preventing severe covid-19 cases and deaths. this review aims to consolidate the research surrounding the role of vitamin d in the treatment and prevention of covid-19. while there are some conflicting results reported, the consensus is that vitamin d has a host of immunomodulatory effects which may be beneficial in the context of covid-19 and that low levels of vitamin d can result in dysfunction of crucial antimicrobial effects, potentially contributing to poor prognosis. the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic has focused attention on the potential role of vitamin d supplementation to prevent covid-19. in this commentary, we discuss some of the challenges of vitamin d research and provide recommendations for the design of randomized controlled trials of vitamin d supplementation to prevent covid-19. as no curative drugs are available currently for covid-19, we feel that the potential of vitamin d to alter the course of disease severity needs to be investigated. 
Is plasma therapy for covid-19 effective in preventing deaths? [SEP] controversy surrounds convalescent plasma transfusions as an effective treatment for covid-19. this study discusses the efficacy of this treatment on covid-19 patients. the results show that convalescent plasma therapy significantly prevented mortality in moderate patients, reduced hospitalization length and time to negative pcr. convalescent plasma also significantly reduced inflammatory markers, especially in moderate covid-19 patients. in non-critical hospitalized patients, convalescent plasma therapy reduces morbidity and mortality in moderate covid-19 patients and hospitalization length. this narrative review investigates the elimination status of current medications used to manage covid-19 during hemoperfusion and therapeutic plasma exchange, with a focus on their pharmacokinetic profiles. convalescent plasma therapy is used limitedly in covid-19 patients. some corticosteroids are effective in reducing mortality in severe covid-19 patients. the principle of plasma therapy can be used for prophylaxis and treatment purpose. in view of non-availability of suitable vaccine for prevention or no established definitive therapy for sars-cov-2, plasma therapy is gaining importance in a current pandemic as one of the treatment options for the treatment of covid-19. 
Does treatment with cortisone-like drugs such as dexamethasone ensure that more critically ill patients survive Covid 19 disease? [SEP] we compared the short-term survival of critically ill covid-19 patients treated with either tcz or dexamethasone. 109 critically ill covid-19 patients randomly assigned to either tcz therapy (46 patients) or pulse dexamethasone therapy (63 patients). dexamethasone showed better survival in severe covid-19 compared to tcz. in this study, dexamethasone administration or acute covid-19 seemed not to affect doac levels in hospitalized, non-critically ill covid-19 patients. dexamethasone could come as a lifesaving drug. cessation of dexamethasone in critically ill covid-19 patients results in a rebound increase in pct and crp levels unrelated to the occurrence of secondary bacterial infections. apart from these anti-viral drugs, recently dexamethasone (an important corticosteroid) is effectively used to treat covid-19 patients. this study provides corroboration for execution of anti-covid-19 activity of dexamethasone. dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid, has previously shown mortality benefit in severe coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in a randomized controlled trial. in conclusion, the present analysis seems to provide a proof of concept for therapeutic mechanisms of dexamethasone in covid-19. 
Can contact with holy water make you sick? [SEP] the national tuberculosis program should consider spiritual holy water sites as potential foci for tb transmission and plan regular survey and health education in holy water sites for effective tb prevention and control in the country. use of holy springs and holy water is inherent in religious activities. holy spring water is also used extensively for personal drinking water, although not assessed according to drinking water standards. holy water in churches and chapels may cause infections via wetting of lips and sprinkling on persons. our aim was to assess the microbiological and chemical water quality of holy springs and holy water in churches and hospital chapels. all holy water samples from churches and hospital chapels showed extremely high concentrations of hpc; fecal indicators, pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococcus aureus occurred only in the most frequently visited churches. holy water can be another source of infection, especially in hospital chapels and frequently visited churches. there are misconceptions, including transmission via casual contact, and pervasive beliefs of holy water as a cure. most hiv+ participants believe treatment and holy water can be taken together, but experienced either pressure to stop treatment or stigma when taking medications. the holy water fonts from the churches of seville, spain have a strong bacterial contamination. 
Can Echinacea protect against colds? [SEP] are echinacea products associated with a reduced incidence and a shorter duration of common colds compared with placebo? individual prophylaxis trials show no association with prevention of the common cold, but exploratory meta-analysis suggests that echinacea products may be associated with a small reduction in cold incidence. this study showed that echinacea’s long-term prevention was associated with a reduction in the total number of cold episodes, a reduction in the number of days with colds, and a reduction in cold episodes requiring additional medication. furthermore, the echinacea test agent inhibited virally confirmed colds, exhibited maximal effects on recurrent infections, and demonstrated that its preventive effects increased relative to therapy compliance and adherence to the protocol. in summary, echinacea purpurea when taken as recommended for the prevention of the common cold appears to provide a positive risk to benefit ratio. the objective of this review was to assess whether there is evidence that echinacea preparations are 1) more effective than no treatment; 2) more effective than placebo; 3) similarly effective to other treatments in a) the prevention and b) the treatment of the common cold. echinacea inhibited virally confirmed colds and especially prevented enveloped virus infections (p < 0.05). recently, echinacea has regained popularity as one of the treatments chosen most commonly by consumers with the expectation that it will reduce the severity and duration of the common cold. echinacea preparations are widely used to treat the common cold. to assess the efficacy of dried, encapsulated, whole-plant echinacea as early treatment for the common cold. 
Can echinacea relieve the discomfort of colds??? [SEP] treatment with echinacea plus tea at early onset of cold or flu symptoms was effective for relieving these symptoms in a shorter period of time than a placebo. are echinacea products associated with a reduced incidence and a shorter duration of common colds compared with placebo? individual prophylaxis trials show no association with prevention of the common cold, but exploratory meta-analysis suggests that echinacea products may be associated with a small reduction in cold incidence. the clinical application of the proprietary standardized echinacea purpurea extract(echinaforce) demonstrated efficacy as a preventive cold treatment option over a 4-month duration. this study showed that echinacea’s long-term prevention was associated with a reduction in the total number of cold episodes, a reduction in the number of days with colds, and a reduction in cold episodes requiring additional medication. furthermore, the echinacea test agent inhibited virally confirmed colds, exhibited maximal effects on recurrent infections, and demonstrated that its preventive effects increased relative to therapy compliance and adherence to the protocol. the objective of this review was to assess whether there is evidence that echinacea preparations are 1) more effective than no treatment; 2) more effective than placebo; 3) similarly effective to other treatments in a) the prevention and b) the treatment of the common cold. echinacea reduced the total number of cold episodes, cumulated episode days within the group, and pain-killer medicated episodes. echinacea inhibited virally confirmed colds and especially prevented enveloped virus infections (p < 0.05). recently, echinacea has regained popularity as one of the treatments chosen most commonly by consumers with the expectation that it will reduce the severity and duration of the common cold. 
Does taking LaVita promote health or physical and mental performance? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] this inquiry sought to identify the physical health beliefs, experiences and needs of individuals with mental health problems in receipt of antipsychotic medication who live in the community. the participants were clear about the importance of good physical health as well as good mental health. consequently, this could limit their will and abilities to seek meaningful pursuits or valued aspirations and movement towards the salutogenic health pole.conclusion: by reframing the definition of health to pursuing and fulfilling valued accomplishments, optimal health can be achieved regardless of physical health state. utilizing narrative inquiry, 15 néhiyawak (plains cree people) between 18 and 71 years of age from thunderchild first nation were interviewed to explore what improved their mental health and well-being and what they needed to attain optimal mental health and well-being. the néhiyawak in this study described holistic health determinants that correlate with the medicine wheel and the determinants of health, and described these holistic health determinants as making a positive difference to their mental health and as necessary for them to obtain optimal mental health and well-being. these results suggest that mental health programming and interventions should be harmonious with indigenous culture; utilize a holistic approach that takes physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual well-being into consideration; and address the existing mental health disparities using the determinants of health as a framework, with an increased focus on the current socio-economic status of indigenous peoples in canada. thus, the aim of this study was to describe mental health nurses' experiences of facilitating aspects that promote physical health and support a healthy lifestyle for people with severe mental illness. for individuals with serious mental illness, physical fitness is a health imperative. this article describes the progression of an ongoing interprofessional partnership formed between a university's school of health professions and a community mental health services agency to find ways to improve the physical health status of individuals served by the agency. thus, whereas regulatory antidementia trials will exclude patients with psychiatric or neurologic symptoms or substance abuse and require them to be physically healthy and living with a caregiver, ie, 90% of the presenting alzheimer population, the public health model promises to improve patient care by addressing the types of practical questions and functional outcomes typically the concern of clinicians: does treatment enhance function? 
Do dental care products with nanoparticles of hydroxyapatite help pain-sensitive teeth? And can they prevent caries or repair already affected, decayed tooth enamel? [SEP] this in-vitro study documented the deposition of nanoparticle hydroxyapatite on demineralized enamel surfaces after treatment with an experimental remineralization gel. human tooth enamel consists mostly of minerals, primarily hydroxyapatite, ca10(po4)6(oh)2, and thus synthetic hydroxyapatite can be used as a biomimetic oral care agent. this review describes the synthesis and characterization of hydroxyapatite from a chemist's perspective and provides an overview of its current use in oral care, with a focus on dentin hypersensitivity, caries, biofilm management, erosion, and enamel lesions. the efficiency of synthetic hydroxyapatite in occluding open dentin tubules, resulting in a protection for sensitive teeth, has been well documented in a number of clinical studies. the first corresponding studies on caries, biofilm management and erosion have provided evidence for a positive effect of hydroxyapatite either as a main or synergistic agent in oral care products. due to its biocompatibility and similarity to biologically formed hydroxyapatite in natural tooth enamel, synthetic hydroxyapatite is a promising biomimetic oral care ingredient that may extend the scope of preventive dentistry. the purpose of this work is to analyze a fluorine-free toothpaste containing biomimetic hydroxyapatite to assess enamel re-mineralizing and repairing properties. the study was performed in vitro and in vivo, comparing the hydroxyapatite toothpaste with two others toothpaste containing different fluorine concentrations. the coating effect of the micro-structured hydroxyapatite nanoparticles reintegrates the enamel with a biomimetic film reproducing the structure and the morphology of the biologic hydroxyapatite of the enamel. the use of biomimetic hydroxyapatite toothpastes has proven to be a valuable prevention measure against dental caries in primary dentition since it prevents the risk of fluorosis. 
Can light therapy with light lamps relieve the symptoms of autumn-winter depression? [SEP] in patients with winter seasonal affective disorder (sad) the onset of a depressive episode is probably associated with the decreasing amount of light during the autumn. a highly predictable onset of a recurrent depressive episode with seasonal pattern provides a rationale for testing the efficacy of bright-light treatment as a preventive measure. twelve out-patients with winter sad were assigned to start bright light treatment either when they were well, or not to start it until the first symptoms of depression had already emerged. for the years prior to the patient's use of light therapy, there was a statistically significant relationship between falling light and onset of depression. while questions regarding the validity of seasonal affective disorder as a syndrome and the mechanism of action of light therapy continue to be investigated, the established effectiveness of light therapy in patients with winter depression supports the usefulness of assessment for this seasonal pattern and consideration of light therapy as an option in addition to existing treatment choices. light therapy has been used to treat winter depression in bipolar disorder, although the dose, duration, and timing of treatment have differed. the present study is an open trial of light therapy for depressive episodes in autumn/winter using a dutch protocol specific for patients with a bipolar disorder. the dutch light therapy protocol for patients with a bipolar disorder may be effective in treating a seasonal depression and side effects are mild. light therapy (lt) and recently pharmacotherapy with specific antidepressants have been shown to be beneficial. light treatment promises to be a useful non-pharmacological intervention in certain forms of depressive illness. 
Does vitamin B3 protect against severe covid-19 events? [SEP] the purpose of this review is to summarize the emerging studies analyzing the association between vitamin d and risk of covid-19 infection and severity, as well as the early interventional studies investigating the protective effect of vitamin d supplementation against covid-19. experimental studies have shown that vitamin d exerts several actions that are thought to be protective against coronavirus disease (covid-19) infectivity and severity. there are a growing number of data connecting covid-19 infectivity and severity with vitamin d status, suggesting a potential benefit of vitamin d supplementation for primary prevention or as an adjunctive treatment of covid-19. vitamin d has got great attention and has been claimed as potentially protective against the infection since it may be associated with immunocompetence, inflammation, aging, and those diseases involved in determining the outcomes of covid-19. this narrative review aims at collecting the literature available on the involvement of the vitamin d status in the pathogenesis of covid-19 and the putative utility of vitamin d supplementation in the therapeutics. there have been connections made between vitamin d and covid-19, as vitamin d has previously been shown to play a role in the maintenance of immune homeostasis. our results show a direct association of vitamin d deficiency with the infection of covid-19 and severity. evidence supporting the potential beneficial roles of vitamin c, vitamin d, zinc, and b3 vitamins is reviewed here, revealing a combination of basic research elucidating underlying mechanisms of action, preclinical studies and human intervention studies has led to the proliferation of registered clinical trials on covid-19. therefore, in this review, we looked at various possible roles of vitamin d in reducing the risk of covid-19 infection and severity. if vitamin d does in fact reduce the severity of covid-19 in regard to pneumonia/ards, inflammation, inflammatory cytokines and thrombosis, it is our opinion that supplements would offer a relatively easy option to decrease the impact of the pandemic. 
Does taking coenzyme Q10 improve movement disorders in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] a number of preclinical studies in both in vitro and in vivo models of parkinson's disease have demonstrated that coenzyme q10 can protect the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. some clinical trials have looked at the neuroprotective effects of coenzyme q10 in patients with early and midstage parkinson's disease. to assess the evidence from randomized controlled trials on the efficacy and safety of treatment with coenzyme q10 compared to placebo in patients with early and midstage parkinson's disease. coenzyme q10 therapy with 1200 mg/d for 16 months was well tolerated by patients with parkinson's disease. a number of preclinical studies in both in vitro and in vivo models of parkinson's disease have demonstrated that coenzyme q10 can protect the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. some clinical trials have looked at the neuroprotective effects of coenzyme q10 in patients with early and midstage parkinson's disease. to assess the evidence from randomized controlled trials on the efficacy and safety of treatment with coenzyme q10 compared to placebo in patients with early and midstage parkinson's disease. coenzyme q10 therapy with 1200 mg/d for 16 months was well tolerated by patients with parkinson's disease. studies supporting the efficacy of coenzyme q10 appear most promising for neurodegenerative disorders such as parkinson's disease and certain encephalomyopathies for which coenzyme q10 has gained orphan drug status. administration of coenzyme q10 increased complex-1 activity and partially improved motoric performance in weaver mutant mice. 
Does treatment with focused high-intensity ultrasound (HIFU) reduce abdominal girth? [SEP] high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) has been proven effective in body sculpting when used noninvasively to reduce subcutaneous fat and improve body contour. twenty-four male subjects (18 to 59 years old) with bmi ≤ 30 kg/cm² and at least 2 cm of abdominal fat received a single hifu treatment session. high-intensity focused ultrasound was found to be an effective treatment in reducing localized adiposities in the abdominal region. this study further strengthens the current view that hifu is an effective and safe tool for localized fat reduction. the findings show that not only hifu but also combination treatments are safe and well-tolerated options for the treatment of central abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue (sat). in this study, we aimed to explore the effect of high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) ablation on endometriosis of the abdominal wall. as a non-surgical treatment, high intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) has received increasing interest for the treatment of gynaecological diseases over the last 10 years. high intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) therapy is a very promising method for ablation of solid tumors. although ultrasound is an essential investigative modality in obstetrics and gynecology, the potential for therapeutic high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) (also referred to as focused ultrasound surgery, fus) to offer an alternative to invasive surgery is less well known. the abdominal pain was successfully relieved after the hifu therapy. 
Does sugar substitution increase the risk of developing or dying from cancer? [SEP] in those who had used dietetic beverages and in those who had used sugar substitutes, the relative risk of lower-urinary-tract cancer was estimated as 0.9 (0.7 to 1.2, 95 per cent confidence interval), as compared with 1 in nonusers of artificial sweeteners. using cox proportional hazards regressions, we assessed associations of artificially sweetened beverage intake with cancer recurrence and mortality. patients consuming one or more 12-ounce servings of artificially sweetened beverages per day experienced an adjusted hazard ratio for cancer recurrence or mortality of 0.54 (95% confidence interval, 0.36 to 0.80) when compared to those who largely abstained (ptrend = .004). substitution models demonstrated that replacing a 12-ounce serving of a sugar-sweetened beverage with an isovolumetric serving of an artificially sweetened beverage per day was associated with a 23% lower risk of cancer recurrence and mortality (relative risk, 0.77; 95% confidence interval, 0.63 to 0.95; p = .02). higher artificially sweetened beverage consumption may be associated with significantly reduced cancer recurrence and death in patients with stage iii colon cancer. this association may be mediated by substitution for sugar-sweetened alternatives. there is growing evidence of an association between sugar-sweetened beverages (ssb) and increased risk of mortality in various populations. we assessed the relationship between sugar-sweetened soda and both all-cause and breast cancer mortality among women with incident, invasive breast cancer from the western new york exposures and breast cancer study. compared with never/rarely sugar-sweetened soda drinkers, consumption at ≥5 times per week was associated with increased risk of both total (hr = 1.62; 95% ci, 1.16-2.26; p trend < 0.01) and breast cancer mortality (hr = 1.85; 95% ci, 1.16-2.94; p trend < 0.01). reported higher frequency of sugar-sweetened soda intake was associated with increased risks of both total and breast cancer mortality among patients with breast cancer. 
Does ozonated vegetable oil help against athlete's foot or nail fungus? [SEP] thus, we aimed evaluate the antimicrobial and antibiofilm potentials of ozonated vegetable oils against mrsa strains isolated from diabetic foot ulcers. most bacterial strains were inhibited by ozonated oil at a concentration of 4.24 mg/g. ozonated oils had moderate to high ability to remove adhered cells and showed a high capacity to eradicate 24 h old biofilms. our results show promising use of ozonated oils on the treatment of infections, in particular those caused by multidrug-resistant mrsa strains. ozone can react with vegetable oils to produce ozonized oils which have antimicrobial properties and can be used in dermatology. ozone treatment of commercially available vegetable oils gives rise to the formation of chemical species that are responsible for the therapeutic properties of ozonated oil derivatives in dermatological diseases. topical application of ozonated vegetable oil in mrsa-infected skin in rats showed a small reduction of the bacterial load and better wound healing. the search for a wide spectrum of antimicrobial agents that can avoid resistance while maintaining reasonable side effects has led to ozonated oils experiencing an increase in scientific interest and clinical applications. interest in the use of ozonated oils has meant that several ozonated-vegetable-oil-containing products have been commercialized as cosmetic and pharmaceutical agents, and in innovative textile products with antibacterial activity. the present review focuses on the current status of delivery agents that use ozonated oils as antimicrobial agents in topical (dermal, skin, and soft tissues) treatments. 
Does ozonated vegetable oil help against vaginal fungus?? [SEP] ozone can react with vegetable oils to produce ozonized oils which have antimicrobial properties and can be used in dermatology. ozone treatment of commercially available vegetable oils gives rise to the formation of chemical species that are responsible for the therapeutic properties of ozonated oil derivatives in dermatological diseases. interest in the use of ozonated oils has meant that several ozonated-vegetable-oil-containing products have been commercialized as cosmetic and pharmaceutical agents, and in innovative textile products with antibacterial activity. the present review focuses on the current status of delivery agents that use ozonated oils as antimicrobial agents in topical (dermal, skin, and soft tissues) treatments. thus, we aimed evaluate the antimicrobial and antibiofilm potentials of ozonated vegetable oils against mrsa strains isolated from diabetic foot ulcers. our results show promising use of ozonated oils on the treatment of infections, in particular those caused by multidrug-resistant mrsa strains. recently, the usage of vegetable matrices in the form of ozonated oils has been proposed, and several researchers have shown positive effects on wound healing, due to the bactericidal, antiviral, and antifungal properties of these ozonated oils. vegetable oil + isoparaffin formulations of m. anisopliae significantly increased the effectiveness of the fungus, thus reducing the need for frequent changes of black cloths in residences. recently, the usage of vegetable matrices in the form of ozonated oils has been proposed and several researchers have shown a positive effect in the wound, based on their bactericidal, antiviral, and antifungal properties. only treatment with ozonated sesame oil shows a faster wound closure in the first 7 days. 
Are health checks of symptom-free individuals (screening) effective in containing the pandemic? [SEP] enhanced surveillance provided data for the improvement of public health measures in future pandemics. positive screens for depression, anxiety, and/or ptsd at time of interview, higher education, and income were associated with increased symptoms of depression and anxiety due to the pandemic. health checks identify (risk factors for) disease in people without symptoms. they may be offered by the government through population screenings and by other providers to individual users as 'personal health checks'. a better understanding of the factors associated with health check-up and cancer screening participation is vital for developing effective interventions. it is not possible to predict a person's survival ability only by assessing thermal environments; but individual screening is always required for good health care practice with regards to treatment and/or prevention. the medical screening was harmonized with the assessment practices for cold-related health risks in the workplaces. a "health-check questionnaire for subjects exposed to cold" was developed as the first step of the three-level medical screening for the detection of cold-related health ailments of individuals. to analyse and compare the determinants of screening uptake for different national health service (nhs) health check-ups in the uk. uptake of nhs health check-ups for cervical cancer screening, breast cancer screening, blood pressure checks, cholesterol tests, dental screening and eyesight tests. 
Does melatonin help against jet lag? [SEP] to review the use of melatonin in sleep disorders, including jet lag, shift work disorder, insomnia, and sleep cycle disorders in neurologically impaired patients. melatonin use in jet lag appears to decrease jet lag symptoms and hasten the return to normal energy levels. the medication melatonin, available in most convenience stores, is marketed as a sleep agent or treatment for jet lag, but is it safe? several factors are known that help prevent and treat jet lag, including ensuring adequate sleep, appropriate timing of exposure to bright light and treatment with melatonin. moreover, new melatonin agonists are currently under investigation for treatment of jet lag. the goals of this study were to validate a new rating scale for measuring severity of jet lag and to compare the efficacy of contrasting melatonin regimens to alleviate jet lag. the use of melatonin for preventing jet lag needs further study. what is the effect of melatonin on jet lag syndrome? to determine whether doses of the pineal hormone melatonin alleviate jet lag. melatonin can alleviate jet lag and tiredness after long haul flights. 
Does sunscreen reduce the likelihood of skin cancer? [SEP] sunscreens have been proven to reduce rates of non-melanoma and melanoma skin cancers; hence, their use in prevention should be encouraged. this review summarizes the evidence on the protection against skin cancer afforded by sunscreen. there was no significant relationship found between actual risk of developing skin cancer and use of sunscreen. accurately perceived susceptibility to skin cancer will increase the likelihood of health care providers recommending sunscreen to their patients. many primary care providers advise patients to use sunscreen as a means to reduce their risk for skin cancer, especially cutaneous malignant melanoma (cmm). sunscreens are widely advocated to protect against skin cancer but if they offer insufficient protection against immunosuppression they may inadvertently increase skin cancer risk. sunscreens are known to-protect against sunlight-induced erythema and sunburn, but their efficiency at protecting against skin cancer is still a matter of debate. provocative findings have been published suggesting that the use of sunscreens may promote skin cancer. the workshop concluded that the topical use of sunscreens reduces the risk of sunburn and that sunscreens probably prevent squamous-cell carcinoma of the skin when used mainly during unintentional sun exposure. sunscreen usage was found to be the one of the most effective integrative health approaches for reducing risk of skin cancer. 
Are international travel restrictions and border health checks effective in curbing the spread of covid-19? [SEP] we find that international travel bans in australia lowered covid-19 importations by 87.68% (83.39 - 91.35) between january and june 2020. while travel bans lowered the number of covid-19 importations overall, the effectiveness of bans on individual countries varies widely and directly depends on the change in behaviour in returning residents and citizens. travel restrictions and border control measures have been enforced in china and other countries to limit the spread of the outbreak. we estimate the impact of these control measures and investigate the role of the airport travel network on the global spread of the covid-19 outbreak. unprecedented public health measures have been used during this coronavirus 2019 (covid-19) pandemic to control the spread of sars-cov-2 virus. throughout two past months, governments around the world have implemented massive travel restrictions and border control to mitigate the outbreak of this global pandemic. contact restrictions appear to be most effective at lowering covid-19 cases, while border closures appear to have only minimal effects at mitigating the spread of the disease, even though cross-border travel might have played a role in seeding the disease in the population. during the covid-19 pandemic, many countries implemented international travel restrictions that aimed to contain viral spread while still allowing necessary cross-border travel for social and economic reasons. hypothetical scenario analyses indicated that both strategies of locking down the metropolitan areas and restricting domestic airline travel would be equally effective in reducing the risk of importation of covid-19. instead of lockdown that might seriously damage the economy, milder travel restrictions could have the similar impact on controlling the domestic transmission of covid-19. 
Does hypnosis help with smoking cessation? [SEP] this article reviews 59 studies of hypnosis and smoking cessation as to whether the research empirically supports hypnosis as a treatment. nevertheless, it seems justified to classify hypnosis as a "possibly efficacious" treatment for smoking cessation. despite the popularity of hypnotherapy for smoking cessation, the efficacy of this method is unclear. a single session of hypnosis or relaxation for smoking cessation was delivered to groups of smokers (median size = 11). this study presents preliminary data regarding hypnosis treatment for smoking cessation in a clinical setting. hypnosis has a long-standing reputation in smoking cessation therapy, but its efficacy has not been scientifically proven. we designed this randomised controlled trial to evaluate the effects of group hypnosis as a method for smoking cessation, and we will compare the results of group hypnosis with group relaxation. hypnosis for smoking cessation is a widely used treatment in western countries. this study provides preliminary data regarding hypnosis for smoking cessation in clinical settings in pakistan. endeavors to empirically evaluate hypnosis as treatment of tobacco dependency in future are discussed. 
Does denosumab (Prolia) reduce the risk of vertebral fractures in osteoporosis? [SEP] the freedom (fracture reduction evaluation of denosumab in osteoporosis every 6 months) trial showed denosumab significantly reduced the risk of fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. we evaluated the effect of denosumab on the incidence of new vertebral and hip fractures in subgroups of women at higher risk for these fractures. denosumab reduced the incidence of new vertebral and hip fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at higher risk for fracture. denosumab reduces the risk of new vertebral and nonvertebral fractures. compared with placebo, denosumab decreased the risk of new vertebral fractures in the overall study population over 3 years. denosumab 60 mg administered every 6 months for 3 years in women with osteoporosis reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures to a similar degree in all subgroups. this review paper aims to discuss these concerns and to summarize the data available to date regarding sequential osteoporosis therapy following denosumab cessation to reduce the risk of multiple vertebral fracture. in a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, denosumab 60 mg administered subcutaneously every 6 months reduced levels of bone turnover markers, increased bone mineral density, and reduced the risk of vertebral fractures, hip fractures, and non-vertebral fractures. denosumab treatment reduced new vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures over 3 years, with continued low fracture incidence for up to 10 years in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. denosumab significantly increased bmd and decreased vertebral fracture risk in subjects with osteoporosis and diabetes. 
Does discontinuation of denosumab increase the risk of vertebral fractures??? [SEP] recent reports imply that denosumab discontinuation may lead to an increased risk of multiple vertebral fractures. clinical case series report multiple vertebral fractures after discontinuation of denosumab and a renewed analysis of freedom and freedom extension trial suggests, albeit does not prove, that the risk of multiple vertebral fractures may be increased when denosumab is stopped due to a rebound increase in bone resorption. there appears to be an increased risk of multiple vertebral fractures after discontinuation of denosumab although strong evidence for such an effect and for measures to prevent the occurring bone loss is lacking. denosumab discontinuation is associated with a rebound effect manifesting by an increased risk of multiple spontaneous vertebral fractures. we analyzed the risk of new or worsening vertebral fractures, especially multiple vertebral fractures, in participants who discontinued denosumab during the freedom study or its extension. the vertebral fracture rate increased upon denosumab discontinuation to the level observed in untreated participants. noteworthy, the increased risk of vertebral fractures in non-persistent denosumab users was more pronounced within 1 year post-discontinuation (hr = 2.90; 95% ci, 1.77-4.74) and among patients who discontinued from 2-year denosumab therapy (hr = 3.58; 95% ci, 1.74-7.40). discontinuation of denosumab resulted in an increased risk of major osteoporotic fractures, especially vertebral fractures. denosumab discontinuation is associated with rapid reversal of bone turnover suppression and with a considerable increase in fracture risk, including a risk for multiple vertebral fractures (mvf). denosumab discontinuation has been associated with increased risk of rebound-associated multiple vertebral fractures. 
Does taking magnesium improve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] several studies have looked at the association between magnesium and depression, yet its role in symptom management is unclear. magnesium is effective for mild-to-moderate depression in adults. magnesium supplementation is associated with improved depressive symptoms, but because the mechanism is unknown, it is unclear whether serum magnesium levels act as a biological predictor of the treatment outcome. for adults seen in primary care, lower serum magnesium levels are associated with depressive symptoms, supporting the use of supplemental magnesium as therapy. serum magnesium may help identify the biological mechanism of depressive symptoms and identify patients likely to respond to magnesium supplementation. magnesium supplementation has been linked to improvement in depressive symptoms, but consensus on the relationship between magnesium and depression has not been reached. the purpose of this study was to test the existence of an association between dietary magnesium intake and depression in the adult us population. the aim of this study was to assess whether magnesium intake could modulate depressive symptoms. furthermore, it seems that magnesium levels are lowered in the course of several mental disorders, especially depression. two papers reported improved depressive symptoms after magnesium intake, two in association with antidepressants, compared to controls. 
Does focused ultrasound (HIFU) treatment reduce wrinkles and sagging of the skin? [SEP] high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) is regarded as an effective skin-lifting device; however, literature regarding treatment of the aging neck and décolletage with hifu is scarce. high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) treatment has recently emerged in response to the increasing demand for noninvasive procedures for skin lifting and tightening. this study was aimed at evaluating the clinical efficacy of and patient satisfaction with hifu treatment for wrinkles and laxity in seven different areas of the face in asian skin. hifu could be a safe, effective, and noninvasive procedure that can be used to improve facial wrinkles and skin laxity in asian skin. the aim of our study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the focused radiofrequency and ultrasound hybrid device for face and neck rejuvenation, in terms of improvement of facial wrinkles and jaw sagging. to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of high-intensity focused ultrasound on skin laxity and wrinkles. high-intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) has recently been introduced in the treatment of facial wrinkles and laxity. high-intensity focused ultrasound can be an effective noninvasive treatment modality in facial and neck rejuvenation with an acceptable safety profile. micro-focused ultrasound with visualization has been cleared by the united states food and drug administration to noninvasively lift the eyebrow, lift submental and neck tissue, and improve lines and wrinkles of the décolleté. based on these results, treatment with micro-focused ultrasound with visualization with vertical vectoring demonstrated appreciable lifting and tightening of facial and neck tissue resulting in improved global aesthetic improvement scale scores and a high degree of patient satisfaction for up to one year. 
Does a ketogenic diet help against cancer? [SEP] low-carbohydrate, high-fat diets (ketogenic diets) might prevent tumor progression and could be used as supportive therapy; however, few studies have addressed the effect of such diets on colorectal cancer. although most preclinical studies indicate a therapeutic potential for ketogenic diets in cancer treatment, it is now becoming clear that not all tumors might respond positively. ketogenic diets against cancer are worth further exploration, both in the laboratory and clinically. the ketogenic diet, a high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet with adequate amounts of protein, appears to sensitize most cancers to standard treatment by exploiting the reprogramed metabolism of cancer cells, making the diet a promising candidate as an adjuvant cancer therapy. to critically evaluate available preclinical and clinical evidence regarding the ketogenic diet in the context of cancer therapy. furthermore, we highlight important mechanisms that could explain the potential antitumor effects of the ketogenic diet. the ketogenic diet probably creates an unfavorable metabolic environment for cancer cells and thus can be regarded as a promising adjuvant as a patient-specific multifactorial therapy. the majority of preclinical and several clinical studies argue for the use of the ketogenic diet in combination with standard therapies based on its potential to enhance the antitumor effects of classic chemo- and radiotherapy, its overall good safety and tolerability and increase in quality of life. recently, dietary modulation by carbohydrate depletion via ketogenic diet has been suggested as an important therapeutic strategy to selectively kill cancer cells and as adjuvant therapy for cancer treatment. ketogenic diet may be efficacious in certain cancer subtypes whose outcomes appear to correlate with metabolic status, but the results are not yet supportive and inconsistent. 
Do curd compresses have an analgesic effect (e.g. for muscle and joint pain)? Do they have an antipyretic effect? Do curd compresses help breastfeeding women with lactation congestion? [SEP] curd firmness were lower for milk from flocks fed high concentrate:forage ratio, and the curd resistance to compression was greater, than for milk from flocks fed low ratio. principal component analysis showed that protein and fat content were highly correlated with coagulum and curd firmness, whereas total calcium content was highly correlated with curd resistance to compression, and milk ph with rennet coagulation time. the extent of curd compression had no effect on the milk fat globule size and shape. principal component analysis correlated curd resistance to compression and proteins, whereas curd firmness was highly correlated with fat content and minerals. rennet curd from low alphas1-casein milk was obtained more rapidly and had a higher final firmness: curd-firming time was approximately 35% lower and curd firmness measured 30 min after rennet addition was approximately 27% higher compared with that for normal alphas1-casein milk. in addition, curd from low alphas1-casein milk had a higher resistance to compression. the decreasing value of curd-firmness traits was likely to be caused by curd syneresis and whey expulsion. in conclusion, this study showed that milk from sarda sheep is characterized by an earlier gelation, a faster increase in curd firmness with time, and greater curd firmness after 30 min compared with dairy cows. in bovine and ovine species, the introduction of the concept of curd firming over time, continuously recorded by a lactodynamograph during prolonged tests, provides additional information about milk coagulation, curd-firming, and syneresis processes. comparison with other dairy species showed several differences: goat milk coagulated later than sheep but earlier than bovine, and curd firming and curd syneresis instant rate constants were greater in small ruminants. 
Does deuterium-reduced water prevent cancer? [SEP] deuterium depleted water delays tumor progression in mice, dogs, cats and humans. here we report that enrichment of deuterium content in water, normally found at 8 mm concentration, two-three folds increases cell proliferation and lowers the oxidative stress level as well. acting as an anti-oxidant, deuterium-enriched water prevents the toxic effect of such oxidative agents as hydrogen peroxide and auranofin. a slight (≈2-fold) enrichment of deuterium in water accelerates human cell growth. we have shown that the deuterium depleted water considerably suppressed cancer cell lines amoeboid movement in vitro. experimentally, it is proved on a culture of arabidopsis thaliana and japanese quail that water with reduced contents of deuterium (80%) displays positive biological activity. in the chronic stress model, depressive-like features were reduced in mice fed with deuterium-depleted water, and sert expression was decreased in mice treated with deuterium-treated water compared with regular water. it is found that consumption of deuterium depleted water reduces not only the content of deuterium in biological fluids but also more than 2 times reduces the d/h gradient value along the line: mixed saliva > blood plasma. thus, drinking water with reduced deuterium content makes them less sensitive to external influences. in vitro, in vivo and clinical studies have demonstrated anti-cancer effects of deuterium depleted water (ddw). 
Does deuterium-reduced water improve disease progression in cancer??? [SEP] deuterium depleted water delays tumor progression in mice, dogs, cats and humans. ddw is proposed here to link cancer prevention and treatment using natural ketogenic diets, low deuterium drinking water, as well as ddw production as the mitochondrial downstream mechanism of targeted anti-cancer drugs such as avastin and glivec. in the chronic stress model, depressive-like features were reduced in mice fed with deuterium-depleted water, and sert expression was decreased in mice treated with deuterium-treated water compared with regular water. we observed that the deuterium depleted water stimulates cell colony formation at the early passages. we have shown that the deuterium depleted water considerably suppressed cancer cell lines amoeboid movement in vitro. in oncological patients who also suffered from diabetes and were treated with deuterium-depleted water (ddw), an improvement of glucose metabolism was observed, and rat studies also proved the efficacy of ddw to reduce blood sugar level. experimentally, it is proved on a culture of arabidopsis thaliana and japanese quail that water with reduced contents of deuterium (80%) displays positive biological activity. it is found that consumption of deuterium depleted water reduces not only the content of deuterium in biological fluids but also more than 2 times reduces the d/h gradient value along the line: mixed saliva > blood plasma. the experimental data showed that a physiological solution prepared on deuterium depleted water during induced apoptosis activates the dna repair system, significantly reducing the number of single-stranded dna breaks, which, in general, indicates an increase in the efficiency of defensive systems of the cell. thus, drinking water with reduced deuterium content makes them less sensitive to external influences. 
Can a special mattress relieve nighttime rheumatism symptoms and thus improve sleep? [SEP] six married couples (12 adults, mean age 34.8 years) were randomized as couples in a cross-over design to sleep on a queen-size conventional mattress for 2 weeks and a specially-designed pressure-relief mattress for 2 weeks. actigraphic measurements of sleep and self-reports of sleep and daytime symptoms were collected at baseline for 2 weeks on each couple's home mattress and box springs at home, followed by 2 weeks of data collection on each randomized mattress for a total of 6 weeks of data collection. however, poor pressure relief performance of the home mattress was associated with better actigraphic sleep on the randomized pressure-relief mattress. we conclude that while pressure-relief mattresses may not be universally preferred, baseline characteristics of the sleeper and/or their mattress may explain performance and sleeper preferences on future mattress selection. many medical residents used to sleeping on cotton mattresses at home complain of mild to moderate back pain after sleeping on foam mattresses provided in the hospital and hostel rooms. to determine the relationship of sleeping on foam mattress with the appearance of back pain in a 500 bedded multispecialty tertiary care hospital. effect of sleeping on a regular cotton mattress was assessed. sixty-three (5 female residents) developed back pain on the morning of a night of sleep over the foam mattress. sixty-one residents had a relief of the pain on going home where they would sleep on regular cotton mattresses, only to recur after sleeping again on the foam mattress in the hospital/hostel. sleeping on foam mattress is associated with the appearance of backache in medical residents which is reproducible and gets relieved after using regular cotton mattresses. 
Do people with blood group AB have a higher risk of developing dementia? [SEP] we further estimated that people with blood group ab are at comparatively higher risk of infection than other blood groups. also it was significantly higher in the b group compared to a blood groups. the risk of developing pe was significantly higher in group ab than other blood groups (p=0.006). in this study, we found that the patients with blood group ab have a higher risk for pe. recent data indicates that blood group ab is associated with impaired cognition in elderly patients. to date there are no large-scale studies that have examined the relationship between abo blood group and dementia-related disorders in detail. the database was linked with health outcomes data from nationwide patient and cause of death registers to investigate the relationship between blood groups and risk of different types of dementia. overall, our study showed no association between abo blood group and risk of alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia or unspecified dementia. our results provide no evidence that abo blood group influences the risk of dementia. the people with blood group b+ve and o+ve having tobacco chewing habits can be appraised that they are more at risk to develop oral cancer than people with other blood groups. 
Does therapeutic dancing help people with Parkinson's improve their movement problems? [SEP] dance is a non-pharmacological intervention that helps maintain functional independence and quality of life in people with parkinson's disease (ppd). results from controlled studies on group-delivered dance for people with mild-to-moderate stage parkinson's have shown statistically and clinically significant improvements in gait, balance, and psychosocial factors. here, we summarize a method of teaching improvisational dance that advances previous reported benefits of dance for people with parkinson's disease (pd). tango dance interventions may preferentially improve mobility and motor signs in people with pd, compared to d4pd. whilst an increasing number of alternative treatments for parkinson's is available, such as dancing, the focus is predominantly on the motor and emotional improvements of the person suffering from parkinson's. as well as being enjoyable, dancing is thought to improve mobility, balance, and well-being in some people living with pd. dance is growing in popularity for people with parkinson's and claims have been made for its benefits. conclusions: dancing may offer benefit to people with parkinson's through its intellectual, artistic, social and physical aspects. the findings demonstrate that dance has beneficial effect on the functional mobility of individuals with pd. over the past 20 years, dance has emerged as a safe, effective, and evidence-based community intervention that helps thousands of people living with parkinson's disease around the globe maintain well-being and improve quality of life. 
Is it possible to reliably detect coronavirus infection based only on symptoms but without laboratory testing? [SEP] the ongoing outbreak of the novel coronavirus (sars-cov-2) infection is creating serious challenges for health laboratories that seek to identify viral infections as early as possible, optimally at the earliest appearance of symptom. the success of a reliable and sensitive asymptomatic diagnosis relies on the identification and measurement of informative biomarkers from human host and virus in a rapid, sensitive, and inexpensive manner. antibody tests can be tools for detecting current or past severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2 [coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19)]) infections. because of suboptimal sensitivity with early covid-19 samples and background reactivity with some pre-pandemic samples, none of the evaluated tests alone is reliable enough for definitive diagnosis of covid-19 infection. the presented lfia was sufficiently sensitive and accurate to be used for the rapid diagnosis of coronavirus disease 2019 in laboratories or in patient care settings, particularly in emergency conditions, in which many samples require to be evaluated on time. due to the lack of effective drugs and vaccination, rapid and reliable detection is of vital importance to control coronavirus epidemics/pandemics.area covered: a literature search was performed in pubmed covering the detections and diagnostics of sars, mers and sars-cov-2. this review summarized the current knowledge of established and emerging methods for coronavirus detection. so far, confirmation of infection is based on the detection of virus rna in a sample taken from a person meeting the suspected case definition. whether subclinical or atypical presentations of severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) occur and whether clinical judgment is accurate in detecting sars are unknown. with the sars coronavirus serologic test as the gold standard, the clinical diagnosis of probable sars at hospitalization had a sensitivity of 0.96 (95% ci, 0.91 to 0.98) and a specificity of 0.96 (ci, 0.92 to 0.97). 
Are home coronavirus self-tests as reliable as tests performed by trained healthcare professionals? [SEP] conclusion: the chinese homefast self-reported screening tool is thus demonstrated to be a valid and reliable tool for measuring home hazards and can predict home falls in chinese-speaking older adults.implications for rehabilitationto develop an easily understandable screening tool for older adults.older adults can perform home safety screening on their own, and can identify potential risk of falls and other accidents at home.this can serve as a communication tool between older adults and healthcare professionals.identified hazards can be reported to healthcare professionals for further intervention.this validated instrument can help healthcare professionals to identify higher-risk older adults in the community and thus to better prioritize their provision of professional services. to examine the protective effects of appropriate personal protective equipment for frontline healthcare professionals who provided care for patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). 77 healthcare professionals with no exposure history to covid-19 and 80 patients who had recovered from covid-19 were recruited to verify the accuracy of antibody testing. the purpose of this study was to explore healthcare professionals' experiences of awaiting a test result for a potential covid-19 infection. the result of the coronavirus test was a decisive parameter for whether healthcare professionals could return to work. we evaluated the validity of self-testing and surveyed the patients attitude toward the technology using a standardized questionnaire. a paired t test showed no difference between unsupervised and supervised home spirometry self-testing. spirometry self-testing by asthma patients during telemonitoring is valid and comparable to those tests collected under the supervision of a trained medical professional. this review provides an overview of the development of home pregnancy tests and the data on their efficacy together with an analysis of published data on the accuracy of hcg for the detection of early pregnancy and studies on the use of home-based pregnancy tests. healthcare professionals and women should be aware that some of the claims made for home pregnancy tests are inconsistent and that common definitions and testing criteria are urgently needed. 
Does biotin help with hair loss? Does biotin make hair grow faster? [SEP] i̇n addition, 29 patients were found to take 1000 mcg/day of biotin for average 2.5 months after onset of hair loss by their own initiative, despite optimal blood biotin levels. the effect of biotin use on hair loss in patients with and without biotin deficiency was compared. it was found that biotin supplementation used to prevent hair loss does provide low efficacy. due to its availability, affordability, and effective marketing for this purpose, biotin is a popular nutritional supplement for treatment of hair loss. the aim of this study was to determine the frequency and significance of biotin deficiency in women complaining of hair loss. administration of biotin restored her nail and hair growth and improved intellectual ability and school performance. biotin has gained commercial popularity for its claimed benefits on healthy hair and nail growth. to systematically review the literature on biotin efficacy in hair and nail growth. background: biotin is popular in hair loss treatment supplements, although the frequency of its deficiency in patients with hair loss has not been established. supplementation with berroca-c, one ampule containing 200 micrograms biotin per day resulted in gradual regrowth of healthy hair. 
Can induction of labor prevent infant deaths in pregnancies that go beyond the estimated due date? Does it reduce the number of neonatal intensive care unit stays? [SEP] management of such pregnancies may include induction of labor and fetal antenatal monitoring. to evaluate maternal and neonatal outcomes at and beyond term associated with induction of labor compared to spontaneous onset of labor stratified by week of gestational age. induction of labor was associated with increased odds for cesarean delivery (adjusted or; 99% confidence interval: 1.53; 1.45-1.60), operative vaginal delivery (1.21; 1.15-1.27), epidural analgesia (2.12; 2.03-2.22), fetal scalp blood testing (1.40; 1.28-1.52), retained placenta (1.32; 1.22-1.41), 5-min apgar <7 (1.55; 1.27-1.89), umbilical artery ph <7.1 (1.26; 1.15-1.38), and admission to neonatal intensive care unit (1.41; 1.31-1.51). in a subgroup of induction of labor with the indication, "post-term pregnancy" induction was similarly associated with adverse outcomes. in austria, induction of labor is associated with increased odds of adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes. postterm births are easily preventable by intervening to deliver with the use of induction of labor. induction of labor did not significantly reduce the probability of neonatal sepsis [2.6% vs. 4.1%, relative risk 0.64 (95% confidence interval 0.25-1.6)]. in women with pregnancies complicated by pprom near term, induction of labor does not reduce neonatal sepsis, whereas costs associated with this strategy are probably higher. to critically compare the benefits and risks of labor induction versus spontaneous labor in uncomplicated nulliparous women at 39 or more weeks of gestation. maternal adverse outcomes of labor induction at 39 weeks of gestation were similar to those in a spontaneous labor group in uncomplicated nulliparous women. 
Does induction of labor make cesarean sections less necessary than observational waiting? [SEP] as compared with spontaneous labor, the elective induction of labor in multiparous women without complications does not predispose to cesarean delivery. induction of labor is common in obstetric practice. the findings suggest that induction of labor in women with one previous cesarean section does not increase the risk of cesarean section rate and does not adversely affect immediate neonatal outcome. we cautiously suggest that when there is no absolute indication for repeated cesarean section, induction of labor may be considered. models for the prediction of cesarean delivery after induction of labor can be used to improve clinical decision-making. and rane et al., for the prediction of cesarean section after induction of labor. in women with prelabor rupture of the membranes at term, induction of labor with oxytocin or prostaglandin e2 and expectant management result in similar rates of neonatal infection and cesarean section. the analysis focused on the onset of labor (spontaneous vs. induction), maternal morbidity [cesarean section (cs) and chorioamnionitis] and neonatal morbidity (suspected infection) related to a policy of waiting for the onset of spontaneous labor within 48 h of tprom. the findings suggest that induction of labor in women with one previous cesarean section does not increase the risk of cesarean section rate and does not adversely affect immediate neonatal outcome. we cautiously suggest that when there is no absolute indication for repeated cesarean section, induction of labor may be considered. 
Does the number of deliveries with a vacuum cup and forceps remain similar with induction and observational waiting??? [SEP] among the long-term complications, the rate of urinary incontinence is similar following forceps, vacuum extraction and spontaneous vaginal deliveries (level b). rates of immediate neonatal mortality and morbidity are similar for forceps and vacuum extraction deliveries (level b). our purpose was to determine the efficacy of the obstetric forceps versus the m-cup, a new vacuum extractor cup, and maternal-neonatal complication rates. over a 10-month period operative vaginal deliveries were randomized between the obstetric forceps and the m-cup vacuum extractor cup. the m-cup deliveries were accomplished more rapidly than forceps deliveries (p < 0.001) and were associated with a lower rate of episiotomy (p < 0.001), third-degree (p < 0.001) and fourth-degree (p = 0.002) lacerations, but blood loss as clinically estimated (p = 0.232) or as measured by hemoglobin levels (p = 0.166) was not significantly different. the m-cup vacuum extractor cup appears to be as efficient (and faster) than the obstetric forceps but is associated with significantly more fetal cephalhematomas, whereas maternal injuries are more common with the forceps. the vaginal delivery rate was similar with kjelland's forceps (96%) and vacuum (90%). in 1992, the number of vacuum deliveries overtook the number of forceps deliveries performed in the usa. vacuum extraction was used twice as often as forceps for instrumental vaginal delivery. we conducted a prospective observational study of 1000 consecutive vacuum-assisted deliveries using the omnicup vacuum device in singleton pregnancies. 
Does taking supplements with omega-3 fatty acids reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke or other sudden cardiovascular problems?  Does it lower the risk of dying prematurely? [SEP] supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids did not reduce the risk of overall cardiovascular events (relative risk, 0.99; 95% ci, 0.89-1.09), all-cause mortality, sudden cardiac death, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, or transient ischemic attack and stroke. omega-3 fatty acid supplementation reduces the risk of sudden cardiac death and death from any cause within 4 months in post-myocardial infarction patients. current evidence suggests that individuals with coronary artery disease may reduce their risk of sudden cardiac death by increasing their intake of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids by approximately 1 g per day. omega-3 fatty acids may have a protective role in the risk of developing heart disease. from epidemiology to cell culture and animal studies to randomized controlled trials, the cardioprotective effects of omega-3 fatty acids are becoming recognized. this review summarizes the emerging evidence of the use of omega-3 fatty acids in the prevention of coronary heart disease. omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to significantly reduce the risk for sudden death caused by cardiac arrhythmias and all-cause mortality in patients with known coronary heart disease. to review available literature regarding the cardiovascular effects of marine-derived omega-3 fatty acids and evaluate the benefit of these fatty acids in the prevention of coronary heart disease. epidemiologic and clinical trial data suggest that omega-3 fatty acids may reduce the risk of cardiovascular-related death by 29-52%. omega-3 fatty acids may be beneficial and should be considered in patients with documented coronary heart disease. 
Can taking dietary supplements with omega-3 fatty acids prevent further heart attacks or strokes if one has already had a heart attack?  In this case, does it lower the risk of dying prematurely?? [SEP] to investigate whether dietary supplementation with b vitamins or omega 3 fatty acids, or both, could prevent major cardiovascular events in patients with a history of ischaemic heart disease or stroke. this study does not support the routine use of dietary supplements containing b vitamins or omega 3 fatty acids for prevention of cardiovascular disease in people with a history of ischaemic heart disease or ischaemic stroke, at least when supplementation is introduced after the acute phase of the initial event. omega-3 fatty acids may have a protective role in the risk of developing heart disease. since then, new findings have been published regarding the relationship between omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, including supplementation, and cardiovascular health. omega-3 fatty acid supplementation reduces the risk of sudden cardiac death and death from any cause within 4 months in post-myocardial infarction patients. current evidence suggests that individuals with coronary artery disease may reduce their risk of sudden cardiac death by increasing their intake of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids by approximately 1 g per day. the 2017 american heart association science advisory on omega-3 fatty acid supplements suggested that it is reasonable to use omega-3 fatty acids for secondary prevention in people with coronary heart disease and heart failure. many scientific societies recognize that omega-3 fatty acids lower blood triglycerides, but whether taking them prevents heart disease is less clear-cut. supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids did not reduce the risk of overall cardiovascular events (relative risk, 0.99; 95% ci, 0.89-1.09), all-cause mortality, sudden cardiac death, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, or transient ischemic attack and stroke. observational studies suggest associations between higher intakes of omega-3 fatty acids (fa) and lower rates of cvd, but there is no large-scale randomized evidence to support using prophylactic omega-3 fa supplementation in primary prevention. 
Can cosmetic products with caffeine for hair and scalp help against hereditary hair loss? [SEP] over-the-counter or prescription medications are often focused on improving scalp hair density while high-quality cosmetic products work to prevent further hair damage and minimize mid-fibre breakage. although cosmetic treatments will not reverse the condition, this new approach may help to mitigate the effects of thinning hair. this article examines hair care in persons with hair loss. the use of shampoos, conditioners, and hair styling products to camouflage hair loss is discussed. male and female subjects with normal scalp condition and self-perceived hair thinning participated in a 24-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical study assessing either a regimen of treatment shampoo and leave-on treatment containing functional antioxidant and barrier-enhancing agents or an identical placebo chassis shampoo control. statistically significant effects for functional ingredient-containing treatment regimen versus a placebo control shampoo formulation were observed for reduced hair shedding, increased total hair count, reduced tewl and improvement in scalp biomarker values. these results establish that the use of functional antioxidant and barrier-enhancing agents to further improve scalp condition can enable a reduction in hair shedding and thus an increase in perceived hair fullness. the underlying improvements in scalp condition suggest the hair benefits were achieved as a result of improved scalp skin barrier and scalp condition leading to a viable preventative approach for hair thinning. caffeine is extensively used in cellulite and hair growth cosmetic products. for that reason, it is important to know the exact caffeine content in products for skin and hair care. 
Is music therapy with rhythmic training helpful for people with Parkinson's who have trouble walking? [SEP] rhythmic auditory cues can immediately improve gait in parkinson's disease. we concluded that rhythmic and musical skills, which can be modulated by musical training, may increase beneficial effects of rhythmic auditory cueing in parkinson's disease. to illustrate this approach, parkinson's disease is taken as a model, with a focus on the positive effects of rhythmic auditory cueing on walking. in parkinson's disease, a relation is found between the success of this music-based intervention and individual differences in rhythmic abilities. entrainment of walking to rhythmic auditory cues (e.g., metronome and/or music) improves gait in people with parkinson's disease (pd). gait dysfunctions in parkinson's disease can be partly relieved by rhythmic auditory cueing. entrainment of walking with rhythmic auditory cues (e.g., metronome or music) induces gait improvements in people with parkinson's disease (pd). rhythmic musical training can improve gait steadiness in healthy older adults with no negative impact on concurrent cognitive functioning. it was concluded that music therapy programs can achieve improvements in various areas of patients with parkinson's. to investigate whether synchronising over-ground walking to rhythmic auditory cues improves temporal and spatial gait measures in adults with neurological clinical conditions other than parkinson's disease. 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] the aim of the present preliminary study was to investigate the effectiveness of an avocado-soybean unsaponifiable extract (asu) in patients with arthralgia and osteoarthritis of the temporomandibular joint (tmj). this preliminary study provides strong evidence of the effectiveness of an avocado-soybean unsaponifiable extract in patients with degenerative joint diseases and arthralgia in the tmj. to evaluate the use of a combination of avocado and soybean unsaponifiable (asu) extracts for the treatment of experimentally induced osteoarthritis in horses. we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis from randomized controlled trials to examine the efficacy and safety of avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asu) in patients with hip or knee osteoarthritis (oa). avocado soybean unsaponifiables (asu) has proven its safety and effectiveness in clinical studies of knee osteoarthritis (oa); however, whether asu exerts structure-modifying effects is still to be elucidated. we aimed to evaluate the effects of avocado/soy unsaponifiables (asu) compound on serum antioxidant and oxidative stress in patients with osteoarthritis. these data showed that avocado/soy unsaponifiable can be an effective supplement in treatment of osteoarthritis through the control of the balance between antioxidant and oxidant molecular markers. avocado/soybean unsaponifiables such as arthrocen have been reported to reduce cartilage catabolism and chondrocytic synthesis of inflammatory mediators associated with osteoarthritis (oa). the present study determined whether addition of an avocado/soybean unsaponifiable (arthrocen) to the drinking water of oa rats reduced direct and referred joint pain. to evaluate the efficacy of preparations with avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asus) in osteoarthritis (oa) patients using meta-analysis on randomized controlled trials (rcts). 
Do preparations with unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU) help against limitations and pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint? [SEP] this article aims to summarize the studies on biological effects of the avocado-soybean unsaponifiable, its chemical composition, pharmacotherapy as well as applications in auto-immune, osteoarticular and menopausal disorders. the aim of the present preliminary study was to investigate the effectiveness of an avocado-soybean unsaponifiable extract (asu) in patients with arthralgia and osteoarthritis of the temporomandibular joint (tmj). this preliminary study provides strong evidence of the effectiveness of an avocado-soybean unsaponifiable extract in patients with degenerative joint diseases and arthralgia in the tmj. to evaluate the use of a combination of avocado and soybean unsaponifiable (asu) extracts for the treatment of experimentally induced osteoarthritis in horses. we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis from randomized controlled trials to examine the efficacy and safety of avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asu) in patients with hip or knee osteoarthritis (oa). we aimed to evaluate the effects of avocado/soy unsaponifiables (asu) compound on serum antioxidant and oxidative stress in patients with osteoarthritis. these data showed that avocado/soy unsaponifiable can be an effective supplement in treatment of osteoarthritis through the control of the balance between antioxidant and oxidant molecular markers. while there is some clinical evidence that avocado/soybean unsaponifiables can reduce oa pain, no preclinical studies have corroborated this observation. the present study determined whether addition of an avocado/soybean unsaponifiable (arthrocen) to the drinking water of oa rats reduced direct and referred joint pain. to evaluate the efficacy of preparations with avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asus) in osteoarthritis (oa) patients using meta-analysis on randomized controlled trials (rcts). 
Is it safe to take preparations containing unsaponifiable components of avocado and soybean oils (ASU)? [SEP] avocado and soybean unsaponifiables (asu) constitute vegetable extracts made from fruits and seeds of avocado and soybean oil. this article aims to summarize the studies on biological effects of the avocado-soybean unsaponifiable, its chemical composition, pharmacotherapy as well as applications in auto-immune, osteoarticular and menopausal disorders. the aim of the present preliminary study was to investigate the effectiveness of an avocado-soybean unsaponifiable extract (asu) in patients with arthralgia and osteoarthritis of the temporomandibular joint (tmj). this preliminary study provides strong evidence of the effectiveness of an avocado-soybean unsaponifiable extract in patients with degenerative joint diseases and arthralgia in the tmj. in this study, the in vitro effects of avocado and soybean unsaponifiable residues (asu), their fractions (avocado unsaponifiable [asf] or soy unsaponifiable [ssf]) on mmp-2 and mmp-3, and the activity and secretion of their inhibitors timp-1 and timp-2 were investigated using cultured human gingival fibroblasts. we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis from randomized controlled trials to examine the efficacy and safety of avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (asu) in patients with hip or knee osteoarthritis (oa). avocado-soybean unsaponifiables therapy had a significant reduction on pain by vas assessment (weighted mean difference [wmd]: -9.64 mm, 95% ci: -17.43, -1.84; p = .02; i2  = 92%). rats fed the unrefined avocado oil extracted with hexane from the intact fruit, its unsaponifiables or the avocado seed oil, showed significant increases in soluble collagen content in skin, though total collagen content was not affected. to evaluate the use of a combination of avocado and soybean unsaponifiable (asu) extracts for the treatment of experimentally induced osteoarthritis in horses. avocado/soybean unsaponifiables (asu) have shown some promise for oa. 
Can taking chondroitin relieve osteoarthritis pain or improve mobility in the long term? [SEP] patients with osteoarthritis of the knee seemed to experience clinical improvements in six-minute walking distance, pain relief and mobility when their standard care was supplemented with acupuncture. the estimates between chondroitin and placebo showed that chondroitin could alleviate pain symptoms and improve function. despite limited and conflicting evidence, the natural products glucosamine hydrochloride (hcl) and chondroitin sulfate are commonly recommended by veterinarians for treating osteoarthritis in dogs. the purposes of this review article are to provide a brief background on glucosamine and chondroitin use in canine osteoarthritis and to critically review the available literature on the role of these products for improving clinical outcomes. to assess the ability of a topical preparation of glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate to reduce pain related to osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee. topical application of glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate is effective in relieving the pain from oa of the knee and improvement is evident within 4 weeks. no statistically significant improvement in knee pain compared to placebo was seen among patients randomized to the dietary supplements, although a subset of patients with moderate-to-severe knee pain at entry who were assigned to the combination of glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate did seem to experience some improvement. additionally, patients taking chondroitin sulfate were noted to have a statistically significant improvement in knee joint swelling. an exploratory post hoc analysis of gait patients suggested the effect of chondroitin sulfate on joint swelling occurred more often in patients with milder pain and lower kellgren-lawrence grade at entry. chondroitin demonstrated statistically significant, but not clinically important structural improvement (effect size -0.30, -0.42 to -0.17). 
Does taking arginine benefit existing cardiovascular disease or does arginine prevent it from developing? [SEP] supplemental administration l-arginine has been shown to be effective in improving no production and cardiovascular function in cardiovascular diseases associated with endothelial dysfunction, such as hypertension, heart failure, atherosclerosis, diabetic vascular disease and ischemia-reperfusion injury, but the beneficial actions do not endure with chronic therapy. our results indicate that l-arginine metabolism is of profound significance for cardiovascular health. administration of l-arginine improves endothelial function in animal models and in humans with hypercholesterolemia and with atherosclerosis. clinical trials to date support potential clinical applications of l-arginine in the treatment of coronary artery disease and peripheral arterial disease, as well as in the prevention of in-stent restenosis. one potential explanation of this "arginine paradox" is that l-arginine restores endothelial function in atherosclerotic patients, in whom there are elevated levels of asymmetric dimethylarginine, an endogenous inhibitor of enos. given the promising findings of early studies of l-arginine as a potential therapy for cardiovascular disorders, large-scale clinical trials are warranted. l-arginine influences a number of atherosclerosis risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia, hypertension and smoking, improving endothelial function in these patients. the role of l-arginine in coronary artery disease is still controversial, but it seems that oral or parenteral administration of this amino acid restores endothelial function in the brachial artery and improves coronary microcirculation. in conclusion, l-arginine seems to provide a hopeful prospect for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. significant increase in plasma l-arginine and l-arginine/adma ratio suggests that balneotherapy may play a preventive role on cardiovascular diseases. 
Does "Detoxic" work against tapeworms and other parasites? Does "Detoxic" help with health complaints? [SEP] although completion of detoxification (detox) and a successful transition from detox to substance use disorder (sud) treatment and/or mutual-help groups are associated with better sud outcomes, many patients do not complete detox or do not receive sud care following detox. during inpatient withdrawal and detox, patients are supported with medications. because substance use disorder (sud) treatment is expanding, and detoxification (detox) is often the entry point to sud treatment, it is critical to provide ready access to detox services. these approaches may improve detox access, which is important for increasing the likelihood of transitioning patients to sud treatment, thus improving outcomes and reducing utilization of high-cost services. detox alone was not active. rapid detox, an alternative form of detox treatment, is gaining in both acceptance and popularity. a review of the current literature pertaining to rapid detox. rapid detox is a viable alternative for selected patients attempting to detox from opiate agents of abuse. although evidence points to the benefits of continuity of care after detoxification (detox), especially when continuity of care occurs within a short time after discharge from a detox episode, the rate at which clients engage in continued treatment after detox remains low. compulsory detoxication does not decrease the recurrence of drunkenness arrests. 
Is mannose as good as or better than antibiotics for preventing recurrent cystitis? [SEP] a review of the recent literature including on nonantibiotic options for management of utis, symptoms of cystitis and prevention of recurrent utis. the article provides an overview on alternative therapy to antibiotics in the treatment of cystitis and recurrent uti prophylaxis, including alkalinization of urine, cranberry products, probiotics, nsaids, d-mannose, herbal medicine, methenamine hippurate, oral immunostimulants (immunotherapy), topical oestrogens, vitamins and acupuncture. the aim of this preliminary study was to evaluate whether three different combinations of plant extracts plus d-mannose are effective in preventing the recurrence of utis. the objective of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of n-acetylcysteine, d-mannose and morinda citrifolia fruit extract (ndm), when associated to antibiotic therapy, in reducing the persistence of recurrent cystitis in this risk population. to test whether d-mannose powder is effective for recurrent urinary tract infection (uti) prevention. patients in d-mannose group and nitrofurantoin group had a significantly lower risk of recurrent uti episode during prophylactic therapy compared to patients in no prophylaxis group (rr 0.239 and 0.335, p < 0.0001). in our study, d-mannose powder had significantly reduced the risk of recurrent uti which was no different than in nitrofurantoin group. overall, our data indicate that d-mannose is a good alternative in the prevention and treatment of upec-related utis. the aim of the current study was to compare two different strategies for preventing recurrent bacterial cystitis: intravesical instillation of hyaluronic acid (ha) plus chondroitin sulfate (cs), and antibiotic prophylaxis with sulfamethoxazole plus trimethoprim. the intravesical instillation of ha + cs is more effective than long-term antibiotic prophylaxis for preventing recurrent bacterial cystitis. 
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of spinal fractures in older women? [SEP] however, data are limited on the effects of dietary vitamin k. we investigated the hypothesis that high intakes of vitamin k are associated with a lower risk of hip fracture in women. women in quintiles 2-5 of vitamin k intake had a significantly lower age-adjusted relative risk (rr: 0.70; 95% ci: 0.53, 0.93) of hip fracture than women in the lowest quintile (< 109 microg/d). low intakes of vitamin k may increase the risk of hip fracture in women. supplementation with vitamin k may reduce the risk of fractures, but this conclusion comes from clinical trials with methodological limitations. in summary, currently there is not enough evidence to recommend the use of vitamin k supplements for the prevention of bone loss, fractures, or osteoarthritis in postmenopausal women. this review aims to summarize the role of vitamin k in bone health in older adults and discuss the clinical implications from a select few human studies. although the observational studies have shown linkages between vitamin k intake and lower risk of fractures in this population, the current evidence from randomized controlled trials is not strongly supportive of vitamin k supplementation in older adults for the intent of improving bone health. epidemiologic studies suggest a diet high in vitamin k is associated with a lower risk of hip fractures in aging men and women. we conclude that currently there is not enough evidence to recommend the routine use of vitamin k supplements for the prevention of osteoporosis and fractures in postmenopausal women. low vitamin k intakes were associated with an increased incidence of hip fractures in this cohort of elderly men and women. 
Does taking vitamin K lower the risk of other bone fractures in older women? [SEP] however, data are limited on the effects of dietary vitamin k. we investigated the hypothesis that high intakes of vitamin k are associated with a lower risk of hip fracture in women. women in quintiles 2-5 of vitamin k intake had a significantly lower age-adjusted relative risk (rr: 0.70; 95% ci: 0.53, 0.93) of hip fracture than women in the lowest quintile (< 109 microg/d). low intakes of vitamin k may increase the risk of hip fracture in women. supplementation with vitamin k may reduce the risk of fractures, but this conclusion comes from clinical trials with methodological limitations. vitamin k is one of several nutrients that have been linked with bone health. this review aims to summarize the role of vitamin k in bone health in older adults and discuss the clinical implications from a select few human studies. although the observational studies have shown linkages between vitamin k intake and lower risk of fractures in this population, the current evidence from randomized controlled trials is not strongly supportive of vitamin k supplementation in older adults for the intent of improving bone health. vitamin k has been purported to play an important role in bone health. epidemiologic studies suggest a diet high in vitamin k is associated with a lower risk of hip fractures in aging men and women. we conclude that currently there is not enough evidence to recommend the routine use of vitamin k supplements for the prevention of osteoporosis and fractures in postmenopausal women. 
Does Smartsleep provide better or more restful sleep? [SEP] however, recent studies suggest that simply resting quietly while awake could confer a similar memory benefit. we hypothesized that sleep and eyes-closed quiet rest would both benefit memory compared with a period of active wakefulness. as hypothesized, sleep and quiet rest both led to better performance on the declarative and procedural memory tasks than did the distractor task. actigraphy provides more objective information about sleep than sleep logs. 12n crewmembers with oe averaged significantly less preshift sleep than those without oe: 4.4 +/- 2.1 hours versus 5.3 +/- 1.6 hours (p < 0.05). a retrospective chart review of 43 patients compared three different ways of scoring night time rest periods: autoscoring, manual scoring, and set interval scoring for the sleep parameters of sleep efficiency, wakefulness after sleep onset, and total sleep time. for each sleep parameter compared, the strongest correlations were observed between the manual and set interval scoring methods. measures of sleep duration, fatigue, and sleepiness were influenced by hbt circadian time of day.discussion: we conclude that self-reported in-flight sleep, fatigue, and sleepiness from landing pilots taking the second in-flight rest break are equivalent to or better than pilots taking the third break. flight crew alertness and sleep relative to timing of in-flight rest periods in long-haul flights. sufficient sleep is linked to better cognitive performance outcomes, increased vigor, and better physical and athletic performance as well as improved emotional and social functioning. 
Can supplemental tryptophan, taken as a dietary supplement or with food, help with depression? [SEP] many dietary supplements are readily accessible and commonly used for the treatment of depression. an experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of feeding supplemental tryptophan during the two weeks before market on growth, mortality during transportation, meal quality and brain neurotransmitter concentrations in male turkeys. brain serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and norepinephrine concentrations were increased dose-dependently with 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 g/kg supplemental dietary tryptophan. our aim was to examine the use of dietary supplements by people being treated for depression. tryptophan supplementation helped in bringing back t3 and t4 levels comparable with control. tryptophan is the only precursor of serotonin, the hormone which helps regulate key human functions such as appetite, memory, mood, and sexual behavior. proposals have been put forward to co-administer tryptophan supplementation together with serotonin reuptake inhibitors in major depression patients, and also to exploit the sub-therapeutic depressive status in healthy populations. we studied mood change in 138 healthy subjects using both goldberg's general health questionnaire and the profile of mood states questionnaire to determine the effects of a daily supplementation of 1g of tryptophan or placebo. maob rs3027452 was equally associated with tryptophan supplementation efficacy in the depression subscales of both questionnaires (δt-score.d; δt-score.tmd and δpoms.d p-values <0.01). here we provide evidence that tryptophan supplementation has an uneven effect on mood improvement in the general population. 
Can Neuro-Socks relieve pain or improve balance and stability? [SEP] the aim of this study was to investigate whether (1) thick socks adversely affected the elderly postural balance and (2) orthopedic insoles could improve the elderly postural balance while wearing thick socks. clinical relevance wearing thick socks reduces plantar pressure sensitivity and increases postural sway which may increase risk of falls. orthopedic insoles and footwear with similar design could potentially be a cost-effective method in maintaining postural balance when wearing thick socks. to examine the effect of novel ankle-realigning socks on dynamic postural stability in individuals with cai using the star excursion balance test (sebt). wearing the novel ankle-realigning socks immediately improved dynamic postural stability as measured by the sebt and subjective ankle instability in individuals with cai. however, it is not clear whether enhancement of sensory feedback with compression socks can alter the neuromuscular excitability of muscles in the leg and amplify balance performance and walking. the current project aimed to determine whether enhanced sensory input from wearing compression socks could affect: 1) spinal cord excitability (as measured by cutaneous reflexes from stimulation at the top or bottom of the foot during locomotion); 2) static balance performance; and, 3) dynamic balance performance following virtual perturbations. the present study shows that non-slip socks improved slip-resistance during gait when compared to conventional socks and slippers. wearing multiple socks significantly decreased the plantar tactile sensory input (p < 0.05), and increased the cop parameters (p < 0.017), indicating increased postural sway. the purpose of this placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of pain checker socks in the treatment of mild-to-moderate foot pain. 
Does taking blood pressure medication in the evening prevent more heart attacks, strokes, and other acute cardiovascular diseases? [SEP] in fact, most heart attacks and many strokes occur among persons with "normal" blood pressures. antihypertensive drug therapy will be most efficient and effective if directed at those who, by virtue of their constellation of risk factors or evidence of preclinical vascular disease, are likely to have a heart attack or stroke. we analyzed data on 14 684 antihypertensive and lipid-lowering treatment to prevent heart attack trial (allhat) participants to determine the association between atrh (n=1870) with coronary heart disease, stroke, all-cause mortality, heart failure, peripheral artery disease, and end-stage renal disease. however, it remains a paradox that if alcohol does cause hypertension there is little convincing evidence that alcohol is related to the cardiovascular complications of hypertension such as strokes and heart attacks. aspirin also reduced strokes at low but not high pressures, the relative risks being 0.41 and 1.42 (p=0.006) respectively. even with the limitations of subgroup analyses the evidence suggests that the benefit of low dose aspirin in primary prevention may occur mainly in those with lower systolic blood pressures, although it is not clear even in these men that the benefit outweighs the potential hazards. drug therapy should be initiated earlier and at lower blood pressure levels in patients with coexisting cardiovascular or kidney diseases. numerous clinical trials in tens of thousands of hypertensive patients with increased cardiovascular risk have demonstrated that the calcium antagonists are as effective and safe as diuretics, beta-adrenergic blockers, and renin-angiotensin blocking agents to prevent heart attack and stroke but not heart failure. several recent studies also demonstrate that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin-receptor blockers are effective in preventing stroke, progressive renal insufficiency, and heart failure in higher risk patients with hypertension. to achieve the aggressive blood pressure goals in patients with cardiovascular disease, thoughtful combinations of additive or synergistic agents improve efficacy and tolerability and have become an integral part of the modern management of hypertensive patients with coexisting cardiovascular disease. 
In Covid-19, do nicotine or smoking have a protective effect, i.e., do they prevent severe progression or death? [SEP] plausible biologic mechanisms by which smoking might be protective in covid-19 include an anti-inflammatory effect of nicotine, a blunted immune response in smokers (reducing the risk of a cytokine storm in covid-19) and increased nitric oxide in the respiratory tract (which may inhibit replication of sars-cov-2 and its entry into cells). although nicotine has certain anti-inflammatory effects, there is no evidence that it is related to covid-19 treatment; therefore, smoking cannot be considered a preventative measure. smoking is an independent risk for having severe progression of covid-19, including mortality. ever smoking was associated with increased risk of death from covid-19 (or 1.19, 95% ci 1.02-1.39, p = 0.003). smoking is an independent risk for having progression of covid-19, including mortality. therefore, smoking can reduce covid-19 infection and protect the respiratory tract. reports from various countries suggest that tobacco smoking might protect from sars-cov-2 infection, since the prevalence of smoking in covid-19 hospitalized patients is lower than in the respective general population. although conflicting hypotheses on the potential role of nicotine in covid-19 pathology have recently been offered, we believe that nicotine itself, through its interaction with the nicotinic cholinergic system, as well as ace2, may not only be of use in a variety of neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases, but may also be of potential use in covid-19. thus, on one hand, while we strongly support smoking cessation as a means of harm reduction associated with covid-19, on the other hand, we support a potential therapeutic role for nicotine, nicotinic agonists, or positive allosteric modulators of nicotinic cholinergic receptors in covid-19, owing to their varied effects including mood regulation, anti-inflammatory, and purported interference with sars-cov-2 entry and/or replication. considerable evidence suggests that tobacco smoking is associated with increased severity of covid-19 and death in covid-19 patients. 
Can red mold rice products lower blood cholesterol levels? [SEP] red yeast rice, also called red fermented rice or red mold rice, is used as a dietary supplement to lower cholesterol levels. this research focused on the effect of adding red mold rice powder of m. purpureus ntu568 to a hamster diet on total cholesterol (tc), triglyceride (tg), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c). although monascus-fermented red mold rice performs cholesterol-lowering effects, blood pressure-lowing effects, and antioxidant effects, another metabolite, nephrotoxic and hepatotoxic citrinin, causes the concerns for safety. this research focuses on the effect of adding red mold rice to hens' diet on cholesterol level in egg yolk and on cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (hdl), and low-density lipoprotein (ldl) levels in serum. besides, the addition of red mold rice also helps to inhibit production of malondialdehyde (mda) in serum lipid oxidation (0%, 27.42 +/- 0.53; 2%, 25.62 +/- 0.76; 5%, 24.35 +/- 0.59; 8%, 23.63 +/- 0.48 microm; p < 0.05). red yeast rice is a chinese fermented rice product (monascus purpureus) that some have claimed improves blood circulation by decreasing cholesterol and triglyceride levels in humans. studies have shown that red yeast rice products can be beneficial in lowering serum cholesterol levels, but they are not without risk. monascus-fermented red mold dioscorea (rmd) has been proven to possess greater hypolipidemic effect than red mold rice (rmr) even though they include equal levels of cholesterol-lowering agent monacolin k. however, higher concentrations of yellow pigments (monascin and ankaflavin) were found in rmd than in rmr. several studies have found red yeast rice to be moderately effective at improving the lipid profile, particularly for lowering the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. thus, red yeast rice is a potentially useful over-the-counter cholesterol-lowering agent. 
Do products made from red mold rice have fewer side effects than cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins??? [SEP] red yeast rice, also called red fermented rice or red mold rice, is used as a dietary supplement to lower cholesterol levels. despite being portrayed as a natural alternative, the potential of red yeast rice for side effects and interactions is comparable to statin drugs. red yeast rice, a commercially available food supplement known to reduce serum cholesterol, has been repeatedly advocated as alternative therapy for hypercholesterolemic patients that refuse statins, cannot tolerate statin therapy's side effects, or request a "naturopathic" medicine. red yeast rice contains a fungus (monascus purpureus), which was utilized in the original production of lovastatin (mevacor, merck & co, whitehouse station, nj), the first marketed pharmaceutical statin, and is chemically identical to such product. their identical properties account for the similarity in therapeutic and side effects of red yeast rice and lovastatin. the red yeast rice ingredient that blocks cholesterol production is monacolin k. because red yeast rice preparations have large variability in monacolin k content, predicting or understanding dose-related efficacy and side-effect risks of red yeast rice is practically impossible. this article discusses my clinical trial results with red yeast rice, reviews the literature on its therapeutic and side effects, and discusses why red yeast rice is not an acceptable substitution for statins. red yeast rice (ryr), the fermented product of the aspergillaceae mold monascus purpureus (red yeast) grown on white rice, has been shown to have a cholesterol-lowering effect which can be ascribed to monacolin k, although other active compounds may play a role management of hyperlipidemia. red yeast rice is an ancient chinese food product that contains monacolins, chemical substances that are similar to statins in their mechanisms of action and lipid lowering properties. thus, red yeast rice is a potentially useful over-the-counter cholesterol-lowering agent. 
Can disinfectants containing highly diluted sodium hypochlorite (below 0.1%) render corona and other viruses harmless and thus protect against infection? [SEP] we assessed the efficacy of sodium hypochlorite-containing disinfectants for decontamination for three poliovirus serotypes to implement decontamination procedures that are fully compliant with the who gap iii and health authorities' requirements. a 10.4 log reduction was observed with a 0.63% sodium hypochlorite solution in a suspension with high protein and high poliovirus concentrations diluted 10-fold compared with a 6 log reduction in an undiluted sample. the surface tests showed that two 1-min treatments, 5-min apart, with a 0.63% chl sodium hypochlorite solution effectively reduced the concentration of all poliovirus serotypes by 10 log10, irrespective of the protein and virus concentration in the sample. sodium hypochlorite solutions lower than 0.52% were less effective for complete inactivation of poliovirus. in conclusion, we demonstrated that a high level of virus reduction (>10 log10) can be achieved with sodium hypochlorite solutions with poliovirus in suspension and dried on surfaces. sodium hypochlorite solutions (eg, clorox) are recommended for disinfection. sodium hypochlorite (naocl), commonly known as "bleach," is widely accepted as being a safe and effective antiseptic against bacteria, fungi, and viruses. the efficacy of sodium hypochlorite disinfection against a. polyphaga and hadv 5 either singly or in combination was assessed at three different concentrations. sodium hypochlorite and ethanol are well-accepted decontamination agents, however little published evidence supports the selection of appropriate concentrations and contact times. dilute sodium hypochlorite (0.01% and 0.1%) showed little antiviral action, whereas 0.5% and 1% sodium hypochlorite solutions demonstrated recoverable virus at one minute but sterilized surfaces in five minutes. 
Does cat's claw improve joint disease symptoms? [SEP] we review the biological effects of some medicinal fruits and herbs - pomegranate, green tea, cat's claw, devil's claw, ginger, indian olibaum, turmeric and ananas - in an attempt to understand the pivotal molecular targets involved in inflammation and the joint destruction process and to summarize their toxicities and efficacy for oa management. the aim of this study was to determine the proposed anti-inflammatory properties of cat's claw. cat's claw markedly attenuated indomethacin-enteritis as evident by reduced myeloperoxidase activity, morphometric damage and liver metallothionein expression. cat's claw protects cells against oxidative stress and negated the activation of nf-kappab. these studies provide a mechanistic evidence for the widely held belief that cat's claw is an effective anti-inflammatory agent. this study was designed to determine if a natural mineral supplement, sierrasil, alone and in combination with a cat's claw extract (uncaria guianensis), vincaria, has therapeutic potential in mild to moderate osteoarthritis of the knee. patients (n = 107) with mild to moderate osteoarthritis of the knee were randomly assigned to one of 4 groups; high dose sierrasil (3 g/day), low dose sierrasil (2 g/day), low dose sierrasil (2 g/day) + cat's claw extract (100 mg/day) or placebo, administered for 8 weeks. the natural mineral supplement, sierrasil alone and in combination with a cat's claw extract, improved joint health and function within 1-2 weeks of treatment but significant benefits over placebo were not sustained, possibly due to rescue medication masking. cat's claw (uncaria tomentosa) is a native amazon plant that exhibits anti-inflammatory and antitumor properties. use of cat's claw might be beneficial in patients with advanced cancer by improving their quality of life and reducing fatigue. 
Do essential oils protect against corona infections and other viral infections like colds or flu? [SEP] traditional ayurvedic medicines mainly essential oils and chinese herbs have always played a vital role in the prevention and treatment of several epidemics and pandemics. in the meantime, guidelines of the ministry of ayush (ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homoepathy) include a traditional medicinal treatment for flu and fever and also recommended to boost immunity to prevent the spread of coronavirus. however, it is likely to assume that some essential oils are likely to offer a measurable level of defense in the same way they do with many other known viruses. literature relevant to various essential oils having antiviral activity has been collected and compiled. various nanocarriers of essential oils have also been stated. results: essential oils contain active constituents such as phenolics compounds, terpenoids, alkaloids, phenyl propanoids etc., which are responsible for their biological properties such as antiviral, antibacterial, antimicrobial, antioxidant activities and many more. have been evidenced to overcome limitations associated with essential oils. several essential oils possess potent antiviral activity and are characterized by fewer side effects and are safe to human use. the nanocarrier systems of these oils have proved the potential to treat viral and bacterial infections. over a third of the 252 participants believed that they would recover faster by taking antibiotics when suffering from a cold or flu, and nearly one-fifth felt that antibiotics would cure viral infections. 
Do air purifiers help relieve symptoms of allergic asthma? [SEP] we evaluated the effectiveness of reducing the levels of indoor fine particulate matter <2.5 micrometer diameter (pm2.5) in fresno, california using air purifiers on health outcomes in children with asthma and/or allergic rhinitis. intervention with air purifiers reduces indoor pm2.5 levels with significant improvements in nasal symptoms in children with allergic rhinitis in fresno. antihistamines, with or without decongestants, reduce seasonal rhinitis symptoms, asthma symptoms, and objective measurements of pulmonary function among patients with rhinitis and asthma. improvements in asthma associated with increased nasal breathing may be the result of superior humidification, warming of inspired air, and decreased inhalation of airborne allergens. this study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of air purifier therapy for patients with allergic asthma. (1) after utilizing the air purifier, the concentrations of house dust mite (hdm) allergens (der p1+ der f1) in the dust samples decreased. it is witnessed that hepa air purifiers can decrease indoor hdm allergen and pm levels and improve the quality of life for allergic asthma patients. it also relieves asthma symptoms and decreases rescue medication use in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis and comorbid asthma. mp-azeflu used to relieve ar symptoms was associated with reduced asthma symptom vas scores and frequency of asthma reliever medication usage. although not emphasized in these nhlbi guidelines, recent studies have observed that treatments, including intranasal steroid, cromolyn, antihistamines, and decongestants, which provide relief of nasal symptoms in patients with both allergic rhinitis and asthma, will also improve the pulmonary symptoms of allergic asthma. 
Is special baby water better for infants than tap water? [SEP] estimated daily intakes of 4-np, bpa and tcs for infants were 705, 1340 and 5 ng/day, respectively, by drinking 1l of tap water from a baby bottle at 40 degrees c. this study showed that the exposure to the three compounds from drinking water is unlikely to pose a health risk. this report includes the cases of two infants treated at our institution for hyponatremic seizures and water intoxication after being fed with the same bottled drinking water product marketed for use in infants. in connection with the introduction of piped surface water delivered by community taps in a rural area of malawi, 46 infants were studied prospectively during a 10-month period to monitor infant care and health. no differences in morbidity or growth patterns were observed between infants using piped and traditional water sources. thus, the quality of drinking water seemed to have no substantial effect on the health of the studied infants during the 1st months of life. tap water intake per kg body weight was significantly higher in formula-fed (ff) infants than in breast-fed (bf) infants. the estimated median intake of lead and nitrate per kg body weight from tap water was higher in ff infants than in bf infants or mixed fed (mf) young children. 180 healthy infants (60 in each group) were enrolled and jtt sebamed baby liquid cleanser (sm), and lukewarm tap water were used on the skin of the subjects as whole body cleansers twice a week for 2 weeks. a regimen of a liquid baby wash and a baby skin lotion for 12 weeks resulted in less detrimental changes in instrumental and clinical measures of skin than using water and lotion or water alone. we conclude that tap water should not be used for washing preterm infants in the nicu, unless steps are taken to prevent microbial growth in the outlets. 
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the knee joint? [SEP] objectives  this study aimed to analyze the efficacy of platelet-rich plasma obtained from the peripheral, autologous blood of the patients in pain complaints reduction and functional improvement of knee osteoarthritis compared with the standard treatment with injectable corticosteroid, such as triamcinolone. results  the present study verified the reduction of pain scores, such as the womac score, and elevations of functional scales, such as the kss, evidenced in 180 days when using platelet-rich plasma, a therapy that uses the autologous blood of the patient and has fewer side effects. according to the results obtained, platelet-rich plasma presented longer-lasting effects within 180 days in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a concentrate of autologous blood growth factors which has been shown to provide some symptomatic relief in early osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee. platelet-rich plasma therapy is a simple and minimally invasive intervention which is feasible to deliver in primary care to treat osteoarthritis of the knee joint. to evaluate the clinical effects of intraarticular platelet-rich plasma (prp) injections in a small group of patients with primary and secondary osteoarthritis. in this single-center, uncontrolled, prospective preliminary study, 14 patients with primary and secondary knee osteoarthritis who met the study criteria received three platelet-rich plasma injections in the affected knee at ∼4-wk intervals. the positive trends and safety profile demonstrated could potentially be used to inspire a larger, blinded, and randomized clinical trial to determine whether platelet-rich plasma is safe and effective for the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. platelet-rich plasma, autologous conditioned serum) include an expected improved safety profile and direct targeting of osteoarthritis-related pathophysiology. intra-articular injections of platelet rich plasma (prp) for the treatment of knee osteoarthritis have been shown to reduce pain and improve joint function. 
Does platelet-rich plasma therapy (autologous blood therapy) reduce pain in osteoarthritis of the hip joint??? [SEP] objectives  this study aimed to analyze the efficacy of platelet-rich plasma obtained from the peripheral, autologous blood of the patients in pain complaints reduction and functional improvement of knee osteoarthritis compared with the standard treatment with injectable corticosteroid, such as triamcinolone. results  the present study verified the reduction of pain scores, such as the womac score, and elevations of functional scales, such as the kss, evidenced in 180 days when using platelet-rich plasma, a therapy that uses the autologous blood of the patient and has fewer side effects. according to the results obtained, platelet-rich plasma presented longer-lasting effects within 180 days in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. platelet-rich plasma, autologous conditioned serum) include an expected improved safety profile and direct targeting of osteoarthritis-related pathophysiology. autologously derived platelet-rich plasma has been applied during surgery as a healing aid and some studies have shown benefit with total joint arthroplasty procedures such as in the knee. thus, the use of platelet-rich plasma in this procedure does not appear to influence the incidence or severity of heterotopic ossification which should help to justify further clinical research to more fully understand whether this autologous blood product has a role in total hip arthroplasty. however, the current evidence for use of platelet-rich plasma in chronic hip osteoarthritis pain is inconclusive. platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a concentrate of autologous blood growth factors which has been shown to provide some symptomatic relief in early osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee. platelet-rich plasma therapy is a simple and minimally invasive intervention which is feasible to deliver in primary care to treat osteoarthritis of the knee joint. this case report describes a novel nonsurgical approach for treating advanced-stage degenerative avn of the hip with the use of autologous platelet-rich plasma. 
Can vitamin D supplements prevent colds, flu, colds, and other viral respiratory illnesses when there is no or only a mild deficiency of vitamin D? [SEP] dietary supplements have been shown to decrease the duration, the severity, and the frequency of symptoms of the common cold. theoretically, pharmacological doses of vitamin d (2,000 iu per kg per day for three days) may produce enough of the naturally occurring antibiotic cathelicidin to cure common viral respiratory infections, such as influenza and the common cold, but such a theory awaits further science. the impact of an extra oral intake of vitamin c on the duration of a cold and the prevention or treatment of pneumonia is still questioned, while, based on critical illness studies, vitamin c infusion has recently been hypothesized as a treatment for covid-19 hospitalized patients. restoration of vitamin d sufficiency may reduce asthma exacerbations, events that are often associated with respiratory tract infections and cold symptoms. to determine whether vitamin d supplementation reduces cold symptom occurrence and severity in adults with mild to moderate asthma and vitamin d insufficiency. despite achieving 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels of 41.9 ng/ml (95% confidence interval [ci], 40.1-43.7 ng/ml) by 12 weeks, vitamin d supplementation had no effect on the primary outcome: the average peak wurss-21 scores (62.0 [95% ci, 55.1-68.9; placebo] and 58.7 [95% ci, 52.4-65.0; vitamin d]; p = 0.39). the rate of colds did not differ between groups (rate ratio [rr], 1.2; 95% ci, 0.9-1.5); however, among african americans, those receiving vitamin d versus placebo had an increased rate of colds (rr, 1.7; 95% ci, 1.1-2.7; p = 0.02). our findings in patients with mild to moderate asthma undergoing an inhaled corticosteroid dose reduction do not support the use of vitamin d supplementation for the purpose of reducing cold severity or frequency. current evidence from published systematic reviews indicate that oral intake of vitamin c may assist with symptoms of acute viral respiratory infections (ari) by reducing fever and chills, relieving chest pain and assist in reducing symptoms of common cold-induced asthma. oral vitamin c may assist with the symptoms of acute respiratory viral infections (ari) and common cold-induced asthma but no studies have been identified justifying oral vitamin c for the prevention or treatment of coronavirus infections including covid-19. 
Does ACE inhibitors like ramipril increase the risk of lung cancer? [SEP] brush border ace was inhibited by ramipril, one of the most specific and potent orally administered ace inhibitors indicated for hypertension. this study suggests that high doses of orally administered ace inhibitors may affect intestinal epithelial function. however, ramipril and other ace inhibitors (ace-is) may have limited tolerability that might restrict their use in patients requiring secondary prevention, whereas angiotensin receptor blockers (arbs) are suggested to be better tolerated. both cough and angioedema were higher with ramipril than telmisartan during the 56-month follow-up period in ontarget. the heart outcomes prevention evaluation (hope) study was important because it showed the benefits of ramipril - an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitor - in patients at high risk for cardiovascular events. the combination of ramipril and telmisartan did not confer a further benefit but did bring about an increased rate of adverse events such as renal dysfunction. only 1 trial (ontarget) was identified that compared an ace inhibitor (ramipril) with an arb (telmisartan), and this trial showed that ramipril and telmisartan have similar efficacy, similar risks of harms, and therefore a similar balance of benefits to harms. the development of new ace inhibitors such as ramipril provides an opportunity to improve the knowledge on this class of drug, and to optimize the benefit/risk ratio for the patient. inhibition of the tissue renin-angiotensin system by ramipril has been described in recent studies on animal models. ramipril is another ace inhibitor with both a favorable clinical profile and impressive outcomes data. 
Does propolis have a preventive or soothing effect against infection with coronavirus, colds or flu? [SEP] current antimicrobial applications of propolis include formulations for cold syndrome (upper respiratory tract infections, common cold, and flu-like infections), wound healing, treatment of burns, acne, herpes simplex and genitalis, and neurodermatitis. this study demonstrated that propolis had significant antifungal activity against yeasts isolated from blood culture compared with flu and itr. an overview of viruses, antiviral immunity, propolis safety and its immunomodulatory and antiviral action is reported, as well as perspectives for coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) treatment. propolis is safe and exerts antiviral and immunomodulatory activity; however, clinical trials should investigate its effects on individuals with viral diseases, in combination or not with antiviral drugs or vaccines. regarding covid-19, the effects of propolis should be investigated directly on the virus in vitro or on infected individuals alone or in combination with antiviral drugs, due to its immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory action. propolis administration simultaneously with vaccines should be analyzed, due to its adjuvant properties, to enhance the individuals' immune response. the search for therapeutic targets may be useful to find out how propolis can help to control covid-19. propolis is a natural product of bees which exhibits an antimicrobial effect. in light of the use of propolis as a therapeutic agent in natural medicine for common colds and inflammatory processes this effect is discussed. the addition of propolis has the potential to impart anti-inflammatory properties to cold cream. 
Does DAILY administration of HIGH-dose atropine (0.5 - 1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] this meta-analysis was conducted to address the efficacy and safety of atropine on myopia in children and the dose-response relationship between atropine and annual rate of myopia progression. in summary, 0.5% and 1% atropine was demonstrated to be effective and safe to ameliorate myopia progression in childhood with low-to-moderate myopia. this study explores the effectiveness of atropine 0.5% treatment for progressive high myopia and adherence to therapy in a non-asian country.methodsan effectiveness study was performed in rotterdam, the netherlands. in this prospective clinical effectiveness study, children with progressive myopia ≥ 1d/year or myopia ≤ -2.5d were prescribed atropine 0.5%. in children with or at risk of developing high myopia, a starting dose of atropine 0.5% was associated with decreased progression in european children during a 3-year treatment regimen. our study supports high-dose atropine as a treatment option for children at risk of developing high myopia in adulthood. topical atropine reduces myopia progression and axial elongation in children in a dose-related manner, but a rebound phenomenon occurs with higher doses. treatment with 0.01%, 0.025% and 0.05% atropine solution inhibits myopia progression in korean children in a dose-dependent manner. high-dose atropine slows myopia progression but with undesirable side-effects. we report the effects of 0.01% or 0.005% atropine eye drops on myopia progression in 13 australian children aged between 2 and 18 years and observed for 2 years without and up to 5 years (mean 2.8 years) with treatment. 
Does MONTHLY administered HIGH-dose atropine (1%) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children? [SEP] this study explores the effectiveness of atropine 0.5% treatment for progressive high myopia and adherence to therapy in a non-asian country.methodsan effectiveness study was performed in rotterdam, the netherlands. the progression rate of spherical equivalent before treatment (-1.0d/year±0.7) diminished substantially during treatment (-0.1d/year±0.7) compared to those who ceased therapy (-0.5d/year±0.6; p=0.03).conclusionsdespite the relatively high occurrence of adverse events, our study shows that atropine can be an effective and sustainable treatment for progressive high myopia in europeans. this meta-analysis was conducted to address the efficacy and safety of atropine on myopia in children and the dose-response relationship between atropine and annual rate of myopia progression. in summary, 0.5% and 1% atropine was demonstrated to be effective and safe to ameliorate myopia progression in childhood with low-to-moderate myopia. atropine eyedrops are a promising treatment for slowing myopia progression in east asian children. topical atropine reduces myopia progression and axial elongation in children in a dose-related manner, but a rebound phenomenon occurs with higher doses. in this prospective clinical effectiveness study, children with progressive myopia ≥ 1d/year or myopia ≤ -2.5d were prescribed atropine 0.5%. in children with or at risk of developing high myopia, a starting dose of atropine 0.5% was associated with decreased progression in european children during a 3-year treatment regimen. our study supports high-dose atropine as a treatment option for children at risk of developing high myopia in adulthood. the purpose of this article was to evaluate the long-term efficacy of a low-concentration (lc) atropine eye drop regimen (0.05%-0.1%) for controlling myopia progression in schoolchildren. 
Does LOW dose atropine (0.05% or less) sustainably inhibit the progression of myopia in children??? [SEP] the purpose of this article was to evaluate the long-term efficacy of a low-concentration (lc) atropine eye drop regimen (0.05%-0.1%) for controlling myopia progression in schoolchildren. this meta-analysis was conducted to address the efficacy and safety of atropine on myopia in children and the dose-response relationship between atropine and annual rate of myopia progression. comparing with placebo, the effect size of atropine for retarding myopia progression was 0.773 diopters (d)/year [95% confidence interval (ci): 0.699-0.848]. in summary, 0.5% and 1% atropine was demonstrated to be effective and safe to ameliorate myopia progression in childhood with low-to-moderate myopia. low concentration atropine is effective in myopia control. the widespread use of low-concentration atropine, especially in east asia, may help prevent the myopia progression for the high-risk children. treatment with 0.01%, 0.025% and 0.05% atropine solution inhibits myopia progression in korean children in a dose-dependent manner. recent clinical trials demonstrated low-dose atropine eye drops such as 0.01% resulted in retardation of myopia progression, with significantly less side effects compared to higher concentration preparation. the effectiveness of atropine in controlling the progression of myopia was dose related. topical low-dose (0.01%) atropine eye-drop appears to be safe and efficacious for myopia control in children. 
Is quarantining persons who have had contact with infected persons or who enter from high-risk areas an effective measure to reduce the number of COVID-19 infections and deaths? [SEP] this summary guidance highlights critical evidence-based cdc recommendations and sustainable strategies to reduce covid-19 transmission. these strategies include 1) universal face mask use, 2) maintaining physical distance from other persons and limiting in-person contacts, 3) avoiding nonessential indoor spaces and crowded outdoor spaces, 4) increasing testing to rapidly identify and isolate infected persons, 5) promptly identifying, quarantining, and testing close contacts of persons with known covid-19, 6) safeguarding persons most at risk for severe illness or death from infection with sars-cov-2, the virus that causes covid-19, 7) protecting essential workers with provision of adequate personal protective equipment and safe work practices, 8) postponing travel, 9) increasing room air ventilation and enhancing hand hygiene and environmental disinfection, and 10) achieving widespread availability and high community coverage with effective covid-19 vaccines. quarantine of health care workers (hcws) exposed to covid-19-confirmed cases is a well-known strategy for limiting the transmission of infection. high-risk contacts were quarantined for 14 days and underwent testing for covid-19, while low-risk contacts continued their work with adherence to physical distancing, hand hygiene, appropriate use of personal protective equipment, and self-monitoring of symptoms. compared to patients infected with coronavirus, quarantined persons engaged in more hygiene-related behaviors (e.g., hand washing, cough etiquette, and proper mask-wearing) and social distancing. the contact tracing and subsequent quarantining of health care workers (hcws) are essential to minimizing the further transmission of sars-cov-2 infection and mitigating the shortage of hcws during the covid-19 pandemic situation. contact tracing and risk stratification were effective and helped to reduce the number of hcws requiring quarantine. knowledge of the laws of the spread of covid-19 will enable assessment of the effectiveness and reasonableness of the quarantine measures used, as well as determination of the necessary level of vaccination needed to overcome this crisis. the change in the number of covid-19 cases, deaths, and recovered persons over time was examined, considering the possible introduction of quarantine measures and isolation of infected people in these countries. active vaccination of the population is needed to prevent the spread of covid-19. 
Can homeopathic globules protect against infection with the novel coronavirus? [SEP] the present paper presents 5 cases of patients with moderate to severe covid-19 infections, 2 of them hospitalized in the intensive care unit, who were successfully treated with homeopathy. the present case series emphasizes the rapidity of response among moderate to severely ill patients to homeopathic treatment, when conventional medical options have been unable to relieve or shorten the disease. the observations described should encourage use of homeopathy in treating patients with covid-19 during the acute phase of the disease. homeopathic globules are frequently used in children as a first-line treatment. our patient shows that consumption of globules coated with xylitol does not have only laxative effects. homeopathic globules are commonly used in clinical practice, while research focuses on liquid potencies. the aim of the present study was to repeat and expand these experiments to homeopathic globules. homeopathic self-medication is understood by users as a resource to regain, maintain, and promote health. the efficacy of homeopathy is controversial. this article provides a view of homeopathic clinical practice in the new york city area in the first few months of 2020 as the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic began to evolve in the united states. 
Does the osteoporosis drug teriparatide increase the risk of bone cancer as a side effect? [SEP] teriparatide (20 microg) treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women rapidly increased markers of bone formation and reduced the incidence of vertebral fractures by 65% and of nonvertebral fragility fractures by 53%. teriparatide is a drug currently approved for treating patients with osteoporosis who are at high risk for future fracture. prior to fda approval, however, there was concern that teriparatide might increase the risk for patients to develop osteosarcoma, as almost 45% of the rats treated with this drug at the highest-tested dose level developed this aggressive form of bone cancer. given the theoretic risk of the drug teriparatide and the known risk of radiation in inducing osteosarcoma, we raise the issue of whether teriparatide magnified the risk of radiation-induced osteosarcoma in our patient and try to determine which factor played the predominant role in the development of his disease. we cannot, however, exclude the possibility that teriparatide magnified the carcinogenic effect of radiation therapy to induce the osteosarcoma. of more than 430,000 persons who have received teriparatide for treatment of severe osteoporosis, we report the second patient to develop osteosarcoma. although teriparatide reduces osteoporosis-related fractures in select patient populations, important contraindications, such as prior radiation exposure, should be considered before use. the efficacy, safety, and cost of teriparatide in the treatment of osteoporosis are reviewed. teriparatide treatment reduces vertebral and non-vertebral fracture risk markedly in women and men with idiopathic osteoporosis, or with glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. teriparatide is the first anabolic drug approved by the us food and drug administration for osteoporosis. 
Can therapy with EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) alleviate the symptoms of people with post-traumatic stress disorder? [SEP] eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a relatively new psychotherapy that has gradually gained popularity for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder. the efficacy of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) in children with post-traumatic stress symptoms was meta-analytically examined from the perspective of incremental efficacy. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) therapy is included in many international trauma treatment guidelines and is also shortlisted as an evidence-based practice for the treatment of psychological trauma and post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a relatively new psychological intervention which was first described to be effective in post-traumatic stress disorder, a condition associated with extremely stressful life situations. eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a method which was initially used for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder. treatment of ptsd has undergone further reviews with the introduction of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr). eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a psychotherapeutic approach that has originally been developed to treat post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). this study examined the add-on efficacy of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) therapy among adult civilians with post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) who continued to be symptomatic after more than 12 weeks of initial antidepressant treatment. background: eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (emdr) is a psychotherapeutic approach that has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) through several randomized controlled trials (rct). conclusions: emdr therapy could be a useful psychotherapy to treat trauma-associated symptoms in patients with comorbid psychiatric disorders. 
Does EMDR work similarly to exposure therapy, another well-studied form of psychotherapy for the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder??? [SEP] overall, the results of these studies suggest that emdr is a useful, evidence-based tool for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder, in line with recent recommendations from different international health organisations. both treatments were equally effective in reducing ptsd symptom severity, but the response pattern indicated that emdr led to a significantly sharper decline in ptsd symptoms than brief eclectic psychotherapy, with similar drop-out rates (emdr: n = 20 (29%), brief eclectic psychotherapy: n = 25 (36%)). two studies suggest that emdr is as effective as exposure therapies, three claim greater effectiveness in comparison to relaxation training, and three claim superiority over delayed treatment groups. conclusions: emdr therapy could be a useful psychotherapy to treat trauma-associated symptoms in patients with comorbid psychiatric disorders. results point to a similar, beneficial psychological impact of emdr and tf-cbt for treatment of natural-disaster ptsd patients. secondary objectives were to assess whether emdr therapy was effective to improve depressive or anxious comorbid symptoms. emdr therapy was superior to waitlist/placebo conditions and showed comparable efficacy to cognitive behavior therapy (cbt) in reducing post-traumatic and anxiety symptoms. conclusion: despite the small number of publications, the obtained results suggest that emdr therapy could be a promising psychotherapeutic approach for the treatment of ptsd and comorbid symptoms in young individuals. meta-analysis of 11 studies (n = 547) showed that emdr is better than cbt in reducing post-traumatic symptoms [sdm (95% ci) = -0.43 (-0.73 - -0.12), p = 0.006]. conclusion the results of this meta-analysis suggested that emdr is better than cbt in reducing post-traumatic symptoms and anxiety. 
Does filling with hydrogel help with chronic back pain caused by a worn disc? [SEP] the use of injectable hydrogel formulations have been suggested as a promising strategy for the treatment of degenerative disc disease to both restore the biomechanical function and reduce low back pain. these results suggest that the hydrogel can be used as an alternative material for treatment of disc herniation. after 12 weeks, degenerate discs were treated by injection of either hydrogel alone or hydrogel seeded with allogeneic, bone marrow-derived mscs. two weeks after treatment, discs that received the combined hydrogel and msc injection exhibited a significant, 10% improvement in disc height index, as well as improvements in histological condition. in this study, using a clinically relevant goat model of moderate-severity disc degeneration, we demonstrate that a combined interpenetrating network hydrogel and mesenchymal stem cell therapy provides acute improvements in disc height, histological condition, and local inflammation. hydrogels with various functional qualities have recently been used to repair and regenerate diseased intervertebral discs. here, we review the mechanisms of intervertebral disc homeostasis and degeneration and then discuss the applications of hydrogel-mediated repair and intervertebral disc regeneration. hyaluronic acid (ha) used as a therapeutic biomaterial can reduce inflammation and pain, but the effects of ha therapy on glycosylation and pain associated with disc degeneration have not been previously determined. our results suggest that ha hydrogel is a promising clinical candidate for the treatment of back pain caused by degenerated discs. in an ex vivo model, we demonstrate that the hydrogels can restore the compressive stiffness of denucleated bovine intervertebral discs. 
Does taking hyaluronic acid in capsule form improve the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis? [SEP] intra-articular administration of a hyaluronic acid preparation significantly reduced pain in the knee and improved its functioning, regardless of the form of osteoarthritis. the purpose of the present study was to evaluate the therapeutic effect of intra-articular hyaluronic acid (ha) in comparison to corticosteroids (cs) for knee osteoarthritis. the aim of this meta-analysis was to elucidate the therapeutic efficacy and safety of intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid for osteoarthritis of the knee. intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid can decrease symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee. this meta-analysis confirmed the therapeutic efficacy and safety of intra-articular injection of hyaluronic acid for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. intraarticular injections of hyaluronic acid have been advocated for treatment of symptomatic knee osteoarthritis. many literature data report on the efficacy and safety profiles of hyaluronic acid in knee osteoarthritis, however the efficacy of intra-articular hyaluronic acid remains controversial, in fact while several clinical trials claimed a disease-modifying effect for hyaluronic acid, subsequent meta-analyses have cast doubts on this fact. the aim of this study was to demonstrate the effect of hyaluronic acid injections on postural stability in individuals with bilateral knee osteoarthritis. an open-label, multicenter study was designed to evaluate the effects of intra-articular (ia) hyaluronic acid in patients given a diagnosis of osteoarthritis of the knee. relief of symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee was seen as early as 4 weeks after treatment in 68% of patients receiving ia hyaluronic acid. 
Does taking chlorella provide better performance, more resilience and does it promote health? [SEP] both history of winning and rank of cage mates affect stress susceptibility in males: rising to the top rank through high mobility confers resilience and mice that lose dominance lose stress resilience, although gaining dominance over a subordinate animal does not confer resilience. however, those in the struggling growth subset of the sample who reported improvement in perceived social support increased the odds of reaching constructive growth. finally, these findings call for future research to continue to explore the quality of ptg and the contexts in which protective factors promote positive adaptation. resilience is a broad term used to describe flourishing despite adversity. to date, resilience and the connections to religion have not been well studied, despite compelling evidence that religious practice can promote psychological health. this research examines the role that religion plays in promoting resilience among older adults. findings suggest that religious service attendance has protective properties that are worthy of consideration when investigating resilience. the challenges in our personal, professional, financial, and emotional world are on rise, more so in developing countries and people will be longing for mental wellness for achieving complete health in their life. protection factors seem to be more important in the development of resilience than risk factors. in this brief review of the science of resilience, we show that the concept is best understood as the process of multiple biological, psychological, social, and ecological systems interacting in ways that help individuals to regain, sustain, or improve their mental wellbeing when challenged by one or more risk factors. 
Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong men's lives? [SEP] top finnish athletes have discovered this, taking a sauna almost twice a week. of the rand-36 domains physical function, vitality, social functioning, and general health were significantly better among sauna users than non-users. regular sauna bathing was common among octogenarian men and was associated with better hrqol. recent research has revealed multiple potential health benefits of frequent sauna bathing. to investigate the association of frequency and duration of sauna bathing with the risk of sudden cardiac death (scd), fatal coronary heart disease (chd), fatal cardiovascular disease (cvd), and all-cause mortality. frequency and duration of sauna bathing assessed at baseline. compared with men having a sauna bathing session of less than 11 minutes, the adjusted hazard ratio for scd was 0.93 (95% ci, 0.67-1.28) for sauna bathing sessions of 11 to 19 minutes and 0.48 (95% ci, 0.31-0.75) for sessions lasting more than 19 minutes (p for trend = .002); significant inverse associations were also observed for fatal chds and fatal cvds (p for trend ≤.03) but not for all-cause mortality events. increased frequency of sauna bathing is associated with a reduced risk of scd, chd, cvd, and all-cause mortality. forty-two sedentary men aged 20.24 ± 1.68 years were exposed to 10-, 12- and 14-minute sauna sessions (temperature: 90-91 °c; relative humidity: 14-16%). we examined the effects of post-exercise sauna bathing on hematological adaptations and exercise capacity in healthy men. 
Does going to the sauna several times a week prolong women's lives??? [SEP] sauna and sports go well together. top finnish athletes have discovered this, taking a sauna almost twice a week. recent research has revealed multiple potential health benefits of frequent sauna bathing. we investigated several aspects of sauna bathing with self-reports: the frequency, its possible changes, reasons for change, and beliefs about its health effects among a representative sample of thousand finns aged 18-75 years. the covid-19 pandemic demonstrated that the frequency of bathing is dependent on good access to sauna facilities. sauna bathing does not appear to affect fertility in men. some studies have suggested that long-term sauna bathing may help lower blood pressure in patients with hypertension and improve the left ventricular ejection fraction in patients with chronic congestive heart failure, but additional data are needed to confirm these findings. the transient improvements in pulmonary function that occur in the sauna may provide some relief to patients with asthma and chronic bronchitis. sauna bathing may also alleviate pain and improve joint mobility in patients with rheumatic disease. the normal sauna bath, with moderate cool-off phases, increases the cardiac work load about as much as a brisk walk. 
Does the additional offer of HIV self-testing cause more people to take an HIV test? [SEP] by offering hiv testing choices, we may be able to increase testing rates. thus, self-administered hiv testing could be an option added to the current testing modalities to address some important barriers to testing. perceptions and attitudes around hiv self-testing (hivst), and willingness to distribute hiv self-tests to others were assessed. the routine offer of an hiv test to all patients in health-care settings has been proposed to increase access to care. self-initiated hiv testing is understudied and vital to improving hiv testing rates, treatment, and the process of hiv prevention. findings from our review indicate several benefits to self-initiated hiv testing, including early identification of acute hiv infection, increased likelihood for the uptake of hiv prevention interventions, and a reduction in sexual risk behaviors. with nearly one in five people living with hiv in the united states still undiagnosed and an even higher proportion unaware of their infection globally, this decision reflects a new willingness to offer diverse options to get tested for hiv. rapid self-testing offers several distinct opportunities to improve testing among those with undiagnosed hiv: to encourage testing among those who might not otherwise be tested, to increase the frequency of testing among persons at highest risk for new infection, and to facilitate mutual hiv testing with sex partners. providing hiv self-tests to women for distribution to male partners may provide a unique opportunity to increase male partner and couples testing among women in hiv high-burden settings. among women attending routine maternal and child health and family planning services who had male partners of unknown hiv status, over half accepted self-tests for partner testing. 
Can the combination of propolis, xyloglucan, gelatin and hibiscus (product "Utipro Plus") relieve the symptoms of cystitis or prevent cystitis? [SEP] to assess the properties of a medical device containing xyloglucan, propolis and hibiscus to create a bioprotective barrier to avoid the contact of uropathogenic escherichia coli strains on cell walls in models of intestinal (cacogoblet) and uroepithelial (rwpe-1) cells (derived from normal human prostate epithelium). the three components (xyloglucan, propolis and hibiscus) did not alter e. coli cell integrity in intestinal and uroepithelial cell models and were devoid of antibacterial activity. the nonpharmacological barrier properties of xyloglucan, propolis and hibiscus confirm the role of the medical device for the management of urinary tract infections. the purpose of the study was to compare the efficacy of a product containing cranberry and propolis (duab) to placebo for reducing frequency of cystitis in women with recurrent acute cystitis. we demonstrate for the first time that cranberry and propolis supplementation significantly reduces the incidence of utis during the first 3 months and delays the onset of an episode of cystitis. xyloglucan + gelose significantly reduced the frequency of urinary incontinence and urgency of micturition compared with placebo (both p < 0.05), with symptom resolution in all patients by day 90. the xyloglucan + gelose medical device was safe, well tolerated, and it reduced bacteriological and symptomatic parameters in adults with uncomplicated uti. increasing urinary nitric oxide and cgmp may ameliorate interstitial cystitis symptoms. another non-antimicrobial option to control and prevent utis is a medical device (utipro plus®) containing xyloglucan, gelatin, propolis, and extracts of hibiscus sabdariffa. potentially effective options to prevent symptoms of cystitis are bcg dose reduction, intravesical hyaluronic acid instillations and oral prulifloxacin or ofloxacin administration. 
Does PEMF noticeably improve pain in osteoarthritis? Does the method improve mobility and quality of life in sufferers? [SEP] this systematic review provides further evidence that pemf has little value in the management of knee osteoarthritis. there appears to be clear evidence for the recommendation that pemf does not significantly reduce the pain of knee osteoarthritis. to determine if low frequency (≤100 hz) pulsed subsensory threshold electrical stimulation produced either through pulsed electromagnetic field (pemf) or pulsed electrical stimulation (pes) vs sham pemf/pes intervention is effective in improving pain and physical function at treatment completion in adults with knee osteoarthritis (oa) blinded to treatment. pemf/pes improves physical function (smd = 0.22, 95% confidence interval (ci) = 0.04, 0.41, p = 0.02, i(2) = 0%), and does not reduce pain (smd = 0.08, 95% ci = -0.17, 0.32, p = 0.55, i(2) = 43%). the aim of this study was to evaluate if pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (pemf) has additional effect on the classical physical treatment of knee osteoarthritis (oa) composed of hot pack, therapeutic ultrasound, and terminal isometric exercises. patients with knee osteoarthritis [kellgren-lawrence criteria grade 2 and above and an average pain intensity of 40 or more on a 100-mm visual analog scale (vas)] recruited from outpatient physical medicine and rehabilitation clinic were randomly assigned to receive pemf or sham pemf treatment in addition to their physical therapy. both pemf and sham pemf treatment groups showed statistically significant improvement in womac pain and functional scores at the end of treatment (p < 0.001 in both groups). the results of this study show that pemf does not have additional effect on the classical physical treatment in reducing symptoms of knee oa. in a pilot, double-blind randomized trial, 27 patients with osteoarthritis (oa), primarily of the knee, were treated with pemf. the decreased pain and improved functional performance of treated patients suggests that this configuration of pemf has potential as an effective method of improving symptoms in patients with oa. 
Does oil pulling promote dental health? [SEP] there are numerous advocates for the practice of oil pulling to prevent common oral diseases. this review aimed to assess the effect of oil pulling with coconut oil in improving oral health and dental hygiene. the limited evidence suggests that oil pulling with coconut oil may have a beneficial effect on improving oral health and dental hygiene. oil pulling with coconut oil could be used as a adjunct to normal preventative regimes to improve oral health and dental hygiene although further studies are needed to determine the level of effectiveness. the use of oil pulling can be frequently found in ancient medical text and is supported by recent studies for its efficacy and long-term use for maintaining and improving oral health. this article provides an overview on the concept of oil pulling or oil swishing, its mechanism of action and a summary of the evidence available, which highlights the role of oil pulling in specific oral diseases. the limited evidence to date from clinical trials suggests that oil pulling may have beneficial effects on oro dental hygiene as seen for the short period of time investigated. oil pulling is an age-old practice that has gained modern popularity in promoting oral and systemic health. oil pulling, has been extensively used as traditional indian folk remedy since many years to prevent dental diseases and for strengthening teeth and gums. oil pulling is effective in controlling plaque levels. 
Can injecting stem cells into the knee joint relieve pain and limitations associated with osteoarthritis? [SEP] as treatments evolve, injectable therapies may offer a safe and effective pathway for patients suffering from knee osteoarthritis. this review will highlight the developments in cellular medicine that may soon permit interventional pain management physicians to treat a much wider variety of clinical conditions and highlight an interventional case study using these technologies to determine if isolated and expanded human autologous mesenchymal stem cells could effectively regenerate cartilage and meniscal tissue when percutaneously injected into knees. the mesenchymal stem cells were then percutaneously injected into the subject's knee with mri proven degenerative joint disease. the described process of autologous mesenchymal stem cell culture and percutaneous injection into a knee with symptomatic and radiographic degenerative joint disease resulted in significant cartilage growth, decreased pain and increased joint mobility in this patient. intraarticular ha injection is effective in providing temporary pain relief in patients with painful knee osteoarthritis. pain-relieving intra-articular injections are widely utilized in the treatment of knee oa. will stem cell research reverse the projected sevenfold increase in primary and revision knee replacements expected in the united states between 2005 and 2030? expanded autologous chondrocytes, and more recently ex vivo expanded skeletal stem cells, are currently injected into osteochondral defects in the hope of regenerating cartilage and halting progression towards osteoarthritis. in addition, mesenchymal stem cells are being injected into human joints as a treatment for osteoarthritis despite a lack of quantitative research. whether it is through implant design or a potential cure for the pain attributable to osteoarthritis, as we hope to show in this 'forward look article', it is our opinion that stem cells will certainly impact future joint replacement. 
Can an extract of Desmodium promote liver health or relieve other ailments? [SEP] a bibliographic investigation was accomplished by analyzing secondary sources including chinese herbal classics, and worldwide accepted scientific databases (pubmed, scopus and web of science, scifinder) were scrutinized for the available information on the ethnopharmacological uses in chinese medicine, phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology of desmodium species. desmodium plant extracts, as well as the active principles, have been experimentally studied for their anti-inflammatory, cytotoxic, antidiabetic, antinephrolithic, antibacterial, and nootropic activities in vitro or in vivo. desmodium species have long been used in tcm to treat various ailments. available scientific references revealed that the traditional medical uses of some important desmodium species in tcm have been evaluated by modern pharmacological studies. desmodium gangeticum is used as a tonic, febrifuge, digestive, anticatarrhal, antiemitic, in inflammatory conditions of chest and in various other inflammatory conditions in the ayurvedic system of medicine while desmodium adscendens is widely used for the treatment of asthma in ghana, africa. the aim of this review is to provide comprehensive information on the botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacological research and toxicology of desmodium gangeticum and desmodium adscendens to explore their therapeutic potential and future research opportunities. crude extracts, fractions and isolated components of desmodium gangeticum and desmodium adscendens showed a wide spectrum of in vitro and in vivo pharmacological activities like antileishmanial, immunomodulatory, antiasthmatic, smooth muscle relaxant, anti-inflammatory, anti-ulcer, cardio-protective, antidiabetic, antiamnesic, antiviral, antioxidant and hepatoprotective activities. desmodium gangeticum and desmodium adscendens have emerged as a good source of traditional medicine. desmodium adscendens is useful against chronic bronchitis and asthma. administration of the ethyl acetate extract of desmodium gangeticum root (100 mg per kg body weight) before global ischemia caused a significant improvement of cardiac function and a decrease in the release of lactate dehydrogenase in coronary effluent, as well as the level of malondialdehyde in myocardial tissues. 
Does the balsam apple help against infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)? [SEP] we found that the lowest percentage of watermelon recipient plants was infected when balsam apple was used as a source of inoculum. watermelon was more susceptible to infection than balsam apple or smellmelon. this review summarizes the most recent literature on hiv infection of the male genital tract, discusses the above issues in light of the latest findings and highlights future directions of research. individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection are more susceptible to bacterial infections because of defects in both cellular and humoral immunity. prevention of bacterial pneumonia is very important in the care of hiv-infected persons. the hiv-specific t-cell responses in hiv-infected chimpanzees may contribute to prevention of the development of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in this species. results may also help develop new strategies based on the attenuation of srlvs to control the highly pathogenic hiv-1 in humans. heterosexual human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) transmission accounts for most cases of hiv infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome worldwide. nonetheless, maraviroc is a potent medication for eligible patients and helps to improve the outcome of antiretroviral treatment (art) of hiv infection. these findings demonstrate the utility of the shiv/macaque model for analyzing hiv-1 env gene functions and for evaluating vaccines based on hiv-1 env antigens. 
Does healing clay with the clay mineral smectite help when children have diarrhea? [SEP] in addition, clay minerals, especially smectite, may control the degree to which contaminants are adsorbed by the sediment. these data collectively showed that d. vulgaris could promote smectite illitization through reduction of structural fe(iii) in clay minerals. as a result of this structure, clay minerals are regarded as a simple and effective tool for the prevention of the negative effects of many toxic compounds. clays reduce the speed of passage of feed along the digestive tract which allows more time for digestion. several studies have indicated that feeding clay reduces the incidence, severity and duration of diarrhea in pigs. the aim of the present review is to focus on the various clays which have been given attention in recent research and to discuss their potential to improve pig performance. two novel clay minerals, maifan stone and illite/smectite clay, were examined in the in situ immobilisation of soil metals. therefore, both maifan stone and illite/smectite clay are promising amendments for contaminated soil remediation. clay minerals, especially expandable smectite clays, are one of the major component geosorbents in soils and sediments that can function as an effective adsorbent for environmental dioxins, including tcdd. illite-smectite interstratified clay minerals are ubiquitous in sedimentary basins and they have been linked to the maturation, migration and trapping of hydrocarbons, rock cementation, evolution of porewater chemistry during diagenesis and the development of pore pressure. 
Does a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage, and centaury effectively relieve symptoms of uncomplicated cystitis? [SEP] the herbal medicinal product canephron® n contains bno 2103, a defined mixture of pulverized rosemary leaves, centaury herb, and lovage root, and has been used in the treatment of urinary tract infections for more than 25 years. in this study the herbal combination canephron(®) n, containing lovage root, rosemary leaves, and centaury herb, was administered to patients with dn to study the effects on microalbuminuria and overall oxidant/antioxidant status. in traditional medicine, rosemary was used as mild analgesic, for relieving renal colic pain and dysmenorrhea. our findings support the use of rosemary in the management of pain and indicate a therapeutic potential of rosemary essential oil in combination with analgesic drugs. adult women with at least one risk factor for acquiring uti (defined as: age over 70, elevated postvoid residual urine>100 ml, recurrent uti, pelvic organ prolapse (pop) ≥ii in pop-q scale, and neurogenic bladder) had received after uds either a single oral dose of fosfomycin trometamol (ft) (3 grams) or a phytodrug containing centaury herb, lovage root, and rosemary leaves (5 ml taken orally three times daily for one week). this review examines the effect on these symptoms of lifestyle factors (such as weight, smoking, dietary components, fluid intake, exercise and bowel habit), complementary therapies (such as herbal remedies, acupuncture and hypnotherapy), behavioural therapies (bladder training and timed and prompted voiding), pelvic floor muscle training and some over-the-counter preparations. a secondary analysis was conducted with data from a randomized, controlled, double-blind trial comparing a fixed combination of extracts of restharrow root, java tea, and goldenrod herb (aqualibra®) to placebo in 200 women with acute lower uuti. a fixed combination of extracts of restharrow root, java tea, and goldenrod herb was superior to placebo regarding symptom relief and prevention of antibiotic use in women with lower uuti. to demonstrate non-inferiority of an herbal combination (horseradish root and nasturtium herb) to an antibiotic (co-trimoxazole) in acute uncomplicated cystitis. adult patients (median age, 38.5 years; 90% female) with acute uncomplicated cystitis confirmed via urinalysis and bacterial counts. 
Can a herbal combination preparation of rosemary, lovage and centaury prevent recurrent cystitis in women? [SEP] in this study the herbal combination canephron(®) n, containing lovage root, rosemary leaves, and centaury herb, was administered to patients with dn to study the effects on microalbuminuria and overall oxidant/antioxidant status. adult women with at least one risk factor for acquiring uti (defined as: age over 70, elevated postvoid residual urine>100 ml, recurrent uti, pelvic organ prolapse (pop) ≥ii in pop-q scale, and neurogenic bladder) had received after uds either a single oral dose of fosfomycin trometamol (ft) (3 grams) or a phytodrug containing centaury herb, lovage root, and rosemary leaves (5 ml taken orally three times daily for one week). the world health organization has recommended herbal medicine for treatment and control of recurrent cystitis. this study was conducted to determine effect of eshnan on the prevention of recurrent cystitis. the present triple-blind clinical trial was conducted on 126 women (63 women per group) with recurrent cystitis. the present findings showed that the incidence rate of cystitis and symptoms of cystitis was significantly lower in the eshnan group compared with the placebo group 2, 4, and 6 months after the intervention (p < .05). the consumption of eshnan can improve the symptoms of cystitis and prevent the incidence of recurrent cystitis in women of reproductive age. a secondary analysis was conducted with data from a randomized, controlled, double-blind trial comparing a fixed combination of extracts of restharrow root, java tea, and goldenrod herb (aqualibra®) to placebo in 200 women with acute lower uuti. a fixed combination of extracts of restharrow root, java tea, and goldenrod herb was superior to placebo regarding symptom relief and prevention of antibiotic use in women with lower uuti. rosemary and its main components have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and lipid-lowering properties. 
Can healing clay help with gastritis? [SEP] natural clays have been used to heal skin infections since the earliest recorded history. recently our attention was drawn to a clinical use of french green clay (rich in fe-smectite) for healing buruli ulcer, a necrotizing fasciitis ('flesh-eating' infection) caused by mycobacterium ulcerans. these clays and others like them are interesting as they may reveal an antibacterial mechanism that could provide an inexpensive treatment for this and other skin infections, especially in global areas with limited hospitals and medical resources.microbiological testing of two french green clays, and other clays used traditionally for healing, identified three samples that were effective at killing a broad-spectrum of human pathogens. the highly adsorptive properties of many clays may contribute to healing a variety of ailments, although they are not antibacterial. healing clays have been traditionally used by man for therapeutic, nutritional and skin care purposes, but they could impart some important health and skin care risks. this paper pretends to review historical data, basic concepts and functions, as well as benefits and risks of the use of healing clays, in general, for therapeutic and cosmetic purposes, and of edible clays, in particular, for therapeutic purposes. clay therapy for skin disease treatment is an ancient practice popular worldwide as a cheap alternative to pharmaceutical products. effectiveness of clay against skin problems has been linked to its mineral composition and to microbial activity. in this study the physicochemical and microbiological healing characteristics of a clay from ocara, brazil, popularly used for therapeutic uses, were analyzed. the presence of ca, mg, al, fe, and si was observed, which initially indicated that the clay had potential for therapeutic use. 
Does the Indian spice paste Chyawanprash have a positive effect on adult health? [SEP] chyawanprash is an ancient indian dietary supplement containing vitamin c (34 mg/100 g) derived from amla (emblica officinalis). in addition, chyawanprash also contains several other herbal products. chyawanprash (cp) is an ayurvedic health supplement which is made up of a super-concentrated blend of nutrient-rich herbs and minerals. chyawanprash is an ayurvedic formulation used in indian traditional medicinal system for its beneficial effect on human health. we investigated the immunostimulatory effects of chyawanprash (chy) using in vitro assays evaluating the secretion of cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-α), interleukin-1beta (il-1β) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1-alpha (mip-1-α) from murine bone marrow derived dendritic cells (dc) which play pivotal role in immunostimulation. chyawanprash is an ayurvedic formulation which is used traditionally to increase vitality, vigor and for delaying the aging process. the present study sought to explore the beneficial effects of chyawanprash on cognitive function of aged mice. in the present study, chyawanprash (chy) was administered orally in two concentrations (1 and 2% w/w of the diet) for 15 successive days to 17 different groups of young (8 groups) and aged (9 groups) mice. the administration of chyawanprash (1 and 2% w/w) for 15 consecutive days significantly improved the memory of aged mice when compared to young mice. chyawanprash may be looked upon as a useful memory enhancer in aged animals by virtue of its antioxidant effect, pro-cholinergic action, improved learning ability, and increased retention capacity. 
Does ginger work against breast cancer? [SEP] the aim of this article is to explore the effectiveness of ginger to overcome nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy in breast cancer patients. results of the study suggest that ginger is only effective to reduce nausea, but does not lower the frequency of vomiting caused by chemotherapy in breast cancer patients. this study was aimed at obtaining a comprehensive overview of the current evidence regarding the effectiveness of ginger as an antiemetic modality for controlling cinv in breast cancer patients. our investigation suggests that ginger may reduce nausea in the acute phase of chemotherapy in patients with breast cancer. further, ginger supplementation alone or in combination with training, also play an important role in the pathogenesis of oxidative stress in obese women diagnosed with breast cancer. since clinical data on the effectiveness of ginger in patients with advanced breast cancer is lacking, the present study aimed to evaluate the effects of ginger against both acute and delayed forms of cinv in a population with advanced breast cancer as the main malignancy. the present study aimed to examine the antiproliferative potentiality of an extract derived from the medicinal plant ginger (zingiber officinale) on growth of breast cancer cells. ginger treatment suppressed the proliferation and colony formation in breast cancer cell lines, mcf-7 and mda-mb-231. these findings suggested that the ginger may be a promising candidate for the treatment of breast carcinomas. conclusions the consumption of kombucha prepared from ginger could exert minor antioxidant impacts by balancing multi antioxidant factors in different tissues in the breast cancer models. 
Can Theta Healing help with physical ailments and mental problems? [SEP] a wealth of studies support the assertion that patients seen by medical doctors for physical complaints can often be helped by psychotherapeutic intervention. even very brief mental health intervention can reduce the number of visits for medical care, the studies show. this generates a kind of psychic energy in him which then helps him to regain the natural capacity of the body to recover from the ailments. at mind/body centers like the one at mid-columbia medical center, patients work with nontraditional forms of therapy that help them deal with their physical and mental health problems. like other caribbean healing traditions, it plays a significant role in shaping how individuals experience and express disorders which western health professionals consider to require psychiatric care. however, belief in brua as a possible source of mental and physical complaints, as well as patients' frequent recourse to brua practices, including the use of hallucinogens, may affect the diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders. the purpose of this study was to examine the impact of geographical access to care on the use of services for physical and mental health problems and to explore american indians' use of traditional healing services in relation to use of biomedical services. for members of the southwest tribe with mental health problems, the use of biomedical services increased the likelihood of using traditional healing services. the physician who will give "holding" (care) and processing to the patient with the intention of healing the "wounded child inside" who cannot love and open up, can often help the patient to improve self-insight and change the whole quality and atmosphere of the relationship. the healing will end a series of symptoms of poor thriving, physically, emotionally, and mentally, and make life worth living. 
Does taking Bacopa extract improve memory performance? [SEP] traditional knowledge suggests that bacopa monnieri enhances cognitive performance. across studies, bacopa improved performance on 9 of 17 tests in the domain of memory free recall. there is some evidence to suggest that bacopa improves memory free recall with evidence for enhancement in other cognitive abilities currently lacking perhaps due to inconsistent measures employed by studies across these cognitive domains. bacopa significantly improved verbal learning, memory acquisition, and delayed recall as measured by the avlt: trial a4 (p = 0.000), trial a5 (p = 0.016); trial a6 (p = 0.000); trial a7 (delayed recall) (p = 0.001); total learning (p = 0.011); and retroactive interference (p = 0.048). bacopa significantly improved memory acquisition and retention in healthy older australians. the bacopa monniera product significantly improved performance on the 'working memory' factor, more specifically spatial working memory accuracy. the results showed an improvement in spatial learning performance and enhanced memory retention in rats treated with bacopa monniera extract. statistically significant improvement was seen in the tests relating to the cognitive functions with use of bacopa monnieri. bacopa monniera (bm) is shown to be very useful in improving learning and memory. studies in animal model evidenced that bacopa treatment can attenuate dementia and enhances memory. 
Do remedies containing the trifoliate fruit alleviate the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism")? [SEP] consequently, oe-ee possesses anti-inflammatory and anti-rheumatic effects and is a potential effective treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. rheumatoid arthritis is found to be very effective in alleviating the symptoms in the hapless victims of rheumatoid arthritis as stipulated in ashtanga hridaya. this paper deals with the role of asteracantha longifolia in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. but in the initial stages the paneeya made out of kokilasha (asteracantha longifolia) is found to be very effective in alleviating the symptoms in the hapless victims of rheumatoid arthritis as stipulated in ashtanga hridaya. this paper deals with the role of asteracantha longifolia in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. is there a role for dietary modifications in the routine therapy for patients with rheumatic diseases? emerging research demonstrates a protective role of fruits and their polyphenols in pre-clinical, clinical and epidemiological studies of oa and ra. in this context, commonly available fruits, such as blueberries, raspberries and strawberries, and pomegranates have shown promising results in reducing pain and inflammation in experimental models and in human clinical studies of arthritis. there is also some evidence on the role of specific fruit polyphenols, such as quercetin and citrus flavonoids in alleviating ra symptoms. these emerging data deserve further investigation in rigorous scientific studies to determine the mechanisms, dosing and selection of fruits and fruit extracts in arthritis management. 
Does thyme strengthen memory or prevent mental decline? [SEP] out-of-home endurance, muscle strengthening, combined endurance and muscle strengthening, and stretching activities reduced the risk of subjective memory decline during the pandemic. previous studies have shown that anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) applied over the left lateral prefrontal cortex (pfc) after a contextual reminder strengthened existing verbal episodic memories, conceivably through reconsolidation, in elderly people. in this study, we hypothesized that anodal tdcs applied over the left lateral pfc after a contextual reminder would improve delayed memory retrieval relative to placebo (sham) stimulation in elderly individuals with smc. these findings showed that anodal tdcs over the left lateral pfc strengthened existing episodic memories, a behavioral effect documented by improved recognition up to 30 days, relative to placebo stimulation. this study suggests that tdcs after a contextual reminder can induce long-lasting beneficial effects by facilitating the consolidation processes and opens up the possibility to design specific non-invasive interventions aimed at preventing memory decline in this at-risk population. the effects of 0.5 g thyme oil per kg dry matter (dm) of diet on duodenal tissue integrity, antioxidant status, phagocytic activity and selected microbiota in the caecum and faeces of rabbits were studied. thyme oil significantly increased the value of total antioxidant status (tas) in the blood plasma and glutathione peroxidase (gpx) activity in the liver, and it decreased malondialdehyde (mda) concentration in the duodenal tissue. thyme oil resulted in strengthened intestinal integrity, as the essential oil supplementation significantly increased teer values in the experiment. in conclusion, dietary supplementation with 0.5 g/kg dm thyme oil may improve intestinal integrity, and it may have an antioxidant effect. a tendency was also found for thyme oil to stimulate the abundance of some microbes beneficial in the rabbit gut. 
Does regular consumption of chia seeds reduce body weight, blood sugar levels or cholesterol? [SEP] the study aimed to investigate the possible effects of chia seeds on fasting blood glucose, insulin, glycated hemoglobin, bp, lipid profile, body weight, and the inflammatory marker - high-sensitivity c-reactive protein - in people with type 2 diabetes (t2dm). people with t2dm and hypertension, maintaining usual dietary consumption, physical activity pattern, and medications, had significantly reduced sbp compared to the control group when having consumed 40 g/d of chia seeds for 12 weeks. of the chia seed interventions, one study showed a significant drop in systolic blood pressure (sbp) and inflammatory markers, yet there was no change in body mass, lipid profile or blood sugar. however, chia seed and chia oil in both treatments improved glucose and insulin tolerance. the present study demonstrated new properties and molecular mechanisms associated with the beneficial effects of chia seed and chia oil consumption in diet-induced obese rats. the consumption of chia has shown good digestibility, hypoglycemic effect, improved lipid and glycemic profiles and reduced fat deposition in liver of animals, and also promoted changes in intestinal tissue that enhanced its functionality. chia (salvia hispanica l.) has an elevated concentration of dietary fiber, it has been used to weight loss and enhance blood glucose and lipid profile. to evaluate the effect of chia supplementation in body composition, lipid profile and blood glucose in overweight or obese individuals. consumption of chia for 12 weeks promotes significant but discrete reduction in weight and waist circumference, and enhances lipid profile dependent of initial values. these innovative results highlight the potential functionality of the soluble fibre extracted from chia seeds to improve lipid and glycemic profiles and suggest the dietary health benefits of this new soluble fibre source as an ingredient in functional foods designed to reduce the risk of certain non-communicable diseases. 
Do heat patches that heat themselves or heat pads help with pain in the neck? [SEP] heating the skin and muscles is a commonly accepted method of pain relief and a modality to increase relaxation in muscles and increase tissue blood flow. the purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of local heat applied to trigger points and to determine if there was pain relief in the neck and plantar fascia. subjective pain significantly decreased in both sham and heat group patients with neck pain (p< 0.05), however, the change was greater in the heat group and there was a significant difference between the heat and sham groups (p= 0.002, d= 0.81). the effect of local heat on trigger points of the body on pain relief was significantly better in the heat groups than in the sham groups. the objective of this study was to compare the analgesic efficacy of heat and cold in relieving pain from back and neck strains. the addition of a 30-minute topical application of a heating pad or cold pack to ibuprofen therapy for the treatment of acute neck or back strain results in a mild yet similar improvement in the pain severity. women were more likely to report clinically meaningful improvement in pain and symptoms on the koos with the use of heat, cold, and a heating pad. compared with a heating pad, cupping was more effective in improving pain (adjusted nrs difference: -1.29 [95% ci -1.61, -0.97] at 3 weeks (p=0.025) and -1.16 [-1.48, -0.84] at 7 weeks (p=0.005)), neck function (adjusted ndi difference: -0.79 [-1.11, -0.47] at 3 (p=0.0039) and 7 weeks (p<0.0001)) and discomfort (adjusted mymop2 difference score: -0.72 [-1.04 to -0.40] at 3 weeks and -0.92 [-1.24, -0.60] at 7 weeks). fourteen ssc patients heated their neck, elbows, and wrists with disposable heating pads for 1 week each. in the treatment of acute neck or low back pain, cold and heat therapies have demonstrated limited effectiveness for patients, and the efficacy of topical nsaids has not been established. 
Do heat patches containing capsaicin help with neck pain??? [SEP] the objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a hydrogel patch containing capsaicin 0.1% compared with a placebo hydrogel patch without capsaicin to treat chronic myofascial neck pain. after 3 hr, cold (12°c) and heat (42°c) stimuli were applied to the capsaicin patch to transiently increase and decrease pain intensity. cpm decreased 3-hr post-capsaicin (p = .001) compared to day 0 and remained diminished while the capsaicin pain score was reduced (0.4 ± 0.7, p < .001) and increased (6.6 ± 2.2, p < .001) by patch cooling and heating. capsaicin-containing plant extracts have been used as topical treatments for a variety of pain syndromes for many centuries. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether a single topical application of a high-concentration capsaicin-containing (8%w/w) patch for 120 min or less would induce similar effects on cutaneous nociceptive nerve fibers. the ability of a single 60 min high-concentration patch application to mimic effects produced by prolonged exposure to low-concentration capsaicin creams suggests a new approach to the management of chronic pain syndromes. axon-reflex flare responses (days 1-3), but not supra-threshold electrically induced pain were significantly reduced by the capsaicin patch. capsaicin pre-treatment, in the uvb-irradiated area (capsaicin + uvb area), increased heat pain thresholds (p < 0.05), and decreased supra-threshold heat pain sensitivity (p < 0.05) 1, 3 and 7 days post-uvb irradiation, while mechanical hyperalgesia resulted unchanged (p > 0.2). in two randomized trials, a single 60-min application of the capsaicin 8 % patch reduced pain scores significantly more than a low-concentration (0.04 %) capsaicin control patch in patients with phn. capsaicin 8% patch relieves neuropathic pain for 3 months after a single 60 min cutaneous application; we investigated whether its pre-application can reduce s.c. trepostinil-induced pain. 
Do heat patches help with lower back pain? [SEP] in the treatment of acute neck or low back pain, cold and heat therapies have demonstrated limited effectiveness for patients, and the efficacy of topical nsaids has not been established. pilot study: subjects who received the heated patch (n=43) vs. the unheated patch (n=37) had lower mean pain intensity scores (14.7 vs. 23.5mm, p=0.04). heated patches provided significantly better pain relief compared with unheated patches. (2015) used a topical capsaicin/heat pain sensitization model to experimentally induce lower back pain, and demonstrated that the experimental pain experience caused a decrease in the muscular contribution to lumbar spine rotational stiffness (related to mechanical stability) as well as lower back local dynamic stability (lds). this is a controlled, prospective study which compares the effects of a low-dose heat patch for self-medication on the reduction of pain symptoms in dysmenorrhea. heat as a non pharmacological method of pain relief helps reducing the pain intensity and increases the pain consistency. according to the results of this study, it seems that heat therapy in addition to its beneficial effects, causes the mother to sense the labor pain in a lower pain severity. to evaluate the efficacy of chiropractic spinal manipulation, manual flexion/distraction, and hot pack application for the treatment of low back pain from osteoarthritis (oa) compared with moist heat alone. the treatment group reported greater and more rapid pain reduction and greater and more rapid rom improvement than the moist heat group. chiropractic care combined with heat is more effective than heat alone for treating oa-based lower back pain. 
Does ginger help with period pain? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of ginger on pain relief in primary dysmenorrhea. treatment of primary dysmenorrhea in students with ginger for 5 days had a statistically significant effect on relieving intensity and duration of pain. however, ginger may attenuate the day-to-day progression of muscle pain. ginger is as effective as mefenamic acid on pain relief in primary dysmenorrhea. we have performed a meta-analysis of five trials examining ginger with placebo and other two randomized controlled trials comparing ginger with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (nsaid); it seems to be more helpful for relieving menstrual pain than a placebo (mean difference [md] = 2.67, 95% ci = 3.51-1.84, p = 0.0001, i2 = 86%), although it was found that ginger and nsaids were equally effective in pain severity (risk ratios [rr] = 1.15, 95% ci = 0.53-2.52, p = 0.72, i2 =77%). accessible information proposes that oral ginger can be a compelling treatment for primary dysmenorrhea. to compare the effects of ginger, mefenamic acid, and ibuprofen on pain in women with primary dysmenorrhea. ginger was as effective as mefenamic acid and ibuprofen in relieving pain in women with primary dysmenorrhea. this study was done with the goal of comparing the effect of ginger and novafen on the menstrual pain. ginger as well as novafen is effective in relieving pain in girls with primary dysmenorrhea . 
Can the state of health be assessed as reliably with a "cell check" analysis as with other diagnostic tests (for example, blood or urine analyses)? [SEP] the first line-screening test for mucopolysaccharidosis is based on measurement of urinary glycosaminoglycans. in addition to routine urine analysis, the qualitative and quantitative measurements of urine glucosaminoglycans were performed with the berry spot test and 1,9-dimethyleneblue assay. in addition to determine diagnostic validity of the 1,9-dimethyleneblue test, our results demonstrate the usefulness of measuring glycosaminoglycans for early screening of mucopolysaccharidosis type i iran. the noninvasive nature of salivary testing has made it an attractive and effective alternative to blood and urine testing, and home testing kits have made it possible for people to monitor their own health using this diagnostic medium. to evaluate the performance and value of blood and red cell measurements by urinalysis as a surrogate test for myoglobinuria in routine clinical practice. this study determined the reliability of dipstick urinalysis for detection of protein, glucose, blood and nitrites in non-random urine samples from 300 people aged > 50 years attending a health centre for check-up. this article reviews the clinical applications and analytic systems available for use in urine analysis, blood cell analysis, determination of the sedimentation rate, coagulation testing, biochemical analysis, and bacteriologic and virologic testing. one hundred and six urine samples from patients in whom the final diagnosis was available were analysed using electrical flow impedance to detect, enumerate and size red blood cells in a conductive fluid (the cellfacts analyser, microbial systems ltd, coventry, uk). the results of cellfacts analysis were correlated with the final diagnoses to assess sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (ppv), and negative predictive value (npv) of this method; the costs were also analysed. cellfacts analysis is a simple, rapid, objective and cost-effective method for differentiating glomerular from nonglomerular urinary red blood cells, especially when few such cells are present. 
Can pain from osteoarthritis (joint wear) be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] this case demonstrates that after a relatively short period of time, the administration of the arnica patch on the hand provided a marked reduction of pain and recovery of functionality of the hand. the effects of ibuprofen (5%) and arnica (50 g tincture/100 g, der 1:20), as gel preparations in patients with radiologically confirmed and symptomatically active osteoarthritis of interphalangeal joints of hands, were evaluated in a randomised, double-blind study in 204 patients, to ascertain differences in pain relief and hand function after 21 days' treatment. our results confirm that this preparation of arnica is not inferior to ibuprofen when treating osteoarthritis of hands. homeopathic arnica tablets and herbal arnica ointment compared to placebos. arnica has traditionally been used in treating numerous medical conditions, including inflammation and pain. this review aims to summarize the results of studies testing arnica products for pain management under different conditions, including post-operation, arthritis, low back pain, and other types of musculoskeletal pain. based on data from clinical trials, arnica extract or gel/cream containing arnica extract shows promising effects for pain relief. in conclusion, arnica could be an adjunct therapeutical approach for acute and chronic pain management. this open multicenter trial investigated the safety and efficacy of an arnica montana fresh plant gel, applied twice daily, in 26 men and 53 women with mild to moderate osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee. topical application of arnica montana gel for 6 weeks was a safe, well-tolerated, and effective treatment of mild to moderate oa of the knee. 
Can pain from a sprained ankle be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] arnica montana, belonging to the compositae family, is a plant with a longstanding tradition of relieving pain and/or inflammation in muscles and joints and may thus represent an alternative to nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, which are often ineffective or lead to a number of adverse effects. this case demonstrates that after a relatively short period of time, the administration of the arnica patch on the hand provided a marked reduction of pain and recovery of functionality of the hand. arnica is commonly used by the public as a treatment for bruising and swelling. the herb arnica montana, in topical formulations, has been reputed to decrease bruising and muscle pain. rather than decreasing leg pain, arnica was found to increase leg pain 24 hours after eccentric calf exercises. arnica has traditionally been used in treating numerous medical conditions, including inflammation and pain. based on data from clinical trials, arnica extract or gel/cream containing arnica extract shows promising effects for pain relief. in conclusion, arnica could be an adjunct therapeutical approach for acute and chronic pain management. arnica montana is a plant that has been widely studied for containing anti-inflammatory, healing and analgesic properties capable of preventing or ameliorating lesions. our results confirm that this preparation of arnica is not inferior to ibuprofen when treating osteoarthritis of hands. 
Can sore muscles be relieved by arnica ointment or arnica gel? [SEP] these pooled results suggest that arnica d30 has a positive effect on muscle soreness after marathon running, but not on cell damage measured by enzymes. to determine whether homeopathic arnica 30x can reduce muscle soreness following long-distance running more than a placebo. homeopathic arnica 30x is ineffective for muscle soreness following long-distance running. the aim of the study was to determine if topical arnica is effective in reducing pain, indicators of inflammation and muscle damage, and in turn improve performance in well-trained males experiencing delayed onset muscle soreness (doms). participants in the topical arnica group reported less pain as assessed through muscle tenderness and vas 72 hours post-exercise. the application of topical arnica did not affect any performance assessments or markers of muscle damage or inflammation. this study aimed at verifying the effects of phonophoresis associated with arnica montana on the acute phase of an inflammatory muscle lesion. while the massage with arnica gel proved to be an effective anti-inflammatory on acute muscle lesion in topic use, these results point to ineffectiveness of arnica montana phonophoresis, us having seemingly checked or minimized its anti-inflammatory effect. to evaluate the clinical efficacy of arnica at a high potency (200c), on moderating delayed onset muscle soreness and accompanying symptoms of muscle dysfunction. the results of this study did not substantiate the clinical efficacy of arnica at a high potency on moderating delayed onset muscle soreness and accompanying symptoms of muscle dysfunction. 
Can carbon dioxide in mineral water and other sparkling drinks damage teeth or cause tooth decay? [SEP] a range of still and sparkling mineral waters were assessed for their erosive potential together with comparator soft drinks using in vitro dissolution assays with extracted human teeth and powdered hydroxyapatite. de-gassing of a sparkling mineral water reduced its dissolution, but the total levels were still relatively low suggesting that carbonation of drinks may not be an important factor per se in respect of erosive potential. thus, mineral waters appear to offer a safe alternative to more erosive acidic beverages and their complex mineral ion compositions may positively influence any dissolution processes at the tooth surface. the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of cola and other acidic drinks on etched tooth enamel in a simulated oral environment. fewer defect zones were observed on teeth exposed to sparkling mineral water. the results indicate that acidic soft drinks cause enamel demineralization on etched tooth surfaces. perception of sparkling intensity and liking of carbonated mineral water were significantly affected by consumption frequency of sparkling water. the potential role of acidic drinks in the aetiology of dental erosion is well recognized. whilst the wide-scale consumption of bottled waters is unlikely to contribute significantly to erosion, the role of flavoured sparkling water drinks is unclear. flavoured sparkling waters should be considered as potentially erosive, and preventive advice on their consumption should recognize them as potentially acidic drinks rather than water with flavouring. 
Does bark extract from maritime pine (also: "pine bark extract") improve the symptoms of osteoarthritis? [SEP] this review summarizes the effects of the standardized proprietary bark extract of the french maritime pine (pycnogenol®) in mild osteoarthritis (oa), stage 1 and 2. the resulting inhibition of cartilage-destructing proteases and pain-producing cyclo-oxygenases provides the basis for relief from pain, improvement of stiffness, enhanced mobility, and well-being in three clinical studies with the pine bark extract as an adjunct supplement. sparing the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, supplementation with the pine bark extract reduced gastric complications and hospital admissions of oa patients. french maritime pine bark extract (pycnogenol) was found to alleviate menstrual pain and reduce hyperactivity in clinical studies. the extract from the bark of the french maritime pine, pycnogenol, rich on flavonoids, has anti-inflammatory and antioxidative property, proven in in vivo studies. climacteric symptoms are significantly alleviated by the pine bark extract. there is evidence from several studies that supplementation with french maritime pine bark extract (pycnogenol) improves inflammatory symptoms in vivo. only 30 min after ingestion of the pine bark extract the serum samples induced a statistically significant increase in the inhibition of both cox-1 (p < 0.02) and cox-2 (p < 0.002). the anti-inflammatory properties of phenolic pine (pinus sylvestris l.) bark extract were studied. it was shown that pine bark contains compounds that inhibit the production of these proinflammatory mediators. 
Is brown millet effective in favorably influencing the course of the disease in rheumatism ("rheumatoid arthritis")? [SEP] tobacco smoking has been linked to the development of rheumatic diseases, namely systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, and has been shown to interact with genetic factors to create a significant combined risk of disease. smoking also affects both the course and the outcome of rheumatic diseases. intravenous (iv) pamidronate can be effective in disease control in seronegative rheumatoid arthritis. we report two cases of seronegative and drug resistant rheumatoid arthritis that favorably responds to pamidronate. evidence favoring genetic predisposition to each of the major classes of rheumatic diseases is reviewed, including juvenile-onset rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatic fever, ankylosing spondylitis and other syndromes associated with spondylitis, adult-onset rheumatoid arthritis, gout and pseudogout, and systemic lupus erythematosus. however, some research results suggest that various nutrients may affect the health of patients, especially in the case of inflammatory rheumatic disease such as rheumatoid arthritis (ra). the article presents a review of the research showing that certain nutrients may be beneficial for the course of disease among some ra patients. rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory condition whose pathogenesis is determined partially by genetic and environmental factors. traditionally, disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmard) and biologics have not been used until disease progression occurs, but they recently have been added earlier in the course of disease for a more aggressive approach to treatment. it has been shown to significantly reduce the number of affected joints, pain, and disability. 
Are cannabis or substances derived from cannabis effective and safe anti-cancer agents? [SEP] we have performed a comprehensive literature review to study the medicinal and pathological effects of cannabis use, with emphasis on its association with cancer pathophysiology and thoracic surgery. we found evidence that cannabis products often contain carcinogenic materials, and their use is associated with development of certain head and neck cancers, but not lung cancer. indeed several in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that cannabis may have a therapeutic role in cancer given the antiproliferative effects of its active compounds such as delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. cannabis-derived products have also been shown to be effective treatments for chronic pain, neuropathy, spasticity, and as anti-emetics. however, patents related to cannabis and cannabinoids are promising for future use of the plant or its derivatives on the treatment of inflammation. however, cannabis appears to have an emerging therapeutic role, especially in chronic disease and as an adjunct to cancer treatment. increasing evidence supports cannabis in the management of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (cinv) and for pain management; however, studies are limited, particularly by difficulties associated with standardized dosing estimates and inability to accurately assess biologic activities of compounds in cannabis and derivative products. smoking cannabis has not been proved to be a risk factor in the development of lung cancer, but the data are limited by small studies, misclassification due to self-reporting of use, small numbers of heavy cannabis smokers, and confounding of the risk associated with known causative agents for lung cancer (such as parallel chronic tobacco use). cannabis is a drug derived from hemp plant, cannabis sativa, used both as a recreational drug or as medicine. novel research suggests that cannabis may be useful in the treatment of problematic substance use. 
It is not always possible to reduce elevated cholesterol levels to a healthy level with tablets and thus minimize the risk of heart attack or stroke. Does this succeed through additional injections with PCSK9 antibodies? [SEP] the inhibition of pcsk9 function by therapeutic antibodies that block interaction of pcsk9 with the epidermal growth factor-like repeat a domain of ldl receptor (ldlr) was shown to successfully lower ldl cholesterol levels in clinical studies. although the antibody does not inhibit binding of pcsk9 to epidermal growth factor-like repeat a, it partially reverses pcsk9-induced reduction of the ldlr and ldl cholesterol uptake in a cellular assay. those with variants leading to reduced pcsk9 have lower ldl-cholesterol levels and a reduced risk of coronary heart disease, and this has led to the development of various strategies aimed at reducing circulating pcsk9. monoclonal antibodies to pcsk9, given every 2-4 weeks by subcutaneous injection, have been shown to reduce ldl-cholesterol by 50-60% compared with placebo in individuals with and without diabetes. development of pcsk9-lowering technologies cheaper than monoclonal antibodies will be necessary for large numbers of individuals to benefit from this approach to lowering cholesterol. the monoclonal antibodies against pcsk9 and the pcsk9 rna inhibitors can reduce low-density lipoproteins (ldls) by over 50%, non-high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol and triglycerides, and increasing hdl. the monoclonal antibodies against pcsk9 (alirocumab, evolocumab), which are used as a treatment for hyperlipidemia, lowered cholesterol levels and the incidence of cardiovascular diseases. the acute reductions of pcsk9 by apheresis may be beneficial with respect to increasing the effectiveness of lipid-lowering drugs and with respect to an anti-atherosclerotic effect. our results suggest that antibodies targeting pcsk9 could provide patients powerful ldl lowering efficacy on top of statins, and lower cardiovascular risk. while there are drawbacks to the use of pcsk9 inhibitors, including high cost and adverse events such as injection site reaction, they significantly decreased serum ldl cholesterol levels and thereby ascvd risks when added to maximally tolerated statin therapy. 
Do vaginal suppositories containing the active ingredient imiquimod cause precancerous stages of cervical cancer to recede or disappear? [SEP] one-hundred-fifteen patients with cervical cancer were treated by placing bleomycin, carbazilquinone (carboquone), and 5-fluorouracil suppositories in contact with cancer lesions located in the vaginal portion of the uterus or by inserting them into the cervical canal, twice a week, one to 14 times. in the second double-blind study, patients with precancerous cervical lesions were randomized into two groups, one treated with rii suppository intravaginally and the other with a placebo, once daily for 50 days in two courses. the objective of this study was to prepare a vaginal suppository containing a chemotherapeutic agent and a genetic material that can be applied locally for cervical cancer. the objective of this study is to prepare vaginal suppository containing chemotherapeutic agent and genetic material that can be applied locally for cervical cancer. fifty-nine patients with untreated cin 2-3 were randomly allocated to a 16-week treatment with self-applied vaginal suppositories containing either imiquimod or placebo. human papillomavirus clearance rates were increased in the imiquimod group (60%) compared with the placebo group (14%) (p<.001). in this study, we postulated that the use of imiquimod in nanoemulsion results in a better antitumoral effect than the drug administered in its nonencapsulated form for the treatment of cervical cancer. our results demonstrate that the imiquimod-loaded nanoemulsioncan be an alternative product for the treatment of cervical cancer validating the hypothesis. to reduce local recurrences of acc using follow-up treatment with imiquimod-containing suppositories (anal tampons). early initial recurrences in some patients cleared after treatment with the imiquimod suppositories. 
Is blue light treatment as effective as UV light or other established therapies for psoriasis? [SEP] to investigate the cost-effectiveness of blue-light therapy versus a two-compound formulation (tcf) (dovobet® gel [calcipotriol and betamethasone]) in mild-to-moderate psoriasis. treatment of mild-to-moderate chronic plaque psoriasis using blue-light therapy may be more cost-effective than tcf. it was demonstrated that blue light induces an anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative effect; thus, it may be beneficial for hyperproliferative and chronic inflammatory skin diseases such as atopic dermatitis, eczema, and psoriasis. clinical investigations prove that blue light irradiation reduces the severity of psoriasis vulgaris. blue light irradiation reduces the proliferation of keratinocytes and modulates t-cell immune response in vitro and has been shown to reduce the severity of psoriasis vulgaris (pv) in two clinical trials. to evaluate the efficacy of blue-light emitting device in psoriasis vulgaris treatment. our results confirm that phototherapy using blue led light is both a safe and highly effective way to treat psoriasis. ultraviolet (uv) light is an effective treatment for extensive psoriasis and some other inflammatory skin conditions. in the present pilot study, treatment with high-dose blue and red light in psoriasis were analysed with respect to clinical improvement and potential side-effects. the clinical improvement of psoriasis, with respect to erythema, in particular after blue light and to a lesser extent after red light indicates that visible light treatment could represent a treatment option for psoriasis. 
Does frequent consumption of potatoes increase the risk of dying from cancer? [SEP] background: few studies have assessed the association between potato consumption and mortality.objective: we investigated whether potato consumption (including fried and unfried potatoes) is associated with increased premature mortality risk in a north american cohort.design: a longitudinal analysis included 4440 participants aged 45-79 y at baseline with an 8-y follow-up from the osteoarthritis initiative cohort study. to investigate the association between potato consumption and mortality, cox regression models were constructed to estimate hrs with 95% cis, with adjustment for potential confounders.results: of the 4400 participants, 2551 (57.9%) were women with a mean ± sd age of 61.3 ± 9.2 y. however, subgroup analyses indicated that participants who consumed fried potatoes 2-3 times/wk (hr: 1.95; 95% ci: 1.11, 3.41) and ≥3 times/wk (hr: 2.26; 95% ci: 1.15, 4.47) were at an increased risk of mortality. the consumption of unfried potatoes was not associated with an increased mortality risk.conclusions: the frequent consumption of fried potatoes appears to be associated with an increased mortality risk. we therefore investigated whether potato consumption is associated with higher risk of death in a large cohort of people living in south italy. a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies was conducted to examine the association of potato consumption and risk of all-cause, cancer and cardiovascular mortality in adults. no significant association was found between potato consumption and risk of all-cause (0.90; 95% ci: 0.8, 1.02, p = 0.096) and cancer (1.09; 95% ci: 0.96, 1.24, p = 0.204) mortality. potato consumption has been hypothesized to be associated with higher risk of hypertension, diabetes, and colorectal cancer. eating baked, boiled, or mashed potatoes, french fries or potato salad seven or more times per week was associated with higher risk of overall mortality, in models adjusted only for age and sex (hr c4 vs c1 = 1.17, 95%ci = 1.13, 1.21). although the association between potato consumption and colorectal cancer (crc) was summarized in a 2018 meta-analysis of 5 cohort studies, to the best of our knowledge, no meta-analysis has evaluated potato consumption in relation to multiple cancer sites in adults. 
Can cancer be detected by dark field analysis (dark field microscopy) of the blood? [SEP] dark-field microscopy is a standard imaging technique widely employed in biology that provides high image contrast for a broad range of unstained specimens1. however, the use of dark-field microscopy for reliable analysis of blood cells, bacteria, algae, and other marine organisms often requires specialized, bulky microscope systems, and expensive additional components, such as dark-field-compatible objectives or condensers2,3. dark-field microscopy is a background-free imaging method that provides high sensitivity and a large signal-to-noise ratio. this nonlinear dark-field scheme works with samples of any material and is compatible with applications ranging from biological imaging to failure analysis. a simple dark field microscopy technique was used for visualization of blood vessels in normal human renal tissues and carcinoma. dark-field microscopy of blood from healthy individuals revealed the existence of pleomorphic microorganisms. the efficacy of dark-field microscopy depends on the availability of a microscope, the skill of the clinician in obtaining a specimen, and the expertise of the microscopist. it has the potential to provide a convenient, accurate means for definitive diagnosis of genital ulcer disease by health care personnel without ready access to dark-field microscopy. dark-field microscopy as an optical microscopy technique has been popular among researchers, mostly for imaging relatively large specimens. adding x-ray dark-field imaging to digital mammography increases the detection rate for breast cancer and dcis associated lesions with micrometer-sized calcifications.the use of x-ray dark-field imaging may be able to provide more accurate and detailed radiological classification of suspicious breast lesions.adding x-ray dark-field imaging to mammography may be able to increase the detection rate and improve preoperative planning in deciding between mastectomy or breast-conserving therapy, particularly in patients with invasive lobular breast cancer. 
Can dark field analysis indicate other health problems? [SEP] aberrant dark adaptation is common to many ocular diseases and pathophysiological conditions, including vitamin a deficiency, cardiopulmonary diseases, and hypoxia. the consistent physiological response demonstrated here supports the use of the pfda as a reliable tool to measure dark adaptation. dark-field imaging is a scattering-based x-ray imaging method that can be performed with laboratory x-ray tubes. unlike conventional x-ray attenuation, orientation dependent changes of the dark-field signal can be used to reveal microscopic structural orientation. to date, reconstruction of the three-dimensional dark-field signal requires dedicated, highly complex algorithms and specialized acquisition hardware. dark-field microscopy gave more positive results for b. burgdorferi than did cultivation or pcr analysis. here, the contrast ratio between the air-filled pleural space of the pneumothoraces and the lung tissue was significantly higher in the dark field (8.4 ± 3.5) when compared with the transmission images (5.1 ± 2.8; p < 0.05). accordingly, the readers' diagnostic confidence for the diagnosis of pneumothoraces was significantly higher for dark-field compared with transmission images (p = 0.001). diagnostic accuracy significantly improved for the analysis of dark-field images alone (p = 0.04) or in combination with transmission images (p = 0.02), compared with the analysis of transmission radiographs only. the significant improvement in contrast ratios between lung parenchyma and free air in the dark-field images allows the facilitated detection of pneumothoraces in the newborn mouse. 
Does kombucha have a positive effect on health? [SEP] kombucha is a valuable traditional natural tea that contains beneficial compounds like organic acids, minerals, different vitamins, proteins, polyphenols, and several anions. kombucha possesses anticancer, antioxidant, antimicrobial, and antifungal activity as well as hepatoprotective effects. this review is an active, in-depth, and inclusive report about kombucha and its health benefits. potential health effects have created an increased interest in kombucha. yet, only a few research studies have shown that kombucha has in vitro antimicrobial activity and enhances sleep and pain thresholds in rats. kombucha is a lightly fermented tea beverage popularly consumed as a self-prescribed folk-remedy for numerous ailments. kombucha is claimed to enhance cognition, aid weight loss, and prolong life. important progress has been made in the past decade concerning research findings on kombucha tea and reports claiming that drinking kombucha can prevent various types of cancer and cardiovascular diseases, promote liver functions, and stimulate the immune system. as a popular traditional fermented beverage, kombucha has been extensively studied for its health benefits. the purpose of this systematic review is to describe the literature related to empirical health benefits of kombucha as identified from human subjects research. 
Is graviola an effective and safe treatment for cancer? [SEP] objective: the present study aimed to investigate the anticancer effect of graviola extract on ehrlich solid tumor (est) mice along with or without a low dose of γ radiation (ldr). conclusion: it could be suggested that graviola exerts its antitumor effect throughout the regulation of the tumor cell cycle as well as inducing apoptotic signals. the combined treatment of graviola and ldr augments their effect on tumor proliferation. graviola demonstrated anticancer effects in vitro, but has not been studied in humans. historical cancer treatment with graviola has been reported. also, graviola ameliorated the dmba effects on antioxidant enzymatic activities and tumor marker ca 15-3. this study concludes that graviola ameliorated dmba-induced breast cancer potentially through upregulating apoptotic genes, downregulating the er-α gene, increasing antioxidants, and decreasing lipid peroxidation levels. graviola has various biological activities, and it is best known for its anticancer activity. the reported therapeutic benefits of graviola against various human tumors and disease agents in in vitro culture and preclinical animal model systems are typically tested for their ability to specifically target the disease, while exerting little or no effect on normal cell viability. studies conducted in vitro and in vivo have concluded that graviola phytocomponents have anti-cancer and anti-tumor properties. 
Does taking preparations with fenugreek extract improve sex life or satisfaction with it? [SEP] fenugreek is a well-known spice from ancient times for its medicinal and health benefits. objectives limited research has examined the effects of fenugreek (trigonella foenum-graecum l.) supplementation to improve healthy younger men's aging male symptoms. the study objective was to examine whether a fenugreek seed extract would improve healthy men's aging male symptoms, health-related quality of life (hrqol), grip strength, and anxiety. results the fenugreek groups reported significant improvements in aging male symptoms, anxiety levels, grip strength, and indicators of hrqol compared to the placebo group, p's < 0.05. conclusion fenugreek supplementation is an effective nutritional intervention for improving aging male symptoms, anxiety levels, grip strength, and aspects of hrqol in healthy recreationally active men. future researchers are encouraged to examine the health and ergogenic effects of fenugreek supplementation in hypogonadal and older populations. in asia, fenugreek seeds are consumed as spices and also as medicines. the aqueous extract of fenugreek seeds appears to be effective and safe in treatment of mild asthma.trial registration the study was recorded with the iranian registry of clinical trials [http://www.irci.ir], registration code: irct2016011325991n1. the present study investigated the effect of fenugreek seeds powder and its alcoholic extract on metabolic activity of drug-metabolizing enzymes cyp2d6 and cyp3a4. the findings suggest that fenugreek seed consuming, alongside swimming exercise, has a strong therapeutic effect on the improvement of diabetic parameters. 
Does disulfiram improve the effectiveness of chemotherapy for cancer? [SEP] we set out to obtain initial data regarding the safety of combining this drug with chemotherapy and the possible effectiveness of disulfiram in a combination regimen in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). the addition of disulfiram to a combination regimen of cisplatin and vinorelbine was well tolerated and appeared to prolong survival in patients with newly diagnosed non-small cell lung cancer. disulfiram is an inexpensive and safe drug; if its addition to chemotherapy could be shown to prolong survival, an effective regimen could be established and used widely, even in resource-poor countries. recently, disulfiram has been reported to be able to inhibit glioblastoma, prostate, or breast cancer cell proliferation. furthermore, disulfiram/copper significantly increased the sensitivity of cisplatin in nsclc cells tested by mtt assay. combination treatment with 4 different drugs commonly used to treat tnbc revealed that disulfiram synergizes most effectively with doxorubicin to inhibit cell growth of tnbc cells. our recent results from a systematic chemical biology sensitivity screen covering most known drugs and drug-like molecules indicated that aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor disulfiram is one of the most potent cancer-specific inhibitors of prostate cancer cell growth, including tmprss2-erg fusion positive cancers. however, the results revealed that disulfiram alone does not block tumor growth in vivo nor induce apoptosis in vitro, indicating that combinatorial approaches may be required to enhance the anti-neoplastic effects. these results suggest that disulfiram has the potential to increase the efficacy of drug therapies for cancer and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. disulfiram is a drug used to support the treatment of chronic alcoholism. 
Can binaural beats relieve stress or anxiety before surgery and medical treatments? [SEP] recently, it has been demonstrated that music can be used successfully to relieve patient anxiety before operations, and that audio embedded with tones that create binaural beats within the brain of the listener decreases subjective levels of anxiety in patients with chronic anxiety states. binaural beat audio has the potential to decrease acute pre-operative anxiety significantly. recent studies and anecdotal reports suggest that binaural auditory beats can affect mood, performance on vigilance tasks, and anxiety. producers suggest benefit from regular listening to binaural beats including reduced stress and anxiety, and increased focus, concentration, motivation, confidence, and depth in meditation. binaural beat technology may exhibit positive effect on self-reported psychologic measures, especially anxiety. music intervention during cataract surgery has demonstrated use in reducing perceived pain, reducing anxiety, and improving vitals with increased benefit of reduced heart rate and blood pressures with binaural beat embedded music. the objective of this meta-analysis was to study the effect of binaural beats on memory, attention, anxiety, and analgesia. our meta-analysis adds to the growing evidence that binaural-beat exposure is an effective way to affect cognition over and above reducing anxiety levels and the perception of pain without prior training, and that the direction and the magnitude of the effect depends upon the frequency used, time under exposure, and the moment in which the exposure takes place. binaural beat embedded musical intervention may have benefit over musical intervention alone in decreasing operative anxiety. we conclude that binaural beats may be useful in reducing preoperative anxiety in dentistry. 
Is a vegan diet healthier than a vegetarian diet? [SEP] vegan respondents were more likely than other diet categories to have healthier lifestyle features, including >3 times/week exercise (standardized residual = 3.55) and >7 hours of sleep (standardized residual = 2.44). those who follow a vegan diet seem to have better health rating and lifestyle compared to the omnivores. vegetarians and vegans have a lower risk of many nutrition-related chronic diseases that are epidemic while vegetarian and vegan diets are associated with reduced environmental impact. the fat content of the vegan diet is significantly lower and the polyunsaturated:saturated fatty acid ratio higher than in the omnivore diet. the aim of this review is to assess the effects of vegetarian diets, particularly strict vegetarian diets (i.e., vegans) on health and disease outcomes. non-vegetarian diets were compared to vegetarian dietary patterns (i.e., vegan and lacto-ovo-vegetarian) on selected health outcomes. compared to lacto-ovo-vegetarian diets, vegan diets seem to offer additional protection for obesity, hypertension, type-2 diabetes, and cardiovascular mortality. while the majority of participants agreed that vegetarian diets are healthy and harmless (56.1%), only 34.8% believed this to be true of vegan diets. this systematic review and meta-analysis sought to study the impact of vegetarian and vegan diets on bone mineral density (bmd) and fracture risk. compared with omnivores, vegetarians and vegans had lower bmd at the femoral neck and lumbar spine and vegans also had higher fracture rates. 
Can taking chlorophyll change mouth or body odor? [SEP] therefore, we investigated potential causal relationships among pathologic subjective halitosis, olfactory reference syndrome, social anxiety, and preoccupations with body part odors. preoccupations with mouth and body odors also influenced pathologic subjective halitosis. subjects reported the locations of perceived odors when food odorants were inhaled through the mouth alone or in the presence of water or various tastants in the mouth. odors can be perceived as arising from the environment or as part of a flavor located in the mouth. experiment 3 then manipulated the salience of the olfactory and gustatory cues and showed that each could independently shift the perceived location of an odorant-salient olfactory cues toward the nose and gustatory cues toward the mouth. using odors and colors with minimal taste (experiment 1), the authors found that repeated experience of odor-taste mixtures produced conditioned changes in odor qualities that were unaffected by intermixed color-taste trials (experiment 2). statistical analysis showed that odor compound concentration was significantly related to the chlorophyll a concentration and indicated that the odor compounds mainly came from phytoplankton. therefore, the odor compound concentrations in the subsurface chlorophyll maxima layer was generally higher than in the surface layer. for both studies, linear mixed model analyses showed that saliva secretion rate significantly increased by food odor exposure compared to no-odor and non-food conditions. these findings indicate that food odors play a crucial role in anticipatory saliva responses and can thereby affect subsequent eating behavior. 
Can taking chlorophyll affect the odor of urine in catheter wearers or stool in people with an artificial bowel outlet? [SEP] when the ostomy involves the bowel, medication absorption may be affected. pharmacists should be aware of contraindicated medications, as well as those that change the color or odor of effluent or stool. we hypothesized that colonization of the catheter and artificial urine by e. coli is influenced by the presence of p. stuartii. the paradox of p. stuartii enhancing colonization by e. coli in the artificial urine, yet inhibiting its colonization on the catheter surface, illustrates the complexity of polymicrobial interactions in colonization of the catheterized urinary tract. to determine whether the distension of bowel-augmented bladders during filling and urine storage stimulates gastrointestinal peristalsis, resulting in diarrhoea and increased bowel frequency. five patients with symptomatic diarrhoea occurring after enterocystoplasty were studied; all had undergone bladder augmentation using ileum or colon at least 6 months previously. one patient reported an increase in liquid stools, but there was a minor decrease in colonic transit time. the aim of the present study was to investigate whether people with a professional interest in odors also exhibit higher olfactory sensitivity. we report a 29-year-old female with end-stage renal disease presenting with nausea, profuse diarrhea immediately after dialysate instillation, change in color and odor of the dialysis output, and pain at the site of her peritoneal dialysis (pd) catheter. this was confirmed when a blue bowel movement followed instillation of a saline solution with methylene blue into the dialysis catheter. 
Is the risk of bacterial or fungal infection comparable when using menstrual cups or pads? [SEP] bacterial vaginosis was less prevalent in the cups (12.9%) compared with pads (20.3%, apr=0.65, 0.44 to 0.97, p=0.034) and control (19.2%, apr=0.67, 0.43 to 1.04, p=0.075) arm girls enrolled for 9 months or longer. provision of menstrual cups and sanitary pads for ∼1 school-year was associated with a lower sti risk, and cups with a lower bacterial vaginosis risk, but there was no association with school dropout. iud users were significantly more likely than non-iud users to use a menstrual cup or tampons. many intrauterine device (iud) users utilize intravaginal menstrual cups or tampons during menses, but no studies have investigated the impact this practice may have on iud expulsions. from this study, there is no evidence that women who report using menstrual cups or tampons for menstrual protection had higher rates of early iud expulsion. however, for all menstrual hygiene products (except cloth menstrual pads), there was a higher proportion of anxiety than perception of safety, and low awareness of toxic shock syndrome. examine the safety of menstrual cups against sanitary pads and usual practice in kenyan schoolgirls. staphylococcus aureus vaginal colonization, escherichia coli growth on sampled used cups, toxic shock syndrome or other adverse health outcomes. there was higher uptake of reusable pads (88.0%) than menstrual cups (12.0%). four studies made a direct comparison between menstrual cups and usual products for the main outcome of leakage and reported leakage was similar or lower for menstrual cups than for disposable pads or tampons (n=293). 
Laboratory experiments indicate that leoligin and other substances from edelweiss have a medicinal effect. However, this has not been researched in humans. [SEP] edelweiss (leontopodium alpinum cass.) is traditionally employed in folk medicine as an anti-inflammatory remedy. a concentrated ethanolic extract of culture homogenate, with leontopodic acid representing 55 ± 2% of the total phenolic fraction (ecc55), was characterized for anti-inflammatory properties in primary human keratinocytes (phks) and endotheliocytes (huvecs). edelweiss cell cultures could be a valuable source of anti-inflammatory substances potentially applicable for chronic inflammatory skin diseases and bacterial and atherogenic inflammation. studies of traditionally used pharmacologically active plants and other substances in traditional medicines may be valuable sources of previously unknown compounds with therapeutic actions. one species that may be particularly sensitive to both of these stressors is the iconic alpine flower edelweiss (leontopodium alpinum colm.). in the search for new antibiotics, several fungal endophytes were isolated from the medicinal plant leontopodium nivale subsp. alpinum (edelweiss). further testing of purified compounds 1 and 2 proved that they are devoid of antibiotic activity, and all the activities observed in the crude extract could be assigned to emestrin (3), whose configuration was confirmed by crystallographic data. this study demonstrates, for the first time, that endophytic fungi from edelweiss can produce new compounds, prompting further investigation into them for drug discovery. 
Can a straight bar improve harmless tension and pain in the neck and back? [SEP] this chapter aims to present an overview of the best available evidence on diagnostic procedures for neck and low-back pain. plain spinal radiography in combination with standard laboratory tests is useful for identifying pathology, but is not advisable for non-specific neck or low-back pain. patients with unilateral neck or lower back pain were enrolled in the study. however, stronger associations were found with perceived general tension, which proved to be the strongest predictor of shoulder-neck and low back pain, indicating a mediating effect in the relationship between occupational exposures and musculoskeletal pain. in the practice of dentistry, stress, tension, and postural practices can contribute to back and neck problems. this report presents the theoretical basis and some evidence to support the concept that most back, neck, and shoulder pain is due to a psychophysiological process in muscle and nerve tissue known as tension myositis. decreased thoracic kyphosis (straight back) is a known cause of hastening back or neck problems, radiculopathy, or even myelopathy. to examine whether adolescent flexibility, endurance strength, and physical activity can predict the later occurrence of recurrent low back pain, tension neck, or knee injury. men from the highest baseline flexibility tertile were at lower risk of tension neck than those from the lowest tertile (odds ratio (or) 0.51, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.28 to 0.93). overall good flexibility in boys and good endurance strength in girls may contribute to a decreased risk of tension neck. 
Are ultrasound examinations during pregnancy safe for the health of the child? [SEP] the primary aim of this study was to investigate midwives' and obstetricians' views on how many ultrasound examinations should be part of standard care during pregnancy in norway. the use of ultrasound in obstetrics nowadays is an integral part of prenatal care. during the course of pregnancy the foetus may be exposed to ultrasound waves often several times. a systematic review of scientific literature on possible harmful effects on child development of ultrasound investigation during pregnancy. all studies demonstrated that ultrasound examinations during pregnancy increased the risk of undesirable developmental outcomes. it is concluded that there is no adverse effect of ultrasound examinations during pregnancy on child development outcomes. prior research indicates that ultrasound scan can also increase parental-fetal attachment. a number of studies have found that ultrasound scan increases maternal attachment during pregnancy, a predictor of positive parent-infant interactions which, in turn, promotes healthy infant development. while normal findings at ultrasound examination have strong beneficial psychological effects on the pregnant woman and her partner, the couple are often ill-prepared for bad news about the health of their unborn child in the case of abnormal findings. neonatal and infant follow-up data from the amniocentesis registry of the national institute of child health and human development were analyzed for possible effects of diagnostic ultrasound exposure in the second trimester of pregnancy. 
Can oregano oil relieve discomfort or disease? [SEP] oregano essential oil is known for antioxidant properties. in general, samples with addition of oregano essential oil in olive oil exhibited higher and lower intensity ratings of positive and negative attributes, respectively, during storage compared with the control samples. the addition of oregano essential oil should be considered for the food industry as a natural source of antioxidant additives for preserving sensory properties in extra virgin olive oil and other similar food products. the objective of the study was to assess the effect of a,d3,e (i/m) and oregano oil extract 15% on some clinicopathological parameters during lamb bacterial enteritis treatment. oregano oil extract 15% has good antibacterial properties against enteric bacteria in vitro and in vivo. here, we investigate efficacy of oregano oil against pathogenic bacteria including mdr isolates from the combat casualties in vitro and in a mouse burn model. transmission electron microscopy (tem) and scanning electron microscopy (sem) revealed that oregano oil damaged bacterial cells and altered the morphology of their biofilms. in vivo study using the third-degree burn wounds infected with pa01 or usa300 demonstrated that oregano oil, topically applied 24 h after bacterial inoculation, sufficiently reduced the bacterial load in the wounds by 3 log10 in 1 h, as measured by drastic reduction of bacterial bioluminescence. this bactericidal activity of oregano oil concurred with no significant side effect on the skin histologically or genotoxicity after three topical applications of oregano oil at 10 mg/ml for three consecutive days. the investigation suggests potentials of oregano oil as an alternative to antibiotics for the treatment of wound-associated infections regardless of antibiotic susceptibility. 
Are Bach flower remedies effective in helping with test anxiety? [SEP] we studied the efficacy of a combination of bach-flower remedies in subjects with test anxiety in a randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded parallel group design, with crossing over the placebo group to remedies after the first phase. we conclude that bach-flower remedies are an effective placebo for test anxiety and do not have a specific effect. to evaluate the effectiveness of bach flower remedies in the treatment of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd), in a double blind prospective controlled study. to evaluate the effect of bach flower rescue remedy on the control of risk factors for cardiovascular disease in rats. the use of bach flower remedies has been described as a supporting therapy for those symptoms. conclusion • the use of bach flower remedies as a therapeutic strategy to relieve menopausal symptoms, such as anxiety, mood changes, and insomnia, seems worthy of further investigation. bach flower remedies are thought to help balance emotional state and are commonly recommended by practitioners for psychological problems and pain. the use of bach flower remedies has brought about positive emotional changes in the majority of clients in this study. the indication is that potential for bach flower remedies as a therapeutic agent in the relief of pain does exist and is worthy of further qualitative and quantitative investigation through robust, purpose-designed studies to replicate and progress the results shown here. flower remedies (also called "bach" flower remedies) are used by an increasing number of individuals, and many health claims have been made for them. 
Can capsules with diamine oxidase alleviate or prevent symptoms of histamine intolerance? [SEP] the mean value (±sd) of diamine oxidase activity in the cohort of patients with histamine intolerance symptoms was 7.04±6.90 u/ml compared to 39.50±18.16 u/ml in 34 healthy controls (p=0.0031). in patients with symptoms triggered by histamine-rich food, measuring the serum diamine oxidase activity can help identify subjects who can benefit from a histamine limitation diet and/or diamine oxidase supplementation.properly designed, controlled studies investigating histamine intolerance that include histamine provocation are indispensable for providing insights into the area of food intolerances, which are currently primarily managed with non-scientific approaches in italy. in preliminary investigations, assessment of diamine oxidase levels gave decreased activity (0.03 nkat/l) in patients with histamine intolerance compared to healthy controls (0.07 nkat/l). according to the localization of diamine oxidase in the jejunal mucosa, histamine intolerance is primarily a disease of intestinal origin. nevertheless, manifestations of chronic gastrointestinal symptoms, measurements of diamine oxidase deficits, positive results of histamine provocation tests and improvement in symptoms with histamine-reduced diet considerably increase the probability of histamine intolerance diagnosis. our intention was to objectify and quantify histamine-associated symptoms and to analyse whether oral administration of the histamine-degrading enzyme diamine oxidase (dao) caused a reduction of symptoms. the intake of dao demonstrated a statistically significant reduction of histamine-associated symptoms compared to placebo (p = 0.014). the enzyme diamine oxidase (dao) is considered for the gastrointestinal degradation of histamine. diamine oxidase (dao) is the main enzyme for the metabolism of ingested histamine. correct diagnosis of hit followed by therapy based on histamine-free diet and supplementation of diamine oxidase can improve patient's quality of life. 
Does magnesium help with period pain? [SEP] our data show that magnesium reverses the hyperalgesia, as does mk-801. these results suggest that magnesium could be an alternative for the treatment of neuropathic pain in patients. the aim of this study was to determine if a pre-, intra- and postoperative infusion of magnesium would reduce postoperative pain. perioperative magnesium infusion does not improve postoperative analgesia. at the doses used in this study, the use of magnesium is associated with short-term decreases in postoperative analgesia. magnesium sulfate does not reduce the severity of short-term or long-term (6 weeks) pain after cesarean delivery. previously we described the antinociceptive effect of magnesium sulfate and dizocilpine (mk-801) in the visceral and somatic rat models of pain. we studied the role of sequential intravenous and oral magnesium infusion in patients with chronic low back pain with a neuropathic component. in the magnesium group, the patients' numerical rating scales revealed a significant reduction in pain intensity. magnesium has also anti-nociceptive effects in animal and human models of pain by blocking the n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor and the associated ion channels and thus preventing central sensitization caused by peripheral nociceptive stimulation. 
Does cannabis improve symptoms of Parkinson's disease, for example movement disorders? [SEP] cannabis and related compounds have created significant research interest as a promising therapy in neurodegenerative and movement disorders. in this review we examine the potential benefits of medical marijuana and related compounds in the treatment of both motor and nonmotor symptoms as well as in slowing the progression of the disease. the potential for cannabis to enhance the quality of life of parkinson's patients is explored. patients with parkinson's disease (pd) have reported improvements in sleep and better quality of life with cbd; however, to fully elucidate the therapeutic potential of cbd on the symptoms of pd-associated movement disorders, larger scale, randomized, placebo-controlled studies still need to be conducted in the future. cannabis use decreases pain and spasticity in people with ms, decreases tremor, rigidity, and pain in people with pd, and improves the quality of life of als patients by improving appetite, and decreasing pain and spasticity. cannabis use diminishes some of the adverse effects of neurological and psychiatric disorders. twenty-two patients with pd attending the motor disorder clinic of a tertiary medical center in 2011 to 2012 were evaluated at baseline and 30 minutes after smoking cannabis using the following battery: unified parkinson disease rating scale, visual analog scale, present pain intensity scale, short-form mcgill pain questionnaire, as well as medical cannabis survey national drug and alcohol research center questionnaire. mean (sd) total score on the motor unified parkinson disease rating scale score improved significantly from 33.1 (13.8) at baseline to 23.2 (10.5) after cannabis consumption (t = 5.9; p < 0.001). the study suggests that cannabis might have a place in the therapeutic armamentarium of pd. the present review aimed to synthesize and evaluate the available evidences on the efficacy of cannabis and its derivatives for psychiatric, neurodegenerative and movement disorders. 
Is the dietary supplement nattokinase effective and safe as a blood thinner? [SEP] nattokinase has been growing in popularity for use as a dietary supplement for the benefit of cardiovascular health. described to be antithrombotic and antihypertensive, nattokinase is consumed for putative cardiovascular benefit. in this double-blinded trial, 265 individuals of median age 65.3 years, without clinical evidence of cardiovascular disease (cvd) were randomized to oral nattokinase 2,000 fibrinolytic units or matching placebo. results of this trial show that nattokinase supplementation has a null effect on subclinical atherosclerosis progression in healthy individuals at low risk for cvd. these findings suggest that increased intake of nattokinase may play an important role in preventing and treating hypertension. due to its strong fibrinolytic and thrombolytic activity, nattokinase is regarded as a precious dietary supplement or nutraceutical for the oral thrombolytic therapy. a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm clinical study was performed to evaluate nattokinase (nsk-sd), a fermented soy extract nattō from which vitamin k2 has been removed. consumption of nattokinase was associated with a reduction in both systolic and diastolic bp. the effects of nattokinase on the in vitro platelet aggregation and in vivo thrombosis were investigated in comparison with aspirin. therefore, it is suggested that nattokinase could be a good candidate without adverse effects for the improvement of blood flow. 
Is the Feldenkrais Method effective against pain and tension in the neck, shoulders and back? [SEP] to determine whether the feldenkrais method is an effective intervention for chronic neck/scapular pain in patients with visual impairment. patients undergoing feldenkrais method reported significantly less pain than the controls according to the vas and visual, musculoskeletal, and balance complaints questionnaire ratings at posttreatment follow-up and 1-year follow-up. feldenkrais method is an effective intervention for chronic neck/scapular pain in patients with visual impairment. to investigate the effect of the feldenkrais method versus core stability exercises on pain, disability, quality of life and interoceptive awareness in patients with chronic non-specific low back pain. feldenkrais method intervention gave increased benefits in improving quality of life, improving interoceptive awareness and reducing disability index. fourteen women with non-specific neck and shoulder pain participated in a group treatment design using the feldenkrais awareness through movement (atm) method. positive experiences from the feldenkrais group treatment were reported, especially concerning movement ability and body awareness. to determine the efficacy of the feldenkrais method for relieving pain in patients with chronic low back pain (clbp) and the improvement of interoceptive awareness. implications for rehabilitation the feldenkrais method is a mind-body therapy that is based on awareness through movement lessons, which are verbally guided explorations of movement that are conducted by a physiotherapist who is experienced and trained in this method. the efficacy of the feldenkrais method is comparable with that of bs for nonspecific chronic low back pain. 
Does an alkaline bath help with neurodermatitis? [SEP] removal of hco3 and co2 from the serosal bathing solution or replacement of o2 with n2 also abolished luminal alkalinization. acetazolamide (0.1 mm) added to both bathing solutions did not alter the rate of luminal alkalinization. shallow psychotherapy, an indispensable adjunct to the treatment of neurodermatitis, can be successfully applied by any dermatologic physician adequately endowed with patience, sympathy and tact. neurodermatitis is a common chronic skin disease. the neurodermatitis patients scored significantly higher on n-2 scale and hamilton rating scale for depression. removal of cl from the bathing solutions increased the rate of luminal alkalinization and decreased isc. sodium removal from the bathing solutions reduced both isc and the rate of luminal alkalinization. addition of dids to the luminal or serosal bathing solution reduced luminal alkalinization less than 30%. addition of 3-o-methyl-d-glucose or l-alanine to the luminal bathing solution did not alter luminal alkalinization but increased isc, d-glucose added to the luminal bathing solution reduced luminal alkalinization. addition of epinephrine to the serosal bathing solution stimulates a na-dependent serosal alkalinization process. 
Does birch water, also called birch sap, help with health problems? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine the effect of the age of trees, daily sap volume as well as the term of tapping birch sap collected in the forest environment on the content of selected minerals (zinc, copper and manganese) and heavy metals (lead, nickel, chromium and cadmium). the research results confirmed the presence of both nutritional essential minerals and hazardous heavy metals in the birch sap. the results may be interesting in the context of developing procedures for collecting birch sap for the purpose of obtaining raw material with beneficial nutritional values and a high level of health safety. for this reason, our recommendation for guaranteeing the health safety and high nutritional value of birch sap is to combine batches of raw material taken from as many trees as possible, and at the same time to publicize the fact that collecting birch sap from just one single tree may result in a raw material that is both dangerous and has no nutritional benefits. birch sap and birch leaves extract have been screened for antimicrobial, phagocytosis-influencing, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic activity. birch sap had a weak and short-lasting anti-inflammatory activity against the carrageenin edema, whereas birch leaves extract proved to be ineffective. fever induced by baker's yeast in rats was inhibited by birch leaves extract in the high dose of 4 ml/100 g b.m. significantly, but not by birch sap, and only for a short period. birch leaves may cause contact urticaria in the finnish sauna, where bath whisks made of birch sprigs are traditionally used. + birch sap. 
Is oolong tea an effective way to lose weight? [SEP] surprisingly, oolong tea significantly influenced reduction in relative weight compared with control, black, and green tea; whereas black, green, and white teas had no effects on weight compared with control. oolong tea was most effective in reducing weight. to determine the anti-obesity effects of oolong tea on diet-induced overweight or obesity. oolong tea could decrease body fat content and reduce body weight through improving lipid metabolism. chronic consumption of oolong tea may prevent against obesity. consuming oolong and black tea extracts also significantly decreased body weight gains and food efficiency. oolong tea is traditionally reported to have anti-obesity and hypolipidaemic effects. the present study was performed to clarify whether oolong tea prevented obesity induced in mice by the oral administration of a high-fat diet for 10 weeks. the results suggest that oolong tea may be an effective crude drug for the treatment of obesity and fatty liver caused by a high-fat diet. several studies have evaluated the effects of oolong tea extracts on obesity. 
Do Waveex and similar products reduce exposure to electromagnetic fields, for example when using a cell phone or smartphone? [SEP] we have previously studied the health effects of exposure to different levels of radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (rf-emfs) such as mobile phones, mobile base stations, mobile phone jammers, laptop computers, and radars. mobile phones constitute an important source of radiofrequency electromagnetic field (rf-emf) for humans. the aim of the study was to evaluate the impact of short-term exposure to rf-emf generated by a mobile phone during 15-minute simulated phone call on human hearing as measured by transient evoked otoacoustic emission (teoae) and acoustic admittance testing (aat). short-term exposure to mobile phone electromagnetic field did not influence auditory functions as measured by evoked otoacoustic emission test and acoustic admittance testing. these mothers were asked whether they had exposure to different sources of electromagnetic fields such as mobile phones, mobile base stations, wi-fi, cordless phones, laptops and power lines. when making phone calls, cellphone and smartphone users are exposed to radio-frequency (rf) electromagnetic fields (emfs) and sound pressure simultaneously. the results show that exposure to rf-emfs, quantified as the specific absorption in the head, will be reduced when speaker-mode or a headset is used, in comparison to calling next to the ear. during recent years, the widespread use of mobile phones has resulted in increased human ex- posure to electromagnetic field radiation and to health risks. the aim of the study was to assess an electromagnetic field radiation exposure for mobile phone users by measuring electromagnetic field strength in different settings at the distance of 1 to 30 cm from the mobile user. widespread use of mobile phones which are a major source of electromagnetic fields might affect living organisms. 
Can ingredients in deodorants like aluminum salts cause breast cancer? [SEP] deodorant use during radiation therapy for breast cancer has been controversial as there are concerns deodorant use may exacerbate axillary skin toxicity. the present study prospectively determined the use of both aluminum-containing and non aluminum containing deodorants on axillary skin toxicity during conventionally fractionated postoperative radiation therapy for breast cancer. we found no evidence that the use of either aluminum-containing or non-aluminum containing deodorant adversely effects axillary skin reaction during conventionally fractionated radiation therapy for breast cancer. our analysis also suggests patients in the aluminum-containing deodorant arm had significantly less sweating without increased symptoms of axillary radiation skin toxicity. these results add to the evidence that the prescription of deodorants during radiation therapy for breast cancer is now questionable. if these habits have a role in breast cancer development, women using antiperspirants/deodorants and shaving their underarms frequently would be expected to have an earlier age of diagnosis than those doing so less often. in conclusion, underarm shaving with antiperspirant/deodorant use may play a role in breast cancer. no evidence was found to prohibit deodorant use (notwithstanding the use of an antiperspirant with aluminum) during rt for breast cancer. frequently discussed environmental risk factors by participants were deodorants containing aluminum, plastics, pesticides, and air and water pollution. the controversial results of several studies suggest that certain everyday-use products (including cosmetic ingredients) may be linked to breast cancer. 
Does the intake of black cumin improve the symptoms of asthma, e.g. shortness of breath? [SEP] we conclude that an association has been established for black smoke as pollutant and shortness of breath as respiratory symptom, and that in certain asthmatics, effects were occurring at lower particulate levels than suggested previously. serum iron content increased significantly (p<0.05) for the animals fed black cumin seeds, and serum hemoglobin concentration increased significantly (p<0.05) in the groups fed milk thistle seed and black cumin seed diets, but decreased for the group fed the thyme-egg white diet. it is concluded from this study that iron was better utilized from black cumin seeds as indicated by liver storage of iron. black cumin (nigella sativa) belonging to ranunculaceae family has a long history of medicinal use in various folk and traditional systems of medicine, including iranian traditional medicine (itm). in addition, several scientific investigations have reported the therapeutic properties of n. sativa and thymoquinone (tq), one of the most important constituent of black cumin, for treatment of a large number of diseases, including ischemia. as there is no comprehensive review study about the anti-ischemic activity of black cumin and its mechanism of action, in the current study, we aimed to review the anti-ischemic activities of n. sativa and tq in different organ-related disorders. several studies were found reporting the anti-ischemic activity of black cumin and its active constituent on different organs including brain, kidneys, heart, and liver. black cumin exert its beneficial effects as an antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptosis, and anti-necrosis agent through inhibition of growth factors, biochemical and oxidative stress markers and regulating gene expression. the inclusion of black cumin or hot red pepper decreased serum and egg yolk cholesterol and malondialdehyde concentrations (p < 0.05) compared with control. dietary supplementation of black cumin or red pepper may lead to the development of low-cholesterol concentration and better antioxidant capacity of eggs. 
Do specially trained dogs reliably warn of dangerous hypoglycemia? [SEP] we examined the reliability of trained dogs to alert to hypoglycemia in individuals with type 1 diabetes. dog users were very satisfied (8.9/10 on a likert-type scale) and largely confident (7.9/10) in their dog's ability to detect hypoglycemia. during hypoglycemia, spontaneous dog alerts occurred at a rate 3.2 (2.0-5.2, 95% ci) times higher than during euglycemia (70-179 mg/dl). dogs provided timely alerts in 36% (sensitivity) of all hypoglycemia events (n = 45). this is the first study evaluating reliability of trained dogs to alert to hypoglycemia under real-life conditions. trained dogs often alert a human companion to otherwise unknown hypoglycemia; however due to high false-positive rate, a dog alert alone is unlikely to be helpful in differentiating hypo-/hyper-/euglycemia. cgm often detects hypoglycemia before a trained dog by a clinically significant margin. there is a growing market for diabetes-alert dogs but little has been published regarding their ability to reliably detect hypoglycemia. the recent publication of the results of 3 small trials, and as many as 5 case reports on dogs producing clear and intelligible alerts in the presence of their owners' hypoglycemia, opens an intriguing clinical scenario for management of diabetes. provided that further trials can confirm the findings, the use of diabetes alert dogs that are trained to detect the onset of hypoglycemia can be regarded as a fast, versatile, reliable, and cost-effective approach for safeguarding the health of individuals with diabetes. 
Does taking proton pump inhibitors (PPI) increase the risk of bone fractures? [SEP] there are 34 studies in almost 2 million participants that have reported on the association between proton pump inhibitor (ppi) therapy and risk of fracture. finally, there is no clear mechanism through which ppi therapy increases the risk of fracture, as recent randomized trials show no impact of ppi therapy on calcium absorption and there is no association between ppi therapy and risk of osteoporosis. while proton pump inhibitors (ppi) may increase the risk of bone fractures, the incidence of new bone fractures in a chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) infected cohort, with or without ppi exposure, has not been explored. a large canadian cohort was studied over 10 years to see if proton pump inhibitor (ppi) use increased the risk of sustaining a fragility fracture. we found an increased risk of fracture in individuals who used ppis. multiple retrospective studies have linked proton pump inhibitor use with increased risk of fragility fracture. in this large prospective population-based cohort study, we found an association between ppi use and increased risk of fragility fracture. large observational studies have yielded conflicting results regarding whether the use of proton pump inhibitors (ppi) increases the risk of bone diseases. results of this meta-analysis suggest that ppi may moderately increase the risk of any-site, hip, spine fracture. two recent studies have demonstrated increased hip fracture rates associated with ppi use. 
Can matrix therapy (also: matrix rhythm therapy) alleviate complaints of muscles and joints? [SEP] matrix rhythm therapy was applied to the left lower extremity for a single 30-minute session. after matrix rhythm therapy and massage application, blood velocity, artery diameter, and blood flow in arteries increased. however, matrix rhythm therapy caused a more prominent increase in the amount of blood flow in the popliteal and in the posterior tibial artery than did massage. after matrix rhythm therapy application, the average increases in the blood flow rates in the popliteal and the posterior tibial arteries were 25.29%±16.55% and 34.33%±15.66%, respectively; after the massage, the increases were 17.84%±17.23% and 16.07%±10.28%, respectively. matrix rhythm therapy and massage increased peripheral blood flow in young women. matrix rhythm therapy method resulted in more prominent increases. matrix rhythm therapy was developed as an external and dynamic method that supplies rhythmic mobilization of the fluids in tissues. the aim of the study was to investigate the effects of matrix rhythm therapy in primary lymphedema. twenty sessions of matrix rhythm therapy (5 days/week) were applied to the affected leg, spine, and abdominal regions. [conclusion] matrix rhythm therapy could not reduce lymphedema when used alone, but long-term treatment may show positive effects. 
Can hyposensitization by injections with allergy-causing pollen components help with hay fever? [SEP] since allergen avoidance measures are limited in hay fever sufferers, present treatment, at least in the united kingdom, is almost always by symptomatic medication. during preseasonal hyposensitization the following tendencies were found in cell sensitivity to allergen as well as in specific ige antibody level of serum: an initial increase at the beginning of the therapy followed by a decrease during the pollen season. immunotherapy, therefore, can prevent such an increase in the pollen season. in 1900 it was claimed that oral administration of ragweed could be used for the hyposensitization of hay fever patients. in a previous study it was demonstrated that patients with multiallergy hyposensitized with combined allergen extracts showed a statistically significant increase in igg anti-igg titres during treatment. oral hyposensitization is still widely used in the treatment of allergic diseases, but controlled studies proving a beneficial effect are lacking. fifty-eight hay fever patients were admitted to a double-blind placebo efficacy study in oral hyposensitization. the possibility that oral hyposensitization might be an effective treatment of hay fever in the future is discussed, but it is concluded that the present regimens cannot be recommended. they may be more fully utilized in the harvesting, extraction and administration of antigenic products for hyposensitization treatment, particularly for those hay fever producing plants where collection of pure pollen is particularly difficult. children with hay fever complaints are at considerable risk of developing pollen asthma. 
Can hyposensitization by means of drops or tablets administered under the tongue help with hay fever? [SEP] in 1900 it was claimed that oral administration of ragweed could be used for the hyposensitization of hay fever patients. desensitization (hyposensitization or specific immunotherapy) by subcutaneous injection has been shown to be very efficacious and is used for patients who do not adequately respond to drug treatment. all nasal symptoms of hay fever were appreciably reduced in the group taking budesonide and, although their eye symptoms were more severe than in the group taking placebo, they did not use appreciably more eye drops than the latter. the results suggest that budesonide is an acceptable and effective treatment for the nasal symptoms of hay fever. oral hyposensitization is still widely used in the treatment of allergic diseases, but controlled studies proving a beneficial effect are lacking. fifty-eight hay fever patients were admitted to a double-blind placebo efficacy study in oral hyposensitization. the possibility that oral hyposensitization might be an effective treatment of hay fever in the future is discussed, but it is concluded that the present regimens cannot be recommended. the efficacy of hyposensitization in the control of ragweed hay fever has been demonstrated in both the clinic and the laboratory. the patient was having hyposensitization for hay-fever with an aluminium precipitated allergen. a trial on hay fever patients shows that the results in mice are relevant and that the method can produce significant clinical hyposensitization. 
Do Blushwood berries help against skin cancer? [SEP] anthocyanin accumulation in grape berry skin is a crucial determinant of red/black grape berry quality. allantoin seems to increase the contents of delphinidin-based anthocyanin 3-glucosides in berry skins through the upregulation of f3'5'h gene that drives the synthesis of delphinidin-based anthocyanin 3-glucosides, compared with control berry skins. recent studies show that edible berries may have potent chemopreventive properties. we sought to test the effects of multiple berry extracts on inducible vegf expression by human hacat keratinocytes. each of the berry samples studied significantly inhibited both h2o2 as well as tnf alpha induced vegf expression by the human keratinocytes. matrigel assay using human dermal microvascular endothelial cells showed that edible berries impair angiogenesis. only p-caffeoyl-tartaric acid from the soluble fraction of leaves and myricetin-3-o-glucoside from the soluble fraction of berry skins were significantly higher in the presence of uv radiation, and thus they could play a role in uv protection. among them, vvvhp1; 2 was strongly expressed in berry skin and its expression exhibited high correlations to anthocyanin content of berry skin during berry ripening and under aba and uvb treatments. our results showed that rr influences significantly the metabolomes of berry skin tissues, particularly on secondary metabolism, and that this effect is more obvious at pre-veraison stage, which was evidenced by the early and fast metabolic shift from primary to secondary metabolism. altogether, this study provided an insight into metabolic adaptation of berry skin to rr stress and expanded general understanding of berry development. 
Can relaxation exercises and a reduction in stress slow the progression of glaucoma? [SEP] the literature suggests that stress may play a part in the precipitation of acute closed-angle glaucoma because intraocular pressure (iop) can be affected by the emotional state of the patient. there is some evidence that glaucoma induction is associated with psychophysiological stress. an association between the curve of intraocular pressure decrease and glaucoma progression was demonstrated in these studies. the benefits of physical exercise on health and well-being have been studied in a wide range of systemic and ocular diseases, including glaucoma, a progressive optic neuropathy characterized by accelerated apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells (rgcs). in this review, we mainly focus on publications from the recent years, so as to provide a comprehensive review on the impact of physical exercise on iop, ocular perfusion, neuroprotection and mental health in patients with glaucoma. currently, reduction of intraocular pressure, a widely recognized risk factor for glaucoma development, is the only pharmacological strategy for slowing down retinal ganglion cell loss and disease progression. but stress is not only a result of glaucoma but also a possible cause (risk factor). the hypothesis that stress is a possible cause of glaucoma is supported by different observations: (i) acute and chronic stress increases intraocular pressure and (ii) long-term stress can lead to vascular dysregulation of the microcirculation in the eye and brain ("flammer's syndrome"), leading to partial hypoxia and hypoglycaemia (hypo-metabolism). (vi) if stress hormone levels and inflammation parameters are reduced in glaucoma patients by relaxation with meditation, this correlates with normalisation of intraocular pressure, and yet another clue is that (vii) visual field improvements after non-invasive current stimulation therapy, that are known to improve circulation and neuronal synchronisation, are much most effective in patients with stress resilient personalities. an appreciation of stress as a "cause" of glaucoma suggests that in addition to standard therapy (i) stress reduction through relaxation techniques should be recommended (e.g. 
Can dementia be prevented by years of orange juice consumption? [SEP] orange juice consumption can promote lower levels of oxidative stress and inflammation due to the antioxidant activity of citrus flavonoids and carotenoids. consumption of orange juice was associated with lower calculated calcium oxalate supersaturation and lower calculated undissociated uric acid. this short-term study suggests that orange juice consumption could result in biochemical modification of stone risk factors; however, additional studies are needed to evaluate its role in long-term prevention of recurrent nephrolithiasis. we previously showed, in healthy, middle-aged, moderately overweight men, that orange juice decreases diastolic blood pressure and significantly improves postprandial microvascular endothelial reactivity and that hesperidin could be causally linked to the observed beneficial effect of orange juice. this study shows that regular consumption of orange juice for 4 weeks alters leukocyte gene expression to an anti-inflammatory and anti-atherogenic profile, and hesperidin displays a relevant role in the genomic effect of this beverage. these results suggest that orange beverage may produce greater protection against cardiovascular risk factors than orange juice in healthy mice. in addition, dorsal raphe nucleus, accumbens nucleus, and hippocampus showed an increase of c-fos positive cells in rats treated with orange juice extract. in conclusion, the chronic and lengthy consumption of orange juice or their derivatives in the diet could be a factor responsible to induce mood disorders and may promote excess caloric consumption. the value of orange juice consumption in kidney stone prevention was examined in 8 healthy men and 3 men with documented hypocitraturic nephrolithiasis. overall, orange juice should be beneficial in the control of calcareous and uric acid nephrolithiasis. 
Can remedies from papaya improve digestion or relieve gastrointestinal discomfort? [SEP] papaya (carica papaya l.) is used as a natural remedy in abnormal digestion in tropical and industrialized countries. former clinical observations had revealed positive effects for patients with constipation, heartburn, and symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) after eating papaya preparations. in line with these former positive clinical observations, we studied the clinical effects of the papaya preparation caricol® in a double blind placebo controlled study design. we conclude from these results, that the papaya preparation (caricol®) contributes to the maintenance of digestive tract physiology. it ameliorates various functional disturbances, like symptoms of ibs. in addition, changes in papaya pulp microstructure after hhp treatments and during the different phases of the in vitro digestion were evaluated with optical light microscopy. papaya is reported to trigger food and respiratory allergy. in vivo, in contrast to the efficacy against h. polygyrus and t. muris, papaya latex only showed efficacy against p. muricola adult female worms when the stomach acidity had been neutralized prior to administration of papaya latex. many people experience digestive discomfort at some time in their lives. it was known especially as an effective remedy to improve gastrointestinal digestive problems. 
Are kinesiotapes effective for chronic non-specific lower back pain ("low back pain")? [SEP] to explore the effects of kinesiotape on pain and disability in individuals with chronic low back pain. the effects of kinesiotape on pain and disability were explored. while kinesiotape was not superior to placebo taping in pain reduction, either alone ( p = 0.07) or in conjunction with physical therapy ( p = 0.08), it could significantly improve disability when compared to the placebo taping ( p < 0.05). since kinesiotape is convenient for application, it could be used for individuals with chronic low back pain in some cases, especially when the patients could not get other physical therapy. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect     of kinesiotape technique on pain and functional performance in surgeons who have     musculoskeletal system pain after performing surgery. after kinesiotape application, neck and low back range of motions' scores     showed an increase (p < 0.05). findings demonstrated that kinesio     taping would be an effective method for reducing neck and low back pain and     improving functional performance. to investigate the effect of kinesiotape on women with postnatal backache. it is aimed in the current review to investigate the use of kinesio tape in the low back pain seen during pregnancy and to review the literature related to this subject. the objective of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of classical physiotherapy in the management of non-specific chronic low back pain. 
Does early detection of lung cancer by trained sniffer dogs provide significant benefits to those affected? [SEP] there is mounting evidence that dogs might be effectively trained to detect patients with various form of cancers due to the presence of a characteristic "odor signature". in particular, preliminary studies reported that appropriately trained dogs exhibit an extraordinary ability to detect melanoma as well as prostate, breast, ovary and lung cancers by recognizing a characteristic "odor signature" in body, urines, sweat, breath and even blood. this article is aimed to provide an overview of the available data on cancer sniffer dogs, highlighting the appealing perspectives and the potential drawbacks. canine scent detection has shown promising results in lung cancer detection, but there has only been one previous study that reproduces a screening-like situation. properly trained dogs can perceive the volatile organic compounds (vocs) related to cancer thanks to their acute sense of smell. to test the robustness of the presence of a so far unknown volatile organic compound in the breath of patients with lung cancer, sniffer dogs were applied. exhalation samples of 220 volunteers (healthy individuals, confirmed lung cancer or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd)) were presented to sniffer dogs following a rigid scientific protocol. dogs have highly developed olfactory systems and may be able to detect cancer in its primary stages. after training, non-small cell lung cancer and healthy control blood serum samples were presented to the dogs, and the sensitivity and specificity of each dog were analyzed. trained dogs were able to identify non-small cell lung cancer samples from healthy controls. 
Do snoring sprays or gargle solutions help against snoring? [SEP] this double-blind study suggests a significant reduction in snoring reported by bed partners in a group of snoring volunteers using either an essential oil spray or gargle formulation. improvement on the spray-nights implies that nasal obstruction is a causative factor in snoring and that relief of that obstruction will also improve the snoring problem. seventy-two male and female heavy snorers and their bed partners participated in a double-blinded, placebo-controlled study on the effects of a volatile oil administered by gargling. the results of this study indicate that this volatile oil is not an effective treatment in patients presenting with symptoms of snoring. this paper seeks to evaluate the efficacy of an oil-based spray in the treatment of snoring, in a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover trial using objective acoustic analysis and subjective questionnaires. objective and subjective evaluation of the performance of the oil-based snoreless spray in comparison to placebo demonstrated a lack of efficacy in snoring reduction. the study goal was to critically evaluate 3 popular noninvasive treatments for snoring: an oral spray lubricant applied before bedtime, a nasal strip designed to maintain nasal valve patency, and a head-positioning pillow. prospective, randomized blinded clinical trial of 3 popular noninvasive snore aids using objective acoustic snoring analysis and subjective patient and bed-partner questionnaires in 40 snoring patients. we sought to find a combination of noninvasive treatments for snoring by adding weight loss to previously studied treatments, including the combination of sleeping on one's side and using a decongestant nasal spray. use of mometasone furoate (mf) for 3 months reduced snoring and related symptoms in some patients. 
Does Maca help with sexual problems such as erectile dysfunction or sexual aversion in men and women? [SEP] preparations from maca root have been reported to improve sexual function. the aim of this review was to assess the clinical evidence for or against the effectiveness of the maca plant as a treatment for sexual dysfunction. two rcts suggested a significant positive effect of maca on sexual dysfunction or sexual desire in healthy menopausal women or healthy adult men, respectively, while the other rct failed to show any effects in healthy cyclists. the further rct assessed the effects of maca in patients with erectile dysfunction using the international index of erectile dysfunction-5 and showed significant effects. the results of our systematic review provide limited evidence for the effectiveness of maca in improving sexual function. erectile dysfunction affects 50 percent of men ages 40-70 in the united states and is considered an important public health problem by the national institutes of health. consumers are exposed to a plethora of natural products claiming to restore erection and sexual vitality. however, arginine, yohimbine, panax ginseng, maca, and ginkgo biloba all have some degree of evidence they may be helpful for erectile dysfunction. although epidemiologic evidence seems to support a role for lifestyle factors in erectile dysfunction, limited data are available suggesting the treatment of underlying risk factors may improve erectile dysfunction. beyond the specific effects on sexual dysfunctions in men and women, adoption of these measures promotes a healthier life and increased well-being, which may help reduce the burden of sexual dysfunction. 
Can glacier milk powder prevent hangover or relieve hangover symptoms? [SEP] we performed a randomized, double-blind, crossover controlled study to assess the effect of beta blockade in preventing the symptoms of hangover. we performed a randomized, double-blind, crossover controlled study to assess the effect of beta blockade in preventing the symptoms of hangover. we investigated the effects of red ginseng on relieving alcohol and hangover symptoms in 25 healthy men in a randomized crossover study. considering the reduction of plasma alcohol levels, expiratory concentrations, and hangover severity, we conclude that red ginseng relieves the symptoms of alcohol hangover. symptoms of hangover seem to be caused by dehydration, hormonal alterations, dysregulated cytokine pathways, and toxic effects of alcohol. no evidence suggests that alleviation of hangover symptoms leads to further alcohol consumption, and the discomfort caused by such symptoms may do so. on the hangover day, urine ethanol concentration was significantly lower in the hangover-immune group when compared to the hangover group (p = 0.027). in contrast, in the hangover group, significant correlations were found with a variety of hangover symptoms, including nausea, concentration problems, sleepiness, weakness, apathy, sweating, stomach pain, thirst, heart racing, anxiety, and sleep problems. previous research found that the consumption of congener-rich drinks contributes to the severity of alcohol hangover. drinkers with a hangover reported drowsiness-related symptoms, symptoms related to reduced cognitive functioning, and classic hangover symptoms such as headache, nausea, dizziness, weakness, and stomach pain. 
Can ingredients from pomegranate lower elevated blood pressure or reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] pomegranate (punica granatum), a polyphenol-rich fruit, has been suggested to reduce cardiovascular risk due to its antioxidant properties. the aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of pomegranate extract (pe) on blood pressure and anthropometric measures in adults with no symptomatic disease. as some antioxidants have been shown to reduce blood pressure, the purpose of this review was to discover the effect of pomegranate juice consumption on blood pressure and cardiovascular health. pomegranate juice consumption may reduce systolic blood pressure, inhibits serum ace activity, and is convincingly a heart-healthy fruit [aviram m, dornfeld l. pomegranate juice consumption inhibits serum angiotensin converting enzyme activity and reduces systolic blood pressure. this study attempts a critical evaluation of the clinical evidence behind the use of dietary pomegranate preparations in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. if pomegranate has a role in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases, there is a pressing need for dose-finding and long-term confirmatory studies. as some antioxidants were recently shown to reduce blood pressure, we studied the effect of pomegranate juice consumption (50 ml, 1.5mmol of total polyphenols per day, for 2 weeks) by hypertensive patients on their blood pressure and on serum angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) activity. as reduction in serum ace activity, even with no decrement in blood pressure, was previously shown to attenuate atherosclerosis, pomegranate juice can offer a wide protection against cardiovascular diseases which could be related to its inhibitory effect on oxidative stress and on serum ace activity. several lines of experimental and clinical evidence have shown that pomegranate intake helps lowering blood pressure (bp) through different mechanisms. we hypothesized that treatment with pomegranate hydroalcoholic extract (phe) would improve coronary vascular reactivity and cardiovascular parameters. 
Does regular consumption of red meat or processed meat products increase the risk of colorectal cancer? [SEP] accumulating epidemiologic evidence indicates that high consumption of red meat and of processed meat may increase the risk of colorectal cancer. consumption of red meat and processed meat was positively associated with risk of both colon and rectal cancer, although the association with red meat appeared to be stronger for rectal cancer. the results of this meta-analysis of prospective studies support the hypothesis that high consumption of red meat and of processed meat is associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer. red and processed meats have been implicated as risk factors in the development of colorectal cancer in u.s. women, but associations with cooking practices are less well established. consumption of red and processed meats has been associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer. most studies found no relationship between cancer risk and red meat (15 in 20) or processed meat (seven out of 11) consumption; still, most of the reported relative risks were above unity, suggesting that high consumption of red or processed meat might increase colorectal cancer risk. a recent investigation by the world health organisation (who) has found that the consumption of processed meat and potentially red meat promotes carcinogenesis and can increase the risk of colorectal cancer. high intake of red meat, and particularly of processed meat, was associated with a moderate but significant increase in colorectal cancer risk. evidence in the literature proposes an association between red meat consumption and development of colorectal cancer, and there is some insight with regard to the mechanisms involved. evidence from recent studies supports that quantity, doneness, and preparation of red meat play a role in colorectal carcinogenesis. 
Does stool transplantation help with ulcerative colitis? [SEP] among the 17 patients who had had symptomatic colonoscopy-documented ulcerative colitis at time of liver transplantation, 88.2% reported improvement in overall ulcerative colitis severity (p less than 0.001), with significant improvement in the frequency of bowel movements reported by 100%, in crampy abdominal pain by 87.5%, in bowel urgency by 75%, in the occurrence of pus or mucus in stool by 87.5%, in the incidence of ulcerative colitis flares by 81.8%, and in the number of days unable to function normally due to ulcerative colitis symptoms by 78.6% (all at least p less than 0.01). these data demonstrate that ulcerative colitis symptom severity significantly improves following liver transplantation with immunosuppression with cyclosporine and prednisone. fecal microbiota transplantation may contribute to disease remission in ulcerative colitis; however, the factors that determine the effects of treatment remain unknown. the aim of the present study was to prospectively investigate the clinical efficacy of fecal microbiota transplantation in patients with ulcerative colitis and identify the bacterial signatures associated with clinical remission. fecal microbiota transplantation has a potential therapeutic value for the treatment of ulcerative colitis as it changes the abundance of bacterial flora and improves the scores for diarrhea, abdominal pain, and mucous membrane lesions in patients with this disease. fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) has been successful in some children with ulcerative colitis. the therapeutic role of fecal microbiota transplantation in ulcerative colitis varies across different reports. this study aims to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of a strategy called step-up fecal microbiota transplantation for ulcerative colitis. fecal microbiota transplantation should be a safe and promising therapy for ulcerative colitis. new data suggest that fecal transplantation could also be efficient in other gastrointestinal diseases, for instance in inflammatory bowel disease, irritable bowel syndrome, but, there are also some data that could imply the efficacy outside the gastrointestinal tract. 
Does stool transplantation help in Crohn's disease??? [SEP] the success of fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) in the treatment of clostridioides difficile infection, a disease that is also marked by dysbiosis, has spurred research in applying fmt to uc. ileocolic resection (icr) is frequently performed for crohn's disease; however, disease commonly recurs early in the neoterminal ileum. clostridium difficile has been detected in the stools of some patients with relapse of crohn's disease. malnourishment is a common complication in patients with crohn's disease. in this observational study, the semi-elemental diet seemed effective in improving the nutritional status, disease activity, and stool frequency in patients with active crohn's disease. although rectal advancement flap repair does not cure perianal fistulas in most patients with crohn's disease, those without crohn's colitis may have long-term benefit. the present study aimed at identifying the relative contribution of malnutrition-causing factors in patients with crohn's disease in remission. stem cell therapies may be valuable in treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). autologous hematopoietic reconstitution may "reboot" mucosal immunity to a normal baseline state, but does not alter any underlying genetic predisposition to ibd. in addition, mesenchymal stem cells may be applied topically to help close fistulas associated with crohn's disease. 
Can remedies from the iambul tree improve blood glucose control in diabetes or precursors of diabetes ("pre-diabetes")? [SEP] in addition, a decrease was observed in the weight of the control diabetic group and the diabetic group given the plant extract. in spite of continuous new drug development to treat diabetes, herbal remedies remain a potential adjunct therapy to maintain better glycemic control while also imparting few side-effects. improvement of hyperglycemia through dietotherapy/herbal remedy is an effective approach to treating diabetes. mulberry leaf treatment significantly reduce fasting blood-glucose and hba1c, ameliorate the blood lipid profile and improve insulin resistance in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. our findings reveal that mulberry leaf is an edible with therapeutic potential for diabetes and may provide a novel dietotherapy/herbal remedy to the treatment of diabetes. cinnamon is currently marketed as a remedy for obesity, glucose intolerance, diabetes mellitus and dyslipidaemia. an improvement in glycaemic control was seen in patients who received cinnamon as the sole therapy for diabetes, those with pre-diabetes (ifg or igt) and in those with high pre-treatment hba1c. here, we tested the protective effect of the plant extracts of the rosaceae family on improving insulin secretion and repairing the pancreatic beta cells in diabetic rats. oral administration of nectarine and peach extracts to stz-induced diabetic rats showed restoration of blood glucose levels to normal levels with a concomitant increase in insulin levels. nectarine and peach extracts' anti-diabetic properties improved insulin secretion and pancreatic beta-cell function and subsequently led to restoring pancreatic islet mass in stz-induced diabetic rats. 
Does HPV vaccination reduce the risk of cervical cancer in girls? [SEP] routine hpv vaccination may reduce the social inequity of prevention of cervical cancer. approximately half of the participants knew that hpv infection causes cervical cancer, condoms can reduce the risk of transmission and that cervical screening is needed regardless of vaccination status. such programs should provide information on the hpv vaccine and the link between hpv and cervical cancer, and they should assist mothers and girls in communicating to make informed decisions about the vaccine. infection of specific high risk human papillomaviruses (hpvs) is known to cause cervical cancer and two prophylactic vaccines have been developed against two major high risk hpv types 16 and 18 for prevention of cervical cancer. we conclude that girls indeed made a trade-off between degree of protection and other vaccine characteristics, and that uptake of hpv vaccination may change considerably if girls are supplied with new evidence-based information about the degree of protection against cervical cancer, the protection duration, and the risk of serious side-effects. hpv vaccination reduces the incidence of hpv-related cancers and precancerous lesions in the united states and abroad, though decisions regarding implementation of vaccination remain. human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccination offers an excellent prospect for the primary prevention of cervical cancer. hpv vaccination should be the priority to achieve the elimination of cervical cancer. hpv-16/18 vaccination of preadolescent girls will markedly lower infection rates among nonvaccinated women. reduced transmission of vaccine-preventable hpv becomes a prominent aspect of cervical cancer control, especially in populations with moderate vaccine coverage. 
Is stool transplantation effective against recurrent Clostridium difficile infections ? [SEP] we present the case of a 73-year-old woman with intractable, recurrent enterocolitis due to clostridium difficile who was successfully treated with fecal transplantation via colonoscopy. fecal transplantation seems to be a safe and highly effective treatment for recurrent clostridium difficile infection. fecal transplantations are effective in treating recurrent c. difficile infection (cdi). fecal microbiota transplantation (fmt) is an effective treatment for recurrent clostridium difficile infection (rcdi), with cure rates higher than 80%.1-3 fmt failure is defined as diarrhea and a positive stool laboratory test for c difficile at any point during the 8-week follow-up period after fmt.4. in this case series, we describe 12 patients with refractory/recurrent c. difficile-associated disease (cdad) treated at our institution by transplantation of donated stool via colonoscopy. fecal transplantation is a promising treatment for refractory/recurrent c. difficile infection. the use of fecal microbiota transplantation in recurrent clostridium difficile infection and coexistent inflammatory bowel disease remains unclear. fecal microbiota transplantation is relatively simple to perform, well-tolerated, safe and effective in recurrent clostridium difficile infection with ulcerative pancolitis, as an alternative in case of antibiotic therapy failure. fecal transplantation was shown to effectively reduce the reoccurrence in patients with refractory clostridium difficile infection. fecal transplant is highly effective, safe, with practically no adverse effects, inexpensive, a procedure easy to be done that could be introduced in clostridium difficile treatment protocols. 
Does the juice of the aronia berry help against cystitis? [SEP] aronia berries have many potential effects on health. previous human studies have shown that aronia juice may be useful for treatment of obesity disorders. recently, we have reported that aronia juice has an inhibitory effect on dipeptidyl peptidase (dpp iv) activity and that the dpp iv inhibitor in aronia juice was identified as cyanidin 3,5-diglucoside. the goal of this work was to characterize how the date of harvest of 'viking' aronia berry impacts juice pigmentation, sugars, and antioxidant activity. however, no unwanted or toxic effects (i.e., chemical, hematological or urinary effect) have been associated with the consumption of berries or berry juices or other extracts, especially aronia berries and aronia products in vivo, and in vitro, which may suggest that the phenolic antioxidants found in berries are natural gifts for human health. aronia berries have many potential effects on health, including an antioxidant effect, effect for antimutagenesis, hepatoprotection and cardioprotection, an antidiabetic effect and inhibition of cancer cell proliferation. in this study, we found that aronia juice has an inhibitory effect against dipeptidyl peptidase iv (dpp iv) (ec 3.4.14.5). the results suggest that dpp iv is inhibited by cyanidin 3, 5-diglucoside present in aronia juice. the antidiabetic effect of aronia juice may be mediated through dpp iv inhibition by cyanidin 3, 5-diglucoside. our findings support that moderate levels of aronia berry concentrate may prevent reactive oxygen species-mediated neurotoxicity. 
Is Intermittent Fasting suitable for reducing excess weight as well as a conventional low calorie diet? [SEP] our results suggest that a high-protein, intermittent fasting and low-calorie diet is associated with similar reductions in bmi and blood lipids in obese men and women. we conducted a clinical inquiry to determine whether intermittent fasting is superior to a low-calorie diet in improving lipids, searching the cochrane, ebscohost, embase, medline, and scopus databases using the terms intermittent fasting, lipids, and calorie-restricted diet. to examine the evidence for intermittent fasting (if), an alternative to calorie-restricted diets, in treating obesity, an important health concern in canada with few effective office-based treatment strategies. intermittent fasting shows promise for the treatment of obesity. how does intrinsic aerobic capacity impact weight loss with 50% daily caloric restriction and alternate-day fasting? intermittent fasting is effective for weight loss in rats with low fitness, which highlights the importance of how intermittent fasting interacts with aerobic fitness. recent interest has focused on the benefits of time-restricted feeding strategies, including intermittent fasting, for weight loss. it is not yet known whether intermittent fasting is more effective than daily caloric restriction at stimulating weight loss and how each is subject to individual differences. altogether, this suggests that intermittent fasting is an effective weight-loss strategy for those with low intrinsic aerobic fitness; however, direct comparison of caloric restriction and intermittent fasting is warranted to determine any differential effects on energy expenditure in lean and obesity-prone phenotypes. over the past 10 to 15 years, intermittent fasting has emerged as an unconventional approach to reduce body weight and improve metabolic health beyond simple calorie restriction. 
Is the risk for the brain inflammation SSPE as a consequence of measles disease greater than long assumed? That is, out of every 100,000 people infected with measles, does more than one person develop SSPE (subacute sclerosing panencephalitis) later in life? [SEP] subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe) is a preventable condition reported in 6.5 to 11 per 100 000 cases of measles, and highest in children who contracted measles infection when they were less than 5 years of age. what this paper adds: measles contracted under 5 years of age has highest risk of developing subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe). children with, or exposed to, human immunodeficiency virus infection, who contract measles may be at increased risk of sspe. subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe), in the majority of cases, is caused by the wild measles virus, although there are some reports relating sspe to vaccination. the most severe sequela of measles virus infection is subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe), a fatal disease of the central nervous system that generally develops 7-10 years after infection. subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe) is a fatal long-term complication of measles infection. the risk of developing sspe for children contracting measles infection below 5 years of age was calculated as 1∶1700 to 1∶3300. subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe) is a devastating disease of the central nervous system (cns) caused by persistent mutant measles virus infection. subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by measles virus. twenty cases of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (sspe) occurring over an 18-year period in wales are described and used as the basis for a comparison of measles infection, vaccination rates and the incidence of sspe in england and wales. 
Can acupuncture for labor induction trigger the onset of labor? [SEP] the objective of this study is to review the existing scientific evidence on the potential role of acupuncture on induction of labor during pregnancy. although the definitive role of acupuncture in inducing labor is still yet to be established, the existing studies suggest that acupuncture may be beneficial in labor induction. the aim of the present study is to investigate the effect of acupuncture to induce labor. the present study demonstrated that acupuncture applied every odd day for one week seems ineffective in reducing the rate of labor induction performed for prolonged pregnancy at 41 + 5 weeks. induction of labor by acupuncture electro-stimulation was carried out in 31 patients. we also discovered that the participants in the acupuncture group who needed labor induction had a significantly shorter duration of active phase than the ones induced in the control group (mean difference 3.6 h, p=0.002). this double-blind randomized controlled trial was conducted to evaluate whether use of acupuncture could initiate labor at term and thus reduce post-term induction. spontaneous labor was initiated in 94.7 % of acupuncture group and 89.2 % of sham acupuncture group (p = 0.430). studies of acupuncture have demonstrated that acupuncture may reduce labor pain, the use of pharmacologic agents, the use of forceps and vacuum-assisted births, and the length of labor. studies that examined the effect of acupuncture on labor that is induced or augmented for premature rupture of membranes have found that acupuncture may increase the degree of cervical ripening but does not reduce the amount of oxytocin or epidural analgesia administration, nor does it shorten length of induced labor. 
Can switching to a higher fiber diet prevent colorectal cancer? [SEP] among the various dietary factors that have been proposed to affect the risk and progression of colon cancer, dietary fiber has been of greatest interest, due to the effects of fiber on the function of the large bowel. several case-control studies and a few cohort studies have linked higher fiber intake to reduced risk for colorectal cancer, although the results of these observational studies have been inconsistent. in the large european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition observational study, higher dietary fiber from foods was associated with an estimated 25% reduction in risk for large bowel cancer. to date, intervention studies testing the relationship between dietary fiber and colon cancer have focused on whether fiber supplementation or diet modification can affect the risk for adenoma recurrence and growth in individuals with a history of adenomatous polyps. the effect of increased dietary fiber intake on risk for colorectal cancer has not been adequately addressed in studies conducted to date. contrary to previous recommendations, there is no strong evidence to suggest that fiber intake (including more fruits and vegetables) has any effect on colorectal cancer risk. intake of dietary fibers or foods rich in dietary fibers decreases the incidence of colorectal carcinoma. reduced risk of colorectal carcinoma is reported when populations with diet high in red meat and total fats switched to a diet high in total fibers and certain whole grain, goods. the modification of diet and lifestyle may modify the risk of colorectal cancer (crc) and prevent neoplasia in up to 50% of cases. a diet rich in fiber is associated with a low risk of developing colorectal cancer. 
Can perineal massage during pregnancy help prevent birth injury in first-time mothers? [SEP] perineal massage during pregnancy neither impairs nor substantially protects perineal function at 3 months post partum. the aim of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of perineal massage during pregnancy for the prevention of perineal trauma at birth. perineal massage is an effective approach to increasing the chance of delivery with an intact perineum for women with a first vaginal delivery but not for women with a previous vaginal birth. although the performance of perineal massage by a woman or her partner during the last weeks of pregnancy may help to prevent perineal trauma at delivery, the technique has never been evaluated rigorously. in nulliparas, perineal massage during the weeks before giving birth also protected against perineal trauma (risk difference -0.08, ci -0.12, -0.04). antenatal perineal massage has been proposed as one method of decreasing the incidence of perineal trauma. to assess the effect of antenatal digital perineal massage on the incidence of perineal trauma at birth and subsequent morbidity. antenatal digital perineal massage was associated with an overall reduction in the incidence of trauma requiring suturing (four trials, 2480 women, risk ratio (rr) 0.91 (95% confidence interval (ci) 0.86 to 0.96), number needed to treat to benefit (nntb) 15 (10 to 36)) and women practicing perineal massage were less likely to have an episiotomy (four trials, 2480 women, rr 0.84 (95% ci 0.74 to 0.95), nntb 21 (12 to 75)). to examine the effects of perineal massage during active labor on the frequency of episiotomy and perineal tearing. perineal massage reduces postpartum perineal pain, prevalence and severity of perineal tear during delivery. 
Can cancer be effectively treated with vitamin C infusions? [SEP] despite the significant number of in vitro and in vivo studies to assess vitamin c effects on cancer following the application of large doses and its extensive use by alternative medicine practitioners in the usa; the precise schedule for successful cancer therapy is still unknown. based on interpretation of the available data, we postulate that the relationship between vitamin c doses and plasma concentration x time, the capability of tissue stores upon distribution, and the saturable mechanism of urinary excretion are all important determinants to understand the physiology of high intravenous vitamin c dose administration and its effect on cancer. we suggest that multiple, intermittent, short-term intravenous infusions of vitamin c over a longer time period will correlate with greater antitumor effects than do single continuous iv doses of the same total exposure. performance status was increased in 4 patients of vitamin c group and 1 patient of chemotherapy group, whereas performance status in control group was decreased. patient performance status and survival rate were increased using vitamin c. thus, the aim of the present study was to investigate the efficacy of high-dose vitamin c infusion in the treatment of patients with covid-19. cancer patients who are deficient in vitamin c prior to therapy tend to achieve lower plasma levels post infusion. ivc may serve as a safe, adjunctive therapy in clinical cancer care. biological and some clinical evidence suggest that high-dose intravenous vitamin c (ivc) could increase the effectiveness of cancer chemotherapy. the pre- and post-chemotherapy pharmacokinetic profiles suggested that tissue uptake of vitamin c increases after chemotherapy, with no increase in urinary oxalic acid excretion. 
Are detox cures good for health? [SEP] because substance use disorder (sud) treatment is expanding, and detoxification (detox) is often the entry point to sud treatment, it is critical to provide ready access to detox services. these approaches may improve detox access, which is important for increasing the likelihood of transitioning patients to sud treatment, thus improving outcomes and reducing utilization of high-cost services. although evidence points to the benefits of continuity of care after detoxification (detox), especially when continuity of care occurs within a short time after discharge from a detox episode, the rate at which clients engage in continued treatment after detox remains low. and family and above all continuity of effort, as a detoxication cure is simply a preparation for effective ambulatory therapy and is not a complete therapy in itself. detox diets are popular dieting strategies that claim to facilitate toxin elimination and weight loss, thereby promoting health and well-being. the present review examines whether detox diets are necessary, what they involve, whether they are effective and whether they present any dangers. although the detox industry is booming, there is very little clinical evidence to support the use of these diets. a handful of clinical studies have shown that commercial detox diets enhance liver detoxification and eliminate persistent organic pollutants from the body, although these studies are hampered by flawed methodologies and small sample sizes. detoxification (detox) plays a major role in pesticide action and resistance. these results suggest some potential for payers to reduce the health care costs associated with repeat detox by using a navigator-based intervention. 
Do sweeteners increase the risk of type 2 diabetes or sugar metabolism disorders? [SEP] in conclusion, data from prospective cohort studies published in the years 2000-2011 suggest that sugar-sweetened beverages probably increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. sugar intake may exacerbate the later stage of type 1 diabetes development; sugar-sweetened beverages may be especially detrimental to children with the highest genetic risk of developing type 1 diabetes. however, accumulating evidence suggests that frequent consumers of these sugar substitutes may also be at increased risk of excessive weight gain, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. intake of sugar-sweetened beverages has been consistently linked to increased risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease in various populations. the aim of the present study was to estimate the association between sugar-sweetened beverage intake and the risk of type 2 diabetes. prospective studies published on the association between sugar-sweetened beverage intake and the risk of type 2 diabetes were included. our findings suggested that sugar-sweetened beverage intake was associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, and the association was attenuated by adjustment for body mass index. meta-analyses suggest that consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is related to the risk of diabetes, the metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease in adults and in children. to examine the association between consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and weight change and risk of type 2 diabetes in women. higher consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with a greater magnitude of weight gain and an increased risk for development of type 2 diabetes in women, possibly by providing excessive calories and large amounts of rapidly absorbable sugars. 
Does flu vaccination reduce the likelihood of getting the flu (influenza)? [SEP] annual vaccination is considered to be the gold standard strategy to protect the individual from acquiring infection and further decimation, although recent estimates suggest that overall flu vaccine effectiveness was within 19% to 53% in last five years. immunization has been shown to provide the best protection against the flu. increasing flu vaccination rates can reduce the number of patients who get the flu and seek care for non-specific symptoms thus making detection of the coronavirus more efficient. providing education and access to the vaccine in the workplace may improve flu knowledge, reduce barriers, and increase flu vaccine uptake among employees. vaccinations are effective in reducing flu and severe respiratory disease in health care workers. participants who indicated that getting the vaccine was beneficial to them and that their doctor thinks they should get the flu vaccine were significantly more likely to have the intent of getting vaccinated. in addition, nurses who are vaccinated have higher levels of (1) knowledge regarding the vaccine and influenza, (2) perceived seriousness of the illness, (3) perceived susceptibility, and (4) health motivation than do those who do not get the vaccine. immunization of healthcare workers may reduce the risk of flu outbreaks in all types of healthcare facilities and reduce morbidity and mortality among high-risk patients. in order to increase vaccination rates among nurses, efforts should be made to educate them regarding the benefits of vaccination and the potential health consequences of influenza for their patients, and themselves. vaccination is one of the cornerstones of controlling an influenza pandemic. 
Can therapy with the radioactive gas radon noticeably alleviate pain in rheumatism-related joint inflammation (rheumatoid arthritis)? [SEP] the aim of this study was to analyze the effect of radon therapy on pain in rheumatic diseases. included were all prospective randomized controlled clinical trials that compared clinical effects of radon therapy with other interventions in patients with rheumatic diseases and studied pain intensity. five clinical trials with a total of 338 patients and comparing the effect on pain of radon baths (three trials) or radon speleotherapy (two trials) with control intervention in degenerative spinal disease (two trials), rheumatoid arthritis (one trial) and ankylosing spondylitis (two trials) met the inclusion criteria. in meta-analysis, the pooled data showed no difference immediately after treatment (p=0.13) but significantly better pain reduction in the radon group than the control group at 3 months (p=0.02) and 6 months (p=0.002) after treatment. the existing trials suggest a positive effect of radon therapy on pain in rheumatic diseases. with respect to the potential clinical effect and given the increasing public interest in radon therapy, there is an urgent need for further randomized controlled clinical investigations with long-term follow-up. rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is an autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation of synovial tissues in joints, leading to progressive destruction of cartilage and joints. thus, quercetin has the potential to prevent joint inflammation and could be used as an adjunct therapy for ra patients who have an inadequate response to anti-rheumatic monotherapy. these results suggest that gene-modified cell therapy represents a therapeutic option for systemic rheumatic diseases. patients with ra rate pain relief as the highest priority; however, few studies have addressed the efficacy and safety of therapies directed specifically toward pain pathways. 
Does frankincense help with painful joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] we investigated the usefulness of a custom-made splint for treatment of painful osteoarthritis of the distal interphalangeal (dip) joints. we enrolled 25 patients (24 women and one man, mean age 58 y) with painful osteoarthritis of the dip joints of the fingers and thumbs in this cohort study. osteoarthritis is complex in genetics, pathogenesis, monitoring and treatment. current treatment of osteoarthritis does not influence progression. will saving the cartilage improve patient pain and function? pain from osteoarthritis, the leading cause of disability in older patients, affects gait mechanics. older people often view osteoarthritis as a part of normal ageing and see themselves as healthy despite painful joints. patients are likely to be receptive to recommendations that promote independence, but advice needs to be set into patients' existing ways of living and coping with joint pain. intra-articular injections of exogenous hyaluronan are often given to patients suffering from osteoarthritis in order to compensate for the reduction in the level of endogenous hyaluronan and to restore the rheological properties of the synovial fluid. the results indicate that while hyaluronan treatment may temporarily slow the wear rate to an extent beyond a placebo effect, it does not prevent joint degradation altogether. 
Does the extract of the plant Salacia reticulata in combination with vitamin D ("Exadipin") help to lose weight? [SEP] the indian plant root salacia reticulata, which is rich in alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, is used for metabolic disorders in ayurvedic medicine. these promising results suggest that the combination of salacia reticulata and vitamin d₃ might be highly valuable and potent to treat overweight and obesity, especially in addition to a modifying lifestyle program. in this review i critically analyze the evidence for using salacia reticulata for treating type 2 diabetes and obesity. one clinical trial reported significant reduction of weight and bmi when salacia is used in combination with vitamin d. salacia reticulata effectively improves insulin resistance, glucose metabolism and reduces obesity. the extracts of salacia reticulata (salacia extract), a plant that has been used for the treatment of early diabetes, rheumatism and gonorrhea in ayurveda, have been shown to have an anti-obesity effect and suppress hyperglycemia. in this study, the effects of salacia extract on various symptoms of metabolic disorder were investigated and compared using these tsod mice and non-obese tsno mice. based on the above results, it is concluded that salacia extract has remarkable potential to prevent obesity and associated metabolic disorders including the development of metabolic syndrome. our study thus revealed that salacia plant extract exerts bioregulatory functions by boosting intestinal immunity. in human studies, salacia extracts have been shown to decrease plasma glucose and insulin levels, decrease hba1c, and modulate serum lipid levels with no adverse effects being reported. no clinical studies have examined the effects of salacia extracts on human weight loss, although weight loss and decreases in weight gain have been demonstrated in animal models. 
Does yoga reduce the impairment in everyday life caused by persistent (chronic) back pain? [SEP] the aims of this study to get an overview of the effect of yoga in the treatment of chronic lower back pain to improve the clinical outcomes of patients. prior studies of yoga for clbp in community samples, and the main results of a recent trial with military veterans, indicate that yoga can reduce back-related disability and pain intensity. yoga was more effective than a self-care book for improving function and reducing chronic low back pain, and the benefits persisted for at least several months. yoga has been proven to be an effective therapy for chronic low back pain. to critically compare the effects of yoga for patients with chronic low back pain on pain, disability, quality of life with non-exercise (e.g. these results suggest that iyengar yoga provides better improvement in pain reduction and improvement in hrqol in nonspecific chronic back pain than general exercise. yoga has been shown as an effective intervention for treating chronic or recurrent low back pain. to investigate the overall effects of 12 weeks of yoga practice on chronic nonspecific lower back pain. the pooled fixed-effect size of six trials showed that 12 weeks of yoga programs could significantly reduce chronic nonspecific lower back pain by 0.41 within the trials (standardized mean difference; 95% confidence interval: -0.58 to -0.23; p < .0001). these findings reveal that 12 weeks of yoga can help alleviate pain, and yoga programs should take into account the subgroup factors to increase individuals' relief from chronic nonspecific lower back pain. 
Does yoga alleviate the severity of persistent back pain??? [SEP] it has been suggested that yoga has a positive effect on low back pain and function. it is concluded that yoga has the potential to alleviate low back pain. recent research indicates that yoga can be effective for reducing perceived stress, alleviating back pain, and improving psychological well-being. the results indicate that a workplace yoga intervention can reduce perceived stress and back pain and improve psychological well-being. to investigate the overall effects of 12 weeks of yoga practice on chronic nonspecific lower back pain. the pooled fixed-effect size of six trials showed that 12 weeks of yoga programs could significantly reduce chronic nonspecific lower back pain by 0.41 within the trials (standardized mean difference; 95% confidence interval: -0.58 to -0.23; p < .0001). these findings reveal that 12 weeks of yoga can help alleviate pain, and yoga programs should take into account the subgroup factors to increase individuals' relief from chronic nonspecific lower back pain. yoga is an increasingly popular "mind-body" cam therapy often used for relieving back pain and several small studies have found yoga effective for this condition. this study will assess whether yoga is effective for treating chronic low back pain compared with self care and exercise and will explore the mechanisms responsible for any observed benefits. yoga has been found to be efficacious in treating chronic low back pain, yet biomedical treatments are most commonly used for pain. 
Do laughter yoga or laughter therapy have positive health effects? [SEP] : laughter yoga interventions improved depressive symptoms in two studies over the short term. introduction laughter yoga is claimed to promote mental health and is increasingly popular worldwide. the most promising effect of laughter yoga is the improvement of depressive symptoms, indicating significant medium-large effect sizes in two studies over the short term. discussion laughter yoga shows potential, but currently there is insufficient evidence to support its effectiveness in improving mental health when compared to other group-based interventions. our findings showed that laughter yoga is at least as effective as group exercise program in improvement of depression and life satisfaction of elderly depressed women. the findings showed that laughter yoga had a positive effect on students' general health and improved the signs of physical and sleep disorders, lowered anxiety and depression, and promoted their social function. our results indicate that laughter yoga has a positive effect on trunk muscle activation. all nurses agreed or strongly agreed that laughter yoga had a positive impact on patients' mood, it was a feasible intervention and they would recommend laughter yoga to their patients. the results showed that repeated sessions of laughter yoga had psychologically beneficial effects, especially on the aspects of tension-anxiety, and vigor. these results indicated that multiple laughter yoga sessions appeared to be effective in improving the psychological and physiological status of healthy adults. 
Can a height-adjustable desk reduce sitting time in the office? [SEP] the aim of this study is to determine whether providing office workers with education along with adjustable sit-stand workstations leads to reduction in sitting behavior. this study will determine whether providing office workers with an adjustable sit-stand desk and individually targeted education, or education alone, is more effective in decreasing sitting behaviors than no intervention. height-adjustable desks are being used to decrease worksite based sitting time (st). this study examined the impact and feasibility of height-adjustable desks on time spent sitting/standing during classroom lessons in a secondary school. introducing height-adjustable desks resulted in lower levels of sitting compared with traditional classrooms, was acceptable and had some adverse effects on concentration and discomfort. the study provides preliminary evidence that height-adjustable desks may help reduce prolonged sitting in school among adolescents. both a height-adjustable desk and an online behavioral intervention effectively reduced occupational sitting, and a combined approach was most effective. this pilot study showed that the environmental change of introduction of electric adjustable height desks into an office workplace can increase physical activity and reduce sitting durations. study 2 included an intervention of replacing subjects' sitting desks with a height adjustable desk. use of a height adjustable desk for 12 months did not alter the hedonic value of standing or sitting, which is promising for long-term increases in standing. 
Does a diet that includes as many organic foods as possible lower the risk of cancer? [SEP] current evidence for the involvement of diet in cancer etiology is based on indirect relationships between the consumption of selected food constituents and incidence, dietary studies, and laboratory data. this included higher antioxidant, but lower cadmium and pesticide levels in organic crops, and higher omega-3 fatty acids concentrations in organic meat and dairy products. also, results from a small number of human cohort studies indicate that there are positive associations between organic food consumption and reduced risk/incidence of certain acute diseases (e.g. concerns about potential negative health impacts of organic food consumption (e.g. cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and neurodegenerative conditions) and (2) controlled human dietary intervention studies comparing effects of organic and conventional diets. many studies were conducted to characterize organic consumers and their environmental impacts (i.e., greenhouse gas emissions, energy demand, and land use) and organic food consumption impacts on health. we observed that organic consumers had diets that were healthier and richer in plant-based food than nonorganic consumers. regular consumption of organic food was associated with reduced risks of obesity, type 2 diabetes, postmenopausal breast cancer, and lymphoma. finally, the main finding of the bionutrinet project is that while organic food consumption could be associated with positive externalities on human health and the environment, organic-based diets should be accompanied by dietary shifts toward plant-based diets to allow for better planetary and human health. while meat intake has been related to increased risk for a variety of chronic diseases, an abundant consumption of vegetables, fruits, cereals, nuts, and legumes all have been independently related with a lower risk for several chronic degenerative diseases, such as ischemic heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and many cancers. 
Does cinnamon lower blood sugar levels in diabetes? [SEP] all of the subjects that were in the cinnamon group had a statistically significant decrease in their blood sugar levels with a p-value of 3.915 × 10(-10). the subjects in the cinnamon group had an average overall decrease in their blood sugar levels of about 30 mg/dl, which is comparable to oral medications available for diabetes. greater decreases in blood glucose values were observed in patients using the cinnamon compared to those using the dietary changes alone. research has shown that adding cinnamon to diet can help to lower the glucose level. the aim of this study was to determine the effect of cinnamon on the glucose level in blood. these data suggest that cinnamon has a possible modest effect in lowering plasma glucose levels in patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes. in within-group comparisons only, cinnamon intake significantly decreased fasting blood sugar (fbs). the aim of this review was to examine the results of randomized controlled clinical trials of cinnamon and evaluate the therapeutic potential amongst patients with diabetes and insulin-resistant patients, particularly the ability to reduce blood glucose levels and inhibit protein glycation. whilst definitive conclusions cannot be drawn regarding the use of cinnamon as an antidiabetic therapy, it does possess antihyperglycaemic properties and potential to reduce postprandial blood glucose levels. oxidative stress following administration of cinnamon extract was lower in diabetic mice. 
Does sitting for long periods shorten the lifespan? [SEP] here we investigate whether the lifespan of male mice is affected by their growth rate when they were suckling and find that limiting growth during that period not only increases longevity but also protects against the life-shortening effect of an obesity-inducing diet later on. by contrast, we find that lifespan is considerably shortened if the postnatal period of growth is accelerated to make up for reduced growth in utero, and that, in addition, these mice are susceptible to the adverse effects on longevity of an obesity-inducing diet after weaning. we find that taste inputs shorten lifespan through inhibition of the insulin pathway effector dfoxo, whereas other taste inputs lengthen lifespan in parallel to this pathway. there is a wealth of evidence for a lifespan penalty when environmental conditions influence an individual's growth trajectory, such that growth rate is accelerated to attain a target size within a limited time period. given this empirically demonstrated relationship between accelerated growth and lifespan, and the links between lifespan and telomere dynamics, increased telomere loss could underpin this growth-lifespan trade. our findings provide evidence of a long-term influence of growth rate on later-life telomere shortening, but only when individuals have accelerated growth in response to environmental circumstances. chronic dietary restriction (dr) is considered among the most robust life-extending interventions, but several reports indicate that dr does not always extend and may even shorten lifespan in some genotypes. reduced activity of the insulin/insulin-like growth factor signalling pathway extends lifespan in diverse organisms, and we find that it also protects against the shortening of lifespan with full feeding. these findings suggest that the maternal position does not affect uterine contractility, that the increased resting pressure in the sitting position is of some importance in supplementing the downward delivery force, and that the increased bearing down pressure in the sitting position could help to significantly shorten the duration of labor. here, we show that restriction or supplementation of c. elegans folate does not influence lifespan. 
Does mammography screening reduce the risk of dying from breast cancer in certain age groups? [SEP] there is little controversy that mammography reduces the risk of dying from breast cancer by about 23% among women between the ages of 50 and 69 years, although the harms associated with false-positive results and overdiagnosis limit the net benefit of mammography. women in their 70s may have a small benefit from screening mammography, but overdiagnosis increases in this age group as do competing causes of death. while new data support a 16% reduction in breast cancer mortality for 40- to 49-year-old women after 10 years of screening, the net benefit is less compelling in part because of the lower incidence of breast cancer in this age group and because mammography is less sensitive and specific in women younger than 50 years. multiple large-scale, randomized controlled trials throughout the world have demonstrated screening mammography significantly reduces a woman's risk of dying from breast cancer. using a range of estimates on the ability of screening mammography to reduce breast cancer mortality (relative risk reduction [rrr], 5%-25%), we estimated the risk of dying from breast cancer in the presence and absence of mammography in women of various ages (ages 40, 50, 60, and 70 years). mammography in women 40-49 years of age is associated with a small but nonsignificant increase in the risk of dying of breast cancer before age 60. the efficacy of screening mammography in reducing breast cancer mortality continues to be controversial. our findings suggest that receipt of screening mammography among women in saskatchewan has been associated with a decreased risk of death from breast cancer. to compare breast cancer incidence and mortality up to 25 years in women aged 40-59 who did or did not undergo mammography screening. annual mammography in women aged 40-59 does not reduce mortality from breast cancer beyond that of physical examination or usual care when adjuvant therapy for breast cancer is freely available. 
Should wisdom teeth that have not or not completely grown out of the jaw and gums be removed as a precaution? Even if the "impacted" teeth are not causing any symptoms at the moment and no pathological changes are to be expected immediately? [SEP] wisdom teeth do not always fulfil a functional role in the mouth. nevertheless, in most developed countries the prophylactic removal of trouble-free wisdom teeth, either impacted or fully erupted, has long been considered as 'appropriate care'. it has been suggested that watchful monitoring of asymptomatic wisdom teeth may be an appropriate strategy. to evaluate the effect of prophylactic removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth in adolescents and adults compared with the retention of these wisdom teeth. nevertheless, in most developed countries prophylactic removal of trouble-free wisdom teeth, either impacted or fully erupted, has long been considered as 'appropriate care' and is a very common procedure. to evaluate the effects of prophylactic removal of asymptomatic impacted wisdom teeth in adolescents and adults compared with the retention (conservative management) of these wisdom teeth. dentists usually remove them if they are associated with any pathologic sign or symptom. impacted wisdom teeth occur because of a lack of space, obstruction, or abnormal position, and can cause inflammatory dental disease manifested by pain and swelling of infected teeth and may destroy adjacent teeth and bone. we conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the following clinical questions: should asymptomatic and disease-free impacted wisdom teeth be removed prophylactically? we conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the following clinical questions: should asymptomatic and disease-free impacted wisdom teeth be removed prophylactically? 
Do turmeric preparations alleviate the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis ("joint wear") better than a placebo? [SEP] the results indicated that patients with osteoarthritis treated with prp had modulated plasma concentrations of inflammatory factors and pro-angiogenic factors compared with the placebo group. clinical data indicated that prp alleviated knee osteoarthritis and reduced humoral and cellular immune responses that led to beneficial effects on histological parameters. although the number of subjects was small, the jkom meta-analysis indicated that glucosamine is superior to a placebo in alleviating knee oa symptoms. oral administration of ha may improve the symptoms of knee oa in patients aged 70 years or younger when combined with the quadriceps strengthening exercise. we did a randomised, double-blind placebo controlled trial, in which 212 patients with knee osteoarthritis were randomly assigned 1500 mg sulphate oral glucosamine or placebo once daily for 3 years. we aimed to determine the efficacy and safety of all types of turmeric extracts for the management of knee oa. eleven rcts compared the efficacy of turmeric extracts with placebo and five with active comparators (nsaids). turmeric extracts significantly reduced knee pain (smd - 0.82, 95% ci - 1.17 to - 0.47, i2 = 86.23%) and improved physical function (smd - 0.75, 95% ci - 1.18 to - 0.33, i2 = 90.05%) compared to placebo but had similar effects compared to nsaids. turmeric extracts had 12% fewer adverse events than nsaids and similar rates to placebo. turmeric extract is a safe and effective option for the symptomatic management of knee oa, compared to placebo or nsaids. 
Do turmeric preparations relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis ("rheumatism") better than a placebo or painkiller??? [SEP] 4 clearly compliance with anti-rheumatic drugs is better if the drugs are effective and there is no long-term placebo response in rheumatoid arthritis. the therapeutic effect of once weekly transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis was compared with placebo in a randomised, double-blind, non-crossover study lasting three weeks. transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation was better than the placebo in relieving pain at rest and while gripping. based on the results of placebo-controlled trials, monoclonal antibodies to cd4+ t cells have been found ineffective in treating rheumatoid arthritis. the most promising data have been collected from a placebo-controlled four-center study of monoclonal anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha antibodies in rheumatoid arthritis patients. prednisone is a well-established treatment option in rheumatoid arthritis. low-dose glucocorticoid therapy alleviates disease signs and symptoms, is better tolerated than high-dose therapy, and its addition to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) inhibits radiographic disease progression. in a 12-week, randomized trial (capra-2) in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis who were receiving stable dmard therapy, the addition of mr prednisone reduced disease signs and symptoms by ≥20 % according to the american college of rheumatology criteria (in 48 % of patients vs. 29 % with placebo; p < 0.002 [primary endpoint]). as a result of a better understanding of the mechanisms that underlie diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, biologic agents have been used increasingly in the therapy of inflammatory rheumatic diseases. nevertheless, a significant improvement in the available therapeutic repertoire for the treatment of inflammatory rheumatic diseases is expected. 
Does the intake of omega-3 fatty acids improve the clinical picture in multiple sclerosis (MS) or does this inhibit progression of the disease? [SEP] results from epidemiological and uncontrolled intervention studies in multiple sclerosis (ms) suggest a beneficial disease-modifying effect of increased intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas). the objective of this study was to investigate whether omega-3 fatty acid supplementation, as an augmentation therapy, improves treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (mdd) in people with ms. we performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study of omega-3 fatty acids at six grams per day over three months. diet especially fish oils and omega-3 has been found to play an important role in ms. this work aimed to review the literature systematically for evidence on the effect of omega-3 fatty acids (epa, dpa and dha) on ms progression in adults. these studies showed the beneficial roles of fish oil supplementation and omega-3 fatty acids in improving the quality of life of ms patients. conclusion: omega-3 and fish oils supplementations have beneficial effects on reducing the relapsing rate, inflammatory markers, and improving the quality of life for ms patients. clinical and experimental data suggest that certain dietary regimens, particularly those including polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas) and vitamins might improve outcomes in people with multiple sclerosis (ms). the role of omega-3 fatty acid in multiple sclerosis (ms) susceptibility is unclear. these findings suggest that omega-3 fatty acid intake may be an important modifiable risk factor for ms. levels of certain omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids were lower and levels of certain monounsaturated and saturated fatty acids were higher in the ms patients. 
Does taking vitamin A or following certain diets improve or halt the progression of multiple sclerosis (MS)? [SEP] a paleolithic diet may improve fatigue and quality of life in progressive multiple sclerosis (ms) patients, but past research has evaluated the effects of this dietary intervention in combination with other treatments such as exercise. a paleolithic diet may be useful in the treatment and management of ms, by reducing perceived fatigue, increasing mental and physical quality of life, increasing exercise capacity, and improving hand and leg function. disease occurrence and progression are considered by some to be associated with low serum levels of vitamin d. studies investigating vitamin d supplementation in ms patients have illustrated a noticeable improvement in the course of the disease. to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of vitamin d in the management of multiple sclerosis. among complementary treatments, nutrition has been considered a decisive factor to control symptoms and enhance the wellness of ms patients. although no special diets are associated with ms, the impact of diet and dietary supplements on the course of progressive forms of the disease has been studied during the last few years. magnesium, calcium and iron intake may possibly be related to ms disease progression, and should receive further attention. observational studies document a positive relationship between vitamin d from the environment (sunlight or diet), circulating vitamin d status, and improved symptoms or prevention of multiple sclerosis (ms). experimental animal models of ms reproduce the beneficial effects of vitamin d and 1,25(oh)(2)d(3). the effects of vitamin d on the immune system and in the cns have begun to be described and there is some information on the mechanisms underlying the effects of vitamin d in ms. a need exists for better understanding of the interactions of the environmental factors on ms, communication with the physicians treating ms patients as to the benefits of vitamin d, and clinical interventions with both vitamin d and analogs of 1,25(oh)(2)d(3). 
Can Botox injections prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] cgrp mabs and botox both reduce the frequency of migraines in patients. botox is more effective prophylaxis of migraines based on the articles that were reviewed. an open-label, noncontrolled study of botulinum toxin type a suggested benefits for patients with migraine. the use of onabotulinum toxin a (botox), although initially a novel approach, has now been determined to be a valid treatment for chronic headaches and migraines as described in the phase iii research evaluating migraine prophylaxis therapy trials that prompted the approval by the food and drug administration for treatment of chronic migraines. this article serves as a guide to the anatomical regional targeted injection technique, which, to our knowledge, is the first comprehensive botox injection paradigm described in the literature for treatment of migraines that targets nerves and nerve areas rather than purely muscle groups. the efficacy and safety of onabotulinumtoxina (botox) in adults with chronic migraine was confirmed in the preempt programme. we treated 12 adolescents (aged 14 to 18 years) with botox injections for migraine and chronic daily headache. our group findings warrant a controlled trial evaluation of botox because it may be an effective treatment option for certain adolescents with intractable migraine and chronic daily headaches. botulinum toxin (botox) injection and surgical decompression of these trigger points have been shown to reduce or eliminate migraines in patients who are incompletely treated by traditional medical management. despite the recent advances made with botox, this treatment strategy most commonly results in only temporary migraine prevention. 
Does taking probiotics facilitate weight loss to any significant degree? [SEP] the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of probiotic supplementation on weight loss in healthy, young adult females and to put claims made by manufacturers of such products to the test. our results seem to support an argument that weight loss is mostly associated with food habits and dietary behaviors, not probiotic intake. it is possible that probiotic supplementation may play a facilitating weight loss but has no effect without dietary intervention. as well as undergoing loss of weight and improvement in certain metabolic parameters, study participants taking probiotics experienced a 27% reduction in urti symptoms versus control, with those ≥45 years or bmi ≥30 kg/m2 experiencing greater reductions. surprisingly, the probiotic group attained significantly greater percent excess weight loss than that of control group at 6 weeks (controls = 25.5%, probiotic = 29.9%) and 3 months (38.55%, 47.68%). in this novel study, probiotic administration improves bacterial overgrowth, vitamin b12 availability, and weight loss after rnygb. both dio and nw groups with probiotic supplementation maintained an insignificant weight gain while the control groups gained significant weight (p < 0.05). the objective of this systematic review is to collect and learn, based on the latest available evidence, the effect of the use of probiotics and synbiotics in randomized clinical trials on weight loss in people with overweight and obesity. the intake of probiotics or synbiotics could lead to significant weight reductions, either maintaining habitual lifestyle habits or in combination with energy restriction and/or increased physical activity for an average of 12 weeks. both probiotics and synbiotics have the potential to help in weight loss in overweight and obese populations. 
Does the full moon have a negative effect on sleep duration? [SEP] only sleep duration was found to significantly differ between moon phases (~5 min/night shorter during full moon compared to new moon). in conclusion, sleep duration was 1% shorter at full moon compared to new moon, while activity behaviors were not significantly associated with the lunar cycle in this global sample of children. recently, evidence has emerged that the phases of the moon may modulate subjective sleep quality and polysomnographically assessed sleep structure in humans. separate analyses for men and women indicated that in women total sleep time, stage 4 sleep and rem sleep were reduced when sleep occurred close to full moon, whereas in men rem duration increased around full moon. associations between lunar cycle (new moon, full moon and alternate moon) and sleep parameters were examined in unadjusted and adjusted models. full moon was associated with lower sleep efficiency [median (%) (iqr): new moon 82 (18), full moon 74 (19), alternate moon 82 (15); p < 0.001], less deep sleep [median (%) (iqr): new moon 9 (9), full moon 6 (4), alternate moon 11 (9); p < 0.001], and increased rem latency [median (min) (iqr): new moon 98 (74), full moon 137 (152), alternate moon 97 (76); p < 0.001], even after adjustment for several covariables. the results are consistent with a recent report and the widely held belief that sleep characteristics may be associated with the full moon. evidence for such links in humans is weak; however, recently, shorter sleep duration was reported around full moon in two small samples of adults. during the period around full moon, children were 5.0 and 3.2 min per day less active, slept 2.4 and 4.1 min per night longer, had 0.03 and 0.05 higher homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance and 0.6 and 0.8 mmhg higher mean arterial blood pressure compared with days around half moon and new moon, respectively (all p ≤ 0.02). for example, a number of bird species were found to sleep several hours less under full moon compared to new moon and a similar sleep-suppressing effect has been reported for artificial light at night (alan). 
Can lemon juice prevent or effectively treat gastrointestinal illness caused by norovirus? [SEP] human norovirus is a dominant cause of acute gastroenteritis around the world. several norovirus disinfectants label citric acid as an active ingredient. taken together, these new findings suggested that it might be possible to treat/reduce norovirus infections with citrate, although further studies are needed. the effect of oral lemon juice administration on calcium oxalate urolithiasis was studied in male wistar rats. these data suggest that lemon juice has a protective activity against urolithiasis. the natural biocidal activity of lemon juice was studied in order to explore its possible use as a disinfectant and inhibitor of vibrio cholerae in drinking water for areas lacking water treatment plants. the results show that lemon juice can actively prevent survival of v. cholerae but that such activity is reduced in markedly alkaline water. norovirus causes a majority of outbreaks of gastrointestinal (gi) illness on cruise ships calling on the united states. this case report describes the experiences of a middle-aged woman with the illness, who managed to completely alleviate and prevent her symptoms, in terms of intensity and chronicity, by drinking natural lemon juice diluted with water. we investigated the efficacy of lemon juice in reducing numbers of escherichia coli o157:h7, salmonella enteritidis, and listeria monocytogenes at stationary phase during marination. 
For knee osteoarthritis, does rubbing DMSO into the knee bring less pain and more mobility than rubbing a placebo? [SEP] this study was compared the effect of local heat therapy versus cold rub gel on pain and joint function in patients with knee osteoarthritis. one hundred seventeen patients with knee osteoarthritis were randomly assigned to cold rub gel, local heat therapy, and control group. cold rub gel and heat therapy were both effective in improving pain and joint function in patients with knee osteoarthritis. we conducted a 12-week, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized controlled trial of topical diclofenac (tdiclo) in a vehicle solution containing dimethyl sulfoxide (dmso) in 775 subjects with radiologically confirmed, symptomatic primary osteoarthritis of the knee. this 5-arm study compared tdiclo with a placebo solution, the dmso vehicle, oral diclofenac (odiclo) and the combination of tdiclo+odiclo for relieving the signs and symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. tdiclo in dmso vehicle is an effective treatment option for knee osteoarthritis with efficacy similar to, but tolerability better than odiclo. dmso vehicle was no more efficacious than placebo. topical diclofenac solution is applied directly to the knee for treatment of symptoms associated with osteoarthritis of the knee. in well designed 4- to 12-week trials in patients with primary osteoarthritis of the knee, topical diclofenac solution (40 drops four times daily) was significantly more effective than placebo or vehicle control (carrier solution without diclofenac) for improving western ontario and mcmaster universities (womac) osteoarthritis index pain and physical function, and improving patient global assessment (pga) and/or patient overall health assessment scores from baseline to the final assessments. topical diclofenac solution (50 drops three times daily) was as effective as oral diclofenac 150 mg/day for improving womac pain and physical function and pga scores in a 12-week double-blind study in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. 
In case of osteoarthritis of the knee, does rubbing DMSO bring less pain and more mobility than the recognized painkiller diclofenac??? [SEP] in well designed 4- to 12-week trials in patients with primary osteoarthritis of the knee, topical diclofenac solution (40 drops four times daily) was significantly more effective than placebo or vehicle control (carrier solution without diclofenac) for improving western ontario and mcmaster universities (womac) osteoarthritis index pain and physical function, and improving patient global assessment (pga) and/or patient overall health assessment scores from baseline to the final assessments. topical diclofenac solution (50 drops three times daily) was as effective as oral diclofenac 150 mg/day for improving womac pain and physical function and pga scores in a 12-week double-blind study in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. two topical nsaids, diclofenac sodium 1% gel (dsg) and diclofenac sodium 1.5% in 45.5% dimethylsulfoxide solution (d-dmso), are approved in the us for the treatment of osteoarthritis pain. we conducted a 12-week, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized controlled trial of topical diclofenac (tdiclo) in a vehicle solution containing dimethyl sulfoxide (dmso) in 775 subjects with radiologically confirmed, symptomatic primary osteoarthritis of the knee. this 5-arm study compared tdiclo with a placebo solution, the dmso vehicle, oral diclofenac (odiclo) and the combination of tdiclo+odiclo for relieving the signs and symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. the objective of this trial was to assess the safety and efficacy of a topical diclofenac solution in relieving the symptoms of primary osteoarthritis of the knee. the patients were randomly assigned to apply 1 of 3 solutions to their painful knee for 4 weeks: a topical diclofenac solution (1.5% wt/wt diclofenac sodium in a carrier containing dimethyl sulfoxide [dmso]); a vehicle-control solution (the carrier containing dmso but no diclofenac); and a placebo solution (a modified carrier with a token amount of dmso for blinding purposes but no diclofenac). nimesulide was found to be more effective in relieving pain in osteoarthritis of the hip and knees and with less side effects than diclofenac. over a period of 2- and 4-weeks follow-up no significant difference in daily measured knee pain severity was found between primary care patients with knee osteoarthritis taking paracetamol or diclofenac. the clinical studies showed that applying the topical diclofenac solution (pennsaid) to a painful knee with primary oa could provide symptom relief equivalent to oral diclofenac with minimal systemic side effects; however, studies are needed that compare the effectiveness of pennsaid with different topical forms of diclofenac. 
Does taking vitamin D improve symptoms in the most common form of psoriasis? [SEP] the active form of vitamin d, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d(3), exhibits antiproliferative and immunoregulatory effects via the vitamin d receptor, and thus is successfully used in the topical treatment of psoriasis. topical vitamin d modulators are among the most widely used medications for the treatment of psoriasis. topical vitamin d3 agents have emerged as important options for the treatment of psoriasis. we investigated the association between dietary, supplementary and total vitamin d intake and incident psoriasis in women. association between vitamin d intake and incident psoriasis was assessed using multivariable-adjusted cox regression analysis. vitamin d could have important immunomodulatory effects in psoriasis. vitamin d deficiency may be common in patients with psoriasis, especially in winter. the immunomodulatory effects of vitamin d offer opportunities to improve the treatment of several autoimmune diseases, such as psoriasis. in the literature, several significant associations are reported between low levels of vitamin d and psoriasis. this work aims to analyze the association between psoriasis and vitamin d levels according to dermatologists and nutritionists. 
Does taking fish oil with omega-3 fatty acids improve the symptoms of various forms of psoriasis more than a placebo??? [SEP] after 2 months of treatment with fish oil there was a marked reduction in the cox menstrual symptom scale from a baseline mean value of 69.9 to 44.0 (p < 0.0004). fish oil treatment increased serum concentrations of eicosapentanoic acid (f=14.76, p<0.05) and total omega-3s (f=20.56, p<0.05), but did not influence primary ratings of aggression. animal experiments and clinical intervention studies indicate that omega-3 fatty acids have anti-inflammatory properties and, therefore, might be useful in the management of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. there have been a number of clinical trials assessing the benefits of dietary supplementation with fish oils in several inflammatory and autoimmune diseases in humans, including rheumatoid arthritis, crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis and migraine headaches. many of the placebo-controlled trials of fish oil in chronic inflammatory diseases reveal significant benefit, including decreased disease activity and a lowered use of anti-inflammatory drugs. fish oils, which contain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids as the active ingredients, possess anti-inflammatory activities and may have therapeutic potential in diseases with an inflammatory etiology. fish oil supplement has been advocated for treating psoriasis which is a chronic inflammatory dermatosis. we aimed to investigate the effects of fish oil supplement on psoriasis. fish oil supplement did not significantly reduce the severity of psoriasis when assessed by psoriasis area and severity index score (mean difference - 0.28; 95% confidence interval - 1.74 to 1.19). the current evidence does not support the use of fish oil supplement in treating psoriasis. 
Does following a Mediterranean diet decrease the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in people at high risk? [SEP] there is a substantial body of evidence linking mediterranean diet to cardiovascular risk reduction and prevention of the major chronic diseases. the aim of this study was to assess the effect of a mediterranean diet on the development of non-fatal acute coronary syndromes (acs) in hypercholesterolemic people, with or without statin treatment. the purpose of this review is to examine the evidence in support of the effectiveness of the mediterranean diet in reducing the prevalence of cardiovascular and chronic disease and their associated risk factors. consumption of a mediterranean diet has been found to be associated with a reduction of overall mortality and a reduced incidence of cardiovascular disease. current nutrition recommendations and mechanisms by which a mediterranean-style diet impacts cardiovascular risk are described in this article. the mediterranean diet is associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. to examine in older individuals at high cardiovascular risk whether following a mediterranean diet decreased the necessity of antihypertensive drugs and modulated their associated cardiovascular risk. participants allocated to mediterranean diet interventions were associated with lower risk of initiating antihypertensive therapy [5-year incidence rates: 47.1% in the control diet, 43.0% in meddiets; hazard ratio = 0.84, 95% ci (0.74--0.97), in a model adjusted for age, sex, and recruitment site]. allocation to mediterranean diet interventions attenuated the association between antihypertensive therapy at baseline and incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (p interaction = 0.003). in an older population at high cardiovascular risk, following a mediterranean diet reduced the risk of initiating or escalating antihypertensive medication and attenuated cardiovascular risk in antihypertensive drug users. 
Does the probability of dying from cardiovascular disease decrease in people who have already had a heart attack? [SEP] cardiovascular disease, including heart disease and stroke, is the leading cause of death and disability in the united states. every year, approximately 2 million persons in the united states have a heart attack or stroke and, as a result of these conditions, approximately 800,000 die from cardiovascular disease. if these risk factors were well-controlled through behavioral modification and/or treatment, the risk for death from heart attack and stroke could be reduced by more than half. several symptoms of panic disorder mimic those of cardiovascular diseases and patients with this disorder frequently consult physicians with the fear of dying from a heart attack. the salient question is: can the patient with panic disorder die from the cardiovascular consequences of his/her panic attacks? furthermore, the predictive value of cardiovascular disease risk factors on myocardial accident, stroke and heart failure and on all-cause mortality were studied. cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, stroke and heart failure) occurred in 5.9% of the population during 3 year follow-up, and 32% of them died due to the condition. a total of cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, stroke or heart failure) was predicted by abdominal obesity, a history of stroke and a history of heart failure. on the basis of current estimates from the american heart association, more than 60 million people in the united states alone have one or more forms of cardiovascular disease, and a high proportion of these individuals are at increased risk of arterial thrombosis. cardiovascular disease (cvd) is the major cause of death globally. 
Does Grander water have health benefits compared to untreated drinking water? [SEP] in this article, the authors provide the first in-depth account of why some alaska native people drink untreated water when treated water is available. motives for drinking untreated water emerged from analysis of open-ended questions about drinking water practice and could be categorized into six themes: chemicals, taste, health, access, tradition, and cost. importantly, some residents reported consuming untreated water because they both liked untreated water and disliked treated water. as such, interventions to increase safe water consumption should address this dichotomy by providing education about the benefits of treated water alongside the risks involved with drinking untreated water. participants mentioned the benefit of treating water to reduce stomach ailments, but this did not outweigh the perceived barriers of heavy domestic and agricultural workloads, other cultural barriers, uncertainty about the necessity of treating the water, and lack of knowledge that untreated drinking water causes diarrhea. use of groundwater from private wells in households has increased considerably, owing to a better cost/benefit ratio than that of water provided by local utilities for a fee. however, this water is usually untreated, which makes it a vehicle for diseases. consumption of such contaminated and untreated water is a public health concern. despite its higher cost and potential environmental effect compared with those of tap water, bottled water consumption has been increasing over the past decade, especially in low-income communities in which children are at a higher risk of developing caries. overall, 48% of participants reported drinking tap water daily compared with 58% who reported drinking bottled water daily. 
Does astaxanthin protect against cardiovascular disease, cancer or prolong life? [SEP] astaxanthin has been attributed with extraordinary potential for protecting the organism against a wide range of diseases, and has considerable potential and promising applications in human health. numerous studies have shown that astaxanthin has potential health-promoting effects in the prevention and treatment of various diseases, such as cancers, chronic inflammatory diseases, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, diabetic nephropathy, cardiovascular diseases, gastrointestinal diseases, liver diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, eye diseases, skin diseases, exercise-induced fatigue, male infertility, and hgcl₂-induced acute renal failure. in this article, the currently available scientific literature regarding the most significant activities of astaxanthin is reviewed. the safety, bioavailability and effects of astaxanthin on oxidative stress and inflammation that have relevance to the pathophysiology of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, have been assessed in a small number of clinical studies. the xanthophyll carotenoid dietary supplement astaxanthin has demonstrated potential as an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory therapeutic agent in models of cardiovascular disease. based on its unique chemical features, the xanthophyll carotenoid astaxanthin is being proposed as a suitable preventive and therapeutic agent in cardiovascular disease. this review focuses on recent advances in astaxanthin research relevant to cardiovascular health and disease, i.e. also, this paper gives a detailed mechanism for the potential role of astaxanthin as nutraceuticals for cardiovascular disease prevention, skin protection, antidiabetic and anticancer, cosmetic ingredient, natural food colorant, and feed supplement in poultry and aquaculture. because of its antioxidant capacity, astaxanthin has recently piqued the interest of researchers due to its potential pharmacological effects, which include anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant activities, as well as neuro-, cardiovascular-, ocular, and skin-protective properties. astaxanthin, a pinkish antioxidant carotenoid, abundant in marine organisms, is known for its protective effect against inflammation and multiple types of cancer. 
Do products from the noni fruit promote health? [SEP] a review is provided of recent studies of potential anticancer activity of noni fruit. the fermented noni fruit promoted probiotic growths and downregulated the intracellular oxidation and inflammation in caco-2 cells. these results suggest that fermented noni fruit might protect against inflammatory diseases of the colon. fermented noni (morinda citrifolia l.) fruit juice is considered as one of the health-promoting beverage. this article reviews current knowledge on the phytochemistry, pharmacology, safety aspects of noni fruit and noni-derived products, and health-related claims and benefits. noni juice is a globally popular health beverage originating in the tropics. human intervention studies also indicate that noni juice may improve joint health, increase physical endurance, increase immune activity, inhibit glycation of proteins, aid weight management, help maintain bone health in women, help maintain normal blood pressure, and improve gum health. morinda citrifolia (noni) fruit juice is an increasingly popular health food with many reported benefits, such as antioxidant and immunomodulatory properties. also, clinical studies have revealed that noni juice consumption improves quality of life scores related to physical functioning and energy levels. these results confirm the reported use of noni juice to combat fatigue, improve endurance and increase overall physical performance. 
Can spending time at waterfalls on a regular basis provide lasting improvement in asthma symptoms? [SEP] ionized water aerosols have been suggested to exert beneficial health effects on pediatric allergic asthma. asthmatic allergic children (n = 54) spent 3 weeks in an alpine asthma camp; half of the group was exposed to water aerosol of an alpine waterfall for 1 hour per day, whereas the other half spent the same time at a "control site". the water aerosol group showed a significant improvement in all lung function parameters, whereas only the peak expiratory flow improved in the control group. only the water aerosol group exhibited a long-lasting effect on asthma symptoms, lung function, and inflammation in the follow-up examination. they indicate a synergistic effect of water aerosols resulting in a long-lasting beneficial effect on asthma symptoms, lung function, and airway inflammation. both intervention and control groups showed significant decreases in asthma symptoms. the specific microclimate of alpine waterfalls with high levels of ionized water aerosols has been suggested to trigger beneficial immunological and psychological effects. analysis of the mucosal immune response revealed a waterfall-specific beneficial effect with elevated iga titers in the waterfall group. in line with these results, exposure to waterfall revealed an additional benefit concerning psychological parameters such as subjective stress perception (measured via visual analog scale), the global severity index (gsi), and the positive symptom total (pst). our study provides new data, which strongly support an "added value" of exposure to waterfall microclimate when combined with a therapeutic sojourn at high altitude including regular physical activity. 
Does goji help with serious diseases like cancer or prevent heart attacks? [SEP] the traditional chinese medicine (tcm) plants, goji (lycium barbarum and lycium chinense) are widely used for treating symptoms related to various diseases including diabetes and hypertension. the fruit (goji berry) of lycium barbarum, a traditional chinese medicine, has been widely used in health diets due to its potential role in the prevention of chronic diseases. goji berry has received attention as a natural based therapeutic material to treat a diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and osteoporosis. goji berry (lycium barbarum) exerts immune modulation and suppresses inflammation in vitro and in vivo. we hypothesized that goji berry had beneficial effects on dextran sulfate sodium (dss)-induced colitis in c57bl/6 mice through suppressing inflammation. goji berry supplementation ameliorated dss-induced body weight loss, diminished diarrhea and gross bleeding, and resulted in a significantly decreased disease activity index, as well as dss-associated colon shortening. moreover, 30% mortality rate caused by dss-induced colitis was avoided because of goji berry supplementation. histologically, goji berry ameliorated colonic edema, mucosal damage and neutrophil infiltration into colonic intestinal tissue in response to dss challenge, which was associated with decreased expression of chemokine (c-x-c motif) ligand 1 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, as well as inflammatory mediators interleukin-6 and cyclooxygenase-2. in conclusion, goji supplementation confers protective effects against dss-induced colitis, which is associated with decreased neutrophil infiltration and suppressed inflammation. thus, dietary goji is likely beneficial to inflammatory bowel disease patients as a complementary therapeutic strategy. 
Are amla supplements effective and safe in lowering high cholesterol? [SEP] in conclusion, amla supplementation showed acceptable palatability, improved endothelial functions and reduced oxidative stress. the effects of amla on low-density lipoprotein (ldl) oxidation and cholesterol levels were investigated in vitro and in vivo using cu(2+)-induced ldl oxidation and cholesterol-fed rats. in addition, the administration of sunamla (at a dose of 20 or 40 mg/kg body weight/d) or etoac extract of amla (at a dose of 10 or 20 mg/kg body weight/d) for 20 d to rats fed 1% cholesterol diet significantly reduced total, free and ldl-cholesterol levels in a dose-dependent manner, and etoac extract of amla exhibited more potent serum cholesterol-lowering effect than sunamla in the same amount. these results suggest that amla may be effective for hypercholesterolemia and prevention of atherosclerosis. amla decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and increased hdl cholesterol in ovariectomized rats fed chow or fructose. the effect on total serum cholesterol and its lipoprotein fractions of supplementation of the diet with amla (emblica officinalis, gaertn., the indian gooseberry) was studied in normal and hypercholesterolaemic men aged 35-55 years. the amla extract has shown significant potential in reducing tc and tg levels as well as lipid ratios, aip and apob/apo a-i in dyslipidemic persons and thus has scope to treat general as well as diabetic dyslipidemia. treatment with amla produced significant reduction of tc (p<0.0001), ldl (p<0.0001), triglyceride (tg) and vldl (p<0.0002), and a significant increase in hdl levels (p<0.0002). in view of the above findings, it is suggested that amla produced significant hypolipidemic effect along with a reduction in blood pressure. addition of amla to the currently available hypolipidemic therapy would offer significant protection against atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease, with reduction in the dose and adverse effects of the hypolipidemic agents. 
Does inhaling hive air have health benefits for asthma, allergies or other conditions? [SEP] hyperventilation alone is as good as physical exercise to induce exercise-induced asthma. asthmatic children in particular should be encouraged to perform any sport they like, as the physiological and psychological effects may be beneficial to them. it is concluded that almost all asthmatics have exercise-induced asthma, and that physical training may be beneficial. although there is a general tendency for the age- and cigarette smoking-adjusted odds ratios associated with a history of asthma and hay fever to be less than 1, for both males and females, there is stronger evidence for a decreased risk of cancer associated with a history of hives and other allergy-related diseases. decreased risks associated with a history of hives and other allergies are seen in males for oral cancer, cancers of the lung, larynx, digestive system, urinary system, and cancers of all sites combined and in females for cancers of the digestive system, reproductive system, in particular, cancer of the cervix, and cancers of all sites combined. significant associations were found for late diagnoses of atopy or hives (or=3.78; 95% ci: 1.00-14.29) and of asthma (or=3.10; 95% ci: 1.39-6.95). although allergy is central to the pathophysiology of asthma, little is known about the benefits of a structured approach to allergen diagnosis and management in primary care asthma patients. following intervention, a decrease in beta-adrenergic inhaler use, an increase in the perceived control of asthma, and a decrease in the bothering from asthma symptoms were observed for all three groups. structured allergy evaluation and avoidance advice can improve lung function and the control of asthma in primary care. delivery of filtered air to the breathing zone of sleeping allergic or asthmatic persons may be more consistently effective in improving health than room air filtration. 
Can chlorinated water from baby swimming cause asthma or allergies later in childhood? [SEP] the aim of our study was to elucidate whether chronic exposure to indoor chlorinated swimming pools was associated with an increased likelihood of the development of asthma in boys. it has been hypothesised that the rise in childhood asthma in the developed world could result at least in part from the increasing exposure of children to toxic chlorination products in the air of indoor swimming pools. recent studies suggest that swimming in chlorinated pools during infancy may increase the risks of lower respiratory tract infection. infant swimmers who developed bronchiolitis also showed higher risks of asthma and respiratory allergies later in childhood. recent studies suggest that development of allergic diseases among swimmers may be increased by epithelial disorders driven by airway barrier dysfunction caused by chlorine irritation. swimming in chlorinated water may be linked to symptoms of bronchial hyperreactivity, asthma and rhinitis especially in children, elite swimmers and employees of indoor swimming pools. the article summarizes recent data concerning the influence of chlorinated water on the development of allergic diseases. irritant chlorination products in swimming pools can cause respiratory problems in swimmers but their possible implication in allergies development is still unclear. to assess prospectively whether early-life attendance at chlorinated pools increases the risks of ige sensitization and of airways inflammation later during childhood. attendance at chlorinated swimming pools in early life is associated with higher risks of new-onset airways inflammation and ige sensitization to house dust mite, independently of other risk factors. 
Is a lot of sunlight in childhood and adolescence a cause of age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] the main effects model was dominated by higher sunlight exposure (or [odds ratio]: 3.3) and a family history of age-related macular degeneration (or: 4.3). sunlight exposure, family history of age-related macular degeneration, and an older age were the significant risk factors. in conclusion, the earlier author's experimental and clinical works follow the consequence that without exposure of eyes to harmful higher doses of sunlight, it is not possible to develop amd. the harmful cumulative dose of sunlight is not the risk factor but the cause, including the inheritance, for amd development. as some ultraviolet (uv) radiation is transmitted by the ocular media, there is a growing concern that there may be a possible relationship between long-term exposure to ultraviolet radiation and increased risk of age-related macular degeneration. age and the presence of nuclear opacity were independently associated with an increased risk of macular degeneration. thus, we found that in phakic subjects, even with high levels of sunlight exposure, there was no evidence of increased risk of age-related macular degeneration associated with uv-b or uv-a exposure. compared with age-matched controls, patients with advanced age-related macular degeneration (geographic atrophy or disciform scarring) had significantly higher exposure to blue or visible light over the preceding 20 years (odds ratio, 1.36 [1.00 to 1.85]) but were not different in respect to exposure to uv-a or uv-b. we can conclude that there is direct connection between increased sunlight and long-term exposure to sunlight on one side, and on the other side, damages of retinal perception. increased sun exposure may represent very important factors in early occurrence and develop of age-related macular degeneration (amd). 
Does wearing sunglasses in childhood and adolescence protect against macular degeneration in old age??? [SEP] the knowledge of the effects of sunlight on the eyes and protective behaviors were studied in an adolescent population. the mean age at which subjects started to wear sunglasses was 10.4 years. the reported frequency of wearing sunglasses was significantly related to personal, family and peer attitudes to such use, but not to media advertizing. for those over 50 years old, it would be of value to remove these wavelengths of light with specially designed sunglasses or contact lenses to reduce the risk of age-related macular degeneration. age-related macular degeneration (armd) is the leading cause of blindness in people over the age of 65, and the prevalence of armd is expected to increase as the population ages. ocular protection against solar radiation seems essential to protect our eyes against the adverse effects of those harmful rays. cumulative sunlight exposure and cataract surgery are reported risk factors for advanced age-related macular degeneration (amd). sunglasses that strongly decrease both deep blue light and rod photobleaching, while preserving photopic sensitivity and color perception, would provide upstream protection from potential photochemical damage in subjects at risk for amd progression after cataract surgery. to investigate the effect of eyeglasses and sunglasses on age perception while controlling for age and interpersonal differences, we digitally manipulated the photographs of faces of 50 young adults, to create two age conditions (young and old) and three eyewear conditions (no glasses, eyeglasses, and sunglasses). contrary to the generally accepted beliefs that wearing eyeglasses makes you look older and wearing sunglasses make you look younger, our results suggest that the effect of glasses on age perception is rather small. 
Does water from jugs with semi-precious stones have a positive health effect? [SEP] the study aimed to comparatively evaluate hrqol in miners of semi-precious stones with and without silicosis, and determine the associated factors, as well as the performance of two different questionnaires in measuring hrqol. our study revealed impaired hrqol in semi-precious stone miners evaluated using both questionnaire tools of sgrq and whoqol-bref, of which sgrq had superior performance. this study examined the ability of surgical patients in a district general hospital to undertake the seemingly minor but critically important task of taking on oral fluids using the conventional, hospital-supplied, water jug and glass. the patient's ability to use jugs with varying volumes of water was then observed. these small changes could improve patient hydration and independence, thus preventing avoidable harm. however, it remains unknown whether jug can alleviate ulcerative colitis. the results showed that the jug treatment significantly ameliorated body weight loss and disease activity index and improved the survival probability, colon length, and tissue damage. in conclusion, our results demonstrated that jug could be a promising agent for uc prevention to regulate inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress. they have suggested that based upon these studies it should be possible to determine the cause of epilepsy and its treatment by the physical application of suitable precious and semi-previous stones followed by administration of ayurvedic formulation. the efficiency of stone breakage was better when gel was applied from the stock jug compared to application by hand (p<0.006). 
Is calcium from Japanese coral safe and effective in preventing disease? [SEP] we hypothesize that naturally occurring coral calcium and zeolite may prevent ovariectomy-induced bone loss. coral calcium protected bone to a lesser extent in the proximal tibia and lumbar vertebrae. in this report, the calcium absorption from the ingestion of crackers into which the coral powder was incorporated (coral-added crackers) and that from ingestion of calcium carbonate-added crackers was comparatively assessed. twelve healthy adult volunteers (6 men and 6 women) ingested coral-added crackers (calcium content: 525 mg) and calcium carbonate-added crackers (ditto) once each alternately on a cross-over design with a wash-out period of 3 d between the regimens. the degree of intestinal absorption of calcium from coral-added crackers and that from calcium carbonate-added crackers was evaluated in terms of increment in urinary calcium excretion per dl of glomerular filtrate (gf) (difference between coral calcium and calcium carbonate) and increase in urinary calcium excretion per milligram creatinine (difference from control value). the increment in urinary calcium excretion per dl of gf during the latter half of the observation period after the ingestion of coral-added crackers was significantly greater than that during the latter half of the observation period after ingestion of calcium carbonate-added crackers (p = 0.039, paired t-test). the present data, though from a relatively few study subjects, suggest that the calcium of coral origin is better absorbed from the intestine than calcium of calcium carbonate origin on the average. coral disease is playing a significant role in structuring today's coral reef communities. together they provide the calcium carbonate framework of coral reef ecosystems. x-ray diffraction and fourier transform infrared spectroscopy determined the coral microparticles to be comprised of calcium carbonate whereas collagen/coral composite scaffolds were shown to have a crystalline calcium ethanoate structure. 
Does the observance of feng shui design rules help against bad sleep? [SEP] this study compared the effects of pre-experience and expectations on participant comfort upon waking, arrival to, and after an appointment, as well as the assessment of properly placed feng shui elements in three healthcare waiting rooms. critical bed space orientation according to feng shui principles was not related to nurse-reported chi scores or inner harmony (p > 0.05 for all measurements). the use of feng shui to guide the layout of critical care bed spaces does not improve the emotional well-being of nursing staff. this study aims: i) to examine the sleep characteristics of french medical students and their knowledge about basic sleep hygiene rules and; ii) to examine the correlations between sleep quality and academic performances, as well as between sleep quality and sleep knowledge. significant correlations were observed between sleep efficiency and all academic mean scores (both regarding the morning, afternoon, and pooled mean scores), and between sleep disturbances and the morning mean score. previous studies indicated that epilepsy alters sleep homeostasis; in contrast, sleep disturbance deteriorates epilepsy. effects of acupuncture of feng-chi (gb20) acupoints on epilepsy suppression and insomnia treatment have been documented in the ancient chinese literature, lingshu jing (classic of the miraculous pivot). therefore, this study was designed to investigate the effect of electroacupuncture (ea) stimulation of bilateral feng-chi acupoints on sleep disruptions in rats with focal epilepsy. high-frequency (100 hz) ea stimulation of bilateral feng-chi acupoints, in which a 30-min ea stimulation was performed before the dark period of the light:dark cycle in three consecutive days, further deteriorated pilocarpine-induced sleep disruptions. the present study suggests that high-frequency (100 hz) ea stimulation of bilateral feng-chi acupoints exhibits no benefit in improving pilocarpine-induced sleep disruptions; in contrast, ea further deteriorated sleep disturbances. 
Does taking vitamin C prevent motion sickness? [SEP] mice motion sickness index was recorded after rotation when pretreated with paraquat, vitamin c, or vitamin e. the ros level and antioxidant capacity were both increased in cerebellum plus brainstem (cb) after rotation, a critical region determines motion sickness. this study seeks to evaluate the comparative role of alpha-fluoromethylhistidine and diphenhydramine in the prevention of motion sickness. fluoromethylhistidine was effective in preventing motion sickness. many techniques to overcome motion sickness are used worldwide, mostly including sedative medication and psychotherapy. we present a descriptive statistic for motion sickness assessed with our checklist in 2 consecutive years of pilot selection and our recommendations for a management policy without drug use and without interference with the selection schedule. the objective of this review was to answer the following two questions: (1) does regular high dosage supplementation with vitamin c reduce the incidence of colds? (2) does taking vitamin c in high doses at the onset of a cold have a therapeutic effect? there appears to be a modest benefit in reducing duration of cold symptoms from ingestion of relatively high doses of vitamin c. the relation of dose to therapeutic benefit needs further exploration. these findings show that human anti-motion sickness drugs also prevent motion sickness in rats. since the pharmacological mechanisms for preventing motion sickness in rats and humans are similar, we conclude that rats are a suitable animal model for use in studies on putative anti-motion sickness drugs. 
Do Lifewave patches improve health or athletic and mental performance? [SEP] more recently, however, increasing attention has been placed on the mental aspects of athlete health, with emerging evidence suggesting that injury risk and athletic performance are significantly affected by athlete well-being. mindfulness meditation has been shown to have significant benefits for a number of physical and mental health outcomes in various clinical populations, and recent research has explored how mindfulness may enhance athletic performance, improve athlete mental health, reduce injury risk, and perhaps even facilitate recovery from injury. health care providers should be aware of this evidence in order to guide athletes regarding the use of mindfulness as an intervention to potentially improve athlete health and performance. sport participation and exercise practice are considered to be beneficial for mental status, yielding an improved mood and better quality of life. on the other hand, good mental fitness is thought to lead to better physical status and sport performance. while very few papers describe the role of mental health measures in affecting physical performance, more evidence is available concerning the effect of exercise and sport in improving mental health outcomes. positive responses to regular physical exercise, such as enhanced functional capacity, increased autonomy and improved self-esteem, are frequently described in the recent literature, and these responses are all good reasons for recommending regular exercise. in addition, physical exercise may improve both mood and adherence to an exercise program in healthy individuals and might modulate both the performance and mental health of athletes. the physical, mental stability and performance changes of athletes significantly increased in period 2 (4 weeks after intake) and period 3 (after 8 weeks of intake). this functional drink may gain popularity among those seeking health benefits and improved exercise performance. 
Are there differences in hair removal effectiveness between IPL and diode laser? [SEP] devices such as diode laser and intense pulsed light (ipl) are in constant development aiming at permanent hair removal, but there are few comparative studies between these technologies. the objective was to comparatively assess axillary hair removal performed by diode laser and ipl and to obtain parameters of referred pain and evolution response for each method. a comparative prospective, double-blind, and randomized study of axillary hair removal performed by the diode laser and ipl was conducted in 21 females. both diode laser and the ipl are effective, safe, and able to produce lasting results in axillary hair removal. the main goal of this study was to compare the hair removal efficacy of three methods: intense pulsed light (ipl), a combination of ipl and radio frequency (rf) and diode laser (810 nm). the mean hair count reduction achieved by the diode laser, ipl and ipl+rf was 49.90%, 39.16% and 47.15%, respectively. the objective of the study was to compare the clinical efficacy, complications, and long-term hair reduction of alexandrite laser, diode laser, and ipl. six months after the last session, optimal hair reduction was observed with no significant differences between the light sources, but a hair reduction was found to be higher using the diode laser. in terms of hair count reduction, pooled effect estimates for long-pulsed nd:yag laser [or: 0.26, 95% ci (0.1, 0.78)] and diode laser [standardized mean difference (smd): -0.11, 95% ci (-0.62, 0.39)] were not statistically significant from those of ipl; in contrast, alexandrite laser was found to be superior to ipl in reducing hair count [smd: -1.7, 95% ci (-2.6, -0.78)]. the participants were randomly divided into three groups of 15: i - one ipl treatment was followed by three diode laser treatments, ii - two ipl treatments followed by three diode laser treatments, iii- three ipl treatments followed by three diode laser treatments.results: a percentage average of hair loss among patients treated with a diode laser as a control group is higher which indicates the laser's higher effectiveness.conclusion: the ipl has been shown to negatively impact the effectiveness of a diode laser. 
Does carbonic acid cause cancer? [SEP] experimental and clinical studies document risks of acid-base balance alterations toward acidosis and hypercapnia during intraperitoneal carbon dioxide insufflation. pneumoperitoneum with carbon dioxide caused a decrease in ph toward acidosis that was either respiratory or mixed in origin. carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum causes alterations of the acid-base balance, mostly of respiratory or mixed type. lung cancer is not only the most commonly diagnosed cancers worldwide but it is still the leading cause of cancer-related death. our findings suggest that tetrahydroacridine with 4-fluorobenzoic acid containing 8 and 9 carbon atoms may be potential candidate for treatment of lung cancer. the toxicity of uranium in animals of different ages is associated with the power of the metal to lead to the formation of organic acids, as, for instance, diacetic acid and also acetone. female wistar rats were exposed to 100 ppm or 600 ppm carbon disulfide for 6 hours a day, 5 days a week for 12 weeks. these results indicate that carbon disulfide does not cause vitamin b6 deficiency and thus that the disorders of tryptophan metabolism induced by carbon disulfide intoxication are not due to vitamin b6 deficiency. commercially available activated carbons are usually contaminated with mineral substances, classified into two main groups: alkali metals (ca, na, k, li, mg) and multivalent metals (al, fe, ti, si). the study showed that the use of unpurified activated carbon in the ozonation of succinic acid (sa) leads to the formation of a relatively large amount of oxalic acid (oa), which is a product of radical sa degradation. 
Does carbonic acid have any health effects on the digestive tract??? [SEP] sweetened carbonated beverages are widely consumed, which has fuelled several conflicting opinions about their effects on upper digestive tract functions. we aimed to evaluate the effect of sweetened carbonated drinks, consumed with a standard meal, on gastro-oesophageal reflux, gastric emptying and gallbladder contraction and postmeal sensations in healthy subjects. this study shows that 300 ml of sweetened carbonated beverage with different levels of carbonation or a commercial soft drink do not modify the physiology of the upper digestive tract. an experiment was conducted to test the hypothesis that the standardised digestibility of ca in calcium carbonate and lithothamnium calcareum ca is not different regardless of the level of dietary ca, and that phytic acid affects the digestibility of ca in these two ingredients to the same degree. standardised digestibility of ca was not affected by the level of phytic acid, but decreased (p < 0.05) as ca level increased in l. calcareum ca diets, but that was not the case if calcium carbonate was the source of ca (interaction, p < 0.05). in conclusion, under the conditions of this experiment, standardised digestibility of ca is not affected by the level of phytic acid, but may be affected by dietary ca level depending on the ca source. calcium from calcium carbonate is mostly absorbed before the duodenum, but ca from l. calcareum ca is mostly absorbed in the jejunum and ileum. in contrast, the decrease of highly structured carbons and the decrease of g-bonds intensity were registered in the digestive tract of g. suifunensis. the gum-like property of mannan can obstruct digestive enzymes and bile acids, resulting in impaired nutrient utilisation. okadaic acid did not have any adverse effects on animal health or production parameters and no histological changes indicating disturbances in the digestive tract was observed. 
Does wearing compression stockings on a long-haul flight prevent thrombosis (blood clots) and the associated symptoms? [SEP] wearing of elastic compression stockings during long-haul air travel is associated with a reduction in symptomless dvt. compression stockings reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications, leg edema, and edema-related pain and discomfort during long-haul flights. the aim of this study was to assess if compression stockings reduce leg edema, pain, and discomfort during a three-hour flight. compression stockings reduced edema formation in young healthy passengers during a three-hour flight. passengers experiencing edema-related discomfort during short-haul flights may benefit from wearing compression stockings during air travel. randomised trials of compression stockings versus no stockings in passengers on flights lasting at least four hours. there is high-quality evidence that airline passengers similar to those in this review can expect a substantial reduction in the incidence of symptomless dvt and low-quality evidence that leg oedema is reduced if they wear compression stockings. there is moderate-quality evidence that superficial vein thrombosis may be reduced if passengers wear compression stockings. randomised trials of compression stockings versus no stockings in passengers on flights lasting at least four hours. there is moderate-certainty evidence that superficial vein thrombosis may be reduced if passengers wear compression stockings. 
Can extracorporeal shock wave therapy relieve heel pain if the cause is tendonitis or a heel spur? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to investigate the safety and effectiveness of extracorporeal shock wave therapy for the treatment of painful heels. extracorporeal shock wave therapy is a new modality that is safe and effective in the treatment of painful heel spurs. the conclusion is that while ultrasound and shock wave therapy show significant analgesic efficacy in patients with heel spur, fewer shock wave therapy sessions are needed than ultrasound sessions for effective relief, suggesting that the shock wave therapy has greater analgesic efficacy. the objective of the present study was to test whether focused extracorporeal shock wave therapy is effective in relieving chronic heel pain diagnosed as plantar fasciitis. the results of the present study provide proof of the clinically relevant effect size of focused extracorporeal shock wave therapy without local anesthesia in the treatment of recalcitrant plantar fasciitis, with success rates between 50% and 65%. extracorporeal shock wave therapy is among the conservative treatments for symptomatic heel spur. extracorporeal shock wave therapy was investigated in patients with chronic plantar fasciitis. extracorporeal shock wave therapy is an effective treatment for chronic plantar fasciitis. the aim of this prospective single-blind pilot study was to explore the pain-alleviating effect of low-energy extracorporeal shock wave therapy (eswt) in painful heel associated with inferior calcaneal spurs. to prospectively evaluate with magnetic resonance (mr) imaging the acute changes in the heel associated with extracorporeal shock wave therapy (eswt). 
Does an extract from the African black bean (active ingredient 5-hydroxytryptophan) help against lovesickness? [SEP] seed coats of coloured dry beans contain biologically active compounds. extracts of black bean sprouts are safe and can be used as additives in anti-aging and whitening cosmetic products. the methanol extracts of all the black bean kojis, except that prepared with rhizopus sp. in general, the total extractable phenolic compounds and anthocyanins content in black beans increased after fermentation. this might lead to the increased antioxidant activities of black bean kojis observed. methanol perla black bean extract was used for acute toxicity test in rats, with the up-and-down doping method. all perla black bean extracts inhibited bacterial growth. the acetic acid and methanol perla black bean extract proved to exhibit strong antibacterial activity and the acidified water perla black bean extract exerted parasiticidal effects against giardia lamblia, entamoeba hystolitica and trichomonas vaginalis. the three perla black bean extracts assayed over vero cells showed very low toxicity and the methanol perla black bean extract in vivo did not cause toxicity. among the black soybean ethanol extracts, r. volubilis was found to be more effective than r. nulubilis, and leaf extract was found to be more effective than bean extract. 
Does a mixture of hops and other natural remedies help with sleep problems? [SEP] hops contain flavonoids that have sedative and sleep-promoting activities such as α-acid, β-acid, and xanthohumol. in this study, the sleep-enhancing activity of a saaz-saphir hops mixture was measured. in the caffeine-induced insomnia model, the administration of a saaz-saphir mixture increased the sleep time compared to saaz or saphir administration alone, which was attributed to the increase in nrem sleep time by the δ-wave increase. therefore, xanthohumol and humulone contained in the saaz-saphir mixture showed sleep-promoting activity mediated by the gabaa receptors. the mixture of the saaz and saphir hop varieties may thus help mitigate sleep disturbances compared to other hop varieties. the fixed valerian-hops extract combination ze91019 is used as a sleep aid. the use of hops in sleep remedies, however, is mainly based on traditional use and scarce scientific information. the aim of this study was to investigate the sleep-promoting effect of a valerian/hops mixture in fruit flies. valerian/cascade mixture showed longer sleeping time (ca. this study demonstrates that a valerian/cascade mixture extract improves sleep-related behaviors, including sleeping time, by modulating gabaergic/serotonergic signaling. 
Do hops as a single active ingredient help with sleep problems??? [SEP] hops contain flavonoids that have sedative and sleep-promoting activities such as α-acid, β-acid, and xanthohumol. in this study, the sleep-enhancing activity of a saaz-saphir hops mixture was measured. the mixture of the saaz and saphir hop varieties may thus help mitigate sleep disturbances compared to other hop varieties. valerian and hops are traditionally used as sleep aids. repetitive administrations of valerian/hops combinations have been widely used for self-administered therapy of sleep disturbances. the eeg derived parameter "sleep quantity" as calculated from the electrohypnogram proved superiority of the valerian/hops combination over placebo. hops (humulus lupulus, cannabinaceae) has been used in traditional european medicine as a mild sedative for the treatment of anxiety, nervousness, and insomnia. however, there has been little information available about the underlying sleep inducing mechanism of hops. the hypothermic effects of melatonin and hops extract were antagonized with the competitive melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole. thus, our data suggests that the hypothermic--and therefore the sleep-inducing--effects of hops extract are possibly mediated through activation of melatonin receptors. 
Does taking a mushroom called reishi benefit cancer? [SEP] reishi contains biological compounds that are cytotoxic against cancer cells. reishi decreases the expression of genes involved in cancer cell survival and proliferation (bcl-2, tert, pdgfb), and invasion and metastasis (mmp-9), whereas it increases the expression of il8. mushrooms reishi and coriolus have been used for centuries in asian countries to treat various diseases, mainly respiratory tract infections or pulmonary diseases, and more recently also cancers. consumption of reishi mushroom has been reported to prevent colon carcinogenesis in rodents, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. these results suggest that the reishi extracts have an impact on colon luminal health by modulating secondary bile acids, microflora, mucins, and propionate that related to colon cancer. the medical mushroom ganoderma lucidum (reishi), a traditional chinese medicine, has exhibited a promising anti-cancer effect. the medicinal mushroom ganoderma lucidum (reishi) was tested as a potential therapeutic for inflammatory breast cancer (ibc) using in vivo and in vitro ibc models. our previous studies demonstrate these selective anti-cancer effects of reishi, where ibc cell viability and invasion, as well as the expression of key ibc molecules, including eif4g is compromised. the aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of two different types of medical mushrooms in patients with prostate cancer in japan. some non-edible mushrooms like reishi (ganoderma lucidum) have a history use, both alone and in conjunction with standard therapies, for the treatment of various diseases including cancer in some cultures. 
Can labor pain during childbirth be relieved by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] the aim of this study was to systematically review the currently available evidences evaluating the use of aromatherapy for management of labor pain and anxiety. most of included studies confirmed the positive effect of aromatherapy in reducing labor pain and anxiety. the evidences from this study suggest that aromatherapy, as a complementary and alternative modality, can help in relieving maternal anxiety and pain during labor. there was a statistically significant effect of massage treatment using frangipani aromatherapy oil on the childbirth pain intensity (p < .001). in this study, massage treatment using frangipani oil aromatherapy decreased the childbirth pain intensity. the administration of aromatherapy in childbirth did appear to reduce the need for additional pain relief in a proportion of mothers. the study also showed that aromatherapy may have the potential to augment labor contractions for women in dysfunctional labour. accordingly, the present study aimed to compare the effect of aromatherapy using lavender and damask rose essential oils on the level of anxiety and severity of pain following c-section. conclusions the findings suggested that inhalation aromatherapy can reduce the severity of overt anxiety and pain after c-section, with damask rose essential oil showing a larger effect than lavender. inhalation aromatherapy with lavender oil may be useful in the management of procedural pain levels during needle procedure. 
Can the duration of childbirth be reduced by aromatherapy with lavender oil? [SEP] a blind randomized clinical trial is described, involving three groups of mothers, one using pure lavender oil, one a synthetic lavender oil and one an inert substance as a bath additive for 10 days following normal childbirth. however, there is some consistency in results between the 3rd and 5th days, with those women using lavender oil as a bath additive recording lower mean discomfort scores. the results showed that the interventions of music therapy and aromatherapy with chamomile-lavender essential oil could reduce the anxiety of nurses. to determine the effectiveness of lavender aromatherapy's massage on reducing sleep disturbances in infants. massage using lavender aromatherapy is effective in reducing sleep disturbances in infants especially in the dimension of starting and maintaining sleep, somnolence disorders, and interruption of wakefulness sleep transition dimension (p<0.001). massage with lavender aromatherapy is recommended as an alternative intervention to reduced sleep disturbances on infants aged 6-12 months. the purpose of this study was to investigate whether lavender oil aromatherapy can reduce the bispectral index (bis) values and stress and decrease the pain of needle insertion in 30 volunteers. in addition, the pain intensity of needle insertion was significantly decreased after aromatherapy compared with the control (p<0.001). lavender aromatherapy in volunteers provided a significant decrease in the stress levels and in the bis values. therefore, this study was to examine the effectiveness of lavender oil inhalation in reducing job stress-related symptoms among nurses. 
Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain after shingles? [SEP] the capsaicin 8% dermal patch is indicated in the eu for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain (pnp) in adults, either alone or in combination with other medicinal products for pain. a single 60-min application of the capsaicin 8% dermal patch provided rapid and sustained pain relief in patients with postherpetic neuralgia. a single application of high-concentration capsaicin for 60 minutes for postherpetic neuralgia has been robustly evaluated. capsaicin 8% patches are applied to the most painful areas of healthy skin and allowed to remain for 60 minutes. this review highlights recent evidence related to the use and effectiveness of the 8% capsaicin patch for postherpetic neuralgia and discusses its safety and side-effect profiles. capsaicin 8% patch is a licensed treatment in the eu/uk for neuropathic pain and shown to be safe and effective in providing pain relief for patients with cipn. capsaicin 8% patch relieves neuropathic pain for 3 months after a single 60 min cutaneous application; we investigated whether its pre-application can reduce s.c. trepostinil-induced pain. high-dose capsaicin patch is effective in treatment of neuropathic pain in hiv-associated neuropathy and diabetic neuropathy. we sought to determine the effectiveness of treatment of pain associated with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy with high-dose capsaicin patch. high-dose capsaicin patch is an effective treatment for pain associated with chemotherapy-induced neuropathy in patients treated with oxaliplatin. 
Does a patch with high-dose capsaicin relieve pain in diabetes mellitus or infection with HIV? [SEP] in patients with painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy, a single 30-min application of the capsaicin 8% dermal patch provided 12 weeks of pain relief and improved sleep quality compared with placebo. the capsaicin 8% dermal patch was non-inferior to oral pregabalin in relieving pain in patients with non-diabetic pnp, with a faster onset of action and greater treatment satisfaction. high-dose capsaicin patch is effective in treatment of neuropathic pain in hiv-associated neuropathy and diabetic neuropathy. we sought to determine the effectiveness of treatment of pain associated with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy with high-dose capsaicin patch. high-dose capsaicin patch is an effective treatment for pain associated with chemotherapy-induced neuropathy in patients treated with oxaliplatin. in patients with painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy (pdpn), a single 30-min application of the capsaicin 8 % patch significantly improved pain relief and sleep quality compared with placebo in a 12-week double-blind trial. in two randomized trials, a single 60-min application of the capsaicin 8 % patch reduced pain scores significantly more than a low-concentration (0.04 %) capsaicin control patch in patients with phn. capsaicin 8 % patch treatment was noninferior to pregabalin (optimized dosage) in a randomized trial in patients with nondiabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. this open-label, 12-week pilot study assessed the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of a high-concentration capsaicin dermal patch (ngx-4010; capsaicin, 640microg/cm2, 8% w/w) to treat painful hiv-associated distal sensory polyneuropathy (dsp). this study demonstrates that treatment of painful hiv-associated neuropathy with a single application of ngx-4010, a high-concentration capsaicin patch, was feasible, well tolerated, and associated with significant reduction in pain over the 12 weeks studied. 
Does industrially highly processed food increase the risk of cancer? [SEP] high-intensity industrially processed food often exhibits higher concentrations of added sugar, salt, higher energy, and lower micronutrient density than does similar food or meals prepared at home from raw or minimally processed food. lifestyle factors, including diet, have long been recognised as potentially important determinants of cancer risk. prospective studies have shown that dietary patterns characterised by higher intakes of fruits, vegetables, and whole-grain foods, and lower intakes of red and processed meats and salt, are related to reduced risks of death and cancer, and that a healthy diet can improve overall survival after diagnosis of breast and colorectal cancers. red and processed meats increase the risk of colorectal cancer. diets rich in high-calorie foods, such as fatty and sugary foods, may lead to increased calorie intake, thereby promoting obesity and leading to an increased risk of cancer. several studies indicate that western dietary and lifestyle factors are responsible for the high incidence of colorectal cancer in industrialized countries. diets rich in red and processed meat, refined starches, sugar, and saturated and trans-fatty acids but poor in fruits, vegetables, fiber, omega-3 fatty acids and whole grains are closely associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer. other main features of the western lifestyle, such as excess body mass and sedentary behaviours, are also strongly associated with higher risk of developing this cancer. the european food safety authority (efsa) ruled in 2015 that the presence of acrylamide in foods increases the risk of developing cancer in any age group of the population. several epidemiological studies revealed that a high intake of processed meats may increase the risk of cancer in humans because cooking food proteins, such as meat, at high temperatures could produce high levels of carcinogenic compounds, such as hcas. 
Does propolis have a healing or soothing effect on inflammation in the mouth (in otherwise healthy people)? [SEP] propolis showed increased cellular proliferative ability that could be beneficial in reducing the healing period needed after periodontal therapy. propolis has potent antibacterial, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, wound healing, and anticancer properties. propolis has been used therapeutically by humans for centuries, including the treatment of dental caries and mouth infections. this review article attempts to analyze the potential use of propolis in general dentistry and oral health management. propolis is potentially useful in dentistry and oral health management based on available in vitro, in vivo, and ex vivo studies, as well as human clinical trials. propolis decreased inflammation and enhanced healing of wounds of the nasal mucosa in rats. the aim of this clinical trial was to test the efficacy of propolis as a mouthwash in the reduction of chemotherapy induced oral mucositis (om) in a single center. this study found that oral care with propolis as mouthwash for patients undergoing chemotherapy is an effective intervention to improve oral health. we have previously reported that topically applied propolis reduces inflammation and improves cutaneous ulcer healing in diabetic rodents. propolis, a naturopathic substance derived from bees wax extract, has recently been praised for its antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, and cicatrization-enhancing properties. 
Do amalgam fillings affect the mental development of school children compared to plastic dental fillings? [SEP] although urinary mercury concentration was slightly elevated among children with amalgam fillings, we found no evidence of adverse effects on the outcomes evaluated. the results of this study do not support the theory that amalgam fillings increase the prevalence of allergic diseases or allergic reactivity as such in schoolchildren. in this study was compared the mental health status of 47 multiple sclerosis patients with silver/mercury tooth fillings (amalgams) to that of 50 patients with their fillings removed. on the scl-90 revised, subjects with amalgam fillings had significantly more symptoms of depression, hostility, psychotism, and were more obsessive-compulsive than the patients with such fillings removed. on a questionnaire containing 18 mental health symptoms multiple sclerosis subjects with amalgam fillings reported a history of 43% more symptoms than those without amalgam fillings over the past 12 months. these data suggested that the poorer mental health status exhibited by multiple sclerosis subjects with dental amalgam fillings may be associated with mercury toxicity from the amalgam. analyses of associations between number of surfaces filled with dental amalgam and a number of scales estimating somatic and mental health and memory functions were performed both for the entire group and for individuals having at least 12 teeth. the objective of our study is to determine if mercury exposure from amalgam fillings is associated with risk of adverse health effects. our findings suggest that mercury exposure from amalgam fillings adversely impact health and therefore are a health risk. since children are more at risk for mercury toxicity, we aimed to study prospectively the effects of amalgam filling on urinary mercury excretion in 5- to 7-year-old children. 
Does curcumin protect healthy people from mental impairment or even from developing dementia? [SEP] thus, it is crucial to protect older people against mci and developing dementia. the modification of risk factors such as stopping smoking, as well as the treatment of deficiency in vitamins and hormones by correcting behaviors and lifestyle, can prevent cognitive decline in the elderly. this will help to find better ways for prevention and treatment of cognitive impairment worldwide. it is a piece of evidence that cognitive dysfunction, even in early stage of memory decline, may have some bad impact on balance and gait regardless of the effect of musculoskeletal problems. in this study, we chose curcumin which has a neuroprotective role and tested the effect against neuron damage induced by hiv-1gp120 v3 loop peptide. subsequently, we used the morris water maze test, long-term potentiation (ltp) recording, biochemical measurement of oxidative damage, nissl staining, and bdnf immunostaining to evaluate the neuropathological changes and the effect of curcumin on rats. these impairments were ameliorated by intragastric infusion of curcumin. these results suggested that dietary supplementation of curcumin may be a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment and/or prevention of had. given population increases in longevity it is important to understand not only risk and protective factors for dementia and severe cognitive impairment at given ages but also whether protection affects cumulative risk. although a cognitive impairment such as dementia causes serious economic problems among older people, its impact on economic activities is unclear. 
Does curcumin protect people with already diagnosed dementia from further decline in mental abilities??? [SEP] dementia is one of the main causes of disability and dependency among the older population worldwide, producing physical, psychological, social and economic impact in those affected, caregivers, families and societies. however, little is known about dementia protective factors and their potential benefits against disease decline in the diagnosed population. cognitive stimulating activities seem to be protective factors against dementia, though there is paucity in the scientific evidence confirming this, with most publications focusing on prevention in non-diagnosed people. a scoping review was conducted to explore whether chess practice could mitigate signs, deliver benefits, or improve cognitive capacities of individuals diagnosed with dementia through the available literature, and therefore act as a protective factor. in conclusion, polypharmacy defined by the number of drugs does not appear to predict cognitive decline in a naturalistic cohort of patients with dementia. with the number of people with dementia rapidly increasing and few effective treatments, there is now a critical need for interventions to improve functional ability in those with the condition. curcumin's pharmacological properties and its possible benefits for neurological diseases and dementia have been much debated. in vitro experiments show that curcumin modulates several key physiological pathways of importance for neurology. new studies in animal models and recent double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trials using some of these new formulations are finally beginning to show that curcumin could be used for the treatment of cognitive decline. in this review, we discuss curcumin's main mechanisms of action and also data from in vivo experiments on the effects of curcumin on cognitive decline. 
Do preparations with humic acids help with diseases or complaints of the stomach and intestines? [SEP] humic acids are used to prophylactically treat intestinal diseases in a wide number of species, yet the mechanism of action remains unknown. the general assumption has been that humic acids act locally; however studies using young piglets show orally supplemented humic acids can penetrate the intestinal wall, and thus potentially act systemically. the objective of this study was to determine if humic acids could also cross the intestinal barrier in adult pigs and be detected in other organs. adult minipigs (>18 months old) orally received either 1g humic acids/kg body weight (verum, n=3) or placebo (control, n=3), for 2 weeks. unstained tissue samples were examined by light microscopy for the presence of humic acid particles. in this study, an experimental method was implemented to simulate the effect of chitosan on the adsorption of humic acid in the gastrointestinal tract. this result suggests that chitosan entraps humic acid because of its positive charge. acid bathes the food bolus while stored in the stomach, facilitating digestion. a brief description of the stomach's nonacid digestive capabilities is included. the effects of duodenal instillation of sodium oleate (10 mmoles per hr) on plasma levels of gastrin and secretin and on gastric acid secretion in response to gastric and intestinal meals were determined. 
Does an extract from grapefruit seeds work against fungal diseases such as athlete's foot or nail fungus? [SEP] previous research has shown that some essential oils inhibit fungal growth. applications of conidia protected the grapefruits against crm, and fungal secretions extracted from growth media caused 100% crm mortality. in addition, a molecular approach was developed to specifically detect the fungus inside the grapefruit peel. this approach can be used to assess the natural occurrence of m. geulakonigii in grapefruit. in our experiments, grapefruit juice was incubated with aspergillus niger, and the compositional changes in hydroxycinnamates, flavonoid glycosides, and the fcs were monitored. for most dermatophytic infections of the foot, topical agents are usually effective and less expensive than oral agents. over the past decade, fungal foot infections of the skin and nail are more effectively treated with the introduction of numerous topical and oral agents. foot problems related to aging or disease processes such as nail fungus or arthritis often go unrecognized and untreated, and can lead to considerable dysfunction. our identification of two antifungal compounds provided strong evidence for the miao people to use i. flavidus as a medicinal plant for treatment of athlete's foot disease. onychomycosis is a fungal infection of the nail, affecting 5.5% of the population. 
Does taking rosehip powder for rheumatoid arthritis improve symptoms? [SEP] to examine the evidence suggesting that standardised rosehip powder may be a viable replacement or supplement for conventional therapies used in inflammatory diseases such as arthritis. a meta-analysis of three randomised controlled trials involving 287 patients with a median treatment period of 3 months reported that treatment with standardised rosehip powder consistently reduced pain scores and that patients allocated to rosehip powder were twice as likely to respond to rosehip compared to placebo. in this review, in vitro, in vivo and clinical studies on standardized rosehip (rosa canina l.) fruits without seed used for joint health due to their anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antioxidant effects and active compounds isolated from these fruits are presented. it is reported that the anti-inflammatory action mechanism of standardized rosehip powder is due to its antioxidant activity, inhibiting nf-b signaling, inhibiting pro-inflammatory enzymes, decreasing inflammatory cytokine and chemokine production, and lowering c reactive protein levels. conclusion: studies on the anti-inflammatory mechanism of action of rosehip and its active ingredients and their effects on osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis have shown that more detailed clinical studies are required on standardized rosehip powders and preparations enriched in active compounds. meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (rcts)--of a hip powder of rosa canina (rosehip) preparation for symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis (oa), in order to estimate the empirical efficacy as a pain reducing compound. the three studies (287 patients and a median trial-duration of 3 months)--all supported by the manufacturer (hyben-vital international)--showed a reduction in pain scores by rosehip powder (145 patients) compared to placebo (142 patients): es of 0.37 [95% confidence interval (ci): 0.13-0.60], p=0.002. although based on a sparse amount of data, the results of the present meta-analysis indicate that rosehip powder does reduce pain; accordingly it may be of interest as a nutraceutical, although its efficacy and safety need evaluation and independent replication in a future large-scale/long-term trial. participants with self-reported knee-related walking limitations were randomized (1:1) to receive three capsules/day of either rosehip powder or identically appearing placebo capsules for 12 weeks. a daily intake of rosehip powder for 12 weeks improved important indices of knee joint function and dynamics during walking compared to placebo in persons with knee-related walking limitations. 
Does taking rosehip powder for osteoarthritis alleviate the symptoms??? [SEP] to examine the evidence suggesting that standardised rosehip powder may be a viable replacement or supplement for conventional therapies used in inflammatory diseases such as arthritis. a meta-analysis of three randomised controlled trials involving 287 patients with a median treatment period of 3 months reported that treatment with standardised rosehip powder consistently reduced pain scores and that patients allocated to rosehip powder were twice as likely to respond to rosehip compared to placebo. it is reported that the anti-inflammatory action mechanism of standardized rosehip powder is due to its antioxidant activity, inhibiting nf-b signaling, inhibiting pro-inflammatory enzymes, decreasing inflammatory cytokine and chemokine production, and lowering c reactive protein levels. conclusion: studies on the anti-inflammatory mechanism of action of rosehip and its active ingredients and their effects on osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis have shown that more detailed clinical studies are required on standardized rosehip powders and preparations enriched in active compounds. meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (rcts)--of a hip powder of rosa canina (rosehip) preparation for symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis (oa), in order to estimate the empirical efficacy as a pain reducing compound. the three studies (287 patients and a median trial-duration of 3 months)--all supported by the manufacturer (hyben-vital international)--showed a reduction in pain scores by rosehip powder (145 patients) compared to placebo (142 patients): es of 0.37 [95% confidence interval (ci): 0.13-0.60], p=0.002. although based on a sparse amount of data, the results of the present meta-analysis indicate that rosehip powder does reduce pain; accordingly it may be of interest as a nutraceutical, although its efficacy and safety need evaluation and independent replication in a future large-scale/long-term trial. to evaluate the efficacy of a specialized rosehip powder nutraceutical on the biomechanical function of the knee joint during walking in individuals with knee-related walking limitations. participants with self-reported knee-related walking limitations were randomized (1:1) to receive three capsules/day of either rosehip powder or identically appearing placebo capsules for 12 weeks. a daily intake of rosehip powder for 12 weeks improved important indices of knee joint function and dynamics during walking compared to placebo in persons with knee-related walking limitations. 
Can the genetic blood test for Down syndrome (trisomy 21) predict whether the unborn child is affected - in pregnant women at increased risk? [SEP] women under 25 years at the birth of a child with trisomy 21 (down syndrome) appear to have an increased risk of having another child with a trisomy. we examined fetal loss rates among the other pregnancies of 545 women delivered of a child with trisomy 21 and compared the observed loss rates with those which would be expected were the relative risk for these women for an aneuploid recognized pregnancy the same as their relative risk for an aneuploid livebirth as reported by others. the results of this study suggest that women under 25 years at the birth of a child with trisomy 21 have a significantly higher rate of fetal loss in their prior pregnancies than women delivered of the trisomic child at older ages. the overall sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of genetic ultrasonography for the detection of trisomy 21 were 82%, 91%, 15%, and 99.6%, respectively. the sensitivity for the detection of fetal trisomy 21 ranged from 80% among women with advanced maternal age to 100% among women with both an abnormal biochemical profile and advanced maternal age. trisomy 21, or down syndrome, is the most common serious autosomal chromosome aberration in which affected individuals survive beyond infancy. a strong association of human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) and down syndrome was reported. the data collected by nation-wide study of noninvasive prenatal genetic testing (nipt) for trisomy 21 from 21,610 pregnant women with advanced maternal age in japan were reported. evaluation of combined test in pregnant women 35 years of age and over to detect fetal down syndrome. six cases of down syndrome and two cases of trisomy 18 were detected. 
Do preparations with rose root have an effect against stress and its consequences, e.g. exhaustion? [SEP] rose (rosa chinensis) is the most important ornamental crops worldwide. in this study, we analyzed the changes of photosynthetic and phytohormone levels in the leaves and roots of rose seedlings grown under control (no drought/nd), mild (md), and severe (sd) drought stress. the total chlorophyll content and water use efficiency were significantly enhanced under md in rose leaves. our findings identified previously unknown splice sites and new genes in the rose transcriptome, and elucidated the drought stress-responsive genes as well as their intricate regulatory networks. we previously reported that so-called "green odor" inhibits stress-induced activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis (hpa axis) and thereby prevents the chronic stress-induced disruption of the skin barrier. here, we investigated whether rose essential oil, another sedative odorant, inhibits the stress-induced 1) increases in pvn neuronal activity in rats and plasma glucocorticoids (corticosterone [cort] in rats and cortisol in humans) and 2) skin-barrier disruption in rats and humans. the results showed that in rats subjected to acute restraint stress, rose essential oil inhalation significantly inhibited the increase in plasma cort and reduced the increases in the number of c-fos-positive cells in pvn. inhalation of rose essential oil significantly inhibited the following effects of chronic stress: 1) the elevation of transepidermal water loss (tewl), an index of the disruption of skin-barrier function, in both rats and humans and 2) the increase in the salivary concentration of cortisol in humans. these results suggest that in rats and humans, chronic stress-induced disruption of the skin barrier can be limited or prevented by rose essential oil inhalation, possibly through its inhibitory effect on the hpa axis. promoter activities of rhacs1 and rhacs2 , two rose genes involved in ethylene biosynthesis, are highly sensitive to various abiotic stresses in an organ-specific manner. 
Is microwave therapy effective and safe for long-term reduction of excessive sweating (primary hyperhidrosis) in adults? [SEP] microwave energy technology treats axillary hyperhidrosis through thermolysis of the apocrine and eccrine glands. successful short-term reduction of sweating has been studied, but there is limited information on long-term efficacy and safety. to evaluate patient satisfaction with microwave energy device for axillary hyperhidrosis performed within the last 5 years. from june to august 2019, a standardized telephone survey was conducted of 24 patients who received microwave energy device treatment for bilateral axillary hyperhidrosis between june 2014 and june 2018. the microwave energy device is an effective, durable therapy for axillary hyperhidrosis associated with minimal downtime and a high degree of long-term patient satisfaction. the objective if this study was to compare microwave ablation (ma), botulinum toxin (bt) injection, and liposuction-curettage (lc) in the treatment of primary axillary hyperhidrosis based on subjective and objective criteria. local microwave therapy is a newer treatment option for axillary hyperhidrosis. a new microwave procedure for treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis has been tested. this article reviews the treatment options for hyperhidrosis with a focus on the pediatric population. the socially embarrassing disorder of excessive sweating, or hyperhidrosis, and its treatment options are gaining widespread attention. 
Does ointment with comfrey help against back pain and knee pain better than a placebo? [SEP] the objective was to show the superiority of comfrey root extract ointment to placebo ointment in patients with acute upper or lower back pain. there was a significant treatment difference between comfrey extract and placebo regarding the primary variable. comfrey root extract showed a remarkably potent and clinically relevant effect in reducing acute back pain. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of 2 concentrations of topical, comfrey-based botanical creams containing a blend of tannic acid and eucalyptus to a eucalyptus reference cream on pain, stiffness, and physical functioning in those with primary osteoarthritis of the knee. both active topical comfrey formulations were effective in relieving pain and stiffness and in improving physical functioning and were superior to placebo in those with primary osteoarthritis of the knee without serious adverse effects. topical administration of curcumin 5% ointment can significantly reduce knee pain in older adults with knee osteoarthritis. in a double-blind, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, group comparison study on patients suffering from unilateral acute ankle sprains (n = 142, mean age 31.8 years, 78.9% male), the percutaneous efficacy of an ointment of comfrey extract (kytta-salbe f, four treatments per day for 8 days) was confirmed decisively. today, multiple randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of comfrey preparations for the topical treatment of pain, inflammation and swelling of muscles and joints in degenerative arthritis, acute myalgia in the back, sprains, contusions and strains after sports injuries and accidents, also in children aged 3 or 4 and over. this paper provides information on clinical trials and non-interventional studies published on comfrey to date and further literature, substantiating the fact that topical comfrey preparations are a valuable therapy option for the treatment of painful muscle and joint complaints. the results suggest that the comfrey root extract ointment is well suited for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. 
Does ointment with comfrey help with ankle sprains and sore muscles??? [SEP] there was moderate evidence that neuromuscular training decreases functional instability and minimises re-injury; and that comfrey root ointment decreases pain and improves function. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, comfrey root ointment, and manual therapy can significantly improve short-term symptoms after ankle sprain, and neuromuscular training may prevent re-injury. in a single-blind, controlled, randomized, parallel-group, multicenter and confirmatory clinical trial outpatients with acute unilateral ankle sprains (n=164, mean age 29.0 years, 47.6% female) received either a 6 cm long ointment layer of kytta-salbe f (comfrey extract) (n=82) or of diclofenac gel containing 1.16 g of diclofenac diethylamine salt (n=82) for 7 +/- 1 days, four times a day. comfrey (symphytum officinale l.) is a medicinal plant with anti-inflammatory, analgesic and tissue regenerating properties. in a double-blind, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, group comparison study on patients suffering from unilateral acute ankle sprains (n = 142, mean age 31.8 years, 78.9% male), the percutaneous efficacy of an ointment of comfrey extract (kytta-salbe f, four treatments per day for 8 days) was confirmed decisively. a previously published study comparing the efficacy of comfrey extract to a commercial diclofenac (cas 78213-16-8) preparation in the treatment of unilateral ankle sprains is critically re-evaluated. today, multiple randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of comfrey preparations for the topical treatment of pain, inflammation and swelling of muscles and joints in degenerative arthritis, acute myalgia in the back, sprains, contusions and strains after sports injuries and accidents, also in children aged 3 or 4 and over. this paper provides information on clinical trials and non-interventional studies published on comfrey to date and further literature, substantiating the fact that topical comfrey preparations are a valuable therapy option for the treatment of painful muscle and joint complaints. comfrey root extract has been used for the topical treatment of painful muscle and joint complaints. it is clinically proven to relieve pain, inflammation and swelling of muscles and joints in the case of degenerative arthritis, acute myalgia in the back, sprains, contusions and strains after sports injuries and accidents, also in children aged 3 years and older. 
Can chlorhexidine in the form of dental varnish prevent the formation of caries in adults? [SEP] our purpose was to systematically review the literature on the effectiveness of chlorhexidine varnish for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents and to determine its effectiveness compared to fluoride varnish. one trial of the effect of chlorhexidine varnish in primary teeth demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in caries increment. thus, chlorhexidine varnish can be used as potent caries inhibiting agent and promote good oral health. good evidence is available for the effectiveness of fluoride gel and varnish, chlorhexidine gel, and sealant when used to prevent caries in permanent teeth of children and adolescents. the objective of this study was to assess the effect of six-monthly professional applications of chlorhexidine varnish on the prevention of dental caries in primary molars in chinese preschool children. it was concluded that six-monthly applications of chlorhexidine varnish were effective in reducing the incidence of dental caries in primary molars. this study is aimed at determining whether a commercially available varnish, containing 40% chlorhexidine, is able to reduce the numbers of mutans streptococci and lactobacilli in saliva, in a moderately caries-active population in surinam. the results indicate that chlorhexidine varnish did not decrease the numbers of cariogenic bacteria, nor did it decrease caries progression. we therefore conclude that 40% chlorhexidine varnish is not likely to decrease caries in children in a high-treatment-need population without treatment of the sources of infection. one trial of the effect of chlorhexidine varnish in primary teeth demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in caries increment. 
Can chlorhexidine in the form of mouth rinses and gels for home use in children and adults, and as a dental varnish in children, prevent the formation of caries? [SEP] based on the available reviews, chlorhexidine rinses have not been highly effective in preventing caries, or at least the clinical data are not convincing. due to the current lack of long-term clinical evidence for caries prevention and reported side effects, chlorhexidine rinses should not be recommended for caries prevention. this paper reviewed the literature on the effectiveness of different modes of chlorhexidine delivery for caries prevention and provides guidelines for chlorhexidine use in caries management. due to the current lack of evidence on long-term clinical outcomes and reported side effects, chlorhexidine rinse, which is currently the only treatment mode available in the us, should not be recommended for caries prevention. good evidence is available for the effectiveness of fluoride gel and varnish, chlorhexidine gel, and sealant when used to prevent caries in permanent teeth of children and adolescents. the aim of this paper was to examine recent evidence for the effect of the antibacterial approach to prevent and control caries with special reference to the use of chlorhexidine (chx). our purpose was to systematically review the literature on the effectiveness of chlorhexidine varnish for preventing dental caries in children and adolescents and to determine its effectiveness compared to fluoride varnish. one trial of the effect of chlorhexidine varnish in primary teeth demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in caries increment. the results indicate that chlorhexidine varnish did not decrease the numbers of cariogenic bacteria, nor did it decrease caries progression. we therefore conclude that 40% chlorhexidine varnish is not likely to decrease caries in children in a high-treatment-need population without treatment of the sources of infection. 
Does a legal smoking ban reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease in nonsmokers? [SEP] we summarize studies of secondhand smoke in public places before and after smoking bans, as well as studies of cardiovascular and respiratory disease before and after such bans. smoking bans in public places, which have been implemented in many jurisdictions across the u.s. and in other countries, have the potential to influence social norms and reduce smoking behavior. previous studies have suggested that home smoking bans effectively reduce shs exposure to nonsmokers in the home. smoking is a well-established risk factor for cardiovascular disease (cvd) and acute myocardial infarction (ami). multiple studies and articles have evaluated the impact of smoking ban on the incidence of ami-related hospitalizations. in this article, we discuss the effect of smoking ban on the economy and on human health in general, as well as its potential effects on the prevalence of smoking. there has been no research linking implementation of a public smoking ban and reduced incidence of acute myocardial infarction (ami) among nonsmoking patients. these findings suggest that comprehensive smoking bans can reduce shs exposure among nonsmokers. international and national policies to implement cost-effective strategies to curtail smoking will have a significant impact on population health and will protect nonsmokers. this paper reviews the claims being made by a number of anti-smoking and public health groups regarding the acute cardiovascular effects of secondhand smoke exposure among otherwise healthy adults, analyzes the validity of these claims based on a review of the scientific evidence, and discusses the implications of the findings for tobacco control and public health practice. 
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] vitamin d deficiency has been associated with adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes such as increased risk for preterm birth and preeclampsia. the results suggest that a positive association between vitamin d deficiency and preterm birth exists. higher early pregnancy vitamin d was associated with a lower risk of gdm, cesarean section, preterm birth, and lbw. severe preterm births before 31 weeks of gestation was associated with maternal vitamin d deficiency. this review summarizes the evidence relating maternal vitamin d to preeclampsia, spontaneous preterm birth, gestational diabetes, and fetal growth restriction, and addresses gaps in our understanding of the contribution of vitamin d to the intractable black-white disparity in these conditions. become aware of recent literature linking inadequate vitamin d status and adverse pregnancy outcomes such as preeclampsia and preterm birth. the findings suggest increased dosages of supplemental vitamin d were associated with improved health outcomes of both mother and newborn, including risk of preterm birth (<37 weeks gestation). after adjusting for potentially confounding factors, serum vitamin d level did not increase the risk of preterm birth. conclusions this study did not found evidence of an increase in preterm birth risk related to vitamin d level during pregnancy. vitamin d deficiency was associated with an increased risk of preterm birth and sga. 
Do pregnant women who take vitamin D in combination with calcium have a lower risk of preterm birth? [SEP] vitamin d deficiency has been associated with adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes such as increased risk for preterm birth and preeclampsia. the results suggest that a positive association between vitamin d deficiency and preterm birth exists. the findings suggest increased dosages of supplemental vitamin d were associated with improved health outcomes of both mother and newborn, including risk of preterm birth (<37 weeks gestation). higher early pregnancy vitamin d was associated with a lower risk of gdm, cesarean section, preterm birth, and lbw. we aimed to evaluate the association of vitamin d deficiency during early pregnancy with preterm birth. vitamin d deficiency was associated with an increased risk of preterm birth and sga. it has been suggested that vitamin d supplementation during pregnancy may reduce the risk of adverse gestational outcomes. to update a previous meta-analysis on the effects of oral vitamin d supplementation (alone or in combination with other vitamins and minerals) during pregnancy on maternal 25(oh)d levels and risk of developing pre-eclampsia, gestational diabetes, preterm birth, impaired glucose tolerance, caesarean section, gestational hypertension and other adverse conditions. also, three trials found that supplementation with vitamin d plus calcium reduced the risk of pre-eclampsia (5% versus 9%; average risk ratio 0.51; 95% ci 0.32, 0.80). vitamin d supplementation, with or without calcium, may be related to lower risk of preeclampsia but more studies are needed to confirm this. 
Does aromatherapy have a calming effect on agitation and aggression typical of dementia? [SEP] the employment of massage therapy, either alone or in combination with aromatherapy or calming music, can significantly decrease agitation, aggression, stress, and anxiety in patients with dementia. therefore, there is growing interest, supported by clinical evidence, in aromatherapy for the control of agitation, aggression, and psychotic symptoms. the purpose of this study was to compare aroma-acupressure and aromatherapy with respect to their effects on agitation in patients with dementia. aroma-acupressure had a greater effect than aromatherapy on agitation in patients with dementia. to evaluate the effectiveness of aromatherapy on agitation and aggression in patients with cognitive impairment. the meta-analysis indicated that aromatherapy could ameliorate agitation and aggression for cognitive impairment. the current study examined the effects of aromatherapy massage on alleviating agitation and depressive mood in individuals with dementia. aromatherapy massage can be an effective and safe intervention to alleviate specific agitated behaviors and depressive mood in individuals with dementia. to determine whether aromatherapy with lavender oil is effective in the treatment of agitated behaviour in patients with severe dementia. lavender oil administered in an aroma stream shows modest efficacy in the treatment of agitated behaviour in patients with severe dementia. 
Does aromatherapy have other positive effects for dementia patients??? [SEP] aromatherapy is an option that has been recommended for use in dementia. clinical aromatherapy is a complementary therapy that may be very helpful for elderly dementia care. aromatherapy may reduce the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (bpsd), improve quality of care, and thus improve the quality of life for people with dementia. the study assessed the effectiveness and safety of clinical aromatherapy as part of routine integrative care among people with dementia in a clinical care setting. in the present study, we examined the curative effects of aromatherapy in dementia in 28 elderly people, 17 of whom had alzheimer's disease (ad). in conclusion, we found aromatherapy an efficacious non-pharmacological therapy for dementia. a random controlled trial of the relaxing effects of an aromatherapy massage on disordered behaviour in dementia was conducted. this provides preliminary evidence of a measurable sedative effect of aromatherapy massage on dementia within a robust scientific paradigm. to assess the efficacy of aromatherapy as an intervention for people with dementia. we aimed to fill the literature gap by identifying the clinical benefits of aromatherapy in older adults with dementia, and its efficacy in reducing behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (bpsd) based on available randomized controlled trials (rct). 
Does tomato extract reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] these results provide a potential mechanism by which tomatoes contribute to cardiovascular health. the use of standardized tomato extract appears beneficial in arterial hypertension patients with low or moderate cardiovascular risk and in patients in whom good pressure control cannot be achieved. there is a growing body of evidence that tomato consumption reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease, through antioxidative, anti-inflammatory and hypotensive effects. there is emerging epidemiology data supporting the connection between increased tomato consumption and reduced risk for both cardiovascular disease and prostate cancer. tomato extract contains carotenoids such as lycopene, beta carotene, and vitamin e, which are known as effective antioxidants, to inactivate free radicals, and to slow the progression of atherosclerosis. the purpose of our study was to evaluate the effect of tomato extract on systolic and diastolic blood pressure in grade-1 ht, on serum lipoproteins, plasma homocysteine, and oxidative stress markers. epidemiological evidence indicates a consistent association between the intake of tomatoes and reduced cardiovascular and neoplastic risk. consumption of tomato and tomato-based products is associated with risk reduction of cardiovascular disease (cvd). regular consumption of fruits and vegetables (e.g., tomatoes) has been shown to be beneficial in terms of reducing the incidence of cardiovascular diseases. tomato peel consumption improved cardiovascular risk factors in crptg mice, a beneficial effect that was further enhanced by enrichment of the flavonoid content. 
Does quitting smoking prolong life? [SEP] smoking cessation is associated with significant improvements in quality of life, mortality, life expectancy, and postsurgical complication rates. despite the documented benefits of quitting smoking, studies have found that smokers who quit may have higher lifetime medical costs, in part because of increased risk for medical conditions, such as type 2 diabetes, brought on by associated weight gain. using a simulation model and data on 612,332 adult smokers in the us department of defense's tricare prime health plan in 2008, we estimated that cessation accompanied by weight gain would increase average life expectancy by 3.7 years, and that the average lifetime reduction in medical expenditures from improved health ($5,600) would be offset by additional expenditures resulting from prolonged life ($7,300). avoidance of weight gain after quitting smoking would increase average life expectancy by four additional months and reduce mean extra spending resulting from prolonged life by $700. cancer patients who quit smoking have improved survival rates. from available studies, it does not seem that a period of sustained smoking reduction decreases the chance of future cessation, it may even increase it. previous studies have shown that smoking cessation after a cardiac event reduces the risk of subsequent mortality in patients. the aim of this study was to describe the effect of smoking cessation in terms of prolonged life-years gained. the estimated life expectancy was 18.5 years in those who quit smoking and 16.4 years in the persistent smokers (p <0.0001). in conclusion, in patients with coronary heart disease who underwent pci in the late 1980s, smoking cessation resulted in at least 2.1 life-years gained. 
Does eating eggs increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] consumption of one or more eggs per day is associated with an elevated risk of coronary heart disease in people with diabetes. to verify the association between egg consumption and coronary atherosclerotic burden. in this observational study of patients undergoing coronary angiography, the consumption of more than one egg per week was associated with a lower coronary atherosclerotic burden. the objective of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to explore the association between egg consumption and overall cardiovascular disease events. compared with the consumption of no or 1 egg/day, higher egg consumption (more than 1 egg/day) was not associated with significantly increased risk of overall cardiovascular disease events (pooled hazard ratios, 0.99; 95% confidence interval, 0.93-1.06; p < .001; i² = 72.1%). higher egg consumption (more than 1 egg/day) was associated with a significantly decreased risk of coronary artery disease (pooled hazard ratios, 0.89; 95% confidence interval, 0.86-0.93; p < .001; i² = 0%), compared with consumption of no or 1 egg/day. our analysis suggests that higher consumption of eggs (more than 1 egg/day) was not associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease, but was associated with a significant reduction in risk of coronary artery disease. we performed this study to examine the association between egg consumption and risk of cardiovascular diseases and mortality in a nationally representative cohort of 9734 adults aged 25 to 74 years. in subgroup analysis among diabetics, consumption of greater than 6 eggs per week was associated with an increased risk of coronary artery disease (rr 2.0, 95% ci 1.0-3.8). the increased risk of coronary artery disease associated with higher egg consumption among diabetics warrants further investigations. 
Does oseltamivir (brand name "Tamiflu") reduce the severity and duration of influenza in otherwise healthy adults? [SEP] orally oseltamivir is well tolerated and effective in treatment of influenza in adolescents and adults, including the elderly and patients with chronic cardiac and/or respiratory disease. in otherwise healthy adults, oseltamivir reduces the time to return to pre-illness levels of health, sleep and activity, and may help to decrease the overall burden of influenza on society. subsequent assessment of the drug at a dosage of 75 mg twice daily for 5 days in otherwise healthy adults with naturally acquired febrile influenza showed that oseltamivir reduced the duration of the disease by up to 1.5 days and the severity of illness by up to 38% compared with placebo when initiated within 36 hours of symptom onset (earlier initiation of therapy was associated with faster resolution). oral oseltamivir (75 mg once or twice daily for 6 weeks) during a period of local influenza activity significantly prevented the development of naturally acquired influenza by >70% compared with placebo in unvaccinated otherwise healthy adults. oseltamivir is a well tolerated orally active neuraminidase inhibitor which significantly reduces the duration of symptomatic illness and hastens the return to normal levels of activity when initiated promptly in patients with naturally acquired influenza. in comparison, oseltamivir (tamiflu) is effective against all influenza strains and can reduce the severity and duration of influenza among adults and children. this study determined the effects of oseltamivir among influenza-infected children with asthma. oseltamivir is safe and well-tolerated among asthmatic children, may reduce symptom duration and helps improve lung function and reduce asthma exacerbations during influenza infection. oseltamivir (tamiflu) has been shown to be effective as a treatment and chemoprophylaxis for influenza virus infections. the results of our study suggest that oseltamivir may inhibit both viral entry and release but may also enhance apoptosis of infected cells and interfere with nk cell function during influenza infection. 
Is active surveillance ("active surveillance") of patients with low-risk prostate cancer associated with increased prostate cancer mortality risk in the long term? [SEP] [corrected] active surveillance has been endorsed for low-risk prostate cancer, but information about long-term outcomes and comparative effectiveness of active surveillance is lacking. active surveillance is likely to produce a very modest decline in prostate cancer-specific survival among men diagnosed with low-risk prostate cancer but could lead to significant benefits in terms of quality of life. to examine the quality-of-life benefits and risks of active surveillance compared with initial treatment for men with low-risk, clinically localized prostate cancer. active surveillance appears to reduce prostate cancer healthcare expenditure by reducing the number of costly therapies. a contemporary review of literature with respect to low-risk prostate cancer and active surveillance was conducted. active surveillance has been shown to be safe and effective in managing men with low-risk prostate cancer. recent trials demonstrated no difference in prostate cancer specific mortality for men undergoing active surveillance for low risk prostate cancer compared to prostatectomy or radiotherapy. temporal trends in demographic, clinical and socioeconomic factors among men with intermediate risk prostate cancer and association with the use of active surveillance were characterized. active surveillance has been increasingly utilized as a strategy for the management of favorable-risk, localized prostate cancer. patients with low-grade and early-stage prostate cancer may benefit from active surveillance, rather than undergoing surgical and medical treatments that are associated with side effects. 
Does Active Surveillance reduce the likelihood of becoming impotent or incontinence, i.e. unintentional urine leakage ?? [SEP] the incidence of incontinence and impotence following total prostatectomy is higher than earlier reports suggest, but the impact of these complications appears to be surprisingly low. urinary incontinence is associated with decreased female sexual function, but little is known about the prevalence, predictors, and impact of urine leakage during sexual activity among women in the community. differences in frequency, bother, and fear of urine leakage during sexual activity were examined among women with monthly, weekly, and daily urinary incontinence and across different types of urinary incontinence (stress, urgency, mixed, and other type urinary incontinence), with the use of chi-square tests. women with more frequent underlying urinary incontinence were more likely to report experiencing or being bothered by leakage during sex and restricting sexual activity because of fear of leakage (p<.001 for all). up to a quarter of women with at least monthly urinary incontinence in the community may experience urine leakage during sexual activity. after the experimental group's participation in the pelvic floor muscle exercise programme, the frequency and amount of urine leakage and the score of perceived stress urinary incontinence severity were significantly lower than the same scores before participation in the programme. in addition, women in the experimental group had frequency and volume of urine leakage, and score of perceived stress urinary incontinence severity after participation significantly lower than those in the control group. urinary incontinence is one of the most prevalent health problems and a significant cause of disability and dependence in the elderly. of those with urinary incontinence 8/10 experienced some impact on their daily life from urine leakage including travel (4/10), social aspects (5/10), and emotional aspects (8/10). all participants with urinary incontinence were bothered by some aspect, including urine leakage (9/10), and frequent urination (4/10). 
Do extracts of prickly pear (Opuntia ficus-indica) help with hangover symptoms after alcohol consumption? [SEP] to assess the clinical evidence on the effectiveness of any medical intervention for preventing or treating alcohol hangover. opuntia ficus-indica fruit extracts (ofies), which contain betalain pigments and polyphenols including flavonoids, have been introduced as reducing hangover symptoms and liver protective activity. juices of edible fruits from opuntia ficus-indica (l.) miller, commonly named prickly pears or indian figs, were analysed for amino acids using an automated amino acid analyser run in the high-resolution physiological mode. "opuntia ficus-indica" (prickly pear) is the cactus member of the cactaceae family as an important nutrient and food source. the purpose of this study was to characterize the phytochemical composition of hydroalcoholic extract of prickly pear seeds that cause therapeutic effects. these data suggest that the seeds of the cactus "opuntia ficus-indica" could be a potential source of natural compound and reveal that the hydroethanolic extract of this species is a promising source, as well as a therapeutic agent for the research of new natural active ingredients. the antioxidant activity and the chemical composition of methanol extracts from peel and pulp belonging to two species of tunisian prickly pears opuntia ficus indica (spiny and thornless forms) and opuntia stricta have been studied. the presence of potentially active nutrients and their multifunctional properties make prickly pear a perfect candidate for the production of phytopharmaceutical products. based on the traditional use of prickly pear for enhancement of immune function, the objective of the present study to evaluate the effect of prickly pear on mast cell degranulation function. the antioxidant activity and the chemical composition of methanol extracts from peel and pulp belonging to two species of tunisian prickly pears opuntia ficus indica (spiny and thornless forms) and opuntia stricta has been studied. 
Do statins help older people suffering from cardiovascular disease to live longer? Do they reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke? [SEP] using statins to treat older men and women with coronary artery disease (cad) and hypercholesterolemia reduces the risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, coronary events, coronary revascularization, stroke, intermittent claudication, and congestive heart failure. statins are also effective in reducing cardiovascular events in older persons with hypercholesterolemia without cardiovascular disease. statins are effective cholesterol-lowering drugs that reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease events (heart attacks, strokes, and the need for arterial revascularisation). statins are effective, both in primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, in middle-aged and older (< 76 years) men and women, in both diabetics and non-diabetics with coronary heart disease. statins used in secondary prevention of coronary heart disease significantly reduce the risk of stroke. statin therapy significantly reduces cardiovascular events. to determine the effect of statins on all-cause mortality and on major cardiovascular events, including stroke, we performed a meta-analysis of statin trials that included older adult participants. statins reduced all-cause mortality by 15% (95% confidence interval, 7%-22%), coronary heart disease (chd) death by 23% (15%-29%), fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction (mi) by 26% (22%-30%), and fatal or nonfatal stroke by 24% (10%-35%). statin therapy significantly reduced all-cause and chd mortality, as well as risk of stroke and mi. reductions in cardiovascular and stroke events reported in clinical trials with aggressive statin therapy were applied to these cohorts. 
Are statins useful in preventing cardiovascular disease in people 75 years and older??? [SEP] adherence to statins may be associated with reduced mortality and cardiovascular morbidity among older adults, regardless of age and sex. findings from 75- to 80-year-old patients enrolled in rcts and information from observational studies support statin treatment for secondary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) and probably in patients with diabetes without ascvd. background while there is clear evidence for the benefit of statins in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, there is a lack of research on the effects of statin regimens in older patients aged 75 years and over. objectives to compare the effectiveness of statin regimens in the secondary prevention of ischemic cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events among patients aged 75 years and over. statins are the cornerstone of lipid-lowering therapy for cardiovascular disease prevention. the new guidelines recommend statins for nearly all older patients up to age 75 years, including healthy adults with low normal lipid levels and no atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) risk factors other than age. statin therapy may be reasonable in adults <40 years or >75 years of age where there is less evidence for benefit. the role of statin therapy in primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in persons older than 75 years remains a subject of debate with little evidence to support or exclude the benefit of this treatment. we assessed the effect of statin discontinuation on cardiovascular outcomes in previously adherent 75-year-olds treated for primary prevention. there is some debate on the value of statins in people over 75 years old, especially for primary prevention of cv events, due to a lack of evidence of their efficacy in this population, potential compliance-related events, drug-drug interactions and side effects that could impair quality of life. 
Is Traumeel gel or ointment effective for sports injuries such as sprains, bruises and strains? [SEP] acute ankle sprains are common and activity limiting injuries, and topical diclofenac gel has proven efficacy in alleviating pain and restoring function. this trial aimed to compare a topical natural agent, traumeel with topical diclofenac gel (1%) in the management of acute ankle sprain. this prospective, multicentre, randomised, blinded, active-control and non-inferiority study involved 449 physically active adults sustaining unilateral grade 1 or 2 ankle sprain within the past 24 h. participants were randomised to receive 2 g of traumeel ointment (t-o) (n = 152) or traumeel gel (t-g) (n = 150) or diclofenac gel (d-g) (n = 147), administered topically to the ankle three times a day for 14 days, with 6-weeks follow up. traumeel s ointment or diclofenac 1% gel for a maximum of 28 days. the results suggest that traumeel ointment is an effective alternative to nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs therapy for the acute symptomatic treatment of patients with tendinopathy. to assess the use, effectiveness and safety of a homoeopathic preparation (traumeel) compared with conventional therapies in the treatment of trauma and injuries. traumeel is as effective as conventional medicines in the management of mild to moderate injuries in this population. this study contributes to the case for a broad clinical effectiveness of traumeel in the treatment of acute injuries and trauma. traumeel(®) injection can be used for treatment of muscle strains and hematomas. traumeel(®) injections are effective, safe and well-tolerated for the treatment of overuse injury of the rectus abdominis following strain. 
Are weather phenomena and weather changes triggers of migraine attacks? [SEP] migraine attacks started most frequently at 4 a.m. and reached the highest intensity between 4 and 8 a.m. a highly significant association between meteorological variables and the occurrence of migraine attacks was found in six patients. our data indicate that a subgroup of migraineurs is highly sensitive to changes of certain weather components. weather is often reported to be one of the most common migraine triggers. taking interdiurnal temperature changes as an indicator for changes in the prevailing meteorological conditions, our analyses were focused on the relationship between temperature changes and the frequency of occurrence of migraine attacks. weather is mentioned as a trigger factor by migraine patients most frequently. we examined the impact of meteorological factors and the impact of their day-to-day change on the risk of occurrence and persistence of headache and migraine and the correlation of subjective weather perception with objective weather data. in the uni- and multivariate analysis, a ridge of high pressure increased the risk of headache occurrence, lower mean daily wind speed increased the risk of migraine occurrence and a day-to-day change of daily sunshine duration increased the risk of migraine occurrence. although atmospheric weather changes are often listed among the common migraine triggers, studies to determine the specific weather component(s) responsible have yielded inconsistent results. atmospheric pressure change produces air movement, and low pressure in particular is associated with warm weather, winds, clouds, dust, and precipitation, but how this effect might generate migraine is not immediately obvious. many patients with migraine believe weather is a trigger for their headaches. 
Does artichoke preparation help with gastrointestinal problems? [SEP] artichoke (cynara scolymus) leaf extract was one of the few herbal remedies which the clinical and experimental trials have complemented each other. ongoing research seems to indicate that artichoke indeed have medicinal qualities. in animal studies, liquid extracts of the roots and leaves of artichoke have demonstrated an ability to protect the liver, with possibly even to help liver cells regenerate. boiled wild artichoke reduced postprandial glycemic and insulinemic responses in normal subjects but has no effect on metabolic syndrome patients. this article intended to review the wide ranging pharmacological effects of artichoke leaf extract. artichoke leaf extracts are widely used alone or in association with other herbs for embittering alcoholic and soft drinks and to prepare herbal teas or herbal medicinal products. the anchorage of bacterial strains to artichokes improved their survival in simulated gastrointestinal digestion. this research aimed to determine the effects of jerusalem artichoke on lgg viability after drying and pelleting and their subsequent exposure to simulated gastrointestinal conditions. the number of viable cells under both simulated gastric and bile salt fluids was improved with the increasing of jerusalem artichoke concentrations. the health-promoting prebiotic effects of artichoke inulin were demonstrated in an extensive microbiological study showing a long lasting bifidogenic effect on bifidobacterium bifidum atcc 29521 cultures and also in mixed cultures of colonic bacteria. 
Does prickly pear help with long-term weight loss? [SEP] the objective of the present work was to characterize prickly pear juice prepared from prickly pear fruits of the wild cultivar in terms of shelf life (air and vacuum packaging), sensory stability (odour, taste, and appearance) physicochemical parameters (acidity, vitamin c, ph, electrical conductivity, total dissolved solids, specific weight, total sugar content, and colour coordinates l*, a*, b*) and bio-functional properties [in vitro antioxidant activity (aa%) and total phenolic content (tpc)]. the hypoglycemic effect of prickly pear is well known by native local indian population since a long time. these findings demonstrate a significant upregulation of (123)i-ldl binding by prickly pear in fh-patients invivo and indicate that prickly pear exerts a significant hypolipidemic action via receptor upregulation. aim of this pilot study was to assess the effect of prickly pear consumption on glucose- and lipid metabolism. in 24 non-diabetic, non-obese males (aged 37-55 years) suffering from primary isolated hypercholesterolemia (n = 12; group a) or combined hyperlipidemia (n = 12; group b) respectively, the influence of prickly pear pectin (opuntia robusta)-intake on glucose- and lipid metabolism was examined. prickly pear leads to a decrease of total cholesterol (12%), low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (15%), apolipoprotein b (9%), triglycerides (12%), fibrinogen (11%), blood glucose (11%), insulin (11%) and uric acid (10%), while body weight, high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, apolipoprotein a-i, and lipoprotein(a) remained unchanged. the hypocholesterolemic action of prickly pear may be partly explained by the fibre (pectin) content, but the hypoglycaemic actions (improvement of insulin sensitivity) in the non-obese, non-diabetic need further investigation to get more insights on the potential advantage of treating the metabolic syndrome. prickly pear is an important source of bioactive compounds. the chemical composition and biological activities of different parts of prickly pear, including cladodes, flowers, fruit, seeds and seed oil, were previously investigated. the health benefits of the prickly pear seed oil were reported by many researchers. 
Can turmeric relieve the symptoms of depression? [SEP] curcumin, the active ingredient in turmeric, and turmeric aqueous extract, a concentrated form, have been reported to have beneficial effects in treatment of cardiovascular diseases and their risk factors. participants received a daily dose of 2 g/d of turmeric in capsules for 90 d. anthropometric measures, blood pressure, serum homocysteine, and mental health status- stress, anxiety, depression scores-were recorded at baseline and postintervention. turmeric has the ability to reduce weight, decrease body fat percentage, lower systolic blood pressure, and relieve anxiety for young, obese and overweight females, when given at 2 g/d for 90 d. turmeric has a long tradition of use in the chinese and ayurvedic systems of medicine, particularly as an anti-inflammatory agent, and for the treatment of flatulence, jaundice, menstrual difficulties, hematuria, hemorrhage, and colic. turmeric can also be applied topically in poultices to relieve pain and inflammation. turmeric (curcuma longa) has traditionally been used to treat pain, fever, allergic and inflammatory diseases such as bronchitis, arthritis, and dermatitis. turmeric significantly ameliorated food allergic symptoms in a mouse model of food allergy. therefore, we suggest that administration of turmeric including various components may be useful to ameliorate th2-mediated allergic disorders such as food allergy, atopic dermatitis, and asthma. we describe here three patients with the alzheimer's disease (ad) whose behavioral symptoms were improved remarkably as a result of the turmeric treatment, which is the traditional indian medicine. the present cases suggest a significant improvement of the behavioral symptoms in the ad with the turmeric treatment, leading to probable benefit of the use of turmeric in individuals with the ad with bpsd. 
Do phthalates affect semen quality in men? [SEP] using data collected from questionnaires and clinical examinations, the correlation between phthalate exposure and semen quality was analyzed. in animals, exposure to certain phthalates negatively affects the male reproductive function. to study if levels of phthalate metabolites were associated with semen quality and reproductive hormones in general swedish men. results suggest that ambient phthalate metabolite concentrations may adversely affect human semen quality. are urinary phthalate concentrations associated with altered semen quality parameters among males recruited from the general population? studies involving infertile men seeking care suggest that phthalates influence measures of semen quality raising concern about the implications for men in the general population. in animals, some phthalates impair male reproductive development and function. the findings are suggestive that phthalates might be one among the contributing factors associated with the deterioration in semen quality and these adverse effects might be ros, lpo and mitochondrial dysfunction mediated. to explore the potential roles of steroids involved in androgen synthesis in the association between phthalate exposure and semen quality. the potential contributions of steroids to the associations between phthalate metabolites and semen quality outcomes were explored by mediation effect analysis. 
Do phthalates reduce the likelihood of pregnancy in women? [SEP] phthalates are reproductive toxicants in experimental animal studies and exposure has been associated with infertility in human populations, although the results have been inconsistent. our results suggest that phthalate exposure may impact ivf outcomes, and underscore the importance of including male partners when investigating the impact of phthalate exposure on ivf. pregnancy represents a sensitive susceptibility window to phthalate esters (paes). in this study, we develop an intervention strategy for reducing the exposure of pregnant women to phthalates. to evaluate the association between urinary phthalate metabolites and pregnancy glucose levels in women seeking medically assisted reproduction. higher concentrations of certain phthalate metabolites are associated with adverse reproductive and pregnancy outcomes, as well as poor infant/child health outcomes. among women without subsequent pregnancies (n = 373) associations of bisphenols, hmw phthalate metabolites and di-2-ethylhexylphthalate metabolites attenuated. our findings suggested that chinese women who were exposed to phthalates during early pregnancy had an increased risk of clinical pregnancy loss, especially embryonic loss. there is increasing evidence concerning the potential endocrine disrupting for phthalate exposure during pregnancy. this article aims to review the endocrine impairment and potential outcomes of prenatal phthalate exposure. 
Does ginseng improve mental performance in healthy individuals and patients with Alzheimer's dementia? [SEP] ginseng has various medical applications, and it seems to have significant effects as a cognition-enhancing drug. ginseng has been reported to improve cognitive function in animals and in healthy and cognitively impaired individuals. in this study, we investigated the efficacy of a heat-processed form of ginseng that contains more potent ginsenosides than raw ginseng in the treatment of cognitive impairment in patients with moderately severe alzheimer's disease (ad). these results demonstrate the potential efficacy of a heat-processed form of ginseng on cognitive function and behavioral symptoms in patients with moderately severe ad. recent experimental evidences suggest protective and trophic effects of ginseng in the memory function of alzheimer disease (ad). thus, we investigated the clinical efficacy of panax ginseng in the cognitive performance of ad patients in an open-label study. cognitive performances were monitored using the mini-mental state examination (mmse) and alzheimer disease assessment scale (adas) during 12 weeks of the ginseng treatment and at 12 weeks after the ginseng discontinuation. these results suggest that panax ginseng is clinically effective in the cognitive performance of ad patients. to evaluate the efficacy and adverse effects of ginseng given to improve cognitive performance in healthy participants, participants with cognitive impairment or dementia.to highlight the quality and quantity of research evidence available. the effects of ginseng in healthy participants, participants with cognitive impairment or dementia were addressed independently. 
Does leaky gut syndrome cause health complaints or diseases? [SEP] according to the theories proposed to explain the pathophysiology of autoimmune diseases in integrative medicine, leaky gut syndrome is a phenomenon of increased intestinal permeability due to the disruption of tight junctions and is thought to be related to many chronic diseases, such as food intolerance, inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, and other autoimmune disease. these alterations, also known as "leaky gut," may lead to severe disease as the normal intestinal barrier becomes compromised and can no longer protect against harmful luminal contents including microbial toxins and pathogens. leaky gut results from a variety of conditions including physical stressors, decreased blood flow to the intestine, inflammatory disease, and pathogenic infections, among others. chronic inflammation is a primary risk factor for chronic metabolic disease and may be triggered by a "leaky gut." hence, this study aimed to explore the correlation between leaky gut-related markers and metabolic health. dysbiosis increases intestinal permeability (gut leakiness), providing a mechanistic pathway from marital distress and depression to heightened inflammation and accelerated aging. chronic increase of intestinal permeability is termed 'leaky gut' which is observed in the patients and animal models of these diseases. in addition, recent studies have revealed that gut microbiota affects intestinal and systemic heath conditions via their metabolite, especially short-chain fatty acids and lipopolysaccharides, which can trigger leaky gut. 'leaky gut' syndrome, long-associated with celiac disease, has attracted much attention in recent years and for decades, was widely known in complementary/alternative medicine circles. this has been proposed to induce not only gastrointestinal diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease and irritable bowel syndrome, but also various other diseases, including allergies, diabetes mellitus, liver diseases, and collagen diseases, which are associated with this so called "leaky gut syndrome." 
Does the Alexander Technique help with back pain and neck pain? [SEP] randomised controlled trial evidence indicates that alexander technique is clinically and cost effective for chronic back pain. alexander technique lessons may be used as another approach to pain management. to test the efficacy of the alexander technique, local heat and guided imagery on pain and quality of life in patients with chronic non-specific neck pain. chiropractic, massage, and relaxation techniques were rated as "very helpful" for back or neck pain among users (61%, 65%, and 43%, respectively), whereas conventional providers were rated as "very helpful" by 27% of users. chiropractic, massage, relaxation techniques, and other complementary methods all play an important role in the care of patients with back or neck pain. valuable insights have been gained into the perceived benefits and acceptability of exercise, alexander technique lessons and massage as interventions for chronic back pain. alexander technique lessons led to long-term improvements in the way participants lived their daily lives and managed their neck pain. one to one lessons in the alexander technique from registered teachers have long term benefits for patients with chronic back pain. an economic evaluation of therapeutic massage, exercise, and lessons in the alexander technique for treating persistent back pain. one to one lessons in the alexander technique from registered teachers have long term benefits for patients with chronic back pain. 
Do the components of the Moringa oleifera tree have a positive effect on health? [SEP] moringa oleifera is one such tree having tremendous nutritional and medicinal benefits. the elemental contents and the phytochemical components of moringa oleifera are crucial for nutrition and medical purposes. moringa oleifera is a multi-purpose plant and a comprehensive source of dietary components such as proteins, essential amino acids, vitamins, antioxidants, etc. the indigenous components of moringa can treat humankind of its diseases and contribute to overall health. moringa oleifera lam., a multipurpose tree, is used traditionally for its nutritional and medicinal properties. we investigated the effect of moringa oleifera lam. in addition, moringa oleifera lam. our results suggest that moringa oleifera lam. moringa oleifera also known as horseradish tree or drumstick tree, have multiple nutraceutical or pharmacological functions. moringa oleifera is an ancient tree that is historically known to possess numerous medicinal qualities. 
Does an extract from the root of the Cape geranium (Pelargonium sidoides, Umckaloabo) work against bronchitis? [SEP] pelargonium (pelargonium sidoides dc and p. reniforme curtis) is reported to have immune modulating properties and antibacterial activity, and pelargonium extracts have been used for the treatment of respiratory tract and gastrointestinal infections. among the pelargonium-based herbal remedies that are widely used in traditional medical systems in the southern african region is a highly valued root medicine (commonly termed umckaloabo) of initially unknown botanical origin for the treatment of infectious conditions of the respiratory tract including tuberculosis. nowadays, a modern aqueous-ethanolic formulation of the roots of pelargonium sidoides (eps 7630), developed from this traditional medicine, is successfully employed for the treatment of bronchitis. the present study aimed to assess the effectiveness of the liquid herbal drug preparation from the root extracts of pelargonium sidoides in improving symptoms of uncomplicated urtis. there was also detected a significant recovery in "sneezing" on day 3 via brunner-langer model, and it was detected that the extract administration given in the first 24 h onset of the symptoms had provided a significant improvement in day 0 to day 3 (difference of tss 0.18 point, p = 0.011).conclusion: the findings of the study revealed that the pelargonium sidoides extracts are effective in relieving the symptom burden in the duration of the disease. • pelargonium sidoides, a traditional medicinal plant native to south africa, is one of the ornamental geraniums that is thought to be effective in treating urtis what is new: • it may be revealed that the dried root extract of pelargonium sidoides compared with placebo might be an alternative treatment in improving the symptoms such as dry cough, sneezing, and relieving cough frequency. in the last decades, pelargonium sidoides root has been subjected to several surveys due to the assertion of its health benefits, such as the relief of symptoms of acute bronchitis, common cold and acute rhinosinusitis. there is sufficient evidence to recommend the use of pelargonium sidoides root extract in order to warrant undertaking an independent clinical trial.we propose a feasibility study to demonstrate our ability to recruit and retain patients and conduct a placebo-controlled trial of pelargonium sidoides extract eps®7630 in lower respiratory tract infection where pneumonia is not suspected. it may be effective in relieving symptoms in acute bronchitis in adults and children, and sinusitis in adults. root extract from pelargonium sidoides dc is used therapeutically as antimicrobial agent against infections of the respiratory system. 
Does geranium extract help against colds and sinusitis??? [SEP] geranium incanum burm. the study intended to investigate the antidiarrhoeal activity of the leaf aqueous extract of geranium incanum in mice. castor oil induced diarrhoeal test was used to assess the antidiarrhoeal activity of geranium incanum. the antidiarrhoeal activity of geranium incanum was investigated by studying the effect of leaf aqueous extract of the plant species on castor oil-induced diarrhoea in mice. the leaf aqueous extract of geranium incanum significantly reduced faecal output in castor oil -induced diarrhoea and also significantly reduced the number of diarrhoeal episodes. the data obtained indicate that the leaf aqueous extract of geranium incanum has both antidiarrhoeal and antipropulsive activities the data also show that the plant material given orally may be safe and/or non toxic in mice. nasal lactoferrin helps distinguish sinusitis from colds. products that improve symptoms in children include vapor rub, zinc sulfate, pelargonium sidoides (geranium) extract, and buckwheat honey. ethnopharmocological relevance: geranium wilfordii maxim has been extensively used in chinese herbal medicine for treating gastrointestinal disorders, diarrhea and dysentery. the results of the present study showed that the ethanol and the ethyl acetate extracts from geranium wilfordii maxim displayed as well the most significant inhibition to the growth of helicobacter. 
Does taking DHEA have an anti-aging effect by increasing the physical and mental well-being of older people? [SEP] dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) has been reported to improve fatigue and reduced well-being. the present work investigates the effects of dhea administration on fatigue, well-being and functioning in women with inactive sle. patients from the dhea and placebo group improved on general fatigue (p<0.001) and mental well-being (p=0.04). dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) administration has been reported to improve fatigue, psychological distress, and physical disability. we investigated the effects of dhea administration on fatigue, well-being, and functioning in women with pss. patients from both the dhea- and placebo-treated group improved on general fatigue (p<0.001), mental well-being (p = 0.04), and depressive mood (p = 0.008). the belief to have used dhea was a stronger predictor for improvement of fatigue and well-being than the actual use of dhea. both dhea and placebo induce improvement of fatigue and well-being. because dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) levels decline dramatically with aging and low dhea levels correlate with age-related diseases, it has been suggested that old age may represent a condition of dhea deficiency. accordingly, there have been some studies of the effects of restoring the dhea levels of older individuals back to the normal range in the young. 
Can DHEA prolong life or improve health in old age? [SEP] the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dhea on quality of life (qol) in premenopausal rheumatoid arthritis patients. after adjustment for age and disease duration dhea was associated with more improvement in qol (p = .01), psychological (p = .02) and physical health (p = .03). a statistically significant increase in the levels of dhea-s was observed in the treated group throughout the study (p < 0.01). dheas and testosterone have anti-obesity/anti-aging characteristics and also improve libido, vitality and immunity levels. another interesting association is reported between dhea and dheas and the enhancement of memory retention in mice. dheas is one of the few compounds that shows a gradual decrease with advancing age, reaching an asymptotic low at the age of the maximum recorded life span. the biochemical and physiologic features of dhea and its purported effects on overall age-related decline and on various disorders are reviewed. this age-related decline in physiologic levels of dhea has prompted speculation about a relationship between relative "dhea deficiency" in older age and diseases of aging as well as the possibility of deriving benefits from administration of dhea. studies have shown that dhea influences multiple systems and disease processes in animals and humans; some of these effects could be considered beneficial and others detrimental. to date, no long-term health benefits from dhea in "replacement" doses have been demonstrated. 
Can the proper use of fluoride toothpaste cause serious long-term health problems? [SEP] fluoride toothpastes in conjunction with tooth brushing are used to clean teeth, control plaque build-up and for anti-caries benefits. although most toothpastes world-wide currently contain monofluorophosphate, sodium fluoride formulations are growing in availability because of the development of compatible abrasives. the addition of other active agents to fluoride toothpaste has been a relatively recent occurrence, and it is important to be assured that they do not interfere with the anti-caries activity of fluoride. this long term school based educational programme was able to increase school children's use of fluoride-containing toothpaste and twice daily tooth brushing, which are critical tools for reducing the risk of caries. fluoride can accumulate in the body, and it has been shown that continuous exposure to it causes damaging effects on body tissues, particularly the nervous system directly without any previous physical malformations. therefore, it is important to be aware of this serious problem and avoid the use of toothpaste and items that contain f, particularly in children as they are more susceptible to the toxic effects of f. we present four case studies that illustrate the use of fluoride in modern public health practice, focusing on: recent water fluoridation schemes in california, usa; salt fluoridation in jamaica; milk fluoridation in chile; and the development of "affordable" fluoride toothpastes in indonesia. research on the oral health effects of fluoride started around 100 years ago; the focus has been on the link between water and fluorides and dental caries and fluorosis, topical fluoride applications, fluoride toothpastes, and salt and milk fluoridation. its reduced effectiveness in high socioeconomic strata of affluent countries, due to the widespread usage of fluoride in toothpastes and other oral care products, should not detract from the public health value of fluoridation. there has been some concern over links between early use of fluoride toothpastes and the occurrence of very mild fluorosis. 
Does fluoride toothpaste prevent tooth decay? [SEP] fluoride toothpastes are effective in caries prevention. in dentistry, fluoride toothpaste is considered a caries preventive drug recommended to patients for that reason. to date, many of the ways of controlling tooth decay involve the use of fluorides. children's toothpastes with fluoride help to prevent decay, but parents should ask their dentist before giving fluoride supplements to children. to determine the relative effectiveness of fluoride toothpastes of different concentrations in preventing dental caries in children and adolescents, and to examine the potentially modifying effects of baseline caries level and supervised toothbrushing. the effect of fluoride toothpaste also increased with baseline level of d(m)fs and supervised brushing, though this did not reach statistical significance. this review confirms the benefits of using fluoride toothpaste in preventing caries in children and adolescents when compared to placebo, but only significantly for fluoride concentrations of 1000 ppm and above. the relative caries preventive effects of fluoride toothpastes of different concentrations increase with higher fluoride concentration. use of fluoride toothpaste brushing had a statistically significant effect on mean decayed, missing and filled primary tooth surfaces and decayed, missing and filled primary teeth for populations at high risk of developing caries (standard mean difference [95 percent confidence interval {ci}], -0.25 [-0.36 to -0.14] and -0.19 [-0.32 to -0.06], respectively). study findings showed either a decrease in the odds of having fluorosis (odds ratio [or] [95 percent ci] = 0.66 [0.48-0.90]) when the use of fluoride toothpaste was initiated after 24 months or no statistically significant difference (or [95 percent ci] = 0.92 [0.71-1.18]). 
Do products with the tropical fruit mangosteen promote health? [SEP] the tropical mangosteen fruit has long been prized in southeast asia for its traditional healing properties. mangosteen fruit juice is now available in the united states and marketed for its purported health benefits. mangosteen is a tropical fruit native to southeast asia. xanthones, the major components of mangosteen fruit, have been implicated in such effects. the mangosteen (garcinia mangostana) is a tropical fruit native to southeast asia and has long been reported to contain multiple health promoting properties. products derived from mangosteen are widely consumed to ameliorate metabolic dysfunction and resultant metabolic syndrome. mangosteen, garcinia mangostana l., is known as the "queen of fruits" and can be cultivated in the tropical rainforest such as malaysia, indonesia, and thailand. mangosteen (garcinia mangostana l.) fruit has a unique sweet-sour taste and is rich in beneficial compounds such as xanthones. in this review, we have covered recent articles within the years of 2016 to 2018 which focus on several aspects including the latest findings on the compound composition of mangosteen fruit as well as its medicinal usages. furthermore, we have also described the benefits of mangosteen extract in protecting various human organs such as liver, skin, joint, eye, neuron, bowel, and cardiovascular tissues against disorders and diseases. 
Are topical agents containing acids and oils, such as Excilor and Nailner, effective for nail fungus? [SEP] numerous substances and methods are applied to improve the antifungal agent delivery across the nail plate. incorporating thioglycolic acid and urea into formulations provided increased accumulation of antifungal agent in nail layers of up to 100% and 57%, respectively. the results suggest that this novel combination of enhancers has the potential to be an effective option for topical drug delivery through the nail, and increased the efficacy of treatment. nails were treated with the drug ex vivo and compared to untreated controls. the present data demonstrate that by the use of this drug, the agent effectively penetrates the nail plate and affects the fungal cells. commonly used anti-dermatophytic agents that are also active against the yeasts include the imidazoles, the allylamines-benzylamines and the hydroxypyridones, which are also effective against most of the moulds. more recently, topical treatment of the nail with 8% ciclopirox nail lacquer, bifonazole with urea and amorolfine have been reported to be successful. over the past decade, fungal foot infections of the skin and nail are more effectively treated with the introduction of numerous topical and oral agents. nail peeling with glycolic acid (ga) and low-concentration croton-oil free phenol (cfp) peels have been used in different nail conditions but not specifically for onm. we report the successful use of black peel (a superficial-to-medium depth peel used typically for anti-acne and cosmetic indications), a combination of 50% black acetic acid, 0.5% salicylic acid, 6% tetrahydrojasmonic acid, 10% bio sulphur, and 0.1% potassium iodide, in two difficult cases with onm of multiple nails, the rationale of use being the additional anti-fungal effects of all the peel components. 
Can weight loss programs reduce obesity in children and adolescents? [SEP] this study described overweight/obese children and adolescents seeking weight loss treatment regarding their age, gender, severity of obesity and maternal education in rasht city, northern iran. data on 1465 overweight/obese children and adolescents aged 2-18 years engaged in weight loss program were analyzed in this study. overweight and obese children in low-income households have limited access to weight loss programs. based on data collected at baseline and at the end of the acute intervention phase (10 weeks), we assessed the impact of the weight loss that resulted from participation in this weight reduction program on the resting energy expenditure and body composition of obese children and adolescents. we conclude that a multidisciplinary weight-reduction program that combines a very low calorie diet followed by a balanced hypocaloric diet, with a moderate-intensity progressive exercise program and behavior modification is an effective means for weight-reduction in obese children and adolescents. forty obese adolescents, 10 to 16 years of age, and their parents were surveyed prior to participation in a behavioral change weight control program at a major teaching hospital. implications for prevention and treatment of childhood obesity are discussed. programs that are effective for weight loss include peer-reviewed and approved lifestyle modification programs, diets, commercial weight-loss programs, exercise programs, medications, and surgery. to analyze the effect of a weight-loss program, we recruited 12 obese, male adolescents before entering this program. within the intervention group ((body mass index [bmi, kg/m2] > 95th percentile for age and sex, age 13-17 years) the bmi and bmi-standard deviation score [sds] were significantly reduced in the 6-week follow-up after completing the weight loss program. 
Does valerian help with sleep disorders? [SEP] to test the effects of nightly valerian (valeriana officinalis) extract to improve sleep of older women with insomnia. findings from this study add to the scientific evidence that does not support use of valerian in the clinical management of insomnia. valerian is an herb that is widely available in a variety of commercial preparations and is commonly used as a sleep aid. overall, the evidence, while supporting that valerian is a safe herb associated with only rare adverse events, does not support the clinical efficacy of valerian as a sleep aid for insomnia. the purpose of this research was to determine whether valerian/lemon balm could assist by enhancing sleep patterns in this client group. valerian (valeriana officinalis l.) is a popular herbal medicine used as a sleep aid, however the outcomes of previous clinical studies are inconsistent. in conclusion, valerian could be a safe and effective herb to promote sleep and prevent associated disorders. to present a pilot study of valerian to explore issues of feasibility and efficacy in studies of sedative herbs for arthritis-related sleep disturbance. valerian produced slightly greater, though nonsignificant, reductions of sleep latency relative to placebo and diphenhydramine at the end of 14 days of treatment and greater reductions than placebo at the end of 28 days of treatment. although valerian has been reported to exert a good effect for sleep as a medicine for internal use, the present study is the first medical report suggesting that the inhalation of valerian may enhance the sleep. 
Is milk thistle extract an effective treatment for liver disease? [SEP] clinical practice shows that milk thistle has a good anti-liver injury effect and can be used to prevent anti-tuberculosis drug-induced liver injury. the research carried out in this protocol is to systematically evaluate the efficacy and safety of milk thistle preventive treatment of anti-tuberculosis drug-induced liver injury, and to improve the evidence-based basis for clinical application of milk thistle in the preventive treatment of anti-tuberculosis drug-induced liver injury. in this research, the efficacy and safety of milk thistle preventive treatment of anti-tuberculosis drug-induced liver injury were evaluated by indicators such as the incidence of liver injury, bilirubin levels, and liver enzyme levels. in this research, reliable evidence-based evidence for the clinical application of milk thistle in the preventive treatment of anti-tuberculosis drug-induced liver injury was provided. milk thistle extracts have been used as a "liver tonic" for centuries. eighteen randomised clinical trials assessed milk thistle in 1088 patients with alcoholic and/or hepatitis b or c virus liver diseases. our results question the beneficial effects of milk thistle for patients with alcoholic and/or hepatitis b or c virus liver diseases and highlight the lack of high-quality evidence to support this intervention. thirteen randomised clinical trials assessed milk thistle in 915 patients with alcoholic and/or hepatitis b or c virus liver diseases. milk thistle (silybum marianum) has been used in humans for the treatment of liver disease because of its antioxidant properties and its ability to stabilize cell membranes and regulate cell permeability. milk thistle, an herbal compound, is the dietary supplement taken most frequently by patients with chronic liver disease. 
Do dietary supplements with amino acids and proteins help against muscle atrophy in old age (sarcopenia)? [SEP] resistance training combined with amino acid-containing supplements is the gold standard to prevent sarcopenia. supplementation with proteins (amino acids) only did not influence sarcopenic symptoms. since amino acids and energy are required for muscle synthesis it is possible that nutritional intake influences sarcopenia. evidence suggests that maintaining protein intake during a period of disuse attenuates disuse atrophy. furthermore, supplementation with dietary protein and/or essential amino acids can be applied to further aid in muscle mass preservation during disuse. such information will provide novel targets for nutritional interventions to further attenuate muscle disuse atrophy and, as such, support healthy aging. protein supplementation using cheese and milk protein, essential amino acids, leucine, beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate and vitamin d has been investigated as a potential supplement to improve muscle quality in sarcopenic elderly people. as such, protein supplementation may prove to be an effective approach to delay the loss of muscle mass with age and has led to calls for the recommended daily intake of protein to be increased for the elderly population. additional evidence suggests a protective role for protein supplementation in older adults to preserve lean body mass and prevent frailty, accepted intervention targets for reducing the risk of sarcopenia. this review summarizes the epidemiological and clinical trial evidence establishing the current definitions for sarcopenia and provides an overview of the state of the evidence for protein supplementation to prevent and/or mitigate sarcopenia. 
Can music therapy help people affected by stroke learn to walk normally again? [SEP] music-based therapy for rehabilitation induces neuromodulation at the brain level and improves the functional recovery. in line with this, musical rhythmicity improves post-stroke gait. this study aims to analyze the effects of rhythm of music therapy on gait in patients with ischemic stroke, and explore the value of music therapy in walking training in stroke. under the stimulation of music rhythm, applying music therapy to patients with ischemic stroke can improve their gait, walking ability, lower limb motor function, balance ability and treatment satisfaction. learning to play musical instruments such as piano was previously shown to benefit post-stroke motor rehabilitation. thirty-four patients in early stroke rehabilitation with moderate motor impairment and no previous musical background learned to play the piano using simple finger exercises and familiar children's songs. to demonstrate the effect of rhythmical auditory stimulation in a musical context for gait therapy in hemiparetic stroke patients, when the stimulation is played back measure by measure initiated by the patient's heel-strikes (musical motor feedback). does this type of musical feedback improve walking more than a less specific gait therapy? musical motor feedback improves the stroke patient's walk in selected parameters more than conventional gait therapy. results indicate that physical therapists can use (tailored) implicit and explicit motor learning strategies to improve walking speed in people after stroke who are in the chronic phase of recovery. 
Can music therapy help stroke victims with other problems??? [SEP] the purpose of this article is to educate nurses about music therapy and provide evidence for the therapeutic use of music in the rehabilitation setting for victims of stroke. literature and art therapy are highly effective psychological treatment for stroke patients. art therapy is one form of psychological therapy that can treat depression and anxiety in stroke patients. music-based therapy for rehabilitation induces neuromodulation at the brain level and improves the functional recovery. the aim of this study was to investigate how persons with stroke experience participation in rhythm and music therapy. to investigate the effects of music therapy on depressive mood and anxiety in post-stroke patients and evaluate satisfaction levels of patients and caregivers. music therapy has a positive effect on mood in post-stroke patients and may be beneficial for mood improvement with stroke. objective: this study aims to evaluate the efficacy of music-supported therapy for stroke patients' hand function. conclusion: based on the results, music-supported therapy could be a useful treatment for improving hand function and activities of daily living in patients with stroke, especially for patients within 6 months after stroke. music-supported therapy (mst) has been developed recently to improve the use of the affected upper extremity after stroke. 
Does plant or animal protein have an influence on lifespan? [SEP] increased animal but not plant protein intake has been associated with increased mortality in epidemiological studies in humans and with reduced lifespan in animal species. protein intake increases the activity of the igf-1 system which may provide a link to reduced lifespan. we, therefore, compared the effects of animal versus plant protein intake on circulating levels of igf-1 and the igf-binding proteins (igfbp)-1 and igfbp-2 over a 6-week period. since the concentration of protein determines the trade-offs between lifespan and fecundity, it is important to understand the level of protein and the extent of its influence on lifespan, fecundity and activity of fruit flies. we found that lifespan under different protein concentrations remains unaltered, even though protein restricted diets exerted an age-specific influence on fecundity. additionally, we report that not all concentrations of pr diet increase activity, thereby suggesting that the correlation between lifespan and the lifetime activity can be challenged under protein-restricted condition. nutrition has profound effects on ageing and lifespan. studies have suggested that a reduction in protein intake can also increase lifespan, albeit not as dramatically as caloric restriction. in drosophila, while a substantial body of research suggests that protein is the major dietary component affecting longevity, recent studies claim that carbohydrates also play a central role. we show that optimal lifespan requires both high carbohydrate and low protein consumption, but neither nutrient by itself entirely predicts lifespan. 
Does chicken soup help with colds? [SEP] chicken soup has long been regarded as a remedy for symptomatic upper respiratory tract infections. as it is likely that the clinical similarity of the diverse infectious processes that can result in "colds" is due to a shared inflammatory response, an effect of chicken soup in mitigating inflammation could account for its attested benefits. to evaluate this, a traditional chicken soup was tested for its ability to inhibit neutrophil migration using the standard boyden blindwell chemotaxis chamber assay with zymosan-activated serum and fmet-leu-phe as chemoattractants. chicken soup significantly inhibited neutrophil migration and did so in a concentration-dependent manner. the present study, therefore, suggests that chicken soup may contain a number of substances with beneficial medicinal activity. a mild anti-inflammatory effect could be one mechanism by which the soup could result in the mitigation of symptomatic upper respiratory tract infections. hot water by sip increased nasal mucus velocity from 6.2 to 8.4 mm per min, hot chicken soup by sip from 6.9 to 9.2 mm per min, and chicken soup by straw from 6.4 to 7.8 mm per min five minutes after administration. hot chicken soup, either through the aroma sensed at the posterior nares or through a mechanism related to taste, appears to possess an additional substance for increasing nasal mucus velocity. chicken soup is one of the most popular chinese-style soups due to its high nutritional value and special flavor. in addition, the presence of chicken alleviated bitter and fatty tastes in soups added with bone extracts, thus causing the soup to be more flavorful. 
Do herbal remedies containing an extract of Chinese tragacanth root, such as Lectranal or Allvent, help against allergies? [SEP] many suffering from allergies and asthma seek alternative therapies including traditional chinese medicines, fueling a surge in western interest in traditional chinese herbal remedies. this review summarizes the important publications focusing on traditional chinese medicine therapies for allergic disorders in the year 2005. clinical trials for anti-asthma traditional chinese medicine formulas, anti-asthma herbal medicine intervention, anti-asthma herbal medicine intervention, and modified mai men dong tang, show promise as efficacious treatments for asthma. food allergy herbal formula-2 is a traditional chinese medicine formula with good potential for a long-lasting treatment for food allergy. there is increasing scientific evidence supporting the use of traditional chinese medicine for asthma treatment. the herbal intervention food allergy herbal formula-2 is the only food and drug administration botanical investigational new drug under investigation as a multiple food allergy therapy. this review article discusses promising traditional chinese medicine interventions for asthma, food allergy, and comorbid conditions, and explores their possible mechanisms of action. research on tcm herbal therapy for food allergy is rare, and we therefore focused on the effect and mechanism of action of food allergy herbal formula-2 on a murine model of peanut allergy and preliminary clinical study results. evidence from clinical studies supports beneficial effects of tcm herbal therapy on asthma. strong preclinical study data suggest the potential efficacy of food allergy herbal formula-2 for food allergy. 
Does alkaline water keep you healthy or can it prevent disease? [SEP] ayurveda does not stand simply for the cure of certain diseases in individuals. it aims at keeping both the individual and the society healthy and happy by preservation and promotion of physical and mental health and prevention of diseases. residents of affluent nations are remarkably lucky to have high-quality, safe drinking water supplies that most residents of modem cities enjoy, particularly when considered in contrast to the toll of death and misery that unsafe drinking water causes for most of the world's population. and the more choices and information people are given, the healthier they will be. waters of the green river lakes were at times highly alkaline and hypersaline because the lake stratigraphy includes horizons rich in sodium carbonate and halite. since ca(oh)2 can inactivate a wide variety of pathogens, has a small environmental impact, does not require a disinfection tank (i.e., can be spread directly on the ground) and is produced inexpensively worldwide, it is used for the prevention of epidemics on farms worldwide. water is essential for the strong alkalinity that underlies its disinfecting effect, but it is unknown how much water is required under field conditions. what, if anything, does the jewish rabbinic tradition have to say about keeping healthy? second, the view that health is the reward for goodness and illness a punishment for sin as expounded or implied in the writings of nahmanides, and of ibn ezra: the way to good health is to lead a good life. good oral health is integral to optimum overall health. 
Do remedies with hops or valerian help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] valerian and hops are traditionally used as sleep-inducing aids. therefore, the efficacy of a valerian and hops combination in sleep disorder can scientifically be explained. valerian preparations alone or in combination with hops are popular over-the-counter products used for sleep disturbances or anxiety. some well-known herbal preparations (phytopharmaceuticals), including st. john's wort, california poppy, valerian, lavender, and hops, possess antidepressant, sedative, anxiolytic, or antidepressant properties and could be used to treat mental diseases such as depression, restlessness, and anxiety in pregnancy. sleep improvements with a valerian-hops combination are associated with improved quality of life. overall, these findings indicate that a valerian-hops combination and diphenhydramine might be useful adjuncts in the treatment of mild insomnia. valerian and hops are traditionally used as sleep aids. herbal medicines are popular and used worldwide and might be considered as a treatment option for anxiety if shown to be effective and safe. to investigate the effectiveness and safety of valerian for treating anxiety disorders. randomised controlled trials (rcts) and quasi-randomised trials of valerian extract of any dose, regime, or method of administration, for people with any primary diagnosis of general anxiety disorder, anxiety neurosis, chronic anxiety status, or any other disorder in which anxiety is the primary symptom (panic disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, social phobia, agoraphobia, other types of phobia, postraumatic stress disorder). 
Do extracts of African devil's claw (Harpagophytum procumbens) relieve pain in patients with osteoarthritis? [SEP] harpagophytum procumbens, or devil's claw, is an african plant whose root is used to relieve minor joint symptoms. harpagophytum procumbens, known as devil's claw, has been used traditionally for the treatment of pain, fevers, and dyspepsia. harpagophytum procumbens (devil's claw) is often used in the supportive treatment of inflammatory and degenerative diseases of the skeletal system. devil's claw is a common ingredient in nutraceutical products for the treatment of inflammation due to arthritis. a previous report showed that extracts of cell suspension and transformed root cultures of harpagophytum procumbens (commonly known as devil's claw), an african plant with high medicinal value, exhibit strong antiinflammatory characteristics. several other supplements are promoted for treating osteoarthritis, such as methylsulfonylmethane, harpagophytum procumbens (devil's claw), curcuma longa (turmeric), and zingiber officinale (ginger), but there is insufficient reliable evidence regarding long-term safety or effectiveness. devil's claw (harpagophytum procumbens) a plant native to southern africa, has historically been used in traditional medicine to treat a wide range of diseases and currently is widely employed as anti-inflammatory and pain-relieving natural remedy in europe and other parts of the world. preparations made from the secondary tubers of devil's claw (harpagophytum procumbens) are successfully used in patients with rheumatic diseases (arthrosis and low back pain). although this was an open clinical study, the results suggest that this devil's claw extract has a clinically beneficial effect in the treatment of arthrosis of the hip or knee. both the pure compound and devil's claw extracts have potent anti-rheumatic, anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects. 
Can probiotics prevent diarrhea after treatment with antibiotics? [SEP] probiotics may offer potential effective therapy for antibiotic-associated diarrhea by restoring intestinal microbial balance. the role of probiotics in the prevention and treatment of antibiotic-associated diarrhea, clostridium difficile diarrhea, and recurrent c. difficile diarrhea is reviewed. research has shown that several strains of probiotics are helpful in the prevention and treatment of antibiotic-associated diarrhea. to critically appraise evidence on probiotic use for prevention and treatment of diarrhea in children and adults. therefore, probiotics, as beneficial microorganisms for host health, have attracted clinical attention for their potential therapeutic application in the treatment of diarrhea. this review focuses on new research findings relevant to the effects of probiotics on diarrhea prevention and treatment and potential mechanisms of action for this alternative therapy for diarrhea. clinical trials suggest potential beneficial effects of probiotic therapy for preventing and treating antibiotic-associated diarrhea, acute diarrhea including rotavirus-induced diarrhea, traveler's diarrhea, and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. growing evidence suggests that probiotics may serve as a functional food in the treatment of diarrhea. clinical trials support the efficacy of probiotics in the treatment of acute infectious diarrhea, the prevention of antibiotic associated diarrhea, and the prevention of recurrent clostridium difficile infection. our objective in this study was to assess the efficacy of probiotics (of any specified strain or dose) for the prevention of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in children and to assess adverse events associated with the use of probiotics when coadministered with antibiotics to children. 
Is exercise an effective measure to combat depression? [SEP] regular physical exercise may prove valuable in this regard. objective: to investigate the potential mediational role of engagement in physical exercise on the association between depression and psychological burden related to covid-19. method: a sample of 1,322 participants (mage = 19.50 years, sd = 1.54) completed measures of depression and psychological burden related to covid-19 and self-reported their frequency of physical exercise. results: analyses revealed statistically significant associations between depression and psychological burden as well as between elevated depression and reduced physical exercise. whilst physical exercise appears to be beneficial in combating depression, it does not appear to be a sufficient strategy for impeding the experience of psychological burden. physical activity is a healthful behavior that has promise for combating feelings of low energy and fatigue. comparison of effect sizes in cardiac rehabilitation studies concurrently measuring energy/fatigue, anxiety and depression suggest that exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation programs have larger effects on feelings of energy and fatigue compared with anxiety and depression. evidence from well-conducted research supports using problem-solving or motivational interviewing behavioral techniques to address depression. the evidence is inconclusive for using multicomponent exercise programs to combat depression after stroke and for the use of stroke education and care support and coordination interventions to address poststroke anxiety. exercise combats obesity and enhances brain health. 
Can a tantrum trigger a heart attack? [SEP] temper tantrums among young children were investigated with the questionnaire parents' experiences of temper tantrums in children. the most frequently reported tantrum behaviour was 'screaming or shouting'. this article completes the analysis of parental narratives of tantrums had by 335 children aged 18 to 60 months. a novel analysis of behavior probabilities that permitted grouping of tantrums of different durations converged with our previous statistically independent results to yield a model of tantrums as the expression of two independent but partially overlapping emotional and behavioral processes: anger and distress. this model indicates that tantrums can provide a window on the intense emotional processes of childhood. temper tantrums are common and distressing, but little epidemiological information is available about them. severe tantrums may indicate the presence of multiple behavior problems and psychosocial stressors. temper tantrums are a normal response to anger and occur commonly in the child between one and four years of age. parenting practices that may encourage tantrums include inconsistency, unreasonable expectations, excessive strictness, overprotectiveness and overindulgence. this study explores the relationship of irritability to tantrums and loss of temper in a community and clinical sample. 
Can anger over a long period of time increase the risk of heart attack??? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to explore the association between outbursts of anger and acute myocardial infarction (ami) risk. outbursts of anger are associated with an abrupt increase in cardiovascular events; however, it remains unknown whether greater levels of anger intensity are associated with greater levels of ami risk or whether potentially modifiable factors can mitigate the short-term risk of ami. depression and anger have been separately associated with cardiovascular risk factors. we investigated if major depressive disorder (mdd) with concomitant anger attacks was associated with cardiovascular risk factors. previous reports of increased rates of cardiovascular risk factors in major depressive disorder (mdd) with anger attacks led the authors to hypothesize that mdd with anger attacks may be associated with brain vascular changes (magnetic resonance imaging white matter hyperintensities [wmhs]). our objectives were to study anger as a trigger of acute myocardial infarction (mi) and to explore potential effect modification by usual behavioral patterns related to hostility. high levels of anger are associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease and hypertension, but little is known about the role of anger in stroke risk. anger expression style and risk of incident stroke were examined in 2074 men (mean age, 53.0+/-5.2 years) from a population-based, longitudinal study of risk factors for ischemic heart disease and related outcomes in eastern finland. men who reported the highest level of expressed anger were at twice the risk of stroke (relative hazard, 2.03; 95% ci, 1.05 to 3.94) of men who reported the lowest level of anger, after adjustments for age, resting blood pressure, smoking, alcohol consumption, body mass index, low-density and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, fibrinogen, socioeconomic status, history of diabetes, and use of antihypertensive medications. additional analysis showed that these associations were evident only in men with a history of ischemic heart disease (n=481), among whom high levels of outwardly expressed anger (high anger-out) predicted >6-fold increased risk of stroke after risk factor adjustment (relative hazard, 6.87; 95% ci, 1.50 to 31.4). 
Can capsules with omega-3 fatty acids from fish oil relieve depression? [SEP] the patients were double-blind separated in 2 groups that received fish oil (containing omega-3 fatty acids) or mineral oil capsules for 3 months; each group was separated in 2 new groups: one taking antidepressant medication and another one not taking it. patients supplemented with fish oil showed a significant decrease in madrs and cgi-depression scores, and there was no difference among groups in bdi. these results reveal that pd patients taking fish oil, with or without antidepressants, presented improvement in depressive symptoms and indicate that the intake of omega-3 can be used with an antidepressant effect or as adjuvant therapy with some other medication. the use of dietary omega 3 fatty acid capsules has been associated with a decrease in plasma triglyceride levels. many individuals are currently taking fish oil capsules to lower lipids, increase bleeding time, and possibly decrease cardiovascular risk. pregnant and postpartum women with major depressive disorder (mdd) entered an 8-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of omega-3 fatty acids. a brand of fish oil capsules contains omega-3 fatty acids obtained from several fish sources. dietary deficiencies in essential omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids derived from fish are associated with depression and some fish oils may have therapeutic benefits. we aimed to determine whether taking tuna fish oil confers any additional benefit to conventional outpatient treatment for major depression. this particular dose and type of fish oil conferred no additional benefit to conventional treatment of depression in this sample. 
Does regular consumption of coffee increase the risk of heart disease such as heart attack or stroke? [SEP] the literature indicates that although caffeine in moderation is probably harmless, it does not predictably enhance performance, and the regular, heavy consumption of coffee may raise blood cholesterol and increase the risk of heart attack. regardless, a growing body of data suggests that habitual coffee consumption is neutral to beneficial regarding the risks of a variety of adverse cv outcomes including coronary heart disease, congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, and stroke. for many years, an association between coffee consumption and the risk of coronary heart disease has been suspected. we examined prospectively the relation of coffee consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction, need for coronary-artery bypass grafting or angioplasty, and risk of stroke in a cohort of 45,589 u.s. men who were 40 to 75 years old in 1986 and who had no history of cardiovascular disease. these findings do not support the hypothesis that coffee or caffeine consumption increases the risk of coronary heart disease or stroke. this review examines the effects of coffee on cardiovascular risk, outlines underlying biological mechanisms, and discusses implications for public health. in the past, coffee was often viewed as a cardiovascular risk-factor. in summary, for most healthy people, moderate coffee consumption is unlikely to adversely affect cardiovascular health. to examine the association between coffee consumption and the development of stroke in men at high risk for cardiovascular disease. although in need of further confirmation, consumption of coffee appears to be positively associated with an increased risk of thromboembolic stroke in hypertensive men in older middle-age. 
Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of becoming overweight later in life? [SEP] rapid weight gain from birth to 12 months was associated with higher odds for being overweight later in life, and the weight gain between 18 months and four years of age was the strongest risk factor for being overweight in late adolescence in both sexes. overweight, obesity in pregnant women and cesarean section were significant risk factors. neonates delivered by cesarean section showed a higher weight loss (% of birth weight) at 24 hours {mean(sd)} than those delivered vaginally {3.2 (1.9) vs 2.2 (1.2); p-value=0.0016}. at 72 hours, the cesarean neonates had higher weight loss than vaginally delivered neonates {5.9 (3.1) vs 4.7 (2.5); p-value=0.0314}. at 28 days of life, the neonates born by cesarean section showed lower weight gain than those delivered by vaginal route {10.9 (2.1) vs 11.9 (2.3); p-value=0.0244}. babies delivered by cesarean section showed significantly higher weight loss in the first week of life, and lower weight gain at the end of first month than babies born by vaginal route. to investigate whether children delivered by cesarean had a higher risk of being overweight from early until late childhood and whether they had a higher blood pressure in adolescence compared with children delivered vaginally. children born by cesarean delivery (n = 236, 8.9%) had a 1.52 (95% ci 1.18, 1.96) higher odds of being overweight throughout childhood than children delivered vaginally. compared with children delivered vaginally, children delivered by cesarean had a 52% higher risk of being overweight throughout childhood, but this was not accompanied by a higher blood pressure in adolescence. clinical evidence suggests that babies born by cesarean section have higher incidence rates of allergy, type 1 diabetes, and obesity. 
Do cesarean babies have a higher risk of asthma and allergies later in life? Do they have an increased risk of type 1 diabetes?? [SEP] disrupted colonization (dysbiosis) due to cesarean section delivery, perinatal antibiotics, or premature delivery may adversely affect the development of host defense mechanisms in the gut and predispose to inflammation leading to increased susceptibility to disease later in life. clinical evidence suggests that babies born by cesarean section have higher incidence rates of allergy, type 1 diabetes, and obesity. babies born by cesarean section have a higher incidence of allergy, type 1 diabetes, and obesity. mature children born by cesarean delivery were analyzed for risk of hospital contact for chronic immune diseases recorded in the danish national registries in the 35-year period 1977-2012. children delivered by cesarean delivery had significantly increased risk of asthma, systemic connective tissue disorders, juvenile arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, immune deficiencies, and leukemia. no associations were found between cesarean delivery and type 1 diabetes, psoriasis, or celiac disease. cesarean delivery exemplifies a shared environmental risk factor in early life associating with several chronic immune diseases. cesarean delivery was associated with increased risk of food allergy, whereas very preterm birth decreased risk. severe asthma increased the risk of cesarean delivery (or = 1.35; 95% ci: 1.11-1.63) compared with mild asthma, but no association was found between asthma severity and the other outcomes. the increased risk of cesarean among women with severe asthma may be explained by the physician's and patient's concerns over the safety of normal delivery. 
Does the pregnancy hormone hCG help with weight loss? [SEP] pregnancy losses at day 33 post ftai were lower in the hcg group compared to the gnrh and control groups (0, 3, 7.2%, respectively; p < 0.05). in conclusion, administration of hcg or gnrh at day 4 post ftai does not improve pregnancy rate but treatment with hcg reduces pregnancy loss on day 33 post ftai. serum hcg, estradiol (e2) and progesterone levels were found to be significantly lower in the pregnancy loss group. the structure of the hcg molecule and its biological activity in women with a history of recurrent pregnancy loss are apparently not different from those in women with normal pregnancy. intrinsic gonadotropic and thyrotropic activities of the hcg molecule appear to play no major role in recurrent pregnancy loss. compared to control, treatment with ecg improved (p < 0.05) conception and parturition rates by 24 and 22%; respectively, while gnrh and hcg treatments decreased (p < 0.05) them by 57 and 47.6%; respectively. third, hcg-h has minimal biological activity in promoting progesterone production compared to regular hcg. fifth, hcg-h is an essential component for successful human implantation to prevent early pregnancy loss and spontaneous abortion. sixth, hcg-h is critical for promoting the midtrimester hemochorial implantation, and for preventing preeclampsia. seventh, measurements of hcg-h have advantages over measurements of regular hcg or total hcg, in detecting pregnancy, pregnancy outcome (failing or term pregnancy), predicting preeclampsia in pregnancy, or as a tumor marker for gestational trophoblastic diseases. 
Does cupping relieve chronic neck and back pain? [SEP] wet cupping appears to decrease low back and neck pain. massage therapies such as cupping are often applied in patients with chronic neck and back pain with the assumption that they can reduce increased tissue stiffness and, therefore, improve pain. low-quality evidence revealed dry cupping had a significant effect on pain reduction for chronic neck pain (md, -21.67; 95% ci, -36.55, to -6.80) and low back pain (md, -19.38; 95%ci, -28.09, to -10.66). moderate-quality evidence suggested that dry cupping improved functional status for chronic neck pain (md, -4.65; 95%ci, -6.44, to -2.85). dry cupping was found to be effective for reducing pain in patients with chronic neck pain and non-specific low back pain. the findings from six reviews showed potential benefits of cupping for conditions such as low back pain, ankylosing spondylitis, knee osteoarthritis, neck pain, herpes zoster, migraine, plaque psoriasis, and chronic urticaria. in this preliminary trial we investigated the effects of dry cupping, an ancient method for treating pain syndromes, on patients with chronic non-specific neck pain. a series of five dry cupping treatments appeared to be effective in relieving chronic non-specific neck pain. cupping therapy has shown positive results on chronic back pain. cupping therapy is a promising method for the treatment of chronic back pain in adults. 
Can eating broccoli or broccoli sprouts improve gastritis symptoms? [SEP] thus, selenium enrichment of broccoli has the potential to enhance the anticancer properties of broccoli sprouts. selenium-enriched broccoli sprouts were superior to normal broccoli sprouts in inhibiting cell proliferation, decreasing prostate-specific antigen secretion, and inducing apoptosis of prostate cancer cells. our results suggest that selenium-enriched broccoli sprouts could potentially be used as an alternative selenium source for prostate cancer prevention and therapy. we sought to determine whether orally consumed broccoli sprouts could eradicate helicobacter pylori infection in infected human volunteers. consumption of oral broccoli sprouts was temporally associated with eradication of h. pylori infection in three of nine patients. most patients found broccoli sprouts palatable. the present studies examined the ability of high-se broccoli or high-se broccoli sprouts to protect against chemically induced mammary or colon cancer. the sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts showed excellent potency against neuroinflammation conditions, as evidenced by its protective effects in both 6 and 24 h of microglial activation in vitro. simultaneously, sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts inhibited the lps-induced activation of the nf-κb signaling pathway and the secretions of inflammatory proteins (inos, cox-2, tnf-α, il-6, il-1β, pge2, etc. the present study suggests that sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts might be a potential nutraceutical with antineuroinflammatory and neuroprotective activities. 
Do Schuessler salts work? (alternative spellings: Schuessler salts or Schuessler salts) [SEP] a little over 5 years ago, laparoscopy was introduced into the field of urology via the pioneering work of william schuessler, and later howard winfield, in the realm of laparoscopic pelvic lymph node dissection. spores of arbuscular mycorrhizal (am) fungus funneliformis mosseae (nicolson & gerdemann) walker & schuessler were cultured in association with transformed roots of linum usitatissimum l. (linaceae) for the first time on modified strullu-romand medium (ph 5.5) in monoxenic culture. hyphal contact with transformed linum roots was observed 5 days after co-cultivation. secondary spores that proved viable were subsequently transferred from in vitro to in vivo culture where arum-type arbuscules, intra-radical intercellular hyphae, and extra-radical spores were observed. in a previous study (j. h. t. bates, a. m. lauzon, g. s. dechman, g. n. makaym, and t. f. schuessler. we assessed the suitability of a filtering technique, originally described by schuessler et al (1998 ann. laparoscopic pyeloplasty was first described by schuessler. during the last decade, this technique has been developed in order to achieve the same results as open surgery, with lower rates of morbidity and complications. the transperitoneal laparoscopic pyeloplasty has become the gold standard for the treatment of ureteropelvic junction stenosis in our center because of high success rate, shorter postoperative stay, and low intra and postoperative complications. the selection of twelve social life feeling scales developed by karl f. schuessler is based on their established reliability, their ease of use, and their embodiment in covering concepts pertaining to both a person's outlook on society (cynical, pessimistic, fatalistic) and his or her frame of mind in society (demoralized, estranged, alienated). 
Does pelvic floor training help women with stress-related urinary incontinence? [SEP] our review confirms that pelvic floor muscle exercise is particularly beneficial in the treatment of urinary stress incontinence in females. studies have shown up to 70% improvement in symptoms of stress incontinence following appropriately performed pelvic floor exercise. the aim of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of pelvic floor muscle training and abdominal training in women with stress urinary incontinence. participants included women with stress urinary incontinence, without overactive bladder symptoms, who completed a 3-month pelvic floor muscle training. this study showed that pelvic floor muscle training may improve female sexual function in women with pure stress urinary incontinence. based on data available, we can be confident that pelvic floor muscle training can cure or improve symptoms of stress and all other types of urinary incontinence. two pelvic floor muscle protocols were compared regarding their effect on stress urinary incontinence in women: one focusing on standard physiotherapy with voluntary pelvic floor muscle training, the other additionally including involuntary reflexive pelvic floor muscle training. pelvic floor training reduced the use of incontinence appliances and urinary leakage both in stress and urge-incontinent women. pelvic floor muscle training is the most commonly used physical therapy treatment for stress urinary incontinence. pelvic floor muscle training effectively treats female stress urinary incontinence. 
Can methadone enhance the effects of chemotherapy or other cancer treatments and help cure cancer? [SEP] since the analgesic methadone is discussed as being a sensitizer for chemotherapy, we tested its effects on the cisplatin treatment of bladder cancer cells. methadone was shown to enhance the cytotoxic effects of cisplatin on t24 cells based on the induction of apoptosis. methadone could act as a chemosensitizer in the future treatment of advanced bladder cancer. methadone has several unique properties that can be beneficial in the treatment of neuropathic pain and cancer pain unresponsive to other opioids, but some of these properties make it very dangerous and difficult to prescribe properly. methadone has beneficial characteristics as an analgesic against cancer pain, including high bioavailability, multiple receptor affinities, and lack of active metabolites that might induce adverse side effects. however, methadone has an own pharmacological profile that should be considered in the treatment of cancer patients. there is evidence from preclinical studies that methadone could also elicit antitumor activity by downregulating the threshold of apoptosis and to enhance the effects of different chemotherapeutic agents. this confirms the concept of using methadone as a chemosensitizer in the future treatment of cancer. our article discusses major issues about the role of methadone as a possible "tumor theralgesic," combining tumor therapeutic and analgesic activities. methadone, a synthetic opioid with multiple mechanisms of action, is gaining increasing importance as an effective agent in the treatment of cancer related neuropathic pain. 
Can treatment with tea tree oil relieve pimples (acne)? [SEP] one study has suggested the efficacy of tea tree oil in treatment of the acne vulgaris. to determine the efficacy of tea tree oil in mild to moderate acne vulgaris. topical 5% tea tree oil is an effective treatment for mild to moderate acne vulgaris. this study supports the use of tea-tree oil in the treatment of acne, and demonstrates that terpinen-4-ol is not the sole active constituent of the oil. we have performed a single-blind, randomised clinical trial on 124 patients to evaluate the efficacy and skin tolerance of 5% tea-tree oil gel in the treatment of mild to moderate acne when compared with 5% benzoyl peroxide lotion. the results of this study showed that both 5% tea-tree oil and 5% benzoyl peroxide had a significant effect in ameliorating the patients' acne by reducing the number of inflamed and non-inflamed lesions (open and closed comedones), although the onset of action in the case of tea-tree oil was slower. the aims of this review were to collate and evaluate the clinical evidence on the use of tea tree oil products for treating acne, to review safety and tolerability and to discuss the underlying modes of therapeutic action. tea tree oil, a popular antimicrobial agent is recommended for the treatment of acne vulgaris, a disease of the pilosebaceous unit. the efficacy, tolerability and acceptability of a tea tree oil gel (200 mg/g) and face wash (7 mg/g) were evaluated for the treatment of mild to moderate facial acne. this study shows that the use of the tea tree oil products significantly improved mild to moderate acne and that the products were well tolerated. 
Does sugar consumption impair memory or other mental performance? [SEP] high levels of sugar consumption have been associated with the development of obesity, however less is known about how sugar consumption influences behavioral control and high-order cognitive processes. these results suggest that consumption of high levels of sugar-sweetened beverages by adolescents may also impair neurocognitive functions affecting decision-making and memory, potentially rendering them at risk for developing mental health disorders. although high sugar intakes are recognised to increase the risk of obesity and related metabolic disturbances, less is known about how sugar might also impair cognition and learned behaviour. the available evidence clearly indicates that sugar consumption can induce cognitive dysfunction. these findings suggest that high dietary intake of both fat and sugar may impair spatial cognition which could be relevant for mental functioning in humans. here we explore whether excessive early life consumption of added sugars negatively impacts memory function via the gut microbiome. chronic early life sugar consumption impaired adult hippocampal-dependent memory function without affecting body weight or anxiety-like behavior. these results showed a strongly association of simple sugars-rich diet consumption during the development with memory impairments. added dietary sugars contribute substantially to the diet of children and adolescents in the usa, and recent evidence suggests that consuming sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs) during early life has deleterious effects on hippocampal-dependent memory function. excessive consumption of added sugars negatively impacts metabolic systems; however, effects on cognitive function are poorly understood. 
Does extra folic acid in men help prevent birth defects in children? [SEP] folic acid prevents most cases of spina bifida and anencephaly by raising serum folate levels among women capable of bearing children, as does encouraging women to consume folic acid supplements prior to pregnancy. the fortification of wheat flour with folic acid prevents most cases of spina bifida and anencephaly by raising serum folate levels among women capable of bearing children, as does encouraging women to consume folic acid supplements prior to pregnancy. folic acid fortification of centrally processed foods, such as wheat and corn flour, could immediately prevent all of these birth defects for much of the world's population. spina bifida and anencephaly are largely preventable birth defects through mandatory folic acid fortification. we assumed mandatory folic acid fortification at 200 μg/day of folic acid fully protects against fap sba, reducing the prevalence of spina bifida and anencephaly to 0.5 per 1,000 live births. low serum and red blood cell levels of folic acid in women of childbearing potential increase the risk of fetal birth defects. to review the data supporting the periconceptional use of folic acid for the prevention of neural tube defects and to explore how canadian physicians can help foster preventive strategies. epidemiological studies and randomized trials of supplemental folic acid for prevention of neural tube defects. almost all students (93.9%) correctly identified folic acid as preventing birth defects. of those, 76.3% identified folic acid as the one vitamin specifically associated with reduction of birth defects. 
Does taking ginger reduce nausea and vomiting during pregnancy? [SEP] although ginger is used in many cultures to treat the symptoms of nausea and vomiting, no trials have established its safety for use during pregnancy. to investigate the effect of ginger in nausea and vomiting during pregnancy in comparison with vitamin b6 and placebo. ginger is effective for relieving the severity of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy. to review literature assessing the safety and efficacy of the use of ginger to treat nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of ginger in the management of nausea and vomiting in pregnancy were reviewed. ginger has been shown to improve the symptoms of nausea and vomiting compared with placebo in pregnant women. while data are insufficient to recommend ginger universally and there are concerns with product quality due to limited regulation of dietary supplements, ginger appears to be a fairly low-risk and effective treatment for nausea and vomiting associated with pregnancy. considering the potential teratogenic effect in fetus due to chemical drugs, ginger can be used to treat nausea and vomiting during pregnancy. therefore, this meta-analysis aims to explore the effect of ginger in the treatment of nausea and vomiting during pregnancy compared with placebo and vitamin b6.methods: the randomized control trials (rcts) on the association with ginger and pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting were searched and identified in two databases web of science and pubmed (up to april 2019). this study assesses the effects of ginger on nausea and vomiting caused by pregnancy and compares it with metoclopramide medicine. 
Does taking ginger prevent motion sickness?? [SEP] powder ginger (whole root, 500 or 1,000 mg) or fresh ginger root (1,000 mg) provided no protection against motion sickness. although powdered ginger (500 mg) partially inhibited tachygastria in motion sickness, it did not enhance the egg amplitude in motion sick subjects. we conclude that ginger does not possess antimotion sickness activity, nor does it significantly alter gastric function during motion sickness. the efficacy of ginger rhizome for the prevention of nausea, dizziness, and vomiting as symptoms of motion sickness (kinetosis), as well as for postoperative vomiting and vomiting of pregnancy, has been well documented and proved beyond doubt in numerous high-quality clinical studies. ginger has long been used as an alternative medication to prevent motion sickness. we hypothesize that ginger ameliorates the nausea associated with motion sickness by preventing the development of gastric dysrhythmias and the elevation of plasma vasopressin. in this manner, ginger may act as a novel agent in the prevention and treatment of motion sickness. it is more likely that any reduction of motion-sickness symptoms derives from the influence of the ginger root agents on the gastric system. ginger and several other medications were compared with scopolamine and d-amphetamine for effectiveness in prevention of motion sickness. various ginger compounds improve gastrointestinal problems and motion sickness. 
Are electric cigarettes less harmful than tobacco smoking? [SEP] in the cases of smokeless tobacco and electronic cigarettes, the risks to health are less clear and there may be evidence of a harm reduction compared to cigarettes. (3) can e-cigarettes help tobacco smokers quit? although e-cigarettes may be less harmful than tobacco cigarettes, they are definitely not harmless. logistic regression was conducted to examine the relationship between cigarette harm perceptions and the perception of e-cigarettes as less harmful than cigarettes for current, ever, and never cigarette smokers. regardless of cigarette smoking status, ever users of e-cigarettes and those with "dose-dependent" cigarette harm perceptions consistently were more likely to perceive e-cigarettes as less harmful than conventional cigarettes. children exposed to electronic cigarette (e-cigarette) adverts may perceive occasional tobacco smoking as less harmful than children not exposed to e-cigarette adverts. currently available evidence indicates that electronic cigarettes are by far a less harmful alternative to smoking and significant health benefits are expected in smokers who switch from tobacco to electronic cigarettes. overall, those who used any tobacco product perceived e-cigarettes as less harmful when compared to abstainers. 40.7% of adults believed that electronic cigarettes were less harmful than cigarettes, and 17.8% of adults believed that hookah was less harmful than cigarettes. e-cigarettes and hookah in particular are seen as less harmful compared to cigarettes. 
Does parents licking the pacifier protect children from allergic diseases? [SEP] oral microbes may be transferred from parents to infants via pacifiers. we investigated whether pacifier cleaning practices affected the risk of allergy development. children whose parents "cleaned" their pacifier by sucking it (n = 65) were less likely to have asthma (odds ratio [or] 0.12; 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.01-0.99), eczema (or 0.37; 95% ci 0.15-0.91), and sensitization (or 0.37; 95% ci 0.10-1.27) at 18 months of age than children whose parents did not use this cleaning technique (n = 58). vaginal delivery and parental pacifier sucking yielded independent and additive protective effects against eczema development. the salivary microbiota differed between children whose parents cleaned their pacifier by sucking it and children whose parents did not use this practice. parental sucking of their infant's pacifier may reduce the risk of allergy development, possibly via immune stimulation by microbes transferred to the infant via the parent's saliva. the purpose of the study was to examine the relationship between ear infections and dentition, sucking habits, pacifier sucking and atopic and allergic diseases in a historic cohort survey. the children who had used a pacifier had a greater risk of having recurrent attacks of acute otitis media in their history than those who had not used a pacifier (risk ratio (rr), 1.43; 95% confidence interval (ci), 1.06-1.93; p = 0.02). the risk of developing otitis media in an infant is two times greater if a pacifier is used and five times greater if bottle fed or attending a day care facility. the aim of this review was to identify whether, in children under 2 years of age, pacifier (dummy) use results in an increased risk of ear infection (acute otitis media). 
Does calcium help with allergy? [SEP] food allergies are an important cause of morbidity in the pediatric population. eczema and food allergy may impact diet. using data from a cohort of manitoba children born in 1995, we examined calcium intake, defined as the frequency and quality of calcium products consumed (with the exception of cheese), amongst manitoba adolescents (12-14 years) with eczema or food allergy in childhood (7-8 years) or adolescence. compared to children without eczema, those with eczema only had poorer calcium intake in adolescence (β -0.44; 95%ci -0.96; 0.00). girls, but not boys, with eczema in childhood had poorer calcium intake in adolescence than girls without eczema (β -0.84; 95%ci -1.60; -0.08). childhood eczema is associated with significantly lower calcium intake and consumption in adolescence. allergy testing serves to confirm an allergic trigger suspected on the basis of history. however, a positive test result does not always equate with clinical allergy. more than 25% of children in both groups consumed less than 67% of the dri (rda or ai) for calcium, vitamin d, and vitamin e. more children with cow's milk allergy or multiple food allergies consumed dietary calcium less than age- and gender-specific recommendations compared with children without cow's milk allergy and/or one food allergy. the possibility of consuming a less than recommended intake of calcium and vitamin d in children with food allergy was less if the child received nutrition counseling (p<.05) or consumed a safe infant/toddler formula or fortified soy beverage. 
Can taking vitamin D relieve chronic pain? [SEP] numerous studies have shown the potential role of vitamins in relieving both hyperalgesia and allodynia. the association between vitamin d deficiency or insufficiency and pain in the musculoskeletal system, especially in the neck and/or back regions, and/or muscle spasm is not well studied. the goal of this report is to examine the association between vitamin d deficiency and insufficiency and chronic neck and back pain and muscle spasm and the role of correction of vitamin d deficiency and insufficiency in the treatment of chronic pain and muscle spasm, especially in the neck and back regions. this case series reviewed medical records to identify patients with chronic pain (lasting from 6 months to 1 year) in the neck and back regions that improved significantly through the correction of the vitamin d deficiency or insufficiency. vitamin d deficiency and insufficiency can cause or worsen neck and back pain and muscle spasm. the correction of vitamin d deficiency and insufficiency plays an important role in the treatment of chronic neck and back pain and muscle spasm among patients having concurrent vitamin d deficiency and insufficiency because it can be prevented and treated easily.given the high health care expenditure on the treatment of chronic neck and back pain, prompt and accurate diagnosis and treatment of vitamin d deficiency and insufficiency not only increase the quality of care but also reduce the cost. vitamin d deficiency has been linked to many chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, depression, and chronic pain. this study aims to examine the factors associated with vitamin d testing, intake, and physician-advised supplementation in individuals with chronic pain. the findings suggest older age (or 3.12, ci [1.02, 9.50]) and higher mean pain intensity score (or 2.02, ci [1.13, 3.59]) increased an individual's chance of being vitamin d deficient. unemployment or on leave due to pain (or 1.79, [ci 1.03, 3.11]), part-time employment (or 1.86, ci [1.02, 3.39]), and being a resident of australia (or 2.32, ci [1.13, 4.72]) increased chances of being tested for vitamin d. being diagnosed with vitamin d deficiency (or 6.67, ci [2.75, 16.19]), unemployed or on leave due to pain (or 3.71, ci [1.25, 11.00]), and in part-time employment (or 2.69, ci [0.86, 8.38]) were associated with physician-advised vitamin d supplementation. 
Does aloe vera relieve discomfort caused by psoriasis? [SEP] the aim was to justify the consideration of aloe vera as an effective remedy for the treatment of psoriasis. the study follows (857) patients (354 females, 503 males) with a mean age range from (9 - 62) years, affected with moderate to severe psoriasis in palms and foot soles treated by a combination mixture of propolis and aloe in the form of an ointment (aloreed) and beauty reed cream. after the 12 - week treatment, we observed an 86% overall response rate from which 62% showed excellent results and 24% showed good results, therefore proving the efficiency in the use of the mixture of propolis 50% and aloe vera 3% as topically applied ointment in the treatment of mild to moderate psoriasis. patients who have palmoplantar psoriasis, who were treated with a topically applied mixture of propolis (50%) and aloe vera (3%), have shown noteworthy improvement thus proving the efficiency of propolis and aloe vera in the treatment of mild to moderate psoriasis. in comparison with group 2 (placebo group) patients in group 1, treated with a mixture of propolis (50%) and aloe vera (3%), in the form of an ointment have shown noteworthy improvement thus substantiating the therapeutic value of propolis and aloe vera in the treatment of mild to moderate psoriasis. for this reason often psoriatic patients look for alternative treatments based on natural products containing aloe vera. we conducted a systematic review of clinical trials assessing effectiveness and safety of aloe for the treatment of psoriasis. the aloe vera plant has been used for an array of ailments, including skin diseases. to test the effect of a commercial, preserved, but otherwise untreated aloe vera gel in psoriasis. the effect of this commercial aloe vera gel on stable plaque psoriasis was modest and not better than placebo. 
Does aloe vera help with neurodermatitis, poorly healing or fresh wounds? [SEP] plant extracts, such as aloe vera, have attracted significant attention in wound management because of their interesting biological properties. aloe vera influences numerous factors that are involved in wound healing and stimulates accelerated healing. animal studies have suggested that aloe vera may help accelerate the wound healing process. to determine the effects of aloe vera-derived products (for example dressings and topical gels) on the healing of acute wounds (for example lacerations, surgical incisions and burns) and chronic wounds (for example infected wounds, arterial and venous ulcers). five trials in people with acute wounds evaluated the effects of aloe vera on burns, haemorrhoidectomy patients and skin biopsies. although the beneficial effects of aloe vera on wound healing have been proven, little is known about its effects at the cellular level. the use of aloe vera dermal wound gel was associated with a significant delay in wound healing compared with treatment with an otherwise identical regimen that did not include aloe vera. various studies reported that aloe vera has useful effects on wounds especially cutaneous wounds healing. therefore in the current review, we examined the effect of aloe vera on cutaneous wound healing and concluded that although aloe vera improves the wound healing as well as other procedures both clinically and experimentally, more studies are still needed to approve the outcomes. the present study examined the effects of aloe vera cream compared to placebo cream and gauze dressing on the rates of wound healing and infection at the donor site. 
Does electromagnetic radiation from cell phone towers cause health problems such as headaches or sleep disorders? [SEP] cell phones use electromagnetic, nonionizing radiations in the microwave range, which some believe may be harmful to human health. consequences of long-term exposure to the electromagnetic radiation caused by cell phone towers are still unknown and can potentially be a new health hazard. the increased use of mobile phones worldwide has focused interest on the biological effects and possible health outcomes of exposure to radiofrequency fields from mobile phones, and their base stations. various reports suggest that mobile phone use can cause health problems like fatigue, headache, dizziness, tension, and sleep disturbances; however, only limited research data is available in medical literature regarding interaction between electromagnetic fields emitted by mobile phones and auditory function; and the possible impact on hearing. exposure of the general population to electromagnetic radiation emitted by mobile phone base stations is one of the greater concerns of residents affected by the proximity of these structures due to the possible relationship between radiated levels and health indicators. electromagnetic radiation emitted by cell phone towers is a form of environmental pollution and is a new health hazard, especially to children and patients. background: electromagnetic pollution is a general health concern worldwide, as cell phone towers are ubiquitous and are located adjacent to or on the roof of schools, and hospitals. there has been gradually increasing concern about the adverse health effects of electromagnetic radiation originating from cell phones which are widely used in modern life. cell phone radiation may affect human health by increasing free radicals of human blood cells. the purpose of this research was to investigate exposure to electromagnetic field, cell phone use behaviors, the specific absorption rate (sar) values, and changes in health occurring after exposure in university students. 
Can antibiotic-resistant germs from animal husbandry be transferred to humans? [SEP] the application of molecular methods to typing and characterization of bacteria and their resistance genes has provided more concise evidence for the transfer of antibiotic resistance among animal husbandry and humans as to resistance to glycopeptides (vana gene cluster) and to streptogramins (sata). both in humans and animals, positive associations between the consumption of antibiotics and resistant bacteria are observed. the extent to which antibiotics given to animals contribute to the overall problem of antibiotic resistance in man is still uncertain. the development of resistance in some human pathogens, such as methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and multi-drug resistant mycobacterium tuberculosis, is linked to the use of antimicrobials in man and there is no evidence for animal involvement. however, there are several good examples of transfer of resistant bacteria or bacterial resistance genes from animals to man via the food chain. the development of resistance in some human pathogens, such as methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and multi-drug resistant mycobacterium tuberculosis, is linked to the use of antimicrobials in man and there is no evidence for animal involvement. however, there are several good examples of transfer of resistant bacteria or bacterial resistance genes from animals to man via the food chain. the transmission of drug-resistant type 29, directly or indirectly, from bovines to man resulted in many human infections. transferable drug resistance reaching man from enterobacteria of animal origin may ultimately enter specifically human pathogens. the usage of antibiotics in animal husbandry has promoted the development and abundance of antibiotic resistance in farm environments. 
Does the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry harm human health? [SEP] as in human medicine, exposure to antibiotics has lead to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in animal populations. the potential impact of antibiotic use in animals on human health and the management of clinical infections in humans is discussed in light of growing evidence to suggest that "new" resistance genes and multiresistant pathogens with increased pathogenicity are emerging in food animals as a direct consequence of antibiotic exposure. thirty-seven years ago, the joint committee on the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry and veterinary medicine (the swann report) warned that uncontrolled use of similar antibiotics in humans and food animals could promote the emergence of resistant strains of foodborne bacteria that could endanger human health. animal antimicrobial use and husbandry practices increase risk of emerging zoonotic disease and antibiotic resistance. the mass use of antibiotics in animal husbandry is contaminating the food supply with resistant bacteria, causing difficult-to-treat infections while reducing the power of antibiotics to cure human infections. since the 1950s, antibiotics have been used in the field of animal husbandry for growth promotion, therapy and disease prophylaxis. however, studies show the indiscriminate use of antibiotics has led to the emergence of multidrug-resistant pathogens that threaten both animal health and human health, including vancomycin-resistant enterococcus (vre), methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) and carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae (cre). antibiotics are used in human, livestock and agriculture, contributing to its escalation in the environment. environmental antibiotics pose a range of risks and have significant effects on human and animal health. in the area of health care, animal husbandry and crop processing, the imprudent use of antibiotic drugs produces antibiotic-resistant bacteria. 
Does regular vitamin D intake lower the risk of cancer in adults? [SEP] investigations have revealed that vitamin d plays an important role in many areas of health and disease. review of the literature indicates that adequate vitamin d intake is associated with decreased risk of falls and bone fractures in the elderly, breast and gastrointestinal cancer risk, cardiovascular disease, and possibly all cause mortality, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis. adequate intake of vitamin d is important for maintenance of good health, and may be achieved through diet and oral supplementation. prior research suggests that vitamin d protects against lung cancer only among certain subgroups. we investigated whether vitamin d intake was associated with lung cancer and explored whether vitamin a intake modified the association. among never smokers, a total vitamin d intake ≥400 iu/d was significantly associated with lower risks of lung cancer (hr: 0.37; 95% ci: 0.18, 0.77 for ≥800 compared with <100 iu/d; p-trend = 0.01). no significant effect modification of total vitamin a intake on the association between total vitamin d intake and lung cancer was found. however, the calcium/vitamin d trial active intervention was significantly associated with a lower lung cancer risk only among women with a vitamin a intake <1000 μg/d retinol activity equivalents (hr: 0.69; 95% ci: 0.50, 0.96; p-interaction = 0.09). vitamin d intake was associated with a lower lung cancer risk in never-smoking, postmenopausal women. lower vitamin a intake may be important for a beneficial association of 1 g ca + 400 iu vitamin d3 supplementation with lung cancer. 
Does regular consumption of ground flaxseed harm health? [SEP] to investigate the association between intake of flaxseed-the richest source of dietary lignans (a class of phytoestrogens)-and breast cancer risk. logistic regression was used to investigate associations between consumption of flaxseed and flax bread and breast cancer risk. consumption of flaxseed was associated with a significant reduction in breast cancer risk (odds ratio (or) = 0.82, 95 % confidence interval (ci) 0.69-0.97), as was consumption of flax bread (or = 0.77, 95 % ci 0.67-0.89). this canadian study is, to our knowledge, the first to report on the association between flaxseed alone and breast cancer risk and has found that flaxseed intake is associated with a reduction in breast cancer risk. as dietary intake of flaxseed is modifiable, this finding may be of public health importance with respect to breast cancer prevention. in a randomized, crossover study, 12 healthy subjects supplemented their diet with 0.3 g whole, crushed, or ground flaxseed/(kg body weight . in conclusion, dietary flaxseed can be safely added whole to layer diets up to 15% without any detrimental effects on hen-day egg production. owing to their established high nutritional profile, flaxseeds have gained an established reputation as a dietary source of high value functional ingredients. however, despite their food and health applications, flaxseeds contain high levels of phytotoxic compounds such as linatine, phytic acids, protease inhibitors, and cyanogenic glycosides. nine (50%) of these 19 patients reported difficulties with flaxseed consumption, citing nausea, constipation, odynophagia, or poor taste or texture. 
1. can MMR vaccination cause autism? [SEP] a report published in 1998, but subsequently retracted by the journal, suggested that measles, mumps, and rubella (mmr) vaccine causes autism. several epidemiologic studies have not found an association between mmr vaccination and autism, including a study that found that mmr vaccine was not associated with an increased risk of autism even among high-risk children whose older siblings had autism. the measles-mumps-rubella (mmr) vaccine has been postulated to cause a form of autism characterized by regression and bowel symptoms, and onset occurring shortly after vaccination. there is no proof that the overall risk of autism is higher in children who were vaccinated with mmr or of an increase in autism prevalence associated with the use of the mmr vaccine. the hypothesis that mmr vaccines cause autism was first raised by reports of cases in which developmental regression occurred soon after mmr vaccination. it has recently been suggested that mmr vaccine might cause autism, but that the induction interval need not be short. to evaluate whether the mmr vaccine increases the risk for autism in children, subgroups of children, or time periods after vaccination. the study strongly supports that mmr vaccination does not increase the risk for autism, does not trigger autism in susceptible children, and is not associated with clustering of autism cases after vaccination. it has been suggested that vaccination, particularly with measles-mumps-rubella (mmr) vaccine, may be related to the development of autism. we investigated whether mmr vaccination is associated with an increased risk of autism or other pervasive developmental disorders. 
3. does vaccination against rotavirus increase the risk of intestinal intussusception in infants? [SEP] rotavirus vaccination has been associated with intussusception in the medical literature. we review the pathophysiology, presentation, and management of intussusception with a distinct focus on the history of rotavirus vaccination and risks of intussusception associated with timing of rotavirus vaccine administration. natural rotavirus infection does not appear to be a major cause of intussusception in indian infants. although current rotavirus vaccines were not associated with an increased risk of intussusception in large trials before licensure, recent postlicensure data from international settings suggest the possibility of a small increase in risk of intussusception after monovalent rotavirus vaccination. using sequential analyses, we then compared the risk of intussusception among children receiving monovalent rotavirus vaccine with historical background rates. the attributable risk of intussusception after the administration of two doses of monovalent rotavirus vaccine was estimated to be 5.3 per 100,000 infants vaccinated. recent data from passive and active surveillance systems in the united states indicate that rv1 and rv5 vaccines may possibly cause a small increase in the risk of intussusception; an estimated 1-3 us infants out of 100 000 might develop intussusception within 7 days of getting their first dose of rotavirus vaccine. we carried out a public health risk analysis to model the impact of age at first vaccination in relation to rotavirus vaccination and risk of intussusception in infants. in infants with intestinal failure, rotavirus vaccination appears to be safe and immunogenic. in some settings, rotavirus vaccines have been associated with a low-level increased risk of intussusception. 
Is ozone suitable for the treatment of tooth decay? [SEP] ozone is toxic to certain bacteria in vitro and it has been suggested that delivering ozone into a carious lesion might reduce the number of cariogenic bacteria. to assess whether ozone is effective in arresting or reversing the progression of dental caries. given the high risk of bias in the available studies and lack of consistency between different outcome measures, there is no reliable evidence that application of ozone gas to the surface of decayed teeth stops or reverses the decay process. there is a fundamental need for more evidence of appropriate rigour and quality before the use of ozone can be accepted into mainstream primary dental care or can be considered a viable alternative to current methods for the management and treatment of dental caries. ozone is toxic to certain bacteria in vitro and it has been suggested that delivering ozone into a carious lesion might reduce the number of cariogenic bacteria. to assess whether ozone is effective in arresting or reversing the progression of dental caries. given the high risk of bias in the available studies and lack of consistency between different outcome measures, there is no reliable evidence that application of ozone gas to the surface of decayed teeth stops or reverses the decay process. there is a fundamental need for more evidence of appropriate rigour and quality before the use of ozone can be accepted into mainstream primary dental care or can be considered a viable alternative to current methods for the management and treatment of dental caries. ozone may be used as an antimicrobial agent to control the decay. a significant detrimental effect of ozone treatment on garlic decay was observed. 
Does the so-called blood group diet have any health benefits? [SEP] diets that are based on the abo blood group system have been promoted over the past decade and claim to improve health and decrease risk of disease. to our knowledge, the evidence to support the effectiveness of blood type diets has not previously been assessed in the scientific literature. a systematic search was performed to answer the following question: in humans grouped according to blood type, does adherence to a specific diet improve health and/or decrease risk of disease compared with nonadherence to the diet? no evidence currently exists to validate the purported health benefits of blood type diets. to validate these claims, studies are required that compare the health outcomes between participants adhering to a particular blood type diet (experimental group) and participants continuing a standard diet (control group) within a particular blood type population. diet board feeding allows group housing and should result in enhanced welfare compared with traditional methods of dietary restriction. this study does not indicate any benefit on the sensitivity or specificity of fecal blood tests from the red-meat-free, high-fiber diet currently recommended. the 'blood-type' diet advises individuals to eat according to their abo blood group to improve their health and decrease risk of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease. matching the 'blood-type' diets with the corresponding blood group did not change the effect size of any of these associations. adherence to certain 'blood-type' diets is associated with favorable effects on some cardiometabolic risk factors, but these associations were independent of an individual's abo genotype, so the findings do not support the 'blood-type' diet hypothesis. 
Can pumpkin seeds or preparations from them help women and men with irritable bladder, bladder weakness or incontinence? [SEP] the prevalences of urinary incontinence, difficult bladder emptying and irritative bladder symptoms were 18.9, 22.1 and 11.8 per cent, respectively, in men, and 37.7, 10.8 and 17.4 per cent, respectively, in women. urinary incontinence was significantly more prevalent among all respondents with bladder emptying and irritative symptoms than those without such symptoms (p less than 0.001). two positive associations between ultrasound parameters and symptoms of bladder irritability were observed: urge incontinence was more likely in the presence of bladder neck funneling, and women with nocturia had a higher trigonal angle. pumpkin seeds were prepared into oil n-butyle alcohol and ether extracts. it was concluded that the oil preparation could remarkably reduce the bladder pressure, increase the bladder compliance, reduce the urethral pressure. the pumpkin seed oil obtained from cucurbita pepo has been shown to be useful for the treatment of nocturia in patients with urinal disorders in several western countries. in this study, we evaluated the effect of the pumpkin seed oil from cucurbita maxima on urinary dysfunction in human overactive bladder (oab). an extract of pumpkin seed oil from c. maxima (10 g of oil/day) was orally administrated for 12 weeks. pumpkin seed oil from c. maxima significantly reduced the degree of oabss in the subjects. the results from our study suggest that pumpkin seed oil extracts from c. maxima as well as from c. pepo are effective for urinary disorders such as oab in humans. 
Do products from bees like honey, propolis, royal jelly or bee venom help against cancer? [SEP] honey, bee venom, propolis, pollen and royal jelly all demonstrated a richness in their bioactive compounds which make them effective against a variety of bacterial strains. therefore, this review aims to highlight the antibacterial activity of honey, bee venom, propolis, pollen and royal jelly, that are produced by honeybees. honey, propolis, bee pollen, bee bread, royal jelly, beeswax and bee venom are natural products which have been used in medicine since ancient times. bee products could become an integral part in the treatment of chemotherapy, radiotherapy and radio chemotherapy. honeybees produce honey, royal jelly, propolis, bee venom, bee pollen, and beeswax, which potentially benefit to humans due to the bioactives in them. the effects of bee pollen, bee venom, honey, propolis, royal jelly, and bee bread on male reproductive parameters were examined. honey, propolis, royal jelly and bee venom are bee products that have antibacterial properties. the effect of propolis [it is a water-soluble derivative (wsdp)] and related polyphenolic compounds of propolis (caffeic acid, caffeic acid phenethyl ester and quercetin), honey, royal jelly and bee venom on tumour growth, metastasizing ability and induction of apoptosis and necrosis in murine tumour models (mammary carcinoma and colon carcinoma) was investigated. local presence of bee venom in the tissue caused significant delay in subcutaneous tumour formation. these data show that honey bee products given orally or systemically may have an important role in the control of tumour growth and tumour metastasizing ability. 
Do pumpkin seed preparations improve symptoms caused by a benign enlarged prostate? [SEP] from these results, it is suggested that administrations of pumpkin seed oil and saw palmetto oil are clinically safe and may be effective as complementary and alternative medicine treatments for benign prostatic hyperplasia. the oil from the pumpkin (cucurbita pepo) seed is claimed to be useful in the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia. this investigation seeks to examine the effect of pumpkin seed oil on testosterone-induced hyperplasia of the prostate of rats. we conclude pumpkin seed oil can inhibit testosterone-induced hyperplasia of the prostate and therefore may be beneficial in the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia. the german research activities on natural urologicals (granu) study was a randomized, partially blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial that investigated the efficacy of pumpkin seed in men with lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph/luts). overall, in men with bph, 12 months of treatment with pumpkin seed led to a clinically relevant reduction in ipss compared with placebo. pumpkin seeds have been known in folk medicine as remedy for kidney, bladder and prostate disorders since centuries. the cell growth inhibition for fast growing cells together with the cell growth inhibition of prostate-, breast- and colon cancer cells corroborates the ethnomedical use of pumpkin seeds for a treatment of benign prostate hyperplasia. moreover, due to the lack of androgenic activity, pumpkin seed applications can be regarded as safe for the prostate. the modulatory effects of raw and roasted pumpkin seeds on enzymes associated with erectile dysfunction suggest the biochemical rationale for its therapeutic role in enhancing erectile function. 
Can gels and ointments containing arnica, hawthorn, cypress, butcher's broom, Asian (or Indian) pennywort, and heparin, such as VaricoFix, relieve discomfort and secondary symptoms of varicose veins? [SEP] several studies have shown that quality of life improved after treatment of varicose veins compared to before treatment. it seems desirable that patients with varicose veins receive treatment at an earlier stage of the disease and are familiar with the tools and solutions available to alleviate symptoms and avoid a negative impact on daily life. this comprehensive review of the literature evaluated the efficacy and safety of topically applied heparins for the treatment of vascular disorders. liposomal heparin gel 2400 iu/g (lipohep forte) was as effective as subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin at relieving local symptoms of superficial venous thrombosis. in head-to-head studies comparing different topical heparin formulations, all preparations appeared effective but heparin gel 1000 iu/g was superior to a heparinoid mucopolysaccharide cream (hirudoid) in patients with vascular disorders in terms of resolving spontaneous pain, induced pain, oedema and heaviness in the limb. in summary, topical heparin preparations may be useful for relieving the signs and symptoms of vascular disorders while improving microcirculation. to investigate the activities which may exacerbate symptoms in patients with varicose veins. symptoms are a common indication for treating varicose veins and it is therefore important to be sure that they are due to the veins, rather than other causes. essaven gel (eg) has been developed for local treatment of venous and microcirculatory alterations (varicose veins, chronic venous insufficiency, associated signs and symptoms). varicose veins commonly occur in the lower extremities and can cause pain and discomfort in the affected area. 
Does putting onion bags help with acute otitis media? [SEP] this development may merit changes in the traditional antibiotic treatment of acute otitis media. acute otitis media is a common infection in children. the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and influenza virus vaccines have the potential to reduce the risk of acute otitis media. in controlled studies, pneumococcal conjugate vaccine has resulted in a reduction in the incidence of acute otitis media of approximately 6%. the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and the influenza vaccines may have a limited beneficial impact on the incidence of acute otitis media. acute otitis media affects most young children and is the condition for which children are most frequently treated with antibiotics. antibiotic prophylaxis can reduce the number of episodes of acute otitis media in children at high risk for recurrent infection. prophylaxis with antibiotics does not prevent all episodes of acute otitis media but can reduce the number of episodes by 50%. empirical therapy can be given in most instances of acute and serous otitis media. management of chronic otitis media requires surgical correction, drainage and coverage of anaerobic bacteria with agents such as amoxycillin plus clavulanic acid, or clindamycin plus antimicrobials against other pathogens such as pseudomonas spp. 
Can serious problems occur after stopping antidepressants? [SEP] understanding the particular pharmacology of different antidepressant drugs can help explain their adverse effects when they are discontinued. antidepressant drugs having anticholinergic effects often are associated with a discontinuation syndrome characterized by cholinergic rebound, with symptoms of nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramping, sweating, headache, and muscle spasms. serotonergic antidepressant drugs are sometimes associated with a distinct discontinuation syndrome characterized by dizziness, weakness, nausea, headache, lethargy, insomnia, anxiety, poor concentration, and paresthesias. adverse discontinuation effects can occur with all types of antidepressant drugs, but only rarely would they be considered serious. some symptoms appeared whilst i reduced the antidepressant dosage steadily: these were mild and resolved swiftly, but a few were quite puzzling. i hope this experience will enhance my understanding of the concerns of patients as they approach the end of a course of medication, and contribute to discussions of how to assess and manage symptoms that occur on and after stopping antidepressant treatment. patients need to be informed not only about the effects and side-effects of their prescribed antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), but also about the consequences of stopping treatment with this medication. in many countries, the public regard antidepressant drugs as 'addictive', partly because of the withdrawal symptoms that can occur when they are discontinued. indeed, discontinuation (withdrawal) symptoms can follow the stoppage of almost all classes of antidepressants, including selective serotonin receptor inhibitors (ssris). the antidepressant discontinuation syndrome is characterised by the time-locked emergence of new, clearly defined and quantifiable signs and symptoms that ensue on stopping or reducing the dose of an antidepressant. 
Does self urine help with health problems? [SEP] this study aimed to investigate (a) the range of self-management strategies used to deal with urinary incontinence (ui); (b) the reasons why many women who report leaking urine do not seek help for ui; and (c) the types of health professionals consulted and treatment provided, and perceptions of satisfaction with these, among a sample of women in each age group who reported leaking urine "often" at baseline. details about ui (frequency, severity, and situations), self-management behaviors and help-seeking for ui, types of health professional consulted, recommended treatment for the problem, and satisfaction with the service provided by health care professionals and the outcomes of recommended treatments were sought through a self-report mailed follow-up survey. most respondents had leaked urine in the last month (94% and 91% of mid-age and older women, respectively), and 72.2% and 73.1% of mid-aged and older women, respectively, had sought help or advice about their ui. self-monitoring of urine flow may be beneficial in preventing catheter-related problems. feasibility of the intervention, performance of new measures (awareness, self-monitoring, and self- management of urine flow), and health outcomes were assessed. the objectives of this study were to identify the impact of self-reported ui on working women, to describe urine loss symptoms, strategies used to control urine loss, and help-seeking behavior among full-time women working in a rural production facility. items elicited information on demographics, health, parity, symptoms and duration of urine loss, strategies to manage urine loss, effects of ui on work activities, level of knowledge about ui and treatment options, perceived importance of getting professional help, and actual help seeking behavior. provided that a significant residual volume of urine is found on abdominal examination, ultrasound, x-ray or catheterization, both groups of patients may be helped by intermittent self catheterization. patients should be referred to urologists for a trial of intermittent self catheterization. women do their best to improve self-control of their urination problems. 
Do unsaturated fats (from plants and fish) reduce cardiovascular disease compared to saturated fats (from meat and dairy products)? [SEP] replacing saturated fat with polyunsaturated fat prevented coronary events in men, and a mediterranean diet and fatty fish improved survival. improvement in blood lipid risk factors is an important mechanism to explain the results of trials of unsaturated fats. when saturated or trans unsaturated fats are replaced with monounsaturated or n-6 polyunsaturated fats from vegetable oils, primarily low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol decreases. the n-3 polyunsaturated fats in fish oils suppress cardiac arrhythmias and reduce triglycerides, but they have little effect on ldl or hdl cholesterol levels. while dairy fat (milk, cheese) is associated with a slightly lower cvd risk compared to meat, dairy fat results in a significantly greater cvd risk relative to unsaturated fatty acids. all lines of evidence indicate that specific dietary fatty acids play important roles in the cause and the prevention of chd, but total fat as a percent of energy is unimportant. modest reductions in chd rates by further decreases in saturated fat are possible if saturated fat is replaced by a combination of poly- and mono-unsaturated fat, and the benefits of polyunsaturated fat appear strongest. in practice, reducing red meat and dairy products in a food supply and increasing intakes of nuts, fish, soy products and nonhydrogenated vegetable oils will improve the mix of fatty acids and have a markedly beneficial effect on rates of chd. this prospective study suggests that trans unsaturated fatty acids, but no other types of fat or meat, are associated with increased ovarian cancer risk. epidemiologic research has shown that replacement of sfas with unsaturated fat, but not refined carbohydrate and added sugars, is associated with a reduction in coronary heart disease events and death. 
Is a vegetarian diet including eggs and dairy products healthier than a diet that includes meat? [SEP] according to pure vegetarian ideologists, people consuming vegetarian diet have better health and live longer than nonvegetarians, because persons consuming milk, dairy products, meat, eggs and fish are at health risk. very probably, an ample consumption of fruits and vegetables and not the exclusion of meat make vegetarians healthful. a vegetarian diet has been shown to be associated with lower mortality of ischaemic heart disease and lower prevalence of obesity. growth in children on a vegetarian diet including dairy has been shown to be similar to omnivorous peers. we examined intakes of high-protein foods (meat, poultry, fish, legumes, nuts, vegetarian protein alternatives, dairy products, and eggs) and other major food groups (fruit, vegetables, bread, pasta, rice, snack foods, and beverages) in regular meat-eaters, low meat-eaters, poultry-eaters, fish-eaters, vegetarians, and vegans of white ethnicity participating in uk biobank who had completed at least one web-based 24-h dietary assessment (n = 199,944). in vegetarians, around 20% of energy came from dairy and plant milk, cheese, yoghurt, eggs, legumes, nuts, and vegetarian protein alternatives, and in vegans around 15% came from plant milk, legumes, vegetarian alternatives, and nuts. the differences in the intakes of meat, plant-based high-protein foods, and other foods between meat-eaters and low and non-meat eaters in uk biobank may contribute to differences in health outcomes. the vegetarian diet was a macrobiotic diet consisting primarily of whole cereal grains and vegetables; dairy products, eggs, and meats were generally avoided. in a retrospective longitudinal analysis we estimated lifetime intake of animal products and adherence to vegetarian dietary patterns among 51,082 adventist health study-2 (ahs-2) subjects using data from a reliable life-course dietary (meats, dairy, eggs) questionnaire. perceptions of meat and dairy products differed significantly by dietary pattern: nonvegetarians and former vegetarians were more likely than current vegetarians to agree with statements inferring positive attributes (eg, nutrient content). 
Can washing hands with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing triclosan or triclocarban prevent the risk of contracting diseases in the household? [SEP] the objective of the present study was to examine the in vitro and in vivo bactericidal effect of triclosan (the most widely used antiseptic agent in soap) in soap. twenty bacterial strains (proposed by the fda) were exposed to plain and antibacterial soaps (the same formulation as plain soap, but containing 0.3% triclosan) for 20 s at 22°c (room temperature) and 40°c (warm temperature). however, antibacterial soap showed significantly greater bactericidal effects after 9 h. these results suggest that although triclosan-containing soap does have antibacterial activity, the effects are not apparent during the short time required for hand washing. antibacterial soap containing triclosan (0.3%) was no more effective than plain soap at reducing bacterial contamination when used under 'real-life' conditions. in 2017, the food and drug administration banned the marketing of triclosan and triclocarban in antibacterial soaps, citing inefficacy and concerns of systemic absorption and antibacterial resistance. consumer antibacterial soaps contain triclosan or triclocarban. this paper describes testing which demonstrated that triclosan, a common antibacterial ingredient when administered in an oil-in-water anionic emulsion, was substantive to skin and effective against bacteria in both laboratory settings and in the normal daily environment. although it is recognized that antibacterial lotions are not a substitute for thorough hand washing and good hygienic practices, this work shows that antibacterial lotions can complement washing by providing consumers with a demonstrable reduction in bacterial levels on their skin. the minimum inhibitory concentration and minimum bactericidal concentration of triclosan against staphylococcus aureus increased 8- to 62.5-fold, whereas those of tpb and fpb (both alone and in soap) were unchanged. the results indicate that tpb and fpb soaps may provide superior rapid and broad-spectrum efficacy with a lower risk of organisms developing resistance than do soaps containing triclosan alone. 
Can hand washing with antibacterial soaps or wash lotions containing other disinfectants reduce the risk of infection compared to regular soap??? [SEP] the use of hand disinfectant containing antimicrobial agents is more effective than hand washing with water and soap in reducing carriage of candida on the hands of hospital personnel. the number of bacteria recovered from hands and the quantity transferred to the melon were significantly less following the use of an antibacterial soap compared with plain soap. the data thus demonstrate there is a greater potential to reduce the transmission and acquisition of disease through the use of an antimicrobial hand wash than through the use of plain soap. aureus from the hands more effectively than liquid soap. a monte carlo simulation was done with a total of 10,000 simulations to compare the effectiveness of two antimicrobial and one control (non-antimicrobial) bar soaps in reducing the exposure and infection risk compared to no hand washing. results showed that the risks of illness after washing with the control soap was reduced approximately 5-fold compared to no handwashing. washing with antimicrobial soap reduced the risk of e. coli infection by an average of about 40-fold compared with no handwashing. the antimicrobial soaps ranged from 3 to 32 times more effective than the non-antimicrobial soap, depending on the specific exposure scenario. our findings confirm handwashing with soap reduces the risks associated with indirect transmission of e. coli infection from contact with fomites during food preparation. further, in these exposure scenarios, antimicrobial soaps were more effective overall than the non-antimicrobial soap in reducing exposure to e. coli and risk of infection. 
Does homeopathy work better than a placebo? [SEP] in particular, there was no condition which responds convincingly better to homeopathic treatment than to placebo or other control interventions. the clinical effectiveness of homeopathy. from this standpoint, placebo effects seem the most obvious explanation for the therapeutic effects experienced in homeopathy. seeing homeopathy as a way to induce placebo effects had the strongest endorsement among prescribers and non-prescribers of homeopathy (63% and 74% endorsement respectively). survival rate in the homeopathy group differed significantly from placebo (p = .020) and from control (p < .001). qol improved significantly in the homeopathy group compared with placebo. in addition, survival was significantly longer in the homeopathy group versus placebo and control. this review examines the cumulative research from randomised and/or double-blind clinical trials (rcts) in homeopathy for individual medical conditions reported since 1975, and asks the question: what is the weight of the original evidence from published rcts that homeopathy has an effect that is statistically significantly different from that in a comparative group? 50 papers report a significant benefit of homeopathy in at least one clinical outcome measure, 41 that fail to discern any inter-group differences, and two that describe an inferior response with homeopathy. several dbrcts have shown that homeopathy has effects which are not due to placebo and these are now supported by preclinical work. 
Does toothpaste containing xylitol reduce the risk of caries? [SEP] xylitol is a safe dental caries preventive when incorporated into chewing gum or confections used habitually. randomised controlled trials assessing the effects of xylitol products on dental caries in children and adults. over 2.5–3 years, low quality evidence demonstrated that with 4216 children analysed, a fluoride toothpaste with 10% xylitol (exact dosage unsure) reduced caries by 13% when compared to a fluoride only toothpaste. low quality evidence suggested that fluoride toothpaste containing xylitol may be more effective than fluoride-only toothpaste for preventing caries in the permanent teeth of children. the purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of supervised tooth-brushing with xylitol toothpaste to prevent early childhood caries (ecc) and reduce mutans streptococci. in a randomized controlled trial, the authors evaluated the effectiveness of xylitol lozenges in preventing caries in adults at elevated risk of developing caries. daily use of xylitol lozenges did not result in a statistically or clinically significant reduction in 33-month caries increment among adults at an elevated risk of developing caries. these results suggest that xylitol used as a supplement in adults does not reduce their caries experience significantly. these caries rate reductions were observed in subjects using xylitol or sorbitol as the sugar substitute in chewing gum or toothpaste. the highest caries reductions were observed in subjects using xylitol. 
Do other xylitol-containing products (e.g. chewing gums, sweets, mouth rinses) reduce the risk of caries in addition to normal dental care? [SEP] the use of chewing gum containing dental-protective substances, particularly xylitol, in caries-prevention programs can reduce the tooth decay epidemic. there are indications that regular and prolonged use of xylitol chewing gum may have a caries-preventive effect. especially xylitol-containing chewing gum may significantly reduce the growth of mutans streptococci and dental plaque which may be associated with dental caries. the chewing of xylitol, sorbitol, and even sugar gum has been suggested to reduce caries rates. the results suggest that systematic usage of polyol-based chewing gums reduces caries rates in young subjects, with xylitol gums being more effective than sorbitol gums. xylitol, a sweet-tasting pentitol, has been reported to cause about an 80% reduction in caries increment when chewed in a gum. xylitol-containing chewing gums can be used as an adjunct to regular home care preventive procedures to prevent dental caries. the results indicate that an ordinary commercial xylitol-containing chewing-gum can be used to decrease caries risk factors in confectionery workers. all field studies have unequivocally reported significant reductions in dental caries occurrence associated with the use of chewing gum containing xylitol. the results suggest that not only xylitol chewing gum but also xylitol candies are effective in caries prevention, and that a school-based delivery system seems to offer a practical way to distribute and control the use of the xylitol products. 
Are paper towels or electric dryers more hygienic after washing hands? [SEP] this article systematically reviews the research on the hygienic efficacy of different hand-drying methods. however, most studies suggest that paper towels can dry hands efficiently, remove bacteria effectively, and cause less contamination of the washroom environment. from a hygiene viewpoint, paper towels are superior to electric air dryers. our study demonstrated that the use of jet air dryers is the best method to eliminate bacteria on hands, whereas drying hands on one's own clothes is the least effective. this paper explores evidence to show that the use of paper towels is safer than hot air hand-dryers in busy wards. to compare the efficacy of drying washed hands with a jet air dryer or paper towels to remove transient bacterial contamination and to determine the effect on residential flora. significantly fewer transient and residential bacteria remained on the skin if hands were dried with a jet air dryer (p < 0.001). drying hands with paper towels increased the number of resident bacteria, including potentially pathogenic species, released from the volunteers' skin, compared to a jet air dryer. numerous studies are published on the benefits of electric hand dryers vs paper towels (pt) for drying hands after washing. air bacterial counts in close proximity to hand drying were 4.5-fold higher for the jet air dryer (70.7 cfu) compared with the warm air dryer (15.7 cfu) (p=0.001), and 27-fold higher compared with use of paper towels (2.6 cfu) (p<0.001). 
Are soy foods risky for people with unremarkable, or subclinical, hypothyroidism? [SEP] objective: soy phytoestrogens are suggested to impair thyroid function but the effects of pharmacological doses of soy phytoestrogens are unknown; therefore, this study was performed to determine the effect of high dose soy phytoestrogens (66 mg) on thyroid function in subclinical hypothyroidism. conclusion: a pharmacological dose of 66 mg of soy phytoestrogens did not increase the overt thyroid failure rate or alter thyroid function tests in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism. there is concern whether soy phytoestrogens may affect thyroid function. if true, soy phytoestrogens may be expected to have a greater impact in subjects with subclinical hypothyroidism. there is a 3-fold increased risk of developing overt hypothyroidism with dietary supplementation of 16 mg soy phytoestrogens with subclinical hypothyroidism. this case emphasizes that consuming health drinks that include soy isoflavone powder extracts can lead to severe hypothyroidism. one concern is that soy may adversely affect thyroid function and interfere with the absorption of synthetic thyroid hormone. in contrast, some evidence suggests that soy foods, by inhibiting absorption, may increase the dose of thyroid hormone required by hypothyroid patients. in addition, there remains a theoretical concern based on in vitro and animal data that in individuals with compromised thyroid function and/or whose iodine intake is marginal soy foods may increase risk of developing clinical hypothyroidism. the effect of isoflavone-free soy on thyroid function was determined in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism, with a secondary aim of assessing its effect on cardiovascular risk indices. 
Does taking vitamin B3 prolong life? [SEP] since nad+ seats at the cross-road between cell metabolism and cell signaling, manipulation of nad+ bioavailability through vitamin b3 supplementation has become a valuable nutritional and therapeutic avenue. in the present study we demonstrate for the first time that 1-methyl nicotinamide (mna), a derivative of vitamin b3, significantly (1.6 to 1.9 times) prolonged survival of balb/c mice irradiated at ld30/30 (6.5 gy), ld50/30 (7.0 gy) or ld80/30 (7.5 gy) of γ-rays when the mna administration started as late as 7 days post irradiation. these pro-survival effects did not seem to be mediated by stimulation of haematopoiesis, but might be related to anti-inflammatory and/or anti-thrombotic properties of the vitamin b3 derivatives. vitamin b3, derived primarily from plant sources, is an essential nutrient for humans. our findings not only help to elucidate the biosynthesis of vitamin b3, but also provide valuable resource material for future genomic research and molecular-assisted breeding to develop genotypes with higher vitamin b3 levels. vitamin b3 provides nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (nad+), an essential coenzyme in oxidoreductase reactions. severe vitamin b3 deficiency leads to the disease pellagra, while mild vitamin b3 deficiency has been linked to age-related and metabolic diseases. we found that cumulative vitamin b1 and vitamin b3 administration significantly increased the plasma h₂o₂ levels associated with high insulin levels. only vitamin b3 reduced muscular and hepatic glycogen contents. this study suggested that excess vitamin b1 and vitamin b3 caused oxidative stress and insulin resistance. 
Can taking Ribose help with heart conditions such as heart failure, narrowing of the coronary arteries (coronary artery disease), or heart attack? [SEP] coronary artery endothelial and vascular dysfunction, inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction contribute to progression of heart diseases such as arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, and heart attacks. likewise, genetic and pharmacological manipulations of epoxylipids have been demonstrated to have therapeutic benefits for heart diseases. increasing epoxylipids reduce cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis and improve cardiac function. this review discusses past and recent findings on the contribution of epoxylipids in heart diseases and the potential for their manipulation to treat heart attacks, arrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia, and heart failure. coronary heart disease is caused by atherosclerotic narrowing of coronary arteries. in order to investigate the mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease-related heart failure and to develop therapies, appropriate animal models are indispensable. experimental and human data suggest chronic heart failure is associated with a reduction of cfr in the absence of coronary artery disease. heart failure and coronary artery disease share many risk factors. a diagnosis of heart failure should be considered in any patient with a history of coronary artery disease who presents with breathlessness, ankle oedema or fatigue. several therapies, such as renin-angiotensin antagonists and b blockers, have been proven to improve survival in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction but evidence for effectiveness in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction is lacking. 
Are vitamins and minerals effective and safe in lowering cholesterol? [SEP] restriction of dietary fat and cholesterol are recommended for treating hyperlipidemia, but may alter vitamin or mineral intakes. basal serum levels of calcium, phosphorus, parathyroid hormone (pth), vitamin d3, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d were measured, and dietary intakes of calcium and vitamin d were calculated in a control hypercholesterolemic group and an experimental group treated with pravastatin 10, 20, and/or 40 mg orally twice daily for at least 3 months. the aim of this study was to investigate the lipid-lowering effect of vitamins compared to placebo and their short-term supplementation safety in patients on hemodialysis. ldl-c and total cholesterol levels as well as the ratios of ldl-c to hdl-c and cholesterol to hdl-c significantly decreased after vitamin c therapy. hdl-c increased and the ratio of ldl-c to hdl-c decreased significantly after vitamin e therapy. short-term supplementary vitamins are safe and beneficial for treatment of lipid abnormalities in hemodialysis patients. younger age, non-hispanic white race/ethnicity, being born in the united states, higher milk intake, lower total fat and cholesterol intake, higher dietary fiber intake, higher income, greater food security, lower media/computer use, greater physical activity, lower body mass index, health insurance coverage, better health care access, and better self-reported health were associated with greater use of vitamin and mineral supplements. such supplements contributed significantly to total daily dietary intakes of vitamins and minerals. such supplements contribute significantly to total dietary intakes of vitamins and minerals, and studies of nutrition should include their assessment. since vitamin and mineral supplement users report greater health care access, health care providers may be in a position to provide screening and counseling regarding dietary adequacy and indications for supplement use. 
Is fasting effective and safe in the long term for arthritis and other diseases? [SEP] chronic pain from arthritis continues to be one of the biggest causes of disability and loss of function in the united states today. new disease-modifying agents that are available for some of these types of arthritic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, have the potential to have a substantial impact on improvement in the long-term prognosis. adalimumab is effective and reasonably safe in the short- and long-term treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis who do not respond to the standard therapy. it inhibits radiographic progression in rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis. therapies either recently approved or pending approval by the food and drug administration for psoriatic arthritis management are safe and effective in the treatment of symptoms, significantly improve quality of life, and prevent long-term progression of the disease. it is well known that increased insulin resistance is associated with the development of cardiovascular disease in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and that tumour necrosis factor-alpha plays an important role in this process. this study investigates the effects of long term infliximab treatment on insulin resistance in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. patients with rheumatoid arthritis benefit from long-term moderate or high-intensity exercises. studies on the effects of exercise on disease activity and joint damage are reviewed. studies on the effects of moderate or high-intensity exercise in rheumatoid arthritis demonstrate either decreased or stable disease activity. 
Do green smoothies promote health? [SEP] the most acceptable formula for the fresh green smoothie was 28.6% green content with 71.4% fruit content. the developed green smoothie was freeze dried to obtain an instant green smoothie powder. smoothies represent an excellent and convenient alternative to promote the daily consumption of fruit and vegetables in order to obtain their health-promoting benefits. accordingly, a green fresh vegetables smoothie (77.2% cucumber, 12% broccoli and 6% spinach) rich in health-promoting compounds was developed. this study describes preschoolers (3-5 y) willingness to taste, liking, and intake of fruit-based smoothies containing dgvs (i.e., spinach, collards, kale), commonly referred to as "green smoothies," and explores individual differences in children's eating responses. children rated the green smoothies as moderately-liked and children's intake during snack met 31% of their weekly usda recommendations for dgvs. 8 weeks after daily consumption of the homemade smoothies, volunteers showed an insignificant increase of cutaneous carotenoids from (4.5 ± 0.1)*10-4 a.u. the volunteers consuming the commercial smoothie showed an insignificant increase of cutaneous carotenoids from (4.3 ± 0.2)*10-4 a.u. two fresh red vegetables smoothies based on tomato, carrots, pepper and broccoli and rich in health-promoting compounds were developed. therefore, the quality changes in fresh green smoothies supplemented (2.2%) with nine edible algae (sea lettuce, kombu, wakame, thongweed, dulse, irish moss, nori, spirulina and chlorella) were studied throughout 24 days at 5 °c. 
Does chocolate have a mood-lifting effect? [SEP] the effect of chocolate on mood too has long been recognised. eating chocolate reduced negative mood compared to drinking water, whereas no or only marginal effects were found on neutral and positive moods. in both experiments, chocolate-induced mood improvement was associated with emotional eating. the present studies demonstrate that eating a small amount of sweet food improves an experimentally induced negative mood state immediately and selectively and that this effect of chocolate is due to palatability. a systematic review was conducted to evaluate whether chocolate or its constituents were capable of influencing cognitive function and/or mood. a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled experiment investigated whether chocolate exposed to "good intentions" would enhance mood more than unexposed chocolate. the hypothesis was that mood reported during the three days of eating chocolate would improve more in the intentional groups than in the control group. on the third day of eating chocolate, mood had improved significantly more in the intention conditions than in the control condition (p = .04). the mood-elevating properties of chocolate can be enhanced with intention. chocolate appears to increase positive mood, but particularly when it is eaten mindfully. 
Do sprouts or buds have a healing effect? [SEP] additional buds form during the early growth of uninjured roots and they perennate by growing outwards in concert with the vascular cambium such that bud traces are produced in the secondary xylem. to determine whether both bud types were functional, 82 field-collected root sprouts and 44 incubation-induced sprouts were sectioned at the root-sprout junction and examined for evidence relating to their mode of origin. none of the sprouts were subtended by sphaeroblasts, but 98% were subtended by bud traces, which indicated that they had originated from additional buds. although reparative buds were more common than additional buds on some of the root samples, they appear to be dysfunctional at sprouting. additional buds, on the other hand, are able to sprout both as a normal part of clonal spread and from root cuttings. we show here that ga-treatment released bud dormancy, initiated bud sprouting and promoted sprout growth of excised potato tuber bud discs ('eyes'). cytokinins and gibberellins are required for bud break and sprout growth, respectively. when dormancy is released, sprouting of the apical bud may be inhibited by sprout control agents or cold temperature. in this study we investigated the effects of two grafting techniques (side veneer and top cleft) and two phenological stages of the scion buds (end of latency and beginning of sprouting), in combination with other seven grafting variables, on the sprouting and survival of 120 intraspecific grafts of pinus engelmannii carr. survival was higher in the top cleft grafts made with buds at the end of latency, with 80% sprouting and an estimated average survival time of between 164 and 457 days after the end of the 6-month evaluation period. 
Is belly fat or is a large abdominal girth particularly dangerous for health? [SEP] hip girth was a strong predictor of total fat (r = 0.86, p < 0.0001, standard error of the estimate = 4.9 kg) and abdominal fat (r = 0.92, p < 0.0001, standard error of estimate = 0.84 kg); with age added, the standard errors of the estimate were 3.8 and 0.8 kg, respectively. hip girth correlated with bmi (r = 0.89, p < 0.0001). waist girth (r = 0.83, p < 0.0001) and hip girth (r = 0.76, p < 0.0001) were good predictors of abdominal f:l. hip girth is a practical and useful predictor of abdominal and total adiposity in postmenopausal women. in correlation analysis, the sizes of chest and abdominal girth were significantly correlated with bcs. if this is so, then the volume of the intra-abdominal fat depot might be better correlated with disease states than a less specific anthropometric index such as the waist-to-hip girth ratio. among 163,567 overweight men, the prevalence of abdominal obesity increased with age and with degree of overweight. among moderately overweight men, those with abdominal obesity experienced 133% of the expected mortality rate compared to 112% of the expected mortality for those who were not abdominally obese. severely overweight men with abdominal obesity experienced 152% of the expected mortality compared to 135% of the expected mortality for severely overweight men who were not abdominally obese. these early actuarial findings, taken with more recent reports, establish that abdominal enlargement, but not necessarily an 'upper-body' fat distribution, constitutes a major health hazard. waist and hip girths showed different relations to body fat, fat-free mass, and visceral fat accumulation. 
Can choline ingested with food - alone or in the form of lecithin, for example - improve memory? [SEP] humans ingest substantial amounts of choline and lecithin as part of common foods. these findings indicate that normal diets cause only small elevations in plasma choline; purified lecithin supplements are likely to have greater effects in treating neurologic diseases. consumption of choline by rats sequentially increases serum-choline, brain-choline, and brain-acetylcholine concentrations. we found that oral lecithin is considerably more effective in raising human serum-choline levels than an equivalent quantity of choline chloride. choline is a dietary component and precursor of acetylcholine, a crucial neurotransmitter for memory-related brain functions. in two double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over experiments, we investigated whether the food supplement choline bitartrate improved declarative memory and working memory in healthy, young students one to two hours after supplementation. we found that choline did not significantly enhance memory performance during any of the tasks. these results are in contrast with animal studies suggesting that choline supplementation boosts memory performance and learning. we conclude that choline likely has no acute effects on cholinergic memory functions in healthy human participants. compared with lecithin alone, the combination of physostigmine and lecithin consistently enhanced memory storage and retrieval; physostigmine without lecithin produced no memory facilitation. 
Does white sugar cause cancer? [SEP] however, the other ubiquitous white crystal, sugar, may lead to osteoporosis by increasing inflammation, hyperinsulinemia, increased renal acid load, reduced calcium intake, and increased urinary calcium excretion. sugar, not salt, is the more likely white crystal to be a risk factor for osteoporosis when overconsumed. the white skin of those with vitiligo does not form non-melanoma skin cancers although the white skin of albinos, which has a similar color as vitiligo, is highly susceptible to skin cancer. the contents of water-insoluble iron and water-soluble zinc in white sugar increase with a lowering of the quality of sugar evaluated according to the standards of the eu sugar market regime. to examine associations between intake of simple sugars and cancer incidence, cancer mortality, and total mortality in a prospective cohort study based on the predimed trial conducted from 2003 to 2010. higher cancer incidence was found per 5 g/day increase in intake of liquid sugars, with multivariable-adjusted hr of 1.08 (95% ci, 1.03-1.13) for total liquid sugar, 1.19 (95% ci, 1.07-1.31) for liquid glucose, 1.14 (95% ci, 1.05-1.23) for liquid fructose, and 1.39 (95% ci, 1.10-1.74) for fructose from fruit juice. cancer and all-cause mortality increased to a similar extent with intake of all sugars in liquid form. in categorical models, cancer risk was dose-related for all liquid sugars. simple sugar intake in drinks and fruit juice was associated with an increased risk of overall cancer incidence and mortality and all-cause mortality. this suggests that sugary beverages are a modifiable risk factor for cancer and all-cause mortality. 
Do wound care products with sodium hypochlorite such as ActiMaris promote the healing process of wounds? [SEP] in this study, we examined the effect of six commonly used topical wound agents (bacitracin, sodium hypochlorite, silver nitrate, silver sulfadiazine, mafenide acetate, and povidone-iodine) on epithelialization and neovascularization in noninfected wounds. one-half of the wounds treated with sodium hypochlorite (eight of 16) did not epithelialize or neovascularize. wounds may be washed with water, saline, or ringer's solution or cleaned with active ingredients, such as hydrogen peroxide, sodium hypochlorite, acetic acid, alcohol, ionized silver preparations, chlorhexidine, polyhexanide/betaine solution, or povidone-iodine--the majority of which are locally toxic and of limited or no proven efficacy in enhancing wound healing. toxic effects of sodium hypochlorite on wound healing elements have been confined to a restricted range of sodium hypochlorite concentrations. an in vivo incisional model was also used to determine the effects of sodium hypochlorite therapy on wound healing. trial results support the view that sodium hypochlorite dressing protocols for surgical wounds should be abandoned. topical negative pressure resulted in almost 2 times faster wound healing than treatment with sodium hypochlorite, and is safe to use in patients with difficult-to-heal wounds. a prospective, controlled clinical study using accepted sampling methods was conducted to compare the use of an antimicrobial wound cleanser (0.057% sodium hypochlorite in an isotonic saline solution) to normal saline on the reduction of bioburden and wound size. other antimicrobial agents produced in this process include sodium hypochlorite and chlorine. our study suggests that 0.005% sodium hypochlorite can be used as a debriding and topical antibacterial agent for wounds and skin ulcers without inhibiting fibroblast activity essential to normal wound repair. 
Does the dietary supplement MSM help with osteoarthritis? [SEP] methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is a naturally occurring sulfur containing substance that has been shown to have anti-inflammatory and antioxidative properties. previous studies using msm as an oral supplement to improve pain in those patients with knee osteoarthritis have shown superiority compared to placebo. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is a popular dietary supplement used as a single agent and in combination with other nutrients, and purported to be beneficial for arthritis. the benefits and safety of msm in managing oa and long-term use cannot be confirmed from this pilot trial, but its potential clinical application is examined. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is an organic sulfur-containing compound which has been used as a dietary supplement for osteoarthritis. msm has been shown to reduce oxidative stress and inflammation, as well as exhibit apoptotic or anti-apoptotic effects depending on the cell type or activating stimuli. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) has become a popular dietary supplement used for a variety of purposes, including its most common use as an anti-inflammatory agent. a variety of health-specific outcome measures are improved with msm supplementation, including inflammation, joint/muscle pain, oxidative stress, and antioxidant capacity. methylsulfonylmethane (msm) is an organic, sulfur-containing compound widely used as a dietary supplement to improve joint health and treat arthritic pain. in conclusion, dietary supplementation msm has positive effects on growth performance, meat quality, excreta microbiota, and blood profiles in broilers. 
Is wheat lectin, which is found in high amounts especially in whole wheat, harmful to health? [SEP] when consumed as whole grain, wheat has a high nutrient density that contributes to a healthy diet. wheat germ agglutinin (wga), a lectin found in the germ tissue of wheat kernels, was evaluated as a biomarker of whole grain wheat. wheat germ agglutinin is found in wheat embryos and a similar lectin is present in the roots of older plants. these results indicate that lectin synthesis is under aba control in both wheat embryos and adult plants. wheat is one of the most consumed cereal grains worldwide and makes up a substantial part of the human diet. although government-supported dietary guidelines in europe and the u.s.a advise individuals to eat adequate amounts of (whole) grain products per day, cereal grains contain "anti-nutrients," such as wheat gluten and wheat lectin, that in humans can elicit dysfunction and disease. poultry fed on wheat-based diets regularly ingest wheat germ agglutinin (wga) that has toxic effects in vitro on intestinal epithelial cells (iec) obtained from 14-d-old broilers. from defatted ground wheat germ, the lectin was extracted and then purified in a single step by filtration on an ion exchange chromatography column and adsorption on an insolubilized n-acetyl glucosamine derivative. the amount of lectin obtained from 1,000 g of wheat germ was larger than 500 mg. wheat germ lectin was found to be a potent triggering agent for hydrogen peroxide release from mouse peritoneal macrophages. 
Is it harmful to health to regularly eat large quantities of fish contaminated with dioxins and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)? [SEP] compared with other types of foods of animal origin, fish contain the highest levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), polychlorinated dibenzo- p-dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans, all of which are classified as highly toxic organochlorine compounds. the levels of dioxins, furans, and dioxin-like pcbs were all below the maximum levels and action limits set by european union regulation, suggesting no risk for human health associated with the consumption of the fish species caught or farmed in these areas. dde, lower chlorinated dioxin and furan toxic equivalents (teqs), and coplanar pcb teqs were positively associated with noncoplanar pcbs but were not associated with gl sport fish consumption independent of pcb level. polychlorinated biphenyls (pcb) are the second greatest cause of fish advisories, and are often the greatest contributors to dioxin-like toxic equivalency (teq) in fish and seafood. because fish consumption is associated with both contaminant risks and health benefits, incremental health risks from pcbs in fish should be considered within the context of overall teq associated dietary risk to enable consumers to make informed decisions about choosing to eat fish or alternate foodstuffs. in this paper, potential teq exposure from pcbs in fish for adults with a variety of consumption patterns and consuming fish from a variety of sources are calculated using recent consumption and fish contaminant data from the literature and compared to total teq exposure from all sources. for high-level consumers and individuals eating fish from relatively contaminated sites, pcb teq exposure from fish consumption alone may exceed the 1 pg teq/kg/day average adult daily intake estimated by epa, which itself carries an upper bound cancer risk of 1 in 1000. population-level assessments of the ecological risks of dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyl (pcb) exposure to fish-eating birds in tokyo bay and its vicinity were performed to judge the need for risk management measures to protect aquatic wildlife from dioxin-like pcb contamination. our results implied that the levels of dioxin-like pcbs observed in the tokyo bay area alone would not have significant population-level effects on the fish-eating bird populations. concern for contamination of fish with dioxins and dioxin-like pcbs stems from their reported carcinogenicity, immunotoxicity, and reproductive and developmental toxicities. 
Is the DMPS test suitable to reliably indicate mercury poisoning? [SEP] the chelating agent 2,3 dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate (dmps) has been used in a mercury mobilization test for diagnoses in illnesses allegedly associated with the presence of amalgam restorations. dmps is an accepted antidote to heavy metal poisoning. treatment with dmps was started because of very severe poisoning, anuric renal failure and optimistic reports on the "new" chelating agent 2,3-dimercapto-1 propanesulphonic acid (dmps) in mercury poisoning. urine was assayed for any change in urinary mercury excretion after dmps. the control subject had detectable urine and plasma dmps levels and increased urine mercury excretion. we describe a patient with severe inorganic mercury poisoning in whom full recovery occurred with the early use of the chelating agent dmps and cvvhdf. we report the case of a 37-year-old female who was referred to our outpatient medical toxicology clinic by her family medicine physician after a wellness doctor involved in her care ordered a dimercaptopropanesulfonic acid (dmps) challenge urine study that revealed an "elevated" mercury level. in patients with moderate to high suspicion for mercury toxicity, a validated test for mercury, such as a 24-hour urine mercury level, or referral to a medical toxicologist is the most appropriate approach. the urinary mercury level after dmps administration is a better indicator of exposure and renal mercury burden than is the mercury level measured in the urine before dmps is given. the easily performed dmps-mercury challenge test is useful for monitoring dental personnel for mercury vapor exposure. 
Can stevia lower high blood pressure? [SEP] stevia has been used as a traditional treatment for diabetes in many countries for hundreds of years. several animal studies referred to the antihyperglycemic activity of stevia. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the antihyperglycemic effect of stevia alone and in combination with saxagliptin. both stevia and saxagliptin remarkably decreased mda and increased gsh compared to diabetic rats. in addition, stevia significantly improved the antidiabetic effects of saxagliptin. stevia has an antihyperglycemic effect and could enhance the antidiabetic activity of saxagliptin. dpp-4 attenuation, antihyperlipidemic and antioxidant activity as well as improvement of insulin sensitivity may be involved in the antidiabetic action of stevia. one of the medicinal plants that are used in the treatment of diabetes is stevia. this study investigates the effect of stevia on serum omentin and visfatin levels as novel adipocytokines in diabetic induced rats to find potential mechanisms for the anti hyperglycemic effect of stevia. the conclusion is that prescription of stevia in the doses of 250 and 500 mg/kg/d decreases the omentin level indirectly via activating insulin sensitivity and lowering blood glucose in stz-induced diabetic rats. 
Is eating genetically modified corn a health concern? [SEP] results of a survey of over 1000 us consumers reveals that people prefer eating beef to eating corn or apples if the foods are not genetically engineered, but exactly the opposite is true if the foods are genetically engineered. in this study, an economic analysis is conducted to determine whether the benefits of one type of gm corn, bt corn (genetically modified to resist damage from the ecb and southwestern corn borer), outweigh the potential risks; and who the "winners" and "losers" are among stakeholder groups that may be affected by bt corn. it is found that bt corn growers, consumers, and industry all benefit from bt corn adoption, though the purported health and environmental benefits of reducing chemical pesticide usage through bt corn are negligible. while environmental and health risks of bt corn are unlikely, the potential market risks-impacting both the organic corn market and total u.s. corn exports-are found to be significant. genetically modified (gm) bt corn, through the pest protection that it confers, has lower levels of mycotoxins: toxic and carcinogenic chemicals produced as secondary metabolites of fungi that colonize crops. in less developed countries where certain mycotoxins are significant contaminants of food, bt corn adoption, by virtue of its mycotoxin reduction, may even improve human and animal health. the paper then discusses the evidence for bt corn's lower levels of contamination of fumonisin and aflatoxin, and estimates economic impacts in the united states. finally, the paper examines the potential policy impacts of bt corn's mycotoxin reduction, on nations that are making a decision on whether to allow commercialization of this genetically modified crop. genetically modified corn has been approved as an animal feed in several countries, but information about the fate of genetically modified dna and protein in vivo is insufficient. feeding of diets containing genetically-modified corn did not significantly influence health and performance of quails nor did it affect dna-transfer and quality of meat and eggs of quails compared with the isogenic counterpart. 
Are privately performed IgG tests to clarify food intolerances meaningful? [SEP] igg food sensitivities have been linked to various symptoms and disorders. some evidence supports the use of igg food sensitivity testing to determine food sensitivities and intolerances. igg food sensitivity testing may prove to be a beneficial tool for healthcare practitioners, especially for patients experiencing migraine headache symptoms. food intolerance mediated by food specific igg antibodies has been implicated in a variety of disorders. to assess the prevalence of food specific igg antibodies among patients clinically presenting with allergic symptoms lacking laboratory evidence of allergy. patients were screened for food specific igg antibodies. the detection of a variety of food specific igg antibodies among patients with allergic symptoms indicates a possible link to food intolerance allergy. to understand the causes of food intolerance, it is important to investigate sensitization patterns of food-specific iggs (sigg) in relation to dietary patterns and physical conditions. to use food-specific igg antibody detection to explore its application in the allergy dermatoses. serum igg and iga food antibodies have been used for dietary advice to subjects with gastrointestinal symptoms and perceived food intolerance, but the role of these antibodies in mediating intolerance is controversial. 
Is a gluten-free diet recommended for people who do not have celiac disease? [SEP] a gluten-free diet is a special type of diet intended for people with celiac disease. the aim of our study is to evaluate the recent research on gluten-free diet as a nutritional therapy for patients with celiac disease. a review of literature on gluten-free diets, gluten sensitivity, celiac disease, and attitudes toward gluten consumption was undertaken to examine the prevalence and consequences of adopting a gluten-free diet and to provide guidance to healthcare practitioners whose patients are now often adopting this diet without medical input. unfortunately, that leaves many nonceliac gluten-sensitive people suffering unnecessarily from very serious symptoms that put them at risk for complications of autoimmune disorders that might be resolved with a gluten-free diet. a gluten-free diet is currently the only effective means of treating individuals with celiac disease. however, it is recommended that individuals with celiac disease should have both initial and long-term assessments by a health professional when introducing pure oats into a gluten-free diet. the aim of this study was to investigate adherence to a gluten-free diet and potentially associated factors, focusing on the relationship between adherence and knowledge of the gluten content of foods and of celiac disease in general. their knowledge of disease and gluten-free diet was assessed using a newly developed scale comprising 31 statements on celiac disease in general and foods appropriate in a gluten-free diet. one hundred four patients with celiac disease took part in the study, 65% of them reported strictly adhering to a gluten-free diet. knowledge of celiac disease and gluten-free diet was strongly and significantly associated with adherence to a gluten-free diet. 
Does the plant substance nobiletin contained in mandarins protect against weight gain? [SEP] nobiletin, a polymethoxy flavone (pmf), is specific to citrus and has been reported to exhibit important health-supporting properties. and ponkan mandarin (citrus reticulata blanco), and its function was characterized in vitro. the results showed that the expression of citomt in the flavedo of ponkan mandarin was much higher than that of satsuma mandarin during maturation, which was consistent with the higher accumulation of nobiletin in ponkan mandarin. the results presented in this study will provide new strategies to enhance nobiletin accumulation and improve the nutritional qualities of citrus fruit. nobiletin is a polymethoxylated flavone that is abundant in the peels of citrus fruits, such as citrus unshiu (satsuma mandarin) and citrus sinensis. the suppression of inos induction by nobiletin suggests that nobiletin may be responsible for the anti-inflammatory effects of citrus peels and have a therapeutic potential for liver diseases. we investigated the efficacy of a polymethoxy flavonoid, nobiletin, from citrus depressa on tumor invasion in vitro. each citrus peel extract varied in flavonoid content, but the contents of nobiletin and tangeretin, which were contained in all 20 fruit peels, showed a positive and significant correlation with each other (r=0.879, p<0.0005 for immature fruit peels; r=0.858, p<0.0005 for mature fruit peels). this inhibitory effect was significantly and positively correlated with the content of nobiletin and tangeretin. this result supports the premise that nobiletin-rich citrus may provide protection against disease resulting from excessive no production. 
Does consumption of dairy products in middle and advanced age protect against bone fractures? [SEP] studies supporting the beneficial effects of milk or dairy products on bone health show a significant inverse association between dairy food intake and bone turnover markers and a positive association with bone mineral content. dairy products could therefore improve bone health and reduce the risk of fractures in later life. over the past 30-years, the u.s. dietary guidelines for americans have included recommendations around dairy consumption, largely based on meeting recommendations for calcium intake with the intended purpose of osteoporosis prevention. although dairy products provide more bone-beneficial nutrients (e.g., calcium, magnesium, potassium, zinc, phosphorus, and protein) per unit of energy than any other food group, the relevance of dairy products for long-term bone health and fracture prevention has resurged as some observational studies have suggested consumption to be associated with a greater risk of fractures. the highest consumption of dairy products did not show a clear association with total osteoporotic fracture and hip fracture risk; however, a diminished risk of vertebral fracture was found. some authors have suggested that dairy products are not helpful and perhaps detrimental to bone health because higher osteoporotic fracture incidence is observed in countries with higher dairy product consumption. milk consumption has recently been suggested to increase fracture risk. collectively, our findings indicate the existence of a weak but significant positive association between dairy product consumption bone properties in older adults. in this group of us women undergoing the menopausal transition, dairy food intake was neither associated with femoral and spine bone mineral density loss nor the risk of fractures. a large body of scientific evidence collected in recent decades demonstrates that an adequate intake of calcium and other nutrients from dairy foods reduces the risk of osteoporosis by increasing bone acquisition during growth, slowing age-related bone loss, and reducing osteoporotic fractures. 
Is the milk of horn-bearing cows less rich in allergens and more easily tolerated by lactose-intolerant individuals? [SEP] to determine whether camel's milk can be consumed by patients intolerant to lactose without undesirable reactions. camel's milk can be considered an option for the individuals intolerant to lactose who present symptoms when ingesting cow's milk. availability of low-lactose milk and of its by-products allows consumption of greater volumes of this highly nutritious food by subjects with lactose intolerance with none or less symptoms compared to unmodified milk. homogenized and pasteurized) cow's milk although they do not suffer from ige-mediated cow's milk allergy or lactose intolerance. the aim of the study was to compare the tolerance of unhomogenized and homogenized cow's milk in lactose tolerant adults who had repeatedly experienced better tolerance of unhomogenized than homogenized milk. the symptoms with milk and 12 gm of lactose were less severe than with the 50-gm tolerance test. cow's milk allergies, conversely, are less common conditions that may manifest with equivalent symptoms and are able to simulate and/or aggravate lactose intolerance. this study was designed to evaluate the  contribution of ige-mediated cow's milk sensitization to the symptomatology of adult patients with lactose-free diet refractory lactose intolerance. the percentage of patients who had skin reactions to whole cow's milk, alpha-lactalbumin, beta-lactoglobulin, caseins, goat's  milk, and soy was 69.5, 36.9, 56.5, 56.5%, 54.3, and 50%, respectively. ige-mediated sensitization to cow's  milk is a frequent comorbidity in subjects with lactose-free diet refractory lactose intolerance and is worth consideration in patients with this condition. 
Does daily flossing protect against tooth decay, periodontitis and tooth loss? [SEP] effective daily plaque control promotes gingival/periodontal health. recent meta-analyses and other reviews have found inconclusive evidence to support that tooth flossing promotes gingival/periodontal health. we assert that effective flossing between specific teeth can promote gingival/periodontal health. it can be concluded that majority of the present and future oral health workers studied believe in the effectiveness of the use of dental floss in the prevention of periodontal diseases and use dental floss occasionally but the oral health workers who recommend the use of dental floss to patients are fewer. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the associations between home use of flossing and prevalence of periodontal disease and caries in older adults. flossers showed less periodontal disease, fewer dental caries, and loss of fewer teeth over a 5-y period. these findings further support flossing as an important oral hygiene behavior to prevent oral disease progression in older adults. this investigation examined current practices of brushing, flossing, and periodic dental visits and their association with periodontal health status. loss of periodontal attachment was related to frequency of brushing while subjects who exhibited acceptable flossing ability had less plaque and calculus, shallower pocket depths, and less attachment loss. brushing, flossing, and periodic dental visits were correlated with better periodontal health. 
Do protein supplements help build muscle? [SEP] supplementation is a key component in bodybuilding and is increasingly being used by amateur weight lifters and enthusiasts to build their ideal bodies. bodybuilding supplements are advertised to provide nutrients needed to help optimise muscle building but they can contain high amounts of sugar. higher levels of drive for muscularity, participation in weight training, and playing a greater number of sports were significant predictors of higher current use and intentions to use protein powder, but age, bmi, body esteem, and ethnicity were not. protein supplements will not build muscles unless the athlete is not ingesting adequate amounts of protein in food. most dietary supplements for weight loss and muscle growth lack scientific evidence in support of product claims and contain ingredients that can be harmful to health. a few studies show beneficial effects of acute and short-term supplementation of high protein meals or essential amino acid mixtures on muscle protein synthesis. a high protein intake or supplementation of amino acids may improve muscle protein synthesis. accordingly, leucine supplementation has been suggested to develop muscle mass or prevent protein loss in several conditions characterized by muscle protein wasting. although recent studies corroborate that increasing plasma leucine concentration generally induces an increase in muscle protein synthesis, long-term dietary leucine supplementation has been poorly investigated. leucine-rich amino acid mixture or proteins appeared more efficient than leucine alone to improve muscle mass and performance, suggesting the efficacy of leucine depends nevertheless on the presence of other amino acids. 
Does music therapy promote recovery from severe limitations of consciousness after severe brain injury? [SEP] substantial progress has been made over the past two decades in detecting, predicting and promoting recovery of consciousness in patients with disorders of consciousness (doc) caused by severe brain injuries. this case study describes a patient with severe brain injury admitted for neurorehabilitation in a minimally conscious state. patients with acute severe traumatic brain injury may recover consciousness before self-expression. introduction: evidence supporting the use of music interventions to maximize arousal and awareness in adults presenting with a disorder of consciousness continues to grow. the present study aims to synthesize brain imaging data about the neural processing of music in children aged 0-18 years, to form a theoretical basis for music interventions with children presenting with a disorder of consciousness following acquired brain injury. ", discussion was centered around the clinical implications of music therapy with children following acquired brain injury. brain injury in childhood occurs in a period of rapid development and the ability to process music following brain injury will likely depend on pre-morbid musical processing. further, a significant brain injury may disrupt the developmental trajectory of complex music processing. after severe brain injury, this treatment might trigger recovery from altered states of consciousness, improve cognition and facilitate rehabilitation. mobility and functional level were significantly improved in patients with mild, moderate and severe traumatic brain injury. 
Can eating grapefruit in combination with some medications lead to harmful interactions? [SEP] this review discusses the proposed mechanisms of action and the medications involved in drug-grapefruit juice interactions and addresses the clinical implications of these interactions. grapefruit juice can alter oral drug pharmacokinetics by different mechanisms. numerous medications used in the prevention or treatment of coronary artery disease and its complications have been observed or are predicted to interact with grapefruit juice. some drugs for the treatment of peripheral or central vascular disease also have the potential to interact with grapefruit juice. to review current literature pertaining to the potential interaction of several classes of drugs with grapefruit juice, and to discuss the mechanism and causative agents in such interactions. human studies and case reports describing the mechanism and potential interaction of grapefruit juice and several classes of drugs. patients and other health care professionals need to be educated about potential drug interactions with grapefruit juice. grapefruit juice and grapefruit product consumption have potential health benefits; however, their intake is also associated with interactions with certain drugs, including calcium channel blockers, immunosuppressants and antihistamines. the aim of this review is to outline the mechanisms of grapefruit-drug interactions and present a comprehensive summary of those agents affected and whether they are likely to be of clinical relevance. the overall exposure of some drugs can be increased by more than fivefold when taken with grapefruit juice and increase the risk of adverse effects. 
Can regular consumption of chocolate prevent cardiovascular disease? [SEP] daily consumption of dark chocolate (polyphenol content equivalent to 100 g of dark chocolate) can reduce cardiovascular events by 85 (95% confidence interval 60 to 105) per 10,000 population treated over 10 years. the blood pressure and cholesterol lowering effects of dark chocolate consumption are beneficial in the prevention of cardiovascular events in a population with metabolic syndrome. daily dark chocolate consumption could be an effective cardiovascular preventive strategy in this population. in conclusion, chocolate consumption confers reduced risks of mortality from all causes, cardiovascular disease, and alzheimer's disease in this us population. in the future dark chocolate may have a role in prevention of cardiovascular and thromboembolic diseases. supported by epidemiological evidence, chocolate has emerged as a possible modulator of cardiovascular risk. moreover, the consumption of chocolate has been involved in the protective modulation of blood pressure, the lipid profile, the activation of platelets, and the sensitivity to insulin. previous studies have shown favorable effects of chocolate products on the cardiovascular system and reported an inverse relationship between chocolate consumption and adverse cardiac events; however, relationships between chocolate eating habits and heart rate variability have not yet been studied. this double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study evaluated the efficacy of daily consumption of a cocoa flavanol-containing dark chocolate bar with added ps on serum lipids, blood pressure, and other circulating cardiovascular health markers in a population with elevated serum cholesterol. results indicate that regular consumption of chocolate bars containing ps and cf as part of a low-fat diet may support cardiovascular health by lowering cholesterol and improving blood pressure. 
Is barley grass good for health? [SEP] barley grass powder is the best functional food that provides nutrition and eliminates toxins from cells in human beings; however, its functional ingredients have played an important role as health benefit. barley grass promotes sleep; has antidiabetic effect; regulates blood pressure; enhances immunity; protects liver; has anti-acne/detoxifying and antidepressant effects; improves gastrointestinal function; has anticancer, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, hypolipidemic, and antigout effects; reduces hyperuricemia; prevents hypoxia, cardiovascular diseases, fatigue, and constipation; alleviates atopic dermatitis; is a calcium supplement; improves cognition; and so on. these results support that barley grass may be one of the best functional foods for preventive chronic diseases and the best raw material of modern diet structure in promoting the development of large health industry and further reveal that gaba, flavonoids, sod, k-ca, vitamins, and tryptophan mechanism of barley grass have preventive and therapeutic role for chronic diseases. this paper can be used as a scientific evidence for developing functional foods and novel drugs for barley grass for preventive chronic diseases. this review paper not only reveals the formation and action mechanism of barley diet overcoming human chronic diseases, but also provides scientific basis for the development of health products and drugs for the prevention and treatment of human chronic diseases. barley seeds are considered to possess high nutritional value and antioxidant properties. the grass of barley is also considered as a part of health drink in many parts of india. our study demonstrates the antiobesity activity of barley grass juice and it may be concluded that barley grass juice can be an effective nutraceutical in the management of obesity. wheatgrass and barley grass are freshly sprouted leaves of wheat and barley seeds and are rich sources of phytochemicals. young barley grass leaves are well-known for containing the antioxidant substances flavonoid and chlorophyll. 
Are diets with reduced carbohydrate content better for weight loss than other weight loss programs? [SEP] despite favourable effects of both diets on weight loss, the carbohydrate-reduced diet was more beneficial with respect to cardiovascular risk factors compared to the fat-reduced diet. some research suggests that low-carbohydrate diets may achieve better early weight loss than comparison diets higher in carbohydrate. studies of up to 1 year suggest that weight loss on low-carbohydrate diet is comparable with fat-restricted diets with higher carbohydrate content. although science continues to advance in this field, current research suggests that low-carbohydrate diets can be a viable option for achieving weight loss and may have beneficial effects on glycemic control, triglyceride levels, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in some patients. summarize the physiological effects of low-carbohydrate diets as they relate to weight loss, glycemic control, and metabolic health. low-carbohydrate diets are at least as effective for weight loss as other diets, but claims about increased energy expenditure and preferential loss of body fat are unsubstantiated. data indicate that low-carbohydrate diets are a safe, reasonable alternative to low-fat diets for weight loss. after subsequent weight loss, the changes in all these variables were significantly greater and the reduction in ldl cholesterol was significantly greater with the 54%-carbohydrate diet than with the 26%-carbohydrate diet. a systematic review of low-carbohydrate diets found that the weight loss achieved is associated with the duration of the diet and restriction of energy intake, but not with restriction of carbohydrates. low-carbohydrate diets may be an option for inducing weight loss in obese patients, but a very low intake of carbohydrate-rich foods is not commensurate with a healthy and palatable diet in the long term. 
Does taking probiotics during pregnancy and early life protect children from atopic dermatitis? [SEP] we undertook a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to investigate whether probiotic use during pregnancy and early life decreases the incidence of atopic dermatitis and immunoglobulin e (ige)-associated atopic dermatitis in infants and young children. meta-analysis demonstrated that probiotic use decreased the incidence of atopic dermatitis (rr = 0.79 [95% ci = 0.71-0.88]). this meta-analysis provided evidence in support of a moderate role of probiotics in the prevention of atopic dermatitis and ige-associated atopic dermatitis in infants. in general, a combination of probiotics and prebiotics given from pregnancy until early infancy has a higher potential for protecting the infant from developing early manifestations of eczema than short administration of one specific microorganism. the risk of atopic dermatitis in children on probiotics relative to placebo was 0.96 (confidence interval 0.38-2.33). supplementation with lactobacillus gg during pregnancy and early infancy neither reduced the incidence of atopic dermatitis nor altered the severity of atopic dermatitis in affected children but was associated with an increased rate of recurrent episodes of wheezing bronchitis. the theory that appropriate colonization of gut bacteria during infancy influences the development of the immune system has prompted numerous clinical trials that have evaluated the effectiveness of probiotic supplementation for the prevention and treatment of atopic eczema in children. in addition, topical application of probiotics has been demonstrated to improve the skin's barrier function, which might contribute to reduce the severity of atopic dermatitis. in this article, we review the literature and data regarding the use of probiotics, both by oral administration and topical application, for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. probiotic supplementation seems to be an attractive strategy to prevent and treat pediatric atopic dermatitis. 
Is Bulletproof Coffee recommended? [SEP] coffee is a very attractive but not a unique drink. there are various types of coffee, e.g. caffeine is the major coffee constituent which the coffee tolerance or intolerance depends on. they are recommended to take decaffeinated coffee, and this only if their stomach is healthy, because both decaffeinated coffee and coffee with caffeine cause heartburn. therefore, elderly persons are recommended to take moderate amounts of coffee which will not cause any health impairments. coffee seems to have distinct acute and long-term effects on health, which can be modified by genetic background. coffee consumption is potentially protective against the development of type 2 diabetes, but given the lack of a solid biological basis for this association, and the possible adverse cardiovascular effects of coffee, recommendations for optimal coffee intake are difficult to establish. although it is perhaps premature to recommend increased coffee or caffeine intake to prevent the development of type 2 diabetes, there is little or no evidence to warrant the recommendation that it should not be a part of a normal healthy diet. coffee is the most commonly used drug in the united states. however, this literature review suggests that coffee does not have an appreciable effect on hyperlipidemia, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, or cancer. 
Do apples help with smoking cessation? [SEP] previous research has shown that chewing confectionary chewing gum appears to lessen the severity of acute nicotine withdrawal symptoms and help individuals who are trying to reduce smoking in part due to the flavor of the gum chewed. forty-nine smokers participated in three experimental conditions (peppermint, vanilla, and baked apple cardamom flavored gum) as well as a no gum control across four weeks while abstaining from smoking for 48-hours each week. these findings indicate that some flavors of gum are effective in reducing the negative affect associated with nicotine withdrawal and may serve as a valuable tool in helping smokers quit. smartphone applications (apps) for smoking cessation are a promising treatment resource. this study compared smoking cessation mobile apps targeting an adolescent audience with popular cessation apps for a general audience. smartphone applications (apps) offer a potentially cost-effective and a wide-reach aid to smoking cessation. in 2012, a content analysis of smoking cessation apps suggested that most apps did not adopt behaviour change techniques (bcts), which according to previous research had suggested would promote higher success rates in quitting smoking. quitting smoking can reduce these problems. smoking cessation interventions include various types helping smokers successfully quit. quitting smoking can reduce lung cancers and other health problems. 
Do products made from fenugreek seeds help you lose weight? [SEP] our study shows that supplementation of fenugreek seeds in the diet inhibits colon carcinogenesis, by modulating the activities of beta-glucuronidase and mucinase. fenugreek seeds (trigonella foenum-graecum l.) have long been used as a herbal medicine for treating metabolic and nutritive dysfunctions. the aim of our study was to investigate the effects of a repeated administration of a fenugreek seed extract on the eating behaviour of overweight subjects. daily fat consumption, expressed as the ratio fat reported energy intake/total energy expenditure (fat-rei/tee), was significantly decreased in our overweight subjects administered the fenugreek seed extract relative to those receiving the placebo (fat-rei/tee 0.26 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.30 +/- 0.01, respectively; p = 0.032). we also observed a significant decrease in the insulin/glucose ratio in subjects treated with fenugreek seed extract relative to the placebo group (0.89 +/- 0.09 vs. 1.06 +/- 0.10 mui mmol(-1), respectively; p = 0.044). the repeated administration of a fenugreek seed extract slightly but significantly decreased dietary fat consumption in healthy overweight subjects in this short-term study. fenugreek seeds and leaves are anticholesterolemic, anti-tumor, anti-inflammatory, carminative, demulcent, deobstruent, emollient, expectorant, galactogogue, febrifuge, laxative, hypoglycaemic, restorative, parasiticide and uterine tonic and useful in burning sensation. the most outstanding modern health benefits of fenugreek are in appetite suppressant and weight loss, reduce cholesterol, reduce cardiovascular risk, control diabetes, a good consolation for sore throats, a remedy for acid reflux, constipation, colon cancer prevention, appropriate for kidney trouble, skin infection, increase milk production, reduce menstrual discomfort, and it reduces menopause symptoms. fenugreek extract and its bioactive compounds showed excellent antidiabetic activity and anti-obesity activity in animal and human study. this dietary intervention study suggested that the combination of fenugreek seeds and garlic offers a higher beneficial influence in exerting the cardioprotective effect. 
Does skipping breakfast increase heart attack risk? [SEP] to determine whether skipping breakfast is associated with heart disease, the first meta-analysis of currently available epidemiological studies was performed. the primary meta-analysis combining hrs for q1 (first quartile, most skipping breakfast) versus q4 (fourth quartile, least skipping breakfast) from 3 studies together with other hrs/ors demonstrated that skipping breakfast was associated with the significantly increased risk of heart disease (pooled hr/or 1.24; 95% ci 1.09 to 1.40; p = 0.001). in conclusion, skipping breakfast is associated with the increased risk of heart disease. associations with cardiovascular outcomes and skipping breakfast in adults have been reported. skipping breakfast was associated with a worse lipid profile, blood pressure levels, insulin-resistance, and metabolic syndrome. previous studies on the association between skipping breakfast and risk of cardiovascular disease and all cause mortality have drawn controversial conclusions. skipping breakfast was associated with elevated risk of cardiovascular disease (relative risk 1.22 95% confidence interval 1.10-1.35) and all cause mortality (relative risk 1.25 95% confidence interval 1.11-1.40) compared with eating breakfast regularly. skipping breakfast increases the risk of cardiovascular disease and all cause mortality. after adjusting for confounding factors, skipping breakfast significantly increased the risk of mortality from circulatory diseases [hazard ratio (hr) = 1.42] and all causes (hr = 1.43) in men and all causes mortality (hr = 1.34) in women. our findings showed that skipping breakfast is associated with increasing risk of mortality from circulatory diseases and all causes among men and all causes mortality among women in japan. 
Does wheat make you fat and sick? [SEP] wheat-based foods have been staple foods since about 10,000 years and constitute a major source of energy, dietary fiber, and micronutrients for the world population. the role of wheat in our diet, however, has recently been scrutinized by pseudoscientific books and media reports promoting the overall impression that wheat consumption makes people sick, stupid, fat, and addicted. the aim of this review is to achieve an objective judgment of the positive aspects of wheat consumption as well as adverse effects for individuals suffering from wrds. the first part presents wheat constituents and their positive nutritional value, in particular, the consumption of products from whole-grain flours. based on all available scientific knowledge, wheat consumption is safe and healthy for the vast majority of people. there is no scientific evidence to support that the general population would benefit from a wheat-free diet. wheat is a major cereal grain in the us and the world. during wheat milling, a large amount of wheat bran, a by-product, is disposed off as waste. in comparison of different cereal grains and wheat samples in isocaloric diets, the total liver fat accumulated was the highest for hens fed grain sorghum, corn or triticale and the lowest for those fed barley, oats or rye. intermediate levels of liver fat were obtained with wheat and similar liver fat contents were observed with hens fed different samples of west coast wheat. 
Do whole grains lower the likelihood of dying early? [SEP] although refined grain consumption increased the likelihood of having nafld, whole-grain consumption favorably affected clinical characteristics of patients with nafld and tended to be associated with less severe disease. whole grain consumption has long been associated with human health. whole grain consumption of more than 7 times/week was associated with a 0.49-fold (odds ratio = 0.49; 95% confidence interval, 0.29, 0.82) lower likelihood of having breast cancer, after adjustments were made. the potential role of whole grain in preventing various mortality outcomes has been inconsistently reported in a wealth of prospective observational studies. we evaluated the relations between whole-grain intake and risks of dying from any cause, cardiovascular disease (cvd), and cancer through a meta-analytic approach. our findings suggest significant inverse relations between whole-grain intake and mortality due to any cause, cvd, or cancer. our results suggest that high whole grain food intake may be associated with lower breast cancer risk before menopause. epidemiological evidence suggests that whole grain intake is associated with reduced risk of type 2 diabetes. these results suggest that the consumption of whole grains may offer modest benefit early in the development of type 2 diabetes, but this benefit is lost with further development of the disease. we found that a higher consumption of whole grains, reflected both by reported consumption according to the ffq and ar biomarkers, was associated with a decreased risk of receiving a gdm diagnosis. 
Does the consumption of dairy products promote mucus and diseases of the ear, nose and throat? [SEP] there is a belief among some members of the public that the consumption of milk and dairy products increases the production of mucus in the respiratory system. according to australian studies, subjects perceived some parameters of mucus production to change after consumption of milk and soy-based beverages, but these effects were not specific to cows' milk because the soy-based milk drink with similar sensory characteristics produced the same changes. in individuals inoculated with the common cold virus, milk intake was not associated with increased nasal secretions, symptoms of cough, nose symptoms or congestion. nevertheless, individuals who believe in the mucus and milk theory report more respiratory symptoms after drinking milk. in some types of alternative medicine, people with bronchial asthma, a chronic inflammatory disease of the lower respiratory tract, are advised not to eat so-called mucus-forming foods, especially all kinds of dairy products. according to different investigations the consumption of milk does not seem to exacerbate the symptoms of asthma and a relationship between milk consumption and the occurrence of asthma cannot be established. the belief that milk produces mucus is widespread in the community and is associated with a significant reduction in milk consumption. sensations associated with milk drinking were reported by otherwise healthy believers and non-believers in the milk-mucus effect (n = 169) in an unstructured interview, with further responses prompted about the duration, type and amount of milk causing the effect. the chronic respiratory symptom history and dairy product intake of 130 of these subjects were also assessed. the knowledge of mucous secretions has advanced considerably with respect to their altered physiological properties in various ear, nose and throat disorders. 
Does regular consumption of energy drinks harm heart health? [SEP] previous research showed that regular consumption of these drinks was associated with several health and behavioural problems. the aim of the present study was to determine the socio-demographic groups at risk for regular energy drink consumption and to explore the association of regular energy drinks consumption with health and behavioural problems and negative school experiences in adolescents. adolescents who consumed energy drinks regularly had more health and behavioural problems and negative school experiences. adolescents drinking energy drinks are at risk of a wide range of negative outcomes and should be specifically addressed by preventive interventions. • there is growing evidence that energy drink consumption is related to negative social, emotional and health outcomes, but only a few studies have explored this relationship in adolescents. • adolescents reporting regular energy drink consumption were in higher risk to suffer from health and behavioural problems and negative school experiences. to determine the awareness, consumption patterns of energy drinks (ed) and health hazards among students at a turkish university. this correlational study indicates that adolescent consumption of energy drinks/shots is widespread and that energy drink users report heightened risk for substance use. we report the case of a young boy who presented with palpitations and high blood pressure as a result of energy drinks usage. several studies have reported numerous health hazards including cardiac effects associated with energy drinks. 
Do light drinks promote obesity? [SEP] obesity and alcohol drinking are associated with metabolic syndrome. after adjusting for age, physical activity, and smoking, in the non-obese group, the or for heavy drinking with binge drinking (reference: nondrinking) was 1.56 (95% confidence interval [ci] = 1.12-2.18), with a significant increase in metabolic syndrome prevalence. in the obese group, the or for heavy drinking with binge drinking was 1.42 (95% ci = 1.07-1.88), showing a significant increase in metabolic syndrome prevalence (p < 0.05). in both non-obese and obese korean males, heavy drinking with binge drinking was associated with increased risk of metabolic syndrome. the aim of this study was to clarify the relationship between drinking and metabolically healthy status in men with normal weight, overweight and obesity. in each of the normal weight and overweight groups, percentages of metabolically healthy subjects were significantly lower in heavy and very heavy drinkers than in nondrinkers and were marginally significantly higher in light drinkers than in nondrinkers. light-to-moderate alcohol drinking has been shown to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes, for which obesity is a primary risk factor. the aim of this study was to determine whether drinking alcohol influences the relationship between obesity and hyperglycemia. the associations between obesity and hyperglycemia were weaker in light-to-moderate drinkers than in nondrinkers. thus, light-to-moderate drinking may reduce the impact of obesity on the risk for diabetes. 
Does coffee reduce the risk of dementia? [SEP] coffee consumption is associated with a reduced risk of several diseases but uncertainty remains about the influence of coffee consumption on the risk of dementia. the present study suggests that higher coffee consumption is associated with reduced risk for alzheimer disease. coffee, green tea, and caffeine are potential preventive factors for dementia, but the underlying evidence is insufficient. high levels of coffee and caffeine consumption were significantly associated with a reduced dementia risk in a dose-dependent manner, especially in men. in the caide study, coffee drinking of 3-5 cups per day at midlife was associated with a decreased risk of dementia/ad by about 65% at late-life. in conclusion, coffee drinking may be associated with a decreased risk of dementia/ad. therefore, we investigated the association between coffee consumption and incident risk of dementia in an elderly japanese population. overall, coffee consumption was significantly associated with a lower risk of incident dementia. coffee consumption is significantly associated with a lower risk of incident dementia. coffee drinking at midlife is associated with a decreased risk of dementia/ad later in life. 
Does sugar consumption increase the risk of developing type 2 diabetes regardless of obesity? [SEP] changes in type-2 diabetes, overweight/obesity and caries levels mirrored those of free-sugar consumption. a high intake of sugars has been linked to diet-induced health problems. more studies with realistic consumption levels of fructose are needed, but current literature does not indicate that a normal consumption of fructose (approximately 50-60 g/day) increases the risk of atherosclerosis, type 2 diabetes, or obesity more than consumption of other sugars. recent evidence suggests that higher consumption of ssbs was associated with greater incidence of type 2 diabetes independent of adiposity. although still controversial, this rising trend in simple sugar consumption has been positively associated with weight gain and obesity, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. most patients with type 2 diabetes suffer from obesity and diabetes-related complications, including cardiovascular disease and hepatic steatosis. it has been proposed that simple sugar consumption is one of the major risk factors in the development of diabetes. furthermore, a high consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages increases the risk of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus, whereas a high dietary fibre intake, mainly from whole-grain products, reduces the risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipoproteinaemia, cardiovascular disease and colorectal cancer at varying evidence levels. for many, sugar represents a threat to their health, a perception that is driven by increase in the prevalence of obesity, diabetes, and metabolic disorders, which directly or indirectly is connected with the consumption of sugar. however, is sugar to blame for this health crisis, or are sedentary lifestyle and unhealthy diet equally important? 
Does a lower salt diet reduce the likelihood of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] there is now compelling evidence to support salt reduction in hypertensives and a substantial body of evidence to support salt reduction in the general population to reduce risk of death from cardiovascular disease. by contrast, consuming diets with reduced salt content are associated with a smaller shift of body fluids from the interstitial into the intravascular space, less antihypertensive medication, a reduced asymmetric dimethylarginine (adma) production and, after the generation tgfbeta-mrna, to a lower mitogen-activated protein kinases (mapk) activation. a reduction in salt intake is one of the most cost-effective measures to curb the rapidly growing disease burden attributed to blood pressure and cardiovascular disease in the chinese population. a lower salt diet starting from childhood has the potential to prevent the development of such conditions. reducing dietary salt is a potentially important target for the improvement of public health. we used the coronary heart disease (chd) policy model to quantify the benefits of potentially achievable, population-wide reductions in dietary salt of up to 3 g per day (1200 mg of sodium per day). we estimated the rates and costs of cardiovascular disease in subgroups defined by age, sex, and race; compared the effects of salt reduction with those of other interventions intended to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease; and determined the cost-effectiveness of salt reduction as compared with the treatment of hypertension with medications. reducing dietary salt by 3 g per day is projected to reduce the annual number of new cases of chd by 60,000 to 120,000, stroke by 32,000 to 66,000, and myocardial infarction by 54,000 to 99,000 and to reduce the annual number of deaths from any cause by 44,000 to 92,000. the cardiovascular benefits of reduced salt intake are on par with the benefits of population-wide reductions in tobacco use, obesity, and cholesterol levels. modest reductions in dietary salt could substantially reduce cardiovascular events and medical costs and should be a public health target. 
Is less eaten from red plates? [SEP] agreement between dilq-co responses and weighed plate waste measured in 125 fourth-grade students in 2 low-income schools. significant correlations (p ≤ .05) were found between students' reports of how much was eaten and plate waste measurements for 6 of 10 items; agreement ranged from 47%-82%. food ratings, as determined in the classroom before the meal, correlated positively with food consumption as determined by plate waste analyses. recent literature suggests that individuals may consume less food when this is served on red plates. independent groups of participants were presented with constant amounts of popcorns, chocolate chips, or moisturizing cream, on red, blue, or white plates. results confirmed that red plates reduce taste-related consumption and extended this effect to the touch-related consumption of moisturizing cream. suggesting that the effect was not due to a decrease in the consciously experienced appeal of products on red plates, overall appreciation of the foods or cream did not differ according to plate color. although the origin of the intriguing effect of the color red on consumption remains unclear, our results may prove useful to future potential explanations. the study aimed to gain new knowledge about how different décor and dinner plate colours can positively influence dementia sufferer food intake and appetite. plates with a white well, yellow lip and red rim seemed to be preferred regarding food intake. 
Does red wine protect better against cardiovascular disease than white wine? [SEP] red wine, white wine and grape juice exert strong antioxidant activity in similar degrees and all produce significant effects on serum aop and nssa values. levels of anti-oxidant polyphenols are higher in red than in white wine and are thought to contribute to the reduced cardiovascular risk associated with moderate consumption of wine observed in epidemiological studies. to compare the acute effects of acute ingestion of white and red wine on endothelial function in subjects with coronary artery disease (cad). these data suggest that wine acutely improves endothelial function in patients with cad. this has led to speculation that red wine consumption mediates unique anti-atherosclerotic effects compared to other alcoholic beverages. however, no reduction in lipid peroxidation was observed following red or white wine consumption, suggesting that any protective effects of wine drinking on cardiovascular disease are unlikely to be related to inhibition of lipid oxidation. phenolic compounds in red wine may protect low-density lipoproteins (ldl) against oxidative modification, thereby reducing the risk of cardiovascular morbidity. alcohol, specifically red wine, has been suggested to play a key role in the prevention of cardiovascular disease and other chronic pathologies, including cancer. moderate wine consumption is associated with a significant reduction of cardiovascular mortality. therefore, future epidemiological studies should consider differential protective effects of red and white wine in vivo. 
Do azo food dyes cause attention deficit disorder and hyperactivity in children? [SEP] high consumption of allura red has claimed an adverse effects of human health including allergies, food intolerance, cancer, multiple sclerosis, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, brain damage, nausea, cardiac disease and asthma due to the reaction of aromatic azo compounds (r = r' = aromatic). in the early 1970s, research conducted by dr. benjamin feingold found that when hyperactive children were given a diet free of artificial food additives and dyes, symptoms of hyperactivity were reduced. as a result, research on the role of food additives in contributing to adhd waned. while these strictures could have positive effects on behavior, the removal of food dyes is not a panacea for adhd, which is a multifaceted disorder with both biological and environmental underpinnings. to investigate hematologic variables related to iron deficiency and food intake in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder are at a greater risk of injury and also attend the accident and emergency department more frequently. this paper identifies attention deficit hyperactivity disorder as a predisposing cause of injury. this investigation is the first one to show an association between brain electrical activity and intake of provoking foods in children with food-induced attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. these data support the hypothesis that in a subgroup of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder certain foods may not only influence clinical symptoms but may also alter brain electrical activity. children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder showed poorer inhibitory performance through a slower inhibitory process. 
Does turmeric prevent or cure cancer? [SEP] though many researchers are investigating turmeric/curcumin in cancer therapy, there is little epidemiologic information on the effects of turmeric consumption. with limited availability of pharmacologic interventions in many areas of the world, use of turmeric in the diet may help to alleviate some of the disease burden through prevention. here we provide a brief overview of turmeric consumption in different parts of the world, cancer rates in those regions, possible biochemical mechanisms by which turmeric acts and practical recommendations based on the information available. a number of studies have shown that curcumin can be a prevention and a chemotherapeutic agent for colon, skin, oral and intestinal cancers. many plant constituents including turmeric appear to be potent antimutagens and antioxidants. the significance of these effects in terms of the potential anticarcinogenic effects of turmeric is discussed. further, these results strengthen the various other biological effects of turmeric which have direct relevance to anticarcinogenesis and chemoprevention. the turmeric leaf and rhizome extracts and ginger rhizome extracts in methanol also showed distinctive anticancer activities. it is responsible for the yellow color of turmeric and has been shown to inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells and to be of use in preventing or treating a number of diseases. dietary administration of the whole spice turmeric (0.2%, 1.0%, 5.0%) or ethanolic turmeric extract (ete, 0.05%, 0.25%) for 14 days, at doses reported to be cancer preventive in model systems, were found to be hepatotoxic in mice. 
Does breastfeeding reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome? [SEP] to examine the association between type of infant feeding and sudden infant death syndrome. exclusive breastfeeding at 1 month of age halved the risk, partial breastfeeding at the age of 1 month also reduced the risk of sudden infant death syndrome, but after adjustment this risk was not significant. breastfeeding survival curves showed that both partial breastfeeding and exclusive breastfeeding were associated with a reduced risk of sudden infant death syndrome. this study shows that breastfeeding reduced the risk of sudden infant death syndrome by approximately 50% at all ages throughout infancy. given the risk of sudden infant death syndrome related to bedsharing, multipronged strategies to promote breastfeeding should be developed and tested. pacifier use appears to decrease the risk of sudden infant death syndrome, but should be avoided until one month of age in infants who are breastfed. although the baby-friendly hospital initiative advises that no pacifiers be given to breastfeeding infants, both breastfeeding and pacifier use may protect against sudden infant death syndrome. the international child care practice study data set on child care practices associated with sudden infant death syndrome risk from 21 centers in 17 countries was used to describe infant-feeding practices and pacifier use and assess factors associated with breastfeeding. we conducted a literature review on the effect of breastfeeding and dummy (pacifier) use on sudden infant death syndrome (sids). this study aims to identify the risky behaviors of mothers with infants that may put their children at risk for sudden infant death syndrome. 
Do boron preparations such as borax, boric acid, or calcium fructoborate relieve pain associated with age-related joint wear (osteoarthritis)? [SEP] calcium fructoborate is a boron-based nutritional supplement. it may influence macrophage production of inflammatory mediators, can be beneficial for the suppression of cytokine production, and inhibits progression of endotoxin-associated diseases, as well as the boric acid and other boron sources. the studies on animals and humans with a dose range of 1-7 mg calcium fructoborate (0.025-0.175 mg elemental boron)/kg body weight/day exhibited a good anti-inflammatory activity, and it also seemed to have negligible adverse effect on humans. boric acid and borax were given to the treatment groups with three different doses using gavage. borax and boric acid at different doses decreased inflammation and oxidative stress caused by cisplatin toxicity and increased er stress. as a result of the treatments applied to experimental animals, it was determined that boric acid and borax reduced apoptotic damage in kidney tissue, but the decrease was statistically significant only in 200 mg/kg boric acid-administered group. further studies on the effects of boron compounds on er stress and apoptotic mechanisms may clarify this issue. boron (as boric acid and borax) has also well-described biological effects and therapeutic benefits. human volunteers were dosed with 10b-enriched boric acid, 5.0%, borax, 5.0%, or disodium octaborate tetrahydrate, 10% in aqueous solutions. these in vivo results show that percutaneous absorption of boron, as boric acid, borax, and disodium octaborate tetrahydrate, through intact human skin is low and is significantly less than the average daily dietary intake. 
Can glutamate in food cause intolerance symptoms? [SEP] a careful diagnostic workup revealed that the disorder was caused by sodium glutamate intolerance. intolerance to foods which contain lactose can cause a range of intestinal and systemic symptoms. a deficiency in digestive enzymes can also cause some types of food intolerances like lactose and gluten intolerance. food intolerances may cause unpleasant symptoms, including nausea, bloating, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, which usually begin about half an hour after eating or drinking the food in question, but sometimes symptoms may delayed up to 48 h. there is also a strong genetic pattern to food intolerances. intolerance reactions to food chemicals are mostly dose-related, but also some people are more sensitive than others. food allergy/intolerance may cause a broad spectrum of symptoms and signs in children, including generalized reactions, such as anaphylactic shock. intolerance to certain foods can cause a range of gut and systemic symptoms. food intolerances are principally caused by enzymatic defects in the digestive system, as is the case with lactose intolerance, but may also result from pharmacological effects of vasoactive amines present in foods (e.g. food intolerance is the term used to describe a hypersensitivity reaction to a food component. if there is detailed recall of events that point to the food as a potential cause of the symptom and the symptom is sufficiently serious, the tool user is recommended to seek testing at an allergy clinic or by the appropriate specialist for a non-allergic sensitivity. 
Does the Orthopulse device accelerate the orthodontic correction of malocclusions? [SEP] however, does orthodontic treatment provide dental health benefits in addition to the esthetic benefits? do malocclusions harm the periodontium? is correcting malocclusions with orthodontic treatment beneficial for periodontal health? patients with class ii malocclusion generally seek orthodontic treatment for esthetic concern. people with malocclusion may require orthodontic treatment to correct the problem. orthodontic treatment is a way of straightening or moving teeth, to improve the appearance of the teeth and how they work. in conclusion, orthodontic treatment does not affect the dentine formation of young permanent teeth, but it promotes the activation of odontoblasts and accelerates the dentine mineralization. does orthodontic treatment help or hinder a patient's periodontal status? two case reports are presented that demonstrate the usefulness of the accelerated osteogenic orthodontics technique in de-crowding and space closing for the correction of dental malocclusions. the accelerated osteogenic orthodontics technique provides for efficient and stable orthodontic tooth movement. 
Is it harmful for the mental development of the unborn child if the mother regularly eats fish contaminated with mercury during pregnancy? [SEP] there was no evidence of harm associated with the level of total mercury, provided the mother ate fish during pregnancy. we endeavored to study whether maternal fish consumption during pregnancy harms or benefits fetal brain development. we examined associations of maternal fish intake during pregnancy and maternal hair mercury at delivery with infant cognition among 135 mother-infant pairs in project viva, a prospective u.s. pregnancy and child cohort study. higher fish consumption in pregnancy was associated with better infant cognition, but higher mercury levels were associated with lower cognition. to summarize recent evidence regarding associations of early life exposure to mercury from maternal fish consumption during pregnancy, thimerosal in vaccines and dental amalgam with child neurodevelopment. recent publications have built upon previous evidence demonstrating mild detrimental neurocognitive effects from prenatal methylmercury exposure from maternal fish consumption during pregnancy. new studies examining the effects of prenatal fish consumption as well as methylmercury suggest there are benefits from prenatal fish consumption, but also that consumption of fish high in mercury should be avoided. exposure to mercury may harm child development. although the maternal fish consumption is supposed to have beneficial effects on development of infants, it may be harmful for child cognitive development since fish is a common source of methylmercury. self-reported weekly amount of fish consumption during the first two trimesters of pregnancy correlated positively with umbilical cord mercury concentrations (r(s)=0.22, p<0.0001). 
Can the consumption of caffeine during pregnancy harm the unborn child? [SEP] caffeine intake has been associated with abortion, preterm birth and fetal growth restriction, but a general consensus on caffeine restriction is still lacking. after adjustment for smoking and maternal age, a daily consumption of more than 300mg of caffeine compared to less than 100mg of caffeine was significantly associated with an increased gestational age (linear regression coefficient = 2.00 days, 95%ci = 0.12-4.21, p = 0.03). daily caffeine consumption of more than 300mg is possibly associated with an increase in gestational age at birth. we investigated the association of intake of caffeine by pregnant women and risk of cp in their children. to examine the association between maternal caffeine consumption during pregnancy and the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (sids). infants whose mothers had heavy caffeine consumption throughout their pregnancy had a significantly increased risk for sids (odds ratio 1.65; 95% confidence interval 1.15 to 2.35) after adjusting for likely confounding factors. caffeine intake has been associated with fetal harm and now sids. the current study aimed to study whether caffeine intake during pregnancy was associated with impaired child neurodevelopment up to 8 years of age. prenatal caffeine exposure was not associated with a persistently increased risk for behaviour, temperament, motor or language problems in children born at full-term. low to moderate caffeine consumption during pregnancy was not associated with any persistent adverse effects concerning the child's neurodevelopment up to 8 years of age. 
Are vegetables prepared in a microwave oven less healthy than those prepared in other ways? [SEP] the number of food items prepared increased in the b phases, except for two participants who were ill. with the introduction of the microwave oven, time spent preparing meals decreased for all five participants, and their participation in meal preparation increased. although not measured as a study variable, results suggest that the quality of diet also improved with microwave oven use. all cooking techniques cause changes in a vegetable's the nutrient content. this study aimed to determine the best method of cooking vegetables to maintain minerals (potassium and sodium) and carotenoids. uneven cooking due to consumer use of microwave ovens to cook food products that have been prepared but are not ready to eat has been a documented risk factor in several foodborne disease outbreaks. however, food establishments using complex preparation practices more often reported using microwave ovens for multiple processes and for processes that require pathogen destruction. persistence of fungicides was higher in the marmalade prepared in the microwave oven than in that prepared in the preserving pan. comparison of 2-phenylphenol levels in raw fruit and fruit portions of marmalades showed that the longer exposure to heat, needed for marmalade-making in a preserving pan, reduced residue levels more severely (48%) than cooking in the microwave oven (13%). proaggregatory effects observed in samples subjected to the most intense oven and microwave heat treatments suggest that extensively cooked onions may stimulate rather than inhibit platelet aggregation. fat content was also markedly effected by the microwave oven drying conditions. 
Can garlic extract reduce high blood pressure and thus the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] this article systematically reviews previously published trials investigating the effects of garlic on blood pressure, and provides an updated meta-analysis of hypertensive participants. our trial suggests that aged garlic extract is effective in reducing peripheral and central blood pressure in a large proportion of patients with uncontrolled hypertension, and has the potential to improve arterial stiffness, inflammation, and other cardiovascular markers in patients with elevated levels. evidence obtained from these studies indicates that garlic has potential in the prevention and control of cardiovascular disorders and is beneficial when taken as a dietary supplement. garlic significantly lowered central blood pressure, pulse pressure and arterial stiffness (p < 0.05). most recent data published after year 2000 convincingly point out that garlic and its various forms reduce cardiovascular risk, including abnormal plasma lipids, oxidized low density lipoproteins (ldl), abnormal platelet aggregation and a high blood pressure. garlic as a dietary component appears to hold promise to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (fig. garlic is widely used by patients for its blood pressure lowering effects. a meta-analysis published in 2008 concluded that garlic consumption lowers blood pressure in hypertensive and normotensive patients. therefore, it is important to review the currently available evidence to determine whether garlic may also have a beneficial role in the reduction of cardiovascular events and mortality rates in patients with hypertension. to determine whether the use of garlic as monotherapy, in hypertensive patients, lowers the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality compared to placebo. 
Can fructose damage the liver? [SEP] the intake of excess dietary fructose most often leads to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld). in conclusion, a fructose-rich diet leads to mitochondrial and mtdna damage, which consequently may have a role in liver dysfunction and metabolic diseases. liver dysfunction in fructose-fed rats was evident from a rise in transaminase and total bilirubin, a decrease in the albumin/globulin ratio in plasma, a decrease in nitrite and arginase, and an increase in protein carbonyl and nitrosothiol content in the liver. fructose-fed rats suffered from liver dysfunction and damage. ta caused liver injury in both control and fructose-fed rats. in experiment ii, we confirmed that the longer mice consumed fructose, the more severe liver injury markers (e.g., serum ast) appeared. finally we observed that fructose-induced ferroptosis might be a cause of liver toxicity, resulting from oxidative damage. the increase consumption of fructose in diet is associated with liver inflammation. as a specific fructan substrate, fructose may modify the gut microbiota which is involved in obesity-induced liver disease. the results suggest that a 20% fructose-enriched diet could be considered as the threshold for inducing kidney and liver damage in the rat. 
Can green tea affect the likelihood of dying early and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] epidemiologic studies indicated that tea consumption reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease. to investigate the associations between green tea consumption and all-cause and cause-specific mortality. green tea consumption was inversely associated with mortality due to all causes and due to cardiovascular disease. in women, the multivariate hazard ratios of cardiovascular disease mortality across increasing green tea consumption categories were 1.00, 0.84 (95% ci, 0.63-1.12), 0.69 (95% ci, 0.52-0.93), and 0.69 (95% ci, 0.53-0.90), respectively (p = .004 for trend). green tea consumption is associated with reduced mortality due to all causes and due to cardiovascular disease but not with reduced mortality due to cancer. evidence from observational and randomized controlled studies showing the potential benefits of green tea on lowering cvd risk has been emerging rapidly during the past few decades.these benefits include reduced risk for major cardiovascular events, lowering of blood pressure, decreased ldl cholesterollevels and weight loss.at the same time, the understanding of physiological mechamismsbehind these alterations is advancing.consumption of green tea originates from china thousands of years ago, but has since expanded all over the world.recent advances in understanding the role of tea polyphenols, mainly catechins,as mediators of tea's health benefits has caused an emergence of various types of green teaextracts(gte) on the market. those who drank 1-3 cups of green tea per day had a reduced risk of myocardial infarction (or=0.81, 95% ci: 0.67-0.98) and stroke (or=0.64, 95% ci: 0.47-0.86) compared to those who drank <1 cup/day. our meta-analysis provides evidence that consumption of green tea is associated with favorable outcomes with respect to risk of cardiovascular and ischemic related diseases. the results showed that green tea consumption (5 or more cups/day) was inversely associated with mortality from cvd and all causes. epidemiological observations in southeast asian countries indicate an inverse correlation exists between habitual consumption of green tea beverages and the incidence of cardiovascular events. 
Is matcha tea particularly healthy? [SEP] matcha tea is gaining popularity throughout the world in recent years and is frequently referred to as a mood-and-brain food. this study suggests that matcha tea consumed in a realistic dose can induce slight effects on speed of attention and episodic secondary memory to a low degree. recently, it has been suggested that matcha has greater potential health benefits than other green teas. matcha is a special powdered green tea used in the japanese tea ceremony. matcha is a type of green tea produced by drying and grinding tea leaves (camellia sinensis l.) into a fine powder. matcha green tea (camellia sinensis), which originates from japan, is commonly considered as particularly beneficial to health. matcha tea is characterized by a high level of antioxidant substances (flavonoids 1968.8 mg/l; polyphenols 1765.1 mg/l; vitamin c 44.8 mg/l) as well as antioxidant potential (41.2% dpph (10× dilution); 6129.5 µm fe(ii)/dm3 frap). matcha is a powdered green tea, and it is very popular in recent years as a beverage and food additive. matcha green tea has been reported to have outstanding potential in regulating obesity-related metabolic syndrome. matcha, which is essentially theanine-rich powdered green tea, is abundant in caffeine. 
Can acupuncture prevent migraines and tension headaches? [SEP] the purpose of this case study is to describe the treatment using acupuncture and spinal manipulation for a patient with a chronic tension-type headache and episodic migraines. to summarize the current evidence that evaluates the effectiveness of acupuncture for the treatment or prevention of migraine, tension-type headache, and chronic headache disorders. from a purely comparative effectiveness perspective, however, the evidence from clinical trials and meta-analyses makes a compelling case in support of a potentially important role for acupuncture as part of a treatment plan for patients with migraine, tension-type headache, and several different types of chronic headache disorders. we report the design and essentials of the protocols of two acupuncture randomized trials (art) investigating whether acupuncture is more efficacious than no treatment and minimal acupuncture in the interval treatment of migraine and tension-type headache. headache is one of the most frequent reasons for medical consultation in both general practice and neurology clinics.1 tension-type headaches occur in up to around 80% and migraine occurs in about 15% of the uk adult population.1(,)2 prescribed and over the counter-medications are taken to alleviate headaches and migraine, but may be used incorrectly.3 in particular, use of some drugs both frequently and regularly can have a paradoxical effect, causing headaches rather than relieving them, and leading to medication overuse headache.4 acupuncture, which is usually provided privately by an independent acupuncturist,5 is increasingly being used in the nhs, particularly for painful conditions, such as headache.6-8 here we consider whether acupuncture has a place in the management of patients with tension-type headaches or migraine. following evidence that acupuncture is clinically feasible and cost-effective in the treatment of headache, the uk national institute for health and care excellence recommends acupuncture as prophylactic treatment for migraine and tension headache. following evidence that acupuncture is clinically feasible and cost-effective in the treatment of headache, the uk national institute for health and care excellence recommends acupuncture as prophylactic treatment for migraine and tension headache. acupuncture has a long tradition of use for the treatment of many pain conditions, including headache. acupuncture techniques, primarily self-administered acupressure, were evaluated as symptomatic treatment for the pain of migraine, histamine cephalgia, and tension headaches. the results of the study indicated that acupuncture techniques were reasonably effective in relieving the pain of migraine and tension headaches. 
Can green tea reduce the likelihood of dying from cancer ? [SEP] it has been suggested that green tea polyphenol may inhibit cell proliferation and observational studies have suggested that green tea may have cancer-preventative effects. to critically assess any associations between green tea consumption and the risk of cancer incidence and mortality. twenty-seven of them were case-control studies, 23 cohort studies and one randomised controlled trial (rct).twenty-seven studies tried to establish an association between green tea consumption and cancer of the digestive tract, mainly of the upper gastrointestinal tract, five with breast cancer, five with prostate cancer, three with lung cancer, two with ovarian cancer, two with urinary bladder cancer one with oral cancer, three further studies included patients with various cancer diagnoses.the methodological quality was measured with the newcastle-ottawa scale (nos). however, there was limited to moderate evidence that the consumption of green tea reduced the risk of lung cancer, especially in men, and urinary bladder cancer or that it could even increase the risk of the latter. green tea is a commonly consumed beverage in asia and has been suggested to have anticarcinogenic properties. a significant dose-response association was found between green tea drinking and liver cancer risk. tea, especially green tea, has shown promise in the prevention of several cancers. this review presents emerging evidence and the authors' perspectives on the role of green tea in ovarian cancer prevention. amongst these, green tea, one of the most popular beverages world-wide, has been reported to provide protective effects against gastrointestinal cancer. among these foods, green tea is considered as effective prevention for various cancers. 
Can plant sterols or foods with them reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] plant sterol-enriched foods are an effective dietary adjuvant in reducing cardiovascular risk by lowering total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (ldl-c) in serum by up to approximately 15%. plant sterol-enriched foods provides clinicians with a relatively cheap, safe, and effective way to help patients manage their cardiovascular risk. health canada's recent approval of plant sterols as food ingredients to decrease low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) is believed to be a significant step toward improving canadians' cardiovascular health and reducing the economic burden of heart disease. when dyslipidemic patients consume plant sterols at a recommended daily dose of 2 g, they can reduce ldl-c by 10% to 15%, with no deleterious effects on high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. plant sterols are supplemented in foods to reduce cardiovascular risk. plant sterols as ingredients to functional foods are recommended for lowering ldl cholesterol. in agreement, novel studies using food frequency questionnaires, studies in experimental animals, and dietary intervention studies support that ingestion of plant sterols may be beneficial to cardiovascular health. plant sterols have been proposed as useful adjuncts to statin therapy to further reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. the consumption of plant sterols is associated with a decrease in ldl cholesterol. in the recent revision of the esc/eas dyslipidemia guideline 2019, plant sterols are recommended for the first time as an adjunct to lifestyle modification to lower blood cholesterol levels. 
Can too much iodine cause autoimmune thyroid disease and consequently hypothyroidism? [SEP] iodine deficiency is the most common cause of hypothyroidism worldwide. hashimoto's thyroiditis (ht), the most frequent autoimmune thyroid disorders (aitds), is the leading cause of hypothyroidism in the iodine-sufficient areas of the world. much of our work focused around iodine as an environmental trigger of autoimmune thyroiditis. we explored the role of excess iodine ingestion in exacerbating thyroiditis using the nod.h2h4 mouse as a model. iodine deficiency is associated with serious complications, but also iodine excess can lead to thyroid dysfunction, and iodine supplementation aimed to prevent iodine deficiency disorders has been associated with development of thyroid autoimmunity. in animal models, exogenous iodine is able to trigger or exacerbate thyroid autoimmunity, but it is still not clear whether the observed immunological changes are due to a direct effect of iodine on immune response, or whether they represent a secondary response to a toxic effect of iodine on thyroid tissue. previous iodine status of a population seems to influence the functional thyroid response to increased iodine intake and possibly the development of thyroid autoimmunity. in conclusion, available data from long-term population surveys show that a higher than adequate population iodine intake due to a poorly controlled program of iodine prophylaxis could induce thyroid dysfunction, including thyroid autoimmunity mostly represented by euthyroid or subclinical hypothyroid autoimmune thyroiditis. these findings suggest that impaired renal handling of iodine resulting in elevation of serum iodine levels, rather than an autoimmune mechanism or extravascular hormone loss, played a principal role in the development of primary hypothyroidism found in these 2 patients, probably through a prolonged wolff-chaikoff effect. iodine: chronic exposure to excess iodine intake induces autoimmune thyroiditis, partly because highly-iodinated thyroglobulin (tg) is more immunogenic. 
Is the sweetener aspartame harmful to health? [SEP] purpose of this review was to spread the awareness about adverse effect of aspartame intake to outline the occurrence of health issues among the population. exposure to artificial sweeteners, such as aspartame, during childhood and adolescence has been increasing in recent years. aspartame is a sweetener introduced to replace the commonly used sucrose. this narrative review investigates the existing literature on the use of aspartame and its possible effects on the human body to refine current knowledge. aspartame, a widespread sweetener used in many food products, is considered as a highly hazardous compound. this report examines the safety issues related to the nutritive sweetener aspartame, including possible toxic effects of aspartame's component amino acids, aspartic acid and phenylalanine, and its major decomposition products, methanol and diketopiperazine, and the potential synergistic effect of aspartame and dietary carbohydrate on brain neurochemicals. available evidence suggests that consumption of aspartame by normal humans is safe and is not associated with serious adverse health effects. aspartame is one of the most popular artificial sweeteners over the world. some of the recent experimental and epidemiological studies showed that consumption of aspartame may causes some adverse health effects including obesity, metabolic syndrome, and alteration in gut microbiota. overall, consumers should be aware of the potential side effects of aspartame and other artificial sweeteners. 
Does coffee affect cancer death risk? [SEP] intake of >4 cups/day of caffeinated coffee was associated with a 49% lower risk of oral/pharyngeal cancer death relative to no/occasional coffee intake (relative risk = 0.51, 95% confidence interval: 0.40, 0.64) (1 cup/day = 237 ml). research is needed to elucidate biologic mechanisms whereby coffee might help to protect against these often fatal cancers. previous observational studies have suggested that coffee intake may be associated with a reduction in cancer risk. here we evaluated whether coffee intake is associated with: (i) overall risk of being diagnosed with/dying from any cancer; and (ii) risk of individual cancers. there was no observational association between coffee intake and overall cancer risk [odds ratio (or) per one cup/day increase = 0.99, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.98, 1.00] or cancer death (or = 1.01, 0.99, 1.03); the estimated or from mr is 1.01 (0.94, 1.08) for overall cancer risk and 1.11 (0.95, 1.31) for cancer death. in a study of the risk of fatal pancreatic cancer according to intake of regular and decaffeinated coffee, cases (n = 30) and controls (n = 47) were identified from death certificates and matched for age (+/- 5 years), sex, ethnicity, and date of death (+/- 5 years). habitual coffee drinking has been associated with a reduced risk of mortality and chronic diseases, including cancer. in addition, there is a lingering concern that coffee mighty increase the risk of pancreatic cancer although the most recent epidemiological studies showed no overall association between coffee and risk. the hypothesis has been raised that coffee consumption may increase the incidence of breast cancer, based on the report that fibrocystic breast disease, a risk factor for breast cancer, regresses after abstention from coffee and other methylxanthines. the relation between recent coffee consumption and the risk of breast cancer was evaluated in a case-control study, based on interviews conducted 1975-1982 at several mainly eastern us teaching and community hospitals. 
Do diets with primarily or exclusively uncooked foods have health benefits? [SEP] biochemical and metabolic indicators were monitored in a group of volunteers suffering from a variety of chronic illnesses participating in a week's course on a special uncooked vegetable diet, known as "living food". serum tocopherol and retinol increased only in the group eating the uncooked diet. interventions and cross sectional studies on subjects consuming uncooked vegan diet called living food (lf) have been carried out. lf is an uncooked vegan diet and consists of berries, fruits, vegetables and roots, nuts, germinated seeds and sprouts, i.e. well-cooked red meat also gave positive tests, diets excluding red meat but with large quantities of uncooked fruit and vegetables produced only five positive results in 314 rehydrated tests, in 3 of 53 subjects. thus, mothers who consume an array of healthy foods themselves throughout pregnancy and lactation, and subsequently feed their children these foods at weaning, can promote healthful eating habits in their children and families. we have performed a number of studies including dietary interventions and cross-sectional studies on subjects consuming uncooked vegan food called living food (lf) and clarified the changes in several parameters related to health risk factors. the subjects in the vegan diet group received an uncooked vegan diet ('living food') for 3 months, and they were tutored daily by a living-food expert. shifting to the uncooked vegan diet significantly increased the intakes of energy and many nutrients. diets with the uncooked vegetable contained considerably less intact glucosinolates than did diets with the cooked product, probably as a result of more extensive enzymatic degradation in the uncooked product. 
Can increased water consumption prevent migraines or other headaches? [SEP] migraine is a common type of headaches and disabling disorder. based on evidences dehydration is closely related to promote migraine headcahe frequency and severity. the water intake is the best intervention to reduce or prevent headache pain. water intake in migraine patients has rarely been studied. the present study aimed to evaluate the relation between water intake and headache properties in migraine. pearson correlation analysis was used to evaluate the relationship between the number of days and duration of headache with daily water intake. the results showed that the severity of migraine disability (p < 0.001), pain severity (p < 0.001), headaches frequency (p < 0.001), and duration of headaches (p < 0.001) were significantly lower in those who consumed more water or total water. the present study found a significant negative correlation between daily water intake and migraine headache characteristics but further clinical trials are needed to interpret the causal relationship. migraine prophylaxis is recommended in patients with frequent and/or intense headaches, but poor tolerability and lack of efficacy of preventive drugs are common in clinical practice. after 1 year, a significant improvement in the number of headache days per months, analgesic consumption, 6-items headache impact test, and migraine disability assessment questionnaire scores were obtained compared to the baseline. Offer the following herbal appetite suppressants effective and safe weight loss support:
Devil's Tongue (Konjac Root), Caralluma fimbriata, Garcinia cambogia, Gymnea sylvestre, Ephedra, Irvinia gabonensis, Fenugreek, Hoodia gordonii, Common Bean, Bitter Orange? [SEP] the aim of this paper was to assess the current evidence of commonly available natural supplements used to suppress appetite for obesity control and management in humans using a systematic search of clinical trials meeting an acceptable standard of evidence. according to the findings from this systematic review, the evidence is not convincing in demonstrating that most dietary supplements used as appetite suppressants for weight loss in the treatment of obesity are effective and safe. ethnobotanically, some species have been used as traditional and modern dietary ingredients to suppress appetite. to investigate the reported efficacy and safety of herbal weight loss preparations, we conducted a review of the literature focusing on herbs that are most commonly used in weight loss preparations, specifically, garcinia cambogia, camellia sinensis, hoodia gordonii, citrus aurantium and coleus forskohlii. of the herbal medicines trialled in ≤3 randomized controlled trials, statistically and clinically significant weight loss compared to placebo was reported for irvingia gabonensis, cissus quadrangularis, and sphaeranthus indicus combined with garcinia mangostana, among others, but these findings should be interpreted cautiously because of the small number of studies, generally poor methodological quality, and poor reporting of the herbal medicine interventions. the purpose of this paper was to review the effect of commonly available over the counter plant-derived supplements used to suppress appetite for obesity control and management. this review found that many botanical species including crude extracts and isolated compounds from plants have been shown to provide potentially promising therapeutic effects including appetite control and weight loss. herbals containing green tea, phaseolus vulgaris, garcinia cambogia, nigella sativa, puerh tea, irvingia gabonensis, and caralluma fimbriata and their active ingredients were found to be effective in the management of obesity and metabolic syndrome. to review the scientific literature on several dietary supplements and herbal products commonly promoted for weight loss. recently published articles and abstracts identified through pubmed (may 1987-may 2003), medline (january 1966-may 2003), international pharmaceutical abstracts (january 1970-may 2003), and natural medicines comprehensive database (january 1995-may 2003) using the search terms supplement, herbal, weight loss, obesity, overweight, conjugated linoleic acid, ephedra, ephedrine, chromium, garcinia cambogia, hydroxycitric acid, chitosan, and pyruvate. 
Are there health benefits to screening the general population for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as a precaution? [SEP] prevention of copd in primary care requires detection of copd at an early stage. the benefits of detecting new patients with copd should be determined before recommending screening and case-finding programs in primary care. this evidence supports the idea of including patients with copd and/or emphysema in lung cancer screening programs. there is evidence that lung cancer screening in this population is effective and can potentially reduce mortality. patients with copd included in lung cancer screening programs could also benefit from other interventions, such as smoking cessation and adequate treatment. the uspstf weighed the benefits (prevention of > or =1 exacerbation and improvement in respiratory-related health status measures) and harms (time and effort required by both patients and the health care system, false-positive screening tests, and adverse effects of subsequent unnecessary therapy) of copd screening identified in the accompanying review of the evidence. our case report discusses the available literature, where it exists, on lung cancer screening with special attention to the impact of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), and poor functional status. patients with copd and concurrent smoking history are at higher risk of lung cancer and may therefore benefit from lung cancer screening. copd is a treatable disease and it is important to identify copd subjects, highlighting the need for an efficient screening measure. current studies have shown a marked benefit of cancer screening in the copd population, although challenges remain, including the common underdiagnosis of copd. 
Can cow's milk cause iron deficiency in babies in the first year of life? [SEP] introduction of full cow's milk before the age of 6 months was associated with iron deficiency at this age and at 1 year. by the age of 1 year, iron deficiency was also associated with feeding greater than 900 ml whole cow's milk a day, inadequate feeding with solids, and higher weight gain. early introduction of whole cow's milk may lead to iron deficiency anemia. the introduction of whole cow's milk into the diet had occurred prior to 6 months of age in 29.2% of the infants, and 62.1% of these infants had laboratory evidence of nutritional iron inadequacy, as contrasted with only 21.8% of those with iron deficiencies fed cow's milk after 6 months of age. iron deficiency remains a nutritional problem for infants in an urban setting and is largely a result of the early introduction of whole cow's milk into the diet. two groups of infants, one fed whole cow milk commencing at 6 months of age (n = 69) and the other continuing to receive iron-fortified infant formula (n = 98), were closely observed over their second 6 months of life. these data suggest that, to avoid iron deficiency, infants should continue to receive iron-fortified formula throughout the first year of life or a daily iron supplement if they are fed whole cow milk before their first birthday. the use of fresh cow's milk in early infancy, a common practice, is associated with the development of measurable degrees of iron deficiency. in many instances excessive amounts of milk produce severe iron deficiency anemia during the second year of life in infants of greater than average birth weight. the risk value to be anemic or iron deficient for infants aged 6 to 12 months that were fed with whole cow's milk before the fourth months of life was high (or = 6.2 (c.l.1.0-38)). 
Does cow's milk for babies have other health disadvantages?? [SEP] the possible role of cows milk intolerance in the aetiology of infant colic was evaluated in 19 babies presenting to their health visitor or general practitioner in one town. cow's milk-fed babies with low t cell counts had higher ige at the ages of 3 and 6 mo than breast-fed babies with low t cell counts. onset of cow's milk feeding before the age of 3 mo in babies with low t cell counts was associated with continuously elevated ige during the first year of life, as compared with babies with normal t cell counts. this is expensive relative to diets that include cow's milk based products, but preliminary economic analyses have shown that the costs are more than offset by a reduction in the cost of neonatal care. cow's milk proteins are potent allergens and around 2.5% of infants experience cow's milk allergy in the first years of life. the major risk factors for cow's milk allergy are positive family history of atopy and early exposure to cow's milk proteins. low birthweight babies fed standard modified cows' milk formulae are at risk from the high fluid intake needed for adequate nutrition, and very preterm babies often develop late hyponatraemia if the sodium intake fails to match large renal losses. in this paper we critically reviewed literature on the safety of feeding soy-protein formulas to babies with cow-milk allergy as well as on the prevention of cow-milk allergy. despite improvements in the milking process and often building of a new barn before the introduction of am, udder health of the cows has not improved; on the contrary, problems may appear following conversion from conventional milking to am. failures in mastitis detection and milking hygiene pose a risk for udder health. 
Does drinking breast milk as a baby have a positive effect on later health and development? [SEP] despite the significant positive effect of exclusive breast-feeding on child health, only 32% of children under 6 months old were exclusively breast-fed in kenya in 2008. mothers' perceptions of insufficient breast milk production and a lack of proper knowledge about the value of breast milk were identified in key informant interviews, free-listing, and ranking as important factors associating with the use of food and drink other than breast milk; in addition, perceived ill health of babies appears to be associated with suboptimal practice of exclusive breast-feeding. breast feeding is seen as beneficial not only to babies' health, but also to the mother's health. professionals expressed mainly positive attitudes towards breast feeding in general but less positive attitudes to specific issues such as the beneficial effects on child health and the value of voluntary organisations in breast feeding promotion and management. only two publications have reported sars-cov-2 in human breast milk but the role of breast milk as a vehicle of transmission of covid-19 to the newborns still remains unclear and may indeed be providing protective antibodies against sars-cov-2 infection even in infected neonates. hence, given the overall safety of breast milk and both short-term and long- term nutritional, immunological, and developmental advantages of breast milk to newborn, breast milk should not be withheld from baby. key points: · breastmilk does not appear to play a significant role in transmission of sars-cov-2.. · mother-baby separation has negative health and emotional consequences.. · mothers with suspected or confirmed covid-19 can directly breastfeed with appropriate precautions.. although the positive effects of breast milk on the physical and intellectual development of a child in the short and long term have been known for centuries, its mechanism has not been elucidated. breast milk is by far the superior milk for infants, providing ideal nutrition and protection against infection. exclusive breast-feeding up until weaning provides the healthiest start in life. 
Does Almased help with excess weight better than other diets? [SEP] (3) a recent meta-analysis on the effect on body weight loss of low-fat diets followed for >2 months showed a significant weight difference of 3.3 kg between the diet and the control groups. there is also some evidence that a diet adequate in calcium may help to regulate body weight and prevent excess weight gain when consumed throughout the childbearing years. additionally, we find that the microbiome contributes to diminished post-dieting flavonoid levels and reduced energy expenditure, and demonstrate that flavonoid-based 'post-biotic' intervention ameliorates excessive secondary weight gain. weight loss is the cornerstone of therapy for people with obesity because it can ameliorate or completely resolve the metabolic risk factors for diabetes, coronary artery disease, and obesity-associated cancers. we therefore conclude that weight-loss therapy, including a hypocaloric diet with adequate (but not excessive) protein intake and increased physical activity (particularly resistance-type exercise), should be promoted to maintain muscle mass and improve muscle strength and physical function in persons with obesity. evidence is reviewed on the relation between recent diet-induced weight loss and sustained weight loss (weight suppression), on the one hand, and weight regain, on the other hand. every year, scores of millions of people - as diverse as obese and lean, teenagers and older adults, sedentary and elite athletes, commoners and celebrities - attempt to lose weight on some form of diet. does dieting really make people fatter? through yo-yo dieting or weight cycling? why does exercise not necessarily work in concert with dieting to achieve weight loss and prevent weight regain? 
Do products with talc, such as baby powder, increase the risk of ovarian cancer? [SEP] over the past four decades, there has been increasing concern that perineal use of talc powder, a commonly used personal care product, might be associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. to critically review all available human epidemiological data on the relationship between perineal use of talc powder and ovarian cancer, with consideration of other relevant experimental evidence. a positive association between perineal use of talc powder and ovarian cancer was found [or: 1.28 (95% ci: 1.20-1.37)]. perineal use of talc powder is a possible cause of human ovarian cancer. due to its similarity and co-occurrence with asbestos, the association of body powder/talc use and gynecological cancer risk, specifically ovarian cancer risk, has been a long-standing research question. all available data indicate that whereas associations between talc exposure and ovarian cancer have suggested but not proved a casual relationship, the application of perineal powder containing cornstarch exclusively is not predicted to be a risk factor for ovarian cancer. this study was prompted by epidemiological observations suggesting that perineal use of talc powder is associated with increased risk of ovarian cancer, particularly in a milieu with higher estrogen. although epidemiologic studies suggest talc use may increase ovarian cancer risk, there is no proof that talc used externally reaches the pelvis. epidemiologic studies have suggested an increased risk for ovarian cancer associated with the use of talcum powder in genital hygiene, but the biologic credibility of the association has been questioned. we conclude that there is a significant association between the use of talc in genital hygiene and risk of epithelial ovarian cancer that, when viewed in perspective of published data on this association, warrants more formal public health warnings. 
Do large portions, large plates or glasses, and larger packaging cause us to eat and drink more? [SEP] in the present study we examined whether the tendency to clear one's plate when eating is associated with greater food intake in response to larger portion size. a significant main effect of portion size was found, whereby participants consumed significantly more when served the large versus the normal portion (100.55 g difference, p < .001, ηp2  = 0.16). increasing the portion size of the lunchtime meal increased food intake, although the tendency for a larger portion size to increase food intake was observed irrespective of participant plate-clearing tendencies. furthermore, the influence of plate size on food consumption increased as levels of intuitive eating increased. evidence from laboratory and field studies indicates that large portions lead to greater food and energy intake relative to small portions. this experimental study investigated whether front-of-package portion size depictions influence children's self-served portions and consumption. this study provides novel evidence of the influence portion-size depictions on food packaging have on children's eating behaviour. tableware size may influence how much food and non-alcoholic drink is consumed. large portion sizes lead to increased intake. larger portions increase energy intake (the 'portion size effect'); however, the mechanisms behind this effect are unclear. 
Does taking coconut oil improve mental abilities in dementia like Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] virgin coconut oil was declared as a potential cognitive strengthener. assessment of cognitive and memory-enhancing effects of virgin coconut oil in senile and young rats to gain vital insights into its effective use in the prevention of neurodegeneration in dementia/alzheimer's disease-like manifestations and alleviate cognitive dysfunction and learning impairment with neuronal damage imparted by daily oral intake of aluminum. virgin coconut oil significantly improved cholinergic activity and monoaminergic neurotransmission. moreover, immunochemical and histopathological examination revealed marked protection with virgin coconut oil against aluminum-induced alzheimer's disease-like pathology and cognitive deficit. the aim of this study is to detect changes in the main cognitive functions of patients with ad after following a coconut oil enriched mediterranean diet, and to determine whether there are differences in function of stage or sex. after intervention with coconut oil, improvements in episodic, temporal orientation, and semantic memory were observed, and it seems that the positive effect is more evident in women with mild-moderate state, although other improvements in males and severe state were also shown. the isocaloric coconut oil enriched mediterranean diet seems to improve cognitive functions in patients with ad, with differences according to patient sex and degree of severity of the disease, although more studies in this line are needed. in particular, coconut oil has received attention as having potentially having benefits in lessening the cognitive deficits associated with alzheimer's disease. coconut oil has recently attracted considerable attention as a potential alzheimer's disease therapy because it contains large amounts of medium-chain fatty acids (mcfas) and its consumption is thought to stimulate hepatic ketogenesis, supplying an alternative energy source for brains with impaired glucose metabolism. these results suggest that coconut oil intake may improve brain health by directly activating ketogenesis in astrocytes and thereby by providing fuel to neighboring neurons. 
Does the preparation "CAPS immu" from Ringana reduce the risk of infections in healthy people? [SEP] community-acquired pneumonia (cap) poses a substantial threat to the health of older adults. the incidence of this infection and mortality associated with it increase with age. in previously healthy patients, community-acquired pneumonia (cap) with p. aeruginosa as the etiological agent is extremely rare, and unlike the cases involving immunocompromised or hospitalized patients, the outcome is severe, and is fatal in up to 61.1% of cases. our reported patient treated by ciprofloxacin 500 mg per day and healed without any secondary complication. community acquired pneumonia (cap) is a prevalent low respiratory infection. studies show that receiving vitamin c can reduce incidence of pneumonia. community-acquired pneumonia (cap) represents one of the most common reasons for hospitalization in elderly people. the aim of this review is to give an update of the current antibiotic options for cap in the elderly people reporting available data on the cap etiology and risk factors, and tolerability, toxicity and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamic of antimicrobial agents used for elderly patients. although immu-114 had little, if any, effect on the survival and apoptosis of non-b lymphocytes (>80% of which are t cells and ∼1-2% of t cells express hla-dr), it selectively inhibited the proliferation of purified hla-dr(+) t cells rather than hla-dr(-) t cells. as a consequence, immu-114 treatment resulted in suppressed t-cell proliferation and reduced cd25(+) alloreactive t cells in allogeneic mlrs. 
Do extracts from grape seeds have a health-promoting effect? [SEP] the biological and chemopreventive activities of grape seed polyphenols have been demonstrated, while similar information regarding crude polyphenolic extracts from whole grapes and their components (pulp plus skin, seeds), particularly the seedless varieties, is lacking. the results suggest that the chemopreventive activity of polyphenols extracted from seedless grape cultivars was as effective as that of the seeded variety and these may have beneficial effects in disease states, especially cancer. grape seed extract is known as a powerful antioxidant that protects the body from premature aging, disease, and decay. scientific studies have shown that the antioxidant power of proanthocyanidins is 20 times greater than vitamin e and 50 times greater than vitamin c. extensive research suggests that grape seed extract is beneficial in many areas of health because of its antioxidant effect to bond with collagen, promoting youthful skin, cell health, elasticity, and flexibility. the composition and cancer-protective effects of major phenolic antioxidants in grape skin and seed extracts are discussed in this review. grape skin and seed extracts exert strong free radical scavenging and chelating activities and inhibit lipid oxidation in various food and cell models in vitro. nonetheless, a growing body of evidence from human clinical trials has demonstrated that consumption of grape, wine and grape juice exerts many health-promoting and possible anti-cancer effects. thus, grape skin and seed extracts have great potential in cancer prevention and further investigation into this exciting field is warranted. in addition, studies reviewed indicated that grape seed extract promoted dental remineralization. cimin grape consumption may have beneficial effects on health maintenance. 
Is the administration of magnesium through the skin effective? [SEP] large doses of testosterone have also improved in the condition of the skin, decreased the severity of other magnesium deprivation symptoms such as nephrocalcinosis, bone hyperplasia and nervous manifestations in the males. the present study was designed to determine whether chronic magnesium sulfate administration could control streptozocin-induced diabetes and improve endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent dilatation, and identify its probable mechanism in the skin microvasculature of diabetic rats. snp- and ach-induced cutaneous perfusion increased significantly by mg treatment in the diabetic groups, and local microinjection of magnesium sulfate (0.1 m) increased cutaneous blood flow in all groups (p < 0.01). from the results of this study, it may be concluded that mg could improve skin microvasculature of diabetic rats with potentiation of nitric oxide pathway. normal rats fed a magnesium-supplemented diet (65 mg/100 g dry weight) had about three times as many mast cells in the tibial metaphysis as in the facial skin. magnesium has widespread use in obstetric practice. the aim of the present study was to demonstrate whether magnesium sulfate could have protective effect on fetal rat skin in intrauterine ischemia-reperfusion (i/r) injury. this suggests that magnesium treatment may have protective effect on fetal rat skin in intrauterine i/r injury. we assessed the effects of a single subcutaneous magnesium sulfate injection on nociceptive behaviors including guarding pain, mechanical hyperalgesia, and heat hypersensitivity in rats after smir surgery. no analgesic or antihyperalgesic effect could be demonstrated in sensitized skin during infusion of magnesium. 
Do kava kava supplements help with anxiety disorders? [SEP] kava beverages and other preparations are known to be anxiolytic and are used for anxiety disorders. today several extracts standardized in the biologically active constituents kavalactones are marketed both as herbal medicinal products for anxiety disorders and as dietary supplements to improve stress disorders, nervous tension and restlessness. in this study, we evaluated the efficacy and safety of kava kava (piper methysticum) in generalized anxiety disorder. the efficacy of kava extracts to treat patients with anxiety disorders is well supported, but further clinical trials with aqueous kava extracts are necessary. only the decline of anxiety induced by kava-kava was significantly greater than that spontaneously occurring in controls (p<0.009). previous randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies have shown that kava (a south pacific medicinal plant) reduced anxiety during short-term administration. the objective of this randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was to perform a larger, longer-term trial assessing the efficacy and safety of kava in the treatment of generalised anxiety disorder and to determine whether gamma-aminobutyric acid transporter (slc6a1) single-nucleotide polymorphisms were moderators of response. kava has considerable potential value in the treatment of anxiety disorders. fifty-two outpatients suffering from anxiety of nonpsychotic origin were included in an observational study of a kava-kava preparation. these results support kava-kava extract as an effective and safe alternative to antidepressants and tranquilizers in anxiety disorder without the tolerance problems associated with benzodiazepines. 
Do ultrasound devices help against dust mites? [SEP] reduction of dust mite numbers by lowering room humidity control is one suggested technique for reducing dust mite allergen levels to clinically acceptable levels. in search of potential new indoor allergen sources, all mites in dust from homes of 55 asthmatic children living in three climatic regions in sweden were counted and identified by light microscope. mite-density and ige-antibody levels against house-dust mites were significantly associated. microscopy helps to identify potentially important mites. dust mites are an important cause of allergic diseases worldwide. although dust mite reduction and control strategies exist, few asthmatics employ them. we examined whether an in-home test kit, which quantifies dust mite allergen levels, resulted in behavioral changes in implementation and maintenance of mite reduction strategies and helped reduce allergen levels in homes of dust mite-sensitive children. the use of in-home test kits along with education may beneficially influence behaviors and attitudes toward dust mite reduction strategies and help reduce residential dust mite allergen levels. devices were used to collect dust mite allergen samples from 16 domestic carpets. in accordance, house dust mite allergens may increase mucosal permeability in vitro. 
Does the risk of food allergy decrease if babies are fed potentially allergenic foods (cow's milk, peanuts, chicken egg) as late as possible for the first time? [SEP] in a recent prospective controlled study, regular consumption of peanut protein in infants from 4-11 months of age with atopic dermatitis or egg allergy, was associated with lower prevalence of peanut allergy (1.9%) at 60 months of age compared with peanut avoidance (13.7%). recent studies suggest that early rather than late introduction of allergenic foods reduces the risk of food allergy. introduction of allergenic solid foods, especially peanut and hen's egg reduces the risk of food allergy development in early childhood. early dietary introduction of highly allergenic foods has been associated with decreased risk of food allergy in high-risk infants. breastfeeding, hydrolyzed formulas, and avoiding cow's milk formula may not reduce the risk of cow's milk protein allergy; however, temporary supplementation with cow's milk formula in the first week of life may increase the risk of cow's milk allergy. introducing regular peanut consumption into the diet of an infant at increased risk beginning from 4 to 11 months probably results in a large reduction in peanut allergy in countries with a high prevalence. early recommendation for high atopy risk infants to delay the introduction of potential food allergens, such as cow's milk, egg, and peanut, until after the first year of life, has been rescinded, as emerging evidence has shown that these approaches are not effective in preventing food allergies. this review focuses on the latest high-quality evidence from randomized controlled clinical trials examining the timing of solid food introduction as a strategy to prevent food allergies and also discusses the possible implications of early complementary feeding on both the benefits and the total duration of breastfeeding. for the first time, in recent years prospective studies have been published about the effects of early vs. delayed introduction of allergenic foods into the infants' diet on food allergy. according to these studies, the early introduction of peanut may be a powerful protecting factor against peanut allergy in some risk categories. 
for fish, sesame, wheat? [SEP] the study was concerned with the utilization of small pelagic bissaria (atherina mochon) fish in preparing edible, cheap, acceptable and nutritive products. rice, wheat, potato, sesame butter, spices) in producing fresh fish ball, fish flour and spiced salted fish paste. the prevalence of hypersensitivity to wheat and soy appears similar to sesame seed, cashew nut, hazelnut and walnut, but allergy to fish, brazil nut and shell fish are uncommon. this paper presents a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) that allows the determination of traces of sesame in food. in whole grain bread, crisp toast, and snacks, the limit of detection (s/n = 3) was 0.5, 0.5, and 0.3 μg sesame protein/g, and the limit of quantification (s/n = 10) was 0.6, 0.8, and 1.4 μg sesame protein/g, respectively. the analysis of blank food matrices (whole grain bread, white bread, crisp toast, and snacks) spiked with sesame protein at four spike levels generally resulted in mean recoveries from 72% to 145%. in the case of spiking blank food matrices with sesame seeds, the elisa proved to be more accurate for whole wheat cookies than for whole wheat bread. sesame coat is a valuable by-product. the present study, the effects of dietary sesame oil (so) on growth performance and fillet composition of rainbow trout (oncorhynchus mykiss) were investigated. the objective of the current research work was to evaluate the effect of sesame oil, fish oil and mixture of both oils (1:1) on neurobehavioral changes and cognition. 
Can willow bark tea help with inflammation, pain or fever? [SEP] the bark of different varieties of willow has had a long history of medical use as a means to reduce fever and as a painkiller. willow bark, which hernquist recommended for "fevers" most likely could have been effective for mild fevers due to its contents of salicin, which is transformed to salicylic acid. willow bark extract is frequently used in the treatment of painful rheumatological diseases, such as arthritis and back pain. therefore different modes of action have been suggested for the anti-inflammatory effect of willow bark extract. here, we report in vitro data revelling the effect and mode of action of the aqueous willow bark extract stw 33-i as well as a water-soluble fraction (fraction e [fr e]) in comparison with well-known non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) like aspirin (asa) and diclofenac (diclo) on pro-inflammatorily activated human monocytes and differentiated macrophages. the present in vitro investigations suggest a significant anti-inflammatory activity of willow bark water extract stw 33-1 and of its water-soluble fraction by inhibiting pro-inflammatory cytokines (tnfα), cox-2 and nuclear translocation of the transcription factor nf-κb in pro-inflammatorily activated monocytes. this study assessed the clinical efficacy of a chemically standardized willow bark extract in the treatment of osteoarthritis. it is concluded that the willow bark extract showed a moderate analgesic effect in osteoarthritis and appeared to be well tolerated. to investigate the efficacy and safety of a standardized willow bark extract in patients with osteoarthritis (oa) and rheumatoid arthritis (ra). the examination of the effectiveness and tolerance of willow bark extract in patients with gonarthrosis and coxarthrosis compared to conventional therapies. 
Can a supposedly "high acid" diet weaken bones? [SEP] nutritional acid load is negatively correlated with bone mineral density (bmd) and positively with fracture risk. low acid load is correlated with lower bone resorption and higher bmd. a popular concept in nutrition and lay literature is that of the role of a diet high in acid or protein in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis. although acid loading or an acidic diet featuring a high protein intake may be associated with an increase in calciuria, the evidence supporting a role of these variables in the development of osteoporosis is not consistent. there is concern that with the typical western diet, we are permanently in a state of net endogenous acid production, which is gradually reducing bone. while it is clear that a high acid-producing diet generates increased urinary acid and calcium excretion, the effect of diet does not always have the expected results on bmd, fracture risk and markers of bone formation and resorption, suggesting that other factors are influencing the effect of acid/alkali loading on bone. high dietary protein, sodium and phosphorus intake, all of which are necessary for bone formation, were thought to be net acid forming and contribute to low bmd and fracture risk, but appear under certain conditions to be beneficial, with the effect of protein being driven by calcium repletion. the acid-ash hypothesis could, therefore, be amended to state that with an acid-producing diet and low calcium intake, bone is eroded to provide alkali to buffer excess protons but where calcium intake is high the acid-producing diet may be protective. there were also marked decreases in bone growth and mineralization [tibia weight, ash (mg), calcium (mg), phosphorus (mg)] and plasma concentrations of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d3 in chicks on the high acid diet compared to those on a control diet. it is concluded that aluminum directly adversely affected bone mineralization whereas acid effects are mediated in part by changes in feed consumption. 
Does a supposedly "alkaline-rich" diet prevent chronic diseases? [SEP] we have shown that urine alkalization facilitates uric acid excretion. in this study, it has been clarified with simultaneous measurements of both serum and urine uric acid concentration that acidic diets increase serum uric acid together with a decrease of uric acid excretion. protein-rich diets should lead to latent acidosis at tissue level with further negative implications. food supplements with alkaline salts are available and popular pretending to prevent these changes. within a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial we tested the hypotheses that (1) a 4-week protein-rich diet induces a latent tissue acidosis and (2) an alkaline supplement can compensate this. protein-rich diet by itself did not significantly affect acid-base balance. alkaline supplementation increased plasma bicarbonate concentration without changing ph. four weeks of protein-rich diet did not significantly influence acid-base balance. however, alkaline supplementation improved systemic and tissue acid-base parameters and oxidative glucose metabolism. consuming a diet rich in natural antioxidants has been associated with prevention from and/or treatment of atherosclerosis. 
Can a blood test detect mental illness? [SEP] persons with severe mental illness have a markedly elevated risk of several blood-borne infections, including hiv, hepatitis b, and hepatitis c. prevention, early detection, and treatment of these disorders are crucial interventions for high-risk populations. the mean ages of mii and control participants were 36.5 ± 12.3 and 31.4 ± 8.3, respectively.the sero-prevalence of hepatitis b and c among patients with mental illness was 10.0 and 12.6%, respectively, as compared to 10.9% and 1.1% of the blood donors. the attention of general practitioners, pediatricians and public health physicians is directed to the real possibilities for preventing some forms of mental deficiency through the routine use of screening tests on urine and on blood. the prevalences of blood-borne viral infections in people with serious mental illness were higher than in the general population in places with low prevalence of blood-borne viruses, such as the usa and europe, and on par with the general population in regions with high prevalence of blood-borne viruses (africa for hiv and southeast asia for hepatitis b virus and hepatitis c virus). people with serious mental illness are at risk of blood-borne viral infections. serious mental illness is unlikely to be a sole risk factor and risk of blood-borne viral infection is probably multifactorial and associated with low socioeconomic status, drug and alcohol misuse, ethnic origin, and sex. this study examined whether psychiatrists perform adequate diagnostic screening for syphilis in patients with chronic mental illness. two hundred patients with chronic mental illness underwent testing for syphilis with the commonly used rpr test and the microhemagglutination assay for treponema pallidum (mha-tp). patients with a severe mental illness have higher rates of infection with blood-borne viruses (bbvs) but are less likely to access testing and treatment. a routine offer of bbv testing for people with severe mental illness in the outpatient setting is feasible and may detect treatable infections. 
Is surgery for an anterior cruciate ligament tear (by replacing the broken anterior cruciate ligament with tendon tissue from another part of the leg) followed by physical therapy better than physical therapy alone? [SEP] the advantages of arthroscopic reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament tear over arthrotomy are quite obvious: reduced pain and morbidity. the state of the art in surgical alternatives for anterior cruciate ligament tears is arthroscopic reconstruction using the midthird of the patellar tendon. treatment of anterior cruciate ligament injuries requires prompt and adequate evaluation of the laxity of the ligament as well as other structures in the knee, appropriate treatment options offered to the patient with complete descriptions of knee function after each treatment option, and comprehensive rehabilitation program. the successful postoperative anterior cruciate ligament rehabilitation program is multifaceted. we present the results of a series of patients who had nonoperative management of the medial collateral ligament with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. our results indicate that proper reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament, in conjunction with nonoperative management of tears of the medial collateral ligament in combined anterior cruciate ligament-medial collateral ligament injuries, can given excellent stability and good to excellent functional outcome in patients with combined anterior cruciate ligament-medial collateral ligament injuries. the effect of anterior cruciate ligament replacement on the other ligaments of the knee, including the medial or lateral collateral and posterior cruciate ligaments, was studied histologically in the canine knee. our technique of reconstruction of the anterior and posterior cruciate ligament in both acute and chronic tears, using both the semitendinosus and gracilis tendons, is described in detail. nevertheless, these patients should be treated the same as normal weight patients because they can do very well with standard anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction techniques and appropriate postoperative physical therapy as well as a delayed return to sports of at least 9 months. repair and self-healing of an injured anterior cruciate ligament are time-consuming processes. 
Can motherwort reduce migraine attacks? [SEP] this post-hoc analysis was conducted to evaluate the effect of erenumab on monthly migraine days, monthly migraine attacks, and attack duration in patients with episodic migraine to investigate whether erenumab actually prevents the occurrence of migraine attacks and/or shortens them. this segment of the migraine population could benefit from preventive therapy. today, we have access to effective methods that prevent inherited migraine from coming to an effect, or to effectively arrest an attack if it has nevertheless broken out. in other words, can these medications both abort an acute attack of migraine and reduce the number of future migraine attacks? ideally, acute medication would have the ability to abort an attack of migraine and reduce the likelihood of future attacks. in addition, subjects in the naproxen sodium group had a statistically significant reduction of migraine attacks in all 3 months of the study compared to baseline. naproxen sodium, when used as a sole acute treatment early in attacks, appears to reduce the frequency of headache days and migraine attacks for a select number of subjects over a 3-month period. ), and chinese patent medicines derived from motherwort, alleviate postpartum uterine subinvolution, as well as the effects on myocardial and cerebral ischemic injuries. we hypothesized that these beneficial effects of motherwort may be related to angiogenesis. motherwort injection) to promote postpartum recovery. 
Does metal in bed disturb sleep? [SEP] therefore, the aim of this study was to examine mood disturbance in healthy adults over a week with nightly time in bed controlled at 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 h. participants (n = 115) spent nine nights in the laboratory and were given either 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 h in bed over seven consecutive nights. mixed-linear effects models examined the effect of time in bed on total mood disturbance and subscales of anger-hostility, confusion-bewilderment, depression-dejection, fatigue-inertia, tension-anxiety, vigour-activity and friendliness. there was no effect of time in bed on total mood disturbance (f(4, 110.42) = 1.31, p = 0.271) or any of the subscales except fatigue-inertia. sm use in the 30 minutes before bed is independently associated with disturbed sleep among young adults. a non-wearable actigraphy device placed under patient mattresses was used to measure sleep parameters: sleep time, time in bed, number of wakings and number of times they left the bed. to assess whether bed bug infestation was linked to sleep disturbances and symptoms of anxiety and depression. the effect of bed bug-exposed tenants on sleep disturbances, anxiety and depression symptoms measured using the pittsburgh sleep quality index, 5th subscale, generalised anxiety disorder 7-item scale and patient health questionnaire, 9-item, respectively. in adjusted models, bed bug infestation was strongly associated with measured anxiety symptoms (or (95% ci)=4.8 (1.5 to 14.7)) and sleep disturbance (or (95% ci)=5.0 (1.3-18.8)). these results suggest that individuals exposed to bed bug infestations are at risk of experiencing sleep disturbance and of developing symptoms of anxiety and possibly depression. in this study, we investigated the feasibility of applying manual muscle testing (mmt) for bedding selection and examined the bedding effect on sleep. 
Does heat treatment (radiofrequency ablation or radiofrequency heat ablation of benign nodules of the thyroid gland work as well as conventional surgical methods? [SEP] radiofrequency ablation has been shown to be an alternative to surgery in the treatment of benign thyroid nodules. radiofrequency ablation of autonomously functioning thyroid nodules effectively improves thyroid function and reduces nodule volume. radiofrequency ablation is an effective and well tolerated treatment option for benign thyroid nodules. the purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of 2 treatment methods, surgery and radiofrequency ablation, for the treatment of benign thyroid nodules. thermal ablation is an effective method for benign thyroid nodules treatment. us guided radiofrequency ablation has been proved to be effective and safe in cases of benign thyroid nodules and a promising treatment method alternative to surgery for patients with recurrent papillary thyroid cancer. radiofrequency ablation and laser ablation are safe and effective techniques for reducing thyroid nodule volume, neck symptoms, and cosmetic complaints. this study compares volume reduction of benign thyroid nodules three months after radiofrequency ablation (rfa), microwave ablation (mwa) or high intensity focused ultrasound (hifu) to evaluate which of these methods is the most effective and safe alternative to thyroidectomy or radioiodine therapy. • thermal ablation can be used to treat benign thyroid nodules • thermal ablation can be an alternative to thyroidectomy or radioiodine therapy • radiofrequency ablation, microwave ablation, high intensity focused ultrasound are safe and effective. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of radiofrequency ablation of benign predominantly solid thyroid nodules by comparing the findings in treatment and control groups. 
Does Imunoglukan strengthen the immune system? [SEP] the immune system defends the host against pathogenic attacks by micro-organisms and their products. the importance of a properly functioning and well-balanced immune system for maintaining health has become strikingly evident over the past decades. diet and nutrition can affect the functioning of various immune parameters. it is thought that in addition to increasing the body's resistance to disease through the strengthening of the immune system, decreases the convalescence time, increases work efficiency and improves the sportive performance of the individual all which would contribute positively to the national economy. it has been proven to enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy, radiotherapy, targeted-therapy, and immunotherapy. increasing evidence has shown that many chm exert favorable effects on the immune regulation. we will summarize the role of chm on patient's immune system when treating cancer patients. the key mechanism is regulating the immune system of cancer patients. firstly, health-strengthening herbs are mainly functioned as immune regulatory effectors on cancer. secondly, some of the compound formulations mainly strengthen the health of patients by regulating the immune system of cancer patients. 
Do cell phones promote the development and growth of tumors in the head? [SEP] we conducted a systematic review of scientific studies to evaluate whether the use of wireless phones is linked to an increased incidence of the brain cancer glioma or other tumors of the head (meningioma, acoustic neuroma, and parotid gland), originating in the areas of the head that most absorb radiofrequency (rf) energy from wireless phones. assessment of the review results using the hill criteria did not support a causal relationship between wireless phone use and the incidence of adult cancers in the areas of the head that most absorb rf energy from the use of wireless phones. in the present review, the authors attempt to address the following question: is there epidemiologic evidence for an association between long-term cell phone usage and the risk of developing a brain tumor? the results indicate that using a cell phone for > or = 10 years approximately doubles the risk of being diagnosed with a brain tumor on the same ("ipsilateral") side of the head as that preferred for cell phone use. the authors conclude that there is adequate epidemiologic evidence to suggest a link between prolonged cell phone usage and the development of an ipsilateral brain tumor. in addition, the cell phone enhances cell invasion and colony formation of human head and neck cancer cells; this is accompanied by a downregulation of e-cadherin expression. our investigation reveals that cell-phone radiofrequency could enhance head and neck cancer by stimulating angiogenesis and cell invasion via erk1/erk2 activation. the increase in mobile phone use has generated concerns about possible risks to human health, especially the development of brain tumors. herein, we investigated whether electromagnetic fields from mobile phones could alter the biological features of human tumor cells and act as a tumor-promoting agent. recently, the interphone epidemiological study investigated the association between the estimated radio frequency (rf) dose from mobile phones and the risk of developing a brain tumor. 
Does wearing bras promote breast cancer risk? [SEP] despite the widespread use of bras among u.s. women and concerns in the lay media that bra wearing may increase breast cancer risk, there is a scarcity of credible scientific studies addressing this issue. the goal of the study was to evaluate the relationship between various bra-wearing habits and breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. information on bra-wearing habits and other breast cancer risk factors was collected from study participants through in-person interviews. our results did not support an association between bra wearing and increased breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. bra cup size and handedness were studied as possible risk factors for breast cancer. data for 3918 cases and 11,712 controls from 7 centres were used to examine the association of handedness with laterality of breast cancer; data for 2325 cases and 7008 controls from 4 centres were used to assess the relation of bra cup size to breast cancer risk. premenopausal women who do not wear bras had half the risk of breast cancer compared with bra users (p about 0.09), possibly because they are thinner and likely to have smaller breasts. among bra users, larger cup size was associated with an increased risk of breast cancer (p about 0.026), although the association was found only among postmenopausal women and was accounted for, in part, by obesity. these data suggest that bra cup size (and conceivably mammary gland size) may be a risk factor for breast cancer. bra wearing may influence shoulder kinematics. 
Are tattoo inks harmful to health? [SEP] the obtained results suggest that tattooists may be exposed to the toxic effects of tl in tattoo inks. some ingredients of tattoo inks might be hazardous and allergenic chemicals of unknown potential. however, tattoo inks contain a complex mixture of chemical impurities that may pose a long-term risk for human health. the studied tattoo inks, which were extracted with hexane as a proxy for the bioavailable fraction, caused effects in all bioassays, with the red and yellow tattoo inks having the greatest response, particularly inducing genotoxicity and oxidative stress response endpoints. the study indicates that currently available tattoo inks contain components that induce adaptive stress response pathways, but to evaluate the risk to human health further work is required to understand the toxicokinetics of tattoo ink chemicals in the body. in addition, facultative pathogenic bacterial species can be isolated from tattoo inks in use, which may pose a serious health risk. tattoos are well known to cause skin problems and the number of reported adverse reactions after tattooing has increased. illegally imported tattoo ink is unrestrained and can contain unknown ingredients and contamination thereby posing a serious health hazard. we present a case illustrating the risk of pronounced phototoxic allergic reaction and other severe complications after using home kit tattoo ink. the aim of this paper is to promote awareness of the risks associated with tattoo inks and the nanomaterials contained therein. 
Do plant hormones (phytoestrogens) other than genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause? [SEP] phytoestrogens have recently been claimed to positively influence menopausal discomforts, including hot flashes. previously published findings showed that phytoestrogens could relieve menopausal complaints, thus, the present review was aimed at assessing the effects of phytoestrogens on thermoregulatory mechanism during menopausal transition. the phytoestrogens are capable of reducing hot flashes via their oestrogen-like hormone actions. the potential effects of phytoestrogens on hot flashes and their molecular mechanisms of action on thermoregulatory centre are discussed in this review. the effects of phytoestrogens on these mechanisms may help explain their beneficial effects in alleviating hot flashes and other menopausal discomforts. although some women might experience a reduction in the frequency or severity of hot flashes, most studies point towards the lack of effectiveness of isoflavones derived from soy or red clover, even in large doses, in the prevention of hot flashes and menopausal bone loss. to evaluate in a 12-month, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study whether pure administration of the phytoestrogen genistein (54 mg/d) might reduce the number and severity of hot flushes in postmenopausal women with no adverse effect on the endometrium. randomized clinical trials that assessed plant-based therapies and the presence of hot flashes, night sweats, and vaginal dryness. use of phytoestrogens was associated with a decrease in the number of daily hot flashes (pooled mean difference of changes, -1.31 [95% ci, -2.02 to -0.61]) and vaginal dryness score (pooled mean difference of changes, -0.31 [95% ci, -0.52 to -0.10]) between the treatment groups but not in the number of night sweats (pooled mean difference of changes, -2.14 [95% ci, -5.57 to 1.29]). this meta-analysis of clinical trials suggests that composite and specific phytoestrogen supplementations were associated with modest reductions in the frequency of hot flashes and vaginal dryness but no significant reduction in night sweats. 
Does the herbal hormone genistein reduce the number and intensity of hot flashes during menopause??? [SEP] high doses of isolated genistein reduce the frequency/intensity of hot flashes while low doses of genistein show no significant effect. ginkgo biloba shows no significant effect on menopause symptoms and cognitive improvement beside mental flexibility. this study was conducted to determine the effect of herbal tea capsule on hot flashes during menopause. the homeopathic medicine of capsicum frutescens (malagueta) was superior to placebo in reducing the intensity of hot flashes in menopausal women after 4 weeks of treatment. the chinese herbal medicine preparation jqf was found to be superior to placebo in reducing hot flashes and improving menopausal symptoms in the vasomotor and physical aspects and might have a potential benefit in reducing tg levels. one recent meta-analysis reported that isoflavone supplementation was associated with a 34% reduction in hot flashes, with increased efficacy as the baseline number of flashes and isoflavone dose increased. consumption of 30 mg/day of soy isoflavones (or at least 15 mg genistein) reduces hot flashes by up to 50 %. phytoestrogens have recently been claimed to positively influence menopausal discomforts, including hot flashes. the phytoestrogens are capable of reducing hot flashes via their oestrogen-like hormone actions. the effects of phytoestrogens on these mechanisms may help explain their beneficial effects in alleviating hot flashes and other menopausal discomforts. 
Does bloodletting according to Hildegard von Bingen have health benefits? [SEP] we applied our procedure to the herbal books of hildegard von bingen (1098- 1179) as an example for its usefulness. the number of 'correct' claim attributions was significantly higher than it could have been by pure chance, even though the vast majority of hildegard von bingen's claims were not 'correct'. the finding that medical claims provided by a medieval author are significantly related to modern herbal use supports the importance of traditional medicinal systems as an empirical source. our aim was to provide a comprehensive account of hildegard of bingen's conception of epilepsy, of the remedies proposed to treat it, and of the medical and physiological theories behind their use. we searched hildegard of bingen's entire body of writings to identify any possible reference to epilepsy or epileptic seizures. hildegard of bingen's conception of epilepsy appears strongly rooted in medieval thinking and less in physiological theories. then, william withering's (1741-1799) scientific analysis of the use of foxglove for the treatment of dropsy is presented, taking into account the role peasant "wise women" played in his discoveries and the role of "folklore medicine" before him. saint hildegard of bingen (c. 1098-1179) was a 12th century benedictine abbess, a visionary, a composer, a poet, a healer, and one of few medieval women who produced treatises on medicine. in this paper, we analyze hildegard's writings in the context of greco-roman physiological theories, which were held to the end of the middle ages and later. an important exception of this was hildegarde von bingen, whose physica brought her great renown. 
Can FGXpress Power Strips reduce pain or improve wound healing? [SEP] this preliminary study investigated whether a brief relaxation intervention could improve healing when administered either before or after skin damage produced by tape stripping in comparison to a control group. participants who took part in the relaxation intervention were significantly more relaxed and reported greater reductions in pain than the control group did 25 minutes after tape stripping. biatain-ibu non-adhesive (coloplast a/s), a new pain-reducing moist wound healing dressing containing ibuprofen was tested for pain reduction, safety, and efficacy on 10+2 patients in a single-blinded crossover study against biatain non-adhesive (coloplast a/s). quality of life measures were improved which together with the reduced pain could contribute to faster wound healing. using a systematic approach based on the wound associated pain model, we demonstrated improved overall wound healing outcomes in 111 subjects with chronic leg and foot ulcers. to examine the relationship between pain and wound healing, pain levels were compared in subjects who achieved wound closure and those who did not. the aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to present the evidence for the use of platelet rich plasma as an adjunct to donor site wound healing. pooled analysis showed a significant reduction in healing time when donor wounds were treated with prp versus controls [md 5.95, 95% ci 5.04-6.85, p < 0.001]. of the five studies which reported pain at dressing change, four showed significantly reduced pain scores for the platelet rich plasma treated wounds versus control. nevertheless, the preponderance of data supports its use for accelerating wound healing and reducing pain at dressing change. 
Does treatment according to the fascial distortion model help with chronic shoulder pain? [SEP] through the fascial distortion model, physicians can apply a manual technique to rapidly and effectively increase rom and decrease pain. after 2 applications of the fascial distortion model, his shoulder restored to full abduction and internal rotation with no pain. this case demonstrates that osteopathic physicians may consider the fascial distortion model framework when identifying causes of pain in patients. results suggest that the application of fascial manipulation technique may be effective in reducing pain in chronic shoulder dysfunctions. this study aims to explore whether extracorporeal shockwave treatment (eswt) based on the theory of fascial manipulation (fm) at select treatment points is superior to traditional local eswt for pain relief in adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. this study aimed to compare the effectiveness of the worldwide renowned kaltenborn and evjenth manual therapy and the innovative concept of fascial distortion model (fdm) in the treatment of patients suffering from shoulder pain. the study group consisted of 100 patients treated for shoulder pain (sp), who were randomly assigned to two groups: group a, whose therapy involved fdm (51), and group b, treated with kaltenborn and evjenth method (49). this study aimed to investigate whether people with chronic shoulder pain show perceptual distortions of space and body that may promote protective behavior. our results suggest that distorted perception is not a typical consequence of chronic shoulder pain; however, that it may occur in cases where pain is strongly linked to movement. the fascial distortion model (fdm), a novel manual diagnostic and treatment strategy, is purported to be effective for chronic pain; however, no rigorous studies document its effectiveness. 
Are there effective alternatives to the breathing mask (CPAP) for sleep apnea? [SEP] cpap applied by a nasal mask is the gold standard treatment of obstructive sleep apnea. continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) remains the major treatment option for obstructive sleep apnea (osa). those with obstructive and mixed apnea can often be treated with nasal cpap. those with obstructive and mixed apnea can often be treated with nasal cpap. the effect of continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) applied via a mask covering the nose and mouth (oral-nasal cpap = oncpap) on obstructive sleep apnea (osa) was studied in ten male patients with a mean (+/- sd) age of 48.1 +/- 11.1 years who could not tolerate nasal cpap (ncpap) due to nasal congestion. we demonstrate that auto-cpap is able to detect abnormal breathing events during sleep in children and may provide the necessary pressure to correct these events. cpap applied through the nasal pillows and nasal mask was equally effective in treating mild, moderate, and severe sleep apnea. cpap applied with either nasal mask was effective in treating mild, moderate, and severe sleep apnea. accordingly, we describe a novel alternative to current sleep apnea therapies, including cpap therapy. a comfortable device for treating sleep apnea incorporates a mask, a flexible hose and a chamber for collecting expired air containing co2. 
Does closure of the foramen ovale prevent further strokes in people who have had a stroke of unknown cause? [SEP] whether patent foramen ovale closure prevents recurrent strokes is under investigation. recent retrospective studies indicate a reduction in migraine frequency after patent foramen ovale closure (intended for stroke prevention). percutaneous patent foramen ovale closure reduces the risk for recurrent ischemic stroke in patients with a history of cryptogenic ischemic stroke. the target patients started with patent foramen ovale closure or medical therapy for preventing secondary ischemic stroke under a stable state. patent foramen ovale closure was dominant over medical therapy for preventing secondary ischemic stroke in patients with cryptogenic ischemic stroke. this meta-analysis of randomized trials concludes that percutaneous patent foramen ovale closure is effective in recurrent stroke prevention especially in males and in those with a large shunt. patent foramen ovale is a risk factor for both migraine and stroke and should be ruled out with transesophageal echocardiography. percutaneous transcatheter closure of patent foramen ovale has been proposed to prevent recurrent strokes in young adults. to evaluate the efficacy of percutaneous closure of patent foramen ovale in suppressing right-to-left shunt (assessed using transcranial doppler) and in preventing secondary stroke. the absence of recurrent stroke events after transcatheter closure suggests that this procedure may prevent stroke by changing the foramen ovale configuration, even in cases of persisting shunt. 
Does stimulation current therapy (TENS - Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation) help with worn knee joints (knee osteoarthritis)? [SEP] to study the effects of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (tens) on joint position sense (jps) in knee osteoarthritis (oa) subjects. application of tens in subjects with knee oa could improve jps in these subjects. [purpose] the purpose of this study was to investigate whether transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation simultaneously combined with local heat and cold applications enhances pain relief compared with transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation alone in patients with knee osteoarthritis. [conclusion] these results suggest that transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation simultaneously combined with local heat application can immediately improve not only knee pain during standing and walking but also dynamic balance and gait ability in patients with knee osteoarthritis. transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation has been proposed as a nonoperative treatment for osteoarthritis. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of a novel transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation device compared with those of other standard nonoperative modalities for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. to investigate the efficacy of different electrical stimulation (es) therapies in pain relief of patients with knee osteoarthritis (oa). this is a double blind study that examined the optimal stimulation frequency of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation in reducing pain due to knee osteoarthritis. the 3 active transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation groups (2 hz, 100 hz, 2/100 hz), but not the placebo group, significantly reduced osteoarthritic knee pain across treatment sessions. our findings suggested that 2 weeks of repeated applications of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation at 2 hz, 100 hz or 2/100 hz produced similar treatment effects for people suffering from osteoarthritic knee. 
Does taking magnesium salts decrease the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps with unknown cause? [SEP] we also sought to review the evidence from interventional studies on the effect of oral and dialysate magnesium-based therapies on muscle cramps. preliminary evidence from observational and interventional studies suggests a higher dialysate magnesium concentration will raise serum magnesium concentrations and may reduce the frequency and severity of muscle cramps. however, the quality of evidence supporting this benefit is limited, and larger, multicenter clinical trials are needed to further determine if magnesium-based therapy can reduce muscle cramps in patients receiving hemodialysis. few interventional studies have examined the effect of magnesium-based therapy on muscle cramps in patients receiving hemodialysis and most were nonrandomized, pre-post study designs. the objective of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of oral magnesium in pregnant women with leg cramps. these results demonstrated that oral magnesium supplement can improve the frequency and intensity of pregnancy-induced leg cramps. therefore, oral magnesium may be a treatment option for women suffering from pregnancy-induced leg cramps. several randomized controlled trial (rct) studies focused on the effects of the magnesium supplement for relieving leg cramps. magnesium supplementation cannot improve the recovery from leg cramps compared to the control group (or = 0.47, 95% ci: 0.14-1.52, p = 0.207). oral magnesium supplementation is not effective in the treatment of leg cramps during pregnancy. 
Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of exercise-induced muscle cramps during sports? [SEP] the objective of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of oral magnesium in pregnant women with leg cramps. these results demonstrated that oral magnesium supplement can improve the frequency and intensity of pregnancy-induced leg cramps. therefore, oral magnesium may be a treatment option for women suffering from pregnancy-induced leg cramps. dating back 100 years, heat cramping in industrial workers was alleviated by saline, and in a self-experiment, salt depletion provoked muscle cramping. these results suggest that ors intake during exercise decreased muscle cramp susceptibility. muscle cramping usually responds to rest and replacement of fluid and salt (sodium). we also sought to review the evidence from interventional studies on the effect of oral and dialysate magnesium-based therapies on muscle cramps. preliminary evidence from observational and interventional studies suggests a higher dialysate magnesium concentration will raise serum magnesium concentrations and may reduce the frequency and severity of muscle cramps. however, the quality of evidence supporting this benefit is limited, and larger, multicenter clinical trials are needed to further determine if magnesium-based therapy can reduce muscle cramps in patients receiving hemodialysis. few interventional studies have examined the effect of magnesium-based therapy on muscle cramps in patients receiving hemodialysis and most were nonrandomized, pre-post study designs. 
Does taking magnesium salts reduce the frequency and intensity of muscle cramps in pregnancy? [SEP] the objective of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of oral magnesium in pregnant women with leg cramps. these results demonstrated that oral magnesium supplement can improve the frequency and intensity of pregnancy-induced leg cramps. therefore, oral magnesium may be a treatment option for women suffering from pregnancy-induced leg cramps. our aim was to assess the effect of 360mg magnesium oral substitution daily among pregnant women suffering from leg cramps in pregnancy, defined as painful cramps different from restless legs symptoms. oral magnesium for leg cramps treatment in pregnancy is a controversial issue according to recent cochrane systematic review. oral magnesium supplementation during pregnancy did not reduce the ocurrence and frequency of episodes of leg cramps. magnesium salts have been shown to reduce leg cramp distress in pregnancy. oral magnesium supplementation is not effective in the treatment of leg cramps during pregnancy. what are the effects of treatments for leg cramps in pregnancy? what are the effects of treatments for leg cramps in pregnancy? 
Does the active ingredient rivaroxaban (drug Xarelto) have a higher risk of dangerous bleeding than other anticoagulants? [SEP] the objectives of this article are to 1) summarize the pivotal trials leading to the u.s. food and drug administration approvals of dabigatran (pradaxa; boehringer ingelheim, ridgefield, ct) and rivaroxaban (xarelto; janssen pharmaceuticals, inc., titusville, nj); 2) present the limited data available regarding the management of bleeding patients on these agents; and 3) provide suggestions to guide emergency providers given the limited data. a recently published trial found that addition of a low dose of the oral anticoagulant rivaroxaban (xarelto) to antiplatelet therapy after discharge reduced the risk of major cardiovascular events without increasing the incidence of fatal bleeding. the purpose of this manuscript is to review currently available information regarding dabigatran and rivaroxaban, the 2 novel oral anticoagulants approved to date in the united states. rivaroxaban (xarelto, bayer healthcare, leverkusen, germany) is a new oral anticoagulant drug. rivaroxaban increased tissue factor-activated clotting time (ct(extem)) dose dependently. rivaroxaban (xarelto) was non-inferior to warfarin for stroke prevention in af. based on the results of phase iii clinical trials, rivaroxaban, a direct factor xa inhibitor, has been approved in many countries for the management of several thromboembolic disorders. in addition, the anti-factor xa method measures the drug concentration and not the intensity of the drug's anticoagulant activity, and a higher than expected rivaroxaban plasma level does not necessarily indicate an increased risk of bleeding complications. the oral factor xa inhibitor rivaroxaban (xarelto) has been the pharmacologic agent used for venous thromboembolism (vte) prophylaxis after primary hip and knee arthroplasty (tha/tka) at our institution since february 2012. the purpose of our study was to compare rates of vte and major bleeding between rivaroxaban and our previous protocol of enoxaparin after tha/tka. 
Does vitamin D protect against dementia or memory loss? [SEP] mediet, nutritional support, and calorie-controlled diets play a protective effect against cognitive decline, alzheimer's disease (ad), parkinson disease (pd) while malnutrition and insulin resistance represent significant risk factors. the modification of risk factors such as stopping smoking, as well as the treatment of deficiency in vitamins and hormones by correcting behaviors and lifestyle, can prevent cognitive decline in the elderly. this article reviews potential risk factors and protective factors for the development of dementia, and in particular alzheimer disease, and discusses the challenges in developing a dementia risk index. whether higher b vitamin intake (ie, b-6, b-12, and folate) is protective against cognitive decline in later life remains uncertain. several prospective, observational studies find higher b vitamin intake to be associated with lower risk of dementia; other studies, including most trials of b vitamin supplementation, have observed no effect on cognition. there were no significant associations between vitamins b-6 or b-12 and mci/probable dementia, nor any evidence of an interaction between these vitamins and folate intake. we investigated self-reported vitamin intake and serum vitamin levels with performance in cognitive factors sensitive to dementia progression in two large middle-aged general population cohorts. in both cohorts, individuals who reported regular intake of vitamins, particularly b vitamins, showed significantly better performance in visuospatial associative memory and verbal semantic memory (p < 0.001). the findings demonstrate that early dementia-sensitive cognitive changes can be identified in middle-aged asymptomatic individuals and that regular vitamin intake is associated with improved cognitive performance. these findings reinforce the potential cognitive benefits of regular vitamin intake, which should be considered as an economically viable therapeutic strategy for maintaining cognitive health. 
Does brain training boost intelligence? [SEP] moreover, changes in the conflict-related brain activity predicted gains in intelligence in the metacognitive scaffolding group. these results suggest that metacognitive scaffolding boosts the influence of process-based training on cognitive efficiency and brain plasticity related to executive attention. although tool-use training is patently non-naturalistic, its marked effects on brain organization and behavior could shed light on the evolution of higher intelligence in humans. neuroergonomics research has suggested new methods that can accelerate learning and boost human performance. noninvasive brain stimulation can accelerate skill acquisition in complex tasks and may provide an alternative or addition to other training methods. decoding how intelligence is engrained in the human brain construct is vital in the understanding of particular neurological disorders. many studies have reported that taekwondo training could improve body perception, control and brain activity, as assessed with an electroencephalogram. this study aimed to assess body intelligence and brain connectivity in children with taekwondo training as compared to children without taekwondo training. taekwondo training improved body intelligence and brain connectivity from the cerebellum to the parietal and frontal cortex. in this article, we provide a test of whether the mindset of intelligence leads to placebo effects in working memory training. 
Does petroleum help against cancer? [SEP] this study provides weak evidence for an association between hypopharyngeal cancer and exposure to white spirits and tetrahydrofuran, and overall does not suggest a substantial role of exposure to petroleum-based or oxygenated solvents in hypopharyngeal or laryngeal cancer risk. petroleum extraction and refining are major sources of various occupational exposures and of air pollution and may therefore contribute to the global cancer burden. this systematic review and meta-analysis is aimed at evaluating the cancer risk in petroleum-exposed workers and in residents living near petroleum facilities. overall, petroleum industry work was associated with an increased risk of mesothelioma (es = 2.09, ci: 1.58-2.76), skin melanoma (es = 1.34, ci: 1.06-1.70 multiple myeloma (es =1.81, ci: 1.28-2.55), and cancers of the prostate (es = 1.13, cl: 1.05-1.22) and urinary bladder (es = 1.25, ci: 1.09-1.43) and a decreased risk of cancers of the esophagus, stomach, colon, rectum, and pancreas. offshore petroleum work was associated with an increased risk of lung cancer (es = 1.20; 95% ci: 1.03-1.39) and leukemia (es = 1.47; 95% ci: 1.12-1.92) in stratified analysis. residential proximity to petroleum facilities was associated with childhood leukemia (es = 1.90, ci: 1.34-2.70). therefore, a great deal of concern for the high risk of lung cancer has been shown among petroleum workers. in 1989 we published a critical review of cancer epidemiology in petroleum workers, which included as a component of the review a meta-analysis by cancer site. based on a review and meta-analyses of cohort studies of more than 350,000 petroleum workers in the united states, the united kingdom, canada, australia, finland, sweden, and italy, we concluded that there was no increased mortality from digestive cancers (stomach, large intestine, liver, or pancreas), lung cancer, bladder cancer, kidney cancer, or brain cancer. employees in jobs which exposed them on a daily basis to crude petroleum or its products, compared with nonexposed employees, were found to have more than three times the risk of esophageal and stomach cancer and about twice the risk of lung cancer. 
Does lavender scent help with sleep disorders? [SEP] these findings support a body of research showing the relaxing and sleep-inducing properties of lavender aroma. this study is aimed to determine the effect of lavender aromatherapy on patients' sleep quality and physiological indicators after cabg. lavender aromatherapy can increase patients' sleep quality after cabg surgery. davari h, ebrahimian a, rezayei s, tourdeh m. effect of lavender aromatherapy on sleep quality and physiological indicators in patients after cabg surgery: a clinical trial study. this randomized, controlled trial examined the effects of lavender oil aromatherapy on anxiety and sleep quality in patients undergoing chemotherapy. this study aims to investigate the effects of lavender oil on sleep and quality of life of menopausal women through steam inhalation. it was found that aromatherapy involving lavender-scented steam inhalation increased sleep quality and quality of life in women with sleep deprivation problems during menopause. aromatherapy helps treatment of diseases by using vegetable oils and it seems to be effective in reducing sleeplessness. data analysis showed that the mean scores of sleep quality in the two groups of experiment and control were significantly different after the aromatherapy with lavender oil (p < 0.001). quality of sleep in ischemic heart disease patients was significantly improved after aromatherapy with lavender oil. 
Does the drug Sovaldi (sofosbuvir) enable high cure rates for chronic hepatitis C? [SEP] sofosbuvir (sovaldi(®)) is a nucleotide hepatitis c virus (hcv) ns5b polymerase inhibitor that has pangenotypic antiviral activity and a high genetic barrier to resistance. this article reviews the clinical efficacy and tolerability of sofosbuvir in patients with chronic hepatitis c and summarizes its pharmacological properties. oral sofosbuvir was generally well tolerated in patients with chronic hepatitis c. the most commonly reported adverse events and laboratory abnormalities were consistent with those expected with ribavirin and peginterferon-α. in conclusion, sofosbuvir represents an important advance in the treatment of chronic hepatitis c. with the recent approval of sofosbuvir (sovaldi) and simeprevir (olysio), clinicians and patients started to recognize that for the first time in the history, hepatitis c can be cured in a majority of patients without interferon. the approval of sofosbuvir (sovaldi) in 2013 transformed chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) care, but its high cost was criticized in part because of reports of substantial public involvement in its development. hepatitis c virus (hcv) treatment took a major step forward at the end of 2013 with the approvals of the second-generation protease inhibitor simeprevir (olysio) and the nucleotide polymerase inhibitor sofosbuvir (sovaldi). the approval of sovaldi™, brand name for sofosbuvir, by the u.s. food and drug administration heralded improvements in chronic hepatitis c virus (hcv) treatment. clinical studies with sofosbuvir have demonstrated significant improvement over the prior standard of care, thus ushering in a new paradigm of hcv treatment and an update of treatment guidelines. sofosbuvir, an oral nucleotide inhibitor of the hcv nonstructural protein 5b rna-dependent rna polymerase enzyme, was recently approved for use in combination with ribavirin and/or pegylated interferon for chronic hcv infection, depending on the genotype. 
Does alpha lipoic acid help prevent or treat Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] in the present study, the effect of alpha lipoic acid, a potent free radical scavenger, was investigated against the intracerebroventricular streptozotocin model of cognitive impairment in rats, which is characterized by a progressive deterioration of memory, cerebral glucose and energy metabolism, and oxidative stress. the study demonstrated the effectiveness of alpha lipoic acid in preventing cognitive impairment and oxidative stress induced by intracerebroventricular streptozotocin and its potential in dementia associated with age and age related neurodegenerative disorders where oxidative stress is involved such as alzheimer's disease. the study demonstrated the effectiveness of alpha lipoic acid, melatonin and trans resveratrol in preventing spatial memory deficit induced by intracerebroventricular streptozotocin and it's potential in age related neurodegenerative disorders where oxidative stress is involved such as alzheimer's disease. current evidences support the hypothesis that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) and antioxidant therapy might protect against the development of alzheimer's disease (ad). in the present work, our attention was focused on ibuprofen (ibu) used in clinical trails to prevent alzheimer's disease, and (r)-alpha-lipoic acid (la) considered as a potential neuroprotective agent in ad therapy. alpha-lipoic acid reduced the elevation below baseline levels. current evidence support the hypothesis that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) and antioxidant therapy might protect against the development of alzheimer's disease, and ibuprofen has the strongest epidemiological support. in the present work our attention was focused on (r)-alpha-lipoic acid considered as a potential neuroprotective agent in alzheimer's disease therapy. alpha-lipoic acid has been shown to possess cancer-cell-killing activity via activation of the apoptosis pathway. alpha-lipoic acid is a natural molecule, which directly or by means of its reduced form, dihydrolipoic acid, exerts antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activities, very helpful also in preventing miscarriage and preterm delivery. 
Are Vemma products good for health? [SEP] this paper uses an econometric specification based on the health production function approach to examine the importance of lifestyles for adult health. the approach treats health practices such as eating breakfast, smoking, and exercise as inputs into the production of good health; several output measures are explored. the econometric models estimated with data from the 1985 health interview survey show broad agreement with conventional wisdom about the importance of healthy lifestyles. this paper also investigates the role schooling plays in the production of good health. however, lack of support for a plausible specification of the productive efficiency hypothesis casts some doubt on the interpretation that schooling increases the efficiency of the household production of health. consumers are ultimately interested in final goods such as improved health or health-related quality of life, but health services research continues to address whether health services financing and delivery are structured in ways to maximize production of intermediate goods, regardless of the link between these services and final outcomes. however, more efficient regions may be better off because of the impure public good nature of health care. a programme of comprehensive primary health care in zambia has been accompanied by the emergence of autonomous, non-profit trading and production companies that sell health-related goods to communities and health institutions and find markets for locally produced good. this article describes some work from the therapeutic products directorate of health canada regarding good review practices (grp). michael grossman's seminal model stressed that health production requires both goods and time. 
Do over-the-counter cough medicines relieve cough symptoms? [SEP] over-the-counter cough and cold medicines are widely prescribed by general pediatricians in order to relieve cough and other symptoms in the setting of upper respiratory infections. according to the limited data that exist, there is not any evidence that over-the-counter cough and cold medicines are effective in children. eight of the 11 participants believed that at least one over the-counter cough medicine (most frequently benylin for chesty coughs) could shorten, or "cure", an illness. to determine the effectiveness of over the counter (otc) cough medicines for acute cough in children. otc cough medicines do not appear more effective than placebo in relieving symptoms of acute cough. to determine whether over the counter cough medicines are effective for acute cough in adults. all randomised controlled trials that compared oral over the counter cough preparations with placebo in adults with acute cough due to upper respiratory tract infection in ambulatory settings and that had cough symptoms as an outcome. over the counter cough medicines for acute cough cannot be recommended because there is no good evidence for their effectiveness. to assess the effects of oral otc cough preparations for acute cough. all over-the-counter cough medicines (otc) are very effective treatments because of their placebo effect. 
Does a diet rich in vitamin K2 protect against diseases of the cardiovascular system? [SEP] recent work suggests a link between vitamin k insufficiency and deficiency with vascular calcification, a marker of advanced atherosclerosis. vitamin k refers to a group of fat-soluble vitamins important for blood coagulation, reducing inflammation, regulating blood calcium metabolism, as well as bone metabolism, all of which may play a role in promoting cardiovascular health. this review will discuss the presence of: (i) vitamin k1 and k2 in the diet; (ii) the methods of quantitating vitamin k compounds in foods; and (iii) provide an overview of the evidence for the cardiovascular health benefits of vitamin k in observational and clinical trials. vitamin k2 serves an important role in cardiovascular health through regulation of calcium homeostasis. supplementation of vitamin k2 has been strongly associated with improved cardiovascular outcomes through its modification of systemic calcification and arterial stiffness. although its direct effects on delaying the progression of vascular and valvular calcification is currently the subject of multiple randomised clinical trials, prior reports suggest potential improved survival among cardiac patients with vitamin k2 supplementation. strengthened by its affordability and food and drug adminstration (fda)-proven safety, vitamin k2 supplementation is a viable and promising option to improve cardiovascular outcomes. moreover, high vitamin k diet and pbs led to reduced vascular oxidative stress. since this process is physiologically needed in bones, but is pathological in arteries, a great deal of research has been devoted to finding a possible link between vitamin k and the prevention of osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases. background dietary vitamin k (k1 and k2) may reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) risk via several mechanisms. 
Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with high arches? [SEP] compared to shoes alone, foot orthoses (p=0.002; median difference 1.5 [iqr 3]) and flat insoles (p<0.001; 2 [3]) significantly reduced pain during step-downs; foot orthoses reduced pain during walking (p=0.008; 1 [1.25]); and flat insoles reduced pain during stair ambulation (p=0.001; 1 [1.75]). contoured full-length insoles are more effective in relieving symptoms related to plantar fasciitis than heel cups. combining night splints or rocker shoes with insoles enhances improvement in pain relief and function compared with rocker shoes, night splints, or insoles alone. to investigate the effectiveness of molding custom-made insoles for female patients with foot pain. insoles molded using this method are effective in immediately improving plantar biomechanics disorders and enhancing isometric upper muscle performance in female patients with foot pain. we concluded that these insoles can mate tightly with the foot arch and disperse the pressure in the heel and forefoot over the foot arch. extra-depth shoes with semi-rigid insoles provided better pain relief than extra-depth shoes alone when worn over 12 weeks. posted insoles prevented progression of hallux valgus angle but did not affect pain or function. there is evidence that extra-depth shoes and molded insoles decreases pain on weight-bearing activities such as standing, walking and stair-climbing. posted insoles may be effective in preventing progression of hallux abductus angle but do not appear to have an impact on pain. 
Can shoe insoles relieve pain in people with foot deformities other than high arch? [SEP] twenty-six people with pronated feet and symptomatic medial knee oa participated in a randomized crossover study comparing five degree lateral wedge foot insoles with and without custom foot arch support. addition of custom arch support to a standard lateral wedge insole may improve foot and knee symptoms in people with knee oa and concomitant pronated feet. compared to shoes alone, foot orthoses (p=0.002; median difference 1.5 [iqr 3]) and flat insoles (p<0.001; 2 [3]) significantly reduced pain during step-downs; foot orthoses reduced pain during walking (p=0.008; 1 [1.25]); and flat insoles reduced pain during stair ambulation (p=0.001; 1 [1.75]). an mt off-loading insole can also be used to alleviate symptoms following lesser toe deformities. applying an insole or orthosis and wearing proper shoes can be beneficial for managing forefoot disorders. wearing high-heeled shoes may produce deleterious effects on the musculoskeletal system while elevation of the shoe heel with arch insole insert is used as a treatment strategy for plantar fasciitis. contoured full-length insoles are more effective in relieving symptoms related to plantar fasciitis than heel cups. we concluded that these insoles can mate tightly with the foot arch and disperse the pressure in the heel and forefoot over the foot arch. to investigate the effectiveness of molding custom-made insoles for female patients with foot pain. insoles molded using this method are effective in immediately improving plantar biomechanics disorders and enhancing isometric upper muscle performance in female patients with foot pain. 
Can dowsers find harmful soil zones or water veins? [SEP] moreover, dowser++ predicts many more internal water molecules than is typically seen in the experiment. to remain independent from dowsers, an investigation area of 35 m(2) was chosen which was large enough to ensure the presence of at least one postulated adverse zone. in a second approach, 5 independent experienced dowsers were asked to locate geopathogenic zones within the area both to verify the adequate choice of the area and to correlate the pattern of dowser's scorings with the patterns of biosignal distributions. discrimination among magnetic patterns (signatures) is hypothesized to account for the apparent ability of dowsers to find specific underground substances, notably water. empiric knowledge of the existence of geopathic zones ('water veins' etc) is probably as old as humankind. the target of this study was to verify influences of 2 different zones above ground on the human body and to test a device for which pilot studies have indicated a potential harmonizing effect in this context. the 2 zones investigated had been dowsed by experienced professional dowsers and labeled with black dots in a non-persuasive manner, thereby blindly representing areas of geopathy or more neutral zones. soils over mineralised veins typically have <200 mg/kg as, as most as is removed in solution on geological time scales. measurements showed that the apple trees accessed deep soil water reserves by growing deep roots, with the resulting desiccated soil possibly stimulating apple trees to extend their roots into deeper, moister soil. these findings demonstrate the importance of deep soil in regulating water and carbon cycles, advancing our understanding of interactions among water, roots, and carbon in this zone. 
Does bioresonance therapy help with health complaints? [SEP] since the 1970s, mora bioresonance therapy has globally been applied in the context of complementary medicine for various indications. also, the subjective health condition after treatment and subjective assessment of efficacy, polled after 1 week, were significantly more positive among participants in the active bioresonance therapy group than among those in the placebo group. according to the findings attained by this pilot study, bioresonance therapy is clinically effective in smoking cessation and does not show any adverse side effects. the aim of the study was to evaluate if bioresonance therapy can offer quantifiable results in patients with recurrent major depressive disorder and with mild, moderate, or severe depressive episodes by decreasing the level of depression due to the application of bioresonance therapy as independently or complementary treatment. the first group (40 patients) received solely bioresonance therapy, the second group (40 patients) received pharmacological treatment with antidepressants combined with bioresonance therapy, and the third group (60 patients) received solely pharmacological treatment with antidepressants. we concluded that the bioresonance therapy could be useful in the treatment of recurrent major depressive disorder with moderate depressive episodes independently or as a complementary therapy to antidepressants. bioresonance therapy increased the content of thiol groups and normalized activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. using the example of bioresonance therapy, this article demonstrates how pseudo-scientific language can be used to cloud important issues. the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of the millimeter-wave bioresonance therapy on acute inflammation and stressful conditions in experimental models. it was found that the millimeter-wave bioresonance therapy improved the condition of experimental animals, accompanying by diminution of licking reaction which was registered for every 10 min. 
Do irradiations with cold red light help with chronic gingivitis? [SEP] ten patients with melanized gingival tissue were selected and irradiated by 100 mw red laser. in conclusion, our data suggest that melanin presence decreases optical pathway and irradiation protocols for antimicrobial photodynamic therapy in gingival tissue should consider light attenuation and depth of periodontal pockets so that efficient illumination of the target tissue occurs. irradiation through gingiva and collagen reduced the oxidation of dpbf significantly (1.0 ± 0.04, 0.7 ± 0.04; p ≤ 0.0001), accounting for 50% to 35% of the non-irradiated dpbf/mb solution. methods: human gingival fibroblast cells were irradiated with a blue diode laser at a 445 nm wavelength. the effect of low level energy infra-red laser irradiation on gingival inflammation was studied. these results suggest that low energy laser irradiation (lllt) does not influence the inflammatory reaction of the gingiva. photoablative laser treatment is commonly used for gingival de-epithelization in patients with chronic periodontitis or hyperpigmentation. nineteen patients with chronic periodontitis, seven of whom showing gingival hyperpigmentation, were subjected to de-epithelization with an 810 nm diode laser used in continuous (1 w, 66.67 j/cm2) or pulsed wave mode (69 μj, 18 μs, 8000 hz, corresponding to peak/mean power of 3.8 w/0.6 w, 40 j/cm2), depending upon individual gingival features. this study further supports the favorable characteristics of photoablative diode laser for gingival de-epithelization. we conclude that sequential series of changes accompany photothermal treatment of the gingiva. 
Does the Aspire system help you lose weight? [SEP] many obese people want to lose weight, and may have tried to do so numerous times with self-help or proprietary weight-loss programs. weight loss is difficult but worth the effort. this article presents a practical approach on how physicians can help their patients lose weight through diet, behavior modification, and adjunctive pharmacologic therapy. twenty-four months after baseline, participants in all three groups had modest weight loss (-1.40 kg [-2.61 to -0.18] in the aspire-group, -2.13 kg [-3.43 to -0.83] in aspire-phone, and -1.78 kg [-3.07 to -0.49] in move! exploratory post hoc analyses revealed that participants diagnosed with diabetes initially benefited from the aspire-group program (-2.6 kg [-4.37 to 0.83]), but experienced significant weight regain during the second year (+2.8 kg [0.92-4.69]) compared to those without diabetes. participants in all three programs lost weight and maintained a statistically significant, though clinically modest, amount of weight loss over a 24-month period. although participants in the aspire-group initially had greater weight loss, treatment was not sufficient to sustain weight loss through the second year, particularly in veterans with diabetes. behavioral economic-based interventions are emerging as powerful tools to help individuals accomplish their own goals, including weight loss. receiving weight loss advice from a health-care provider has been associated with more weight loss efforts and greater odds of achieving weight loss. both medications are able to target physiological processes to help patients lose weight and maintain a greater amount of weight loss than with just behavioral modifications alone. 
Can FLEXISEQ ointment relieve osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] this study compared the efficacy of an herbal ointment to a placebo ointment in relieving the pain and stiffness of osteoarthritis. the herbal preparation contained substances believed by alternative practitioners to be helpful in treating osteoarthritis. an herbal ointment was shown to be effective in relieving the pain and stiffness of osteoarthritis without adverse effects. to compare the efficacy of an herbal ointment to a sham ointment for relieving pain and stiffness associated with osteoarthritis of the hand and knee. subjects applied the herbal ointment to the affected joint(s) for 42 consecutive days and recorded level of pain and stiffness daily on visual analog scales. an herbal ointment showed significant improvement in pain and stiffness for patients with hand and knee osteoarthritis who applied the ointment to the affected joint(s) for 42 consecutive days. this study aimed to investigate the effect of curcumin ointment on knee pain in older adults with osteoarthritis. topical administration of curcumin 5% ointment can significantly reduce knee pain in older adults with knee osteoarthritis. it seems that using this herbal combination is clinically effective for patients suffering from knee osteoarthritis in order to decrease their pain, morning stiffness and limited motion; its effect is comparable with salicylate ointment. a triple-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial was performed in order to evaluate the efficacy of p. atlantica gum ointment on knee osteoarthritis in elderly people. 
Can butterbur prevent migraine attacks? [SEP] to explore the role of a special butterbur root extract for migraine prevention in children and adolescents with severe migraines. two randomized and placebo-controlled trials with a total of 289 migraine patients have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of a special butterbur root extract in the reduction of migraine attacks in adults. we studied whether butterbur had the potential as an efficient and well-tolerated migraine preventive in children and adolescents. butterbur root extract shows a potential as an effective and well-tolerated migraine prophylaxis also for children and teenagers. for those patients and parents who are interested in alternative therapies and natural remedies for preventive treatment of pediatric migraines, butterbur extract derived from the butterbur plant, petasites hybridus, has emerged as a promising treatment. this paper discusses the impact of migraines among pediatric patients, the rationale for the preventative treatment of pediatric migraines, the current therapies and the relevance of butterbur extract as a prophylactic treatment for migraines in this patient population. this small trial indicates that butterbur may be effective in the prophylaxis of migraine. petasites (butterbur) is effective for migraine prevention and should be offered to patients with migraine to reduce the frequency and severity of migraine attacks (level a). this study was to assess efficacy of a butterbur root extract (petadolex) and music therapy in primary school children with migraine. butterbur root extract and music therapy might be superior to placebo and may represent promising treatment approaches in the prophylaxis of paediatric migraine. 
Does bisphenol A trigger allergies? [SEP] simultaneous contact allergies to epoxy resins based on diglycidyl ether of bisphenol a (dgeba-r) or epoxy resins of the bisphenol f-type and the reactive diluent phenyl glycidyl ether (pge) have been reported. of 23 (30%) patients, 7 with contact allergy to dgeba-r and 7/19 (37%) with contact allergy to an epoxy resin of the bisphenol f-type reacted to pge. diglycidyl ether of bisphenol a (dgeba) is the monomer and main allergen in the most common epoxy resin, dgeba-r. epoxy resin(s) based on bisphenol f (dgebf-r) contains the 3 isomers of the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol f. contact allergy to these isomers (p,p'-dgebf, o,p'-dgebf and o,o'-dgebf) has not previously been described in humans. simultaneous contact allergies to the reactive diluent phenyl glycidyl ether (pge) and epoxy resins based on diglycidyl ether of bisphenol a (dgeba) or epoxy resins of the bisphenol f-type have been reported. to this end, published datasets related to the genes, proteins, and metabolites disturbed by bisphenol s were investigated through omics methods. the dataset revealed that bisphenol s at high concentrations tended to downregulate biomolecules, while low concentrations of bisphenol s tended to enhance metabolic reactions. the results showed that exposure to bisphenol s upregulated estrogen and downregulated androgen metabolism in humans, mice, rats, and zebrafish. the interference in amino acid metabolism by bisphenol s could trigger alzheimer's disease, while its disturbance of glucose metabolism was associated with type ii diabetes. since 1998, we have investigated 4 cases of contact allergy from bisphenol a in pvc gloves. nowadays, it seems that manufacturers avoid using bisphenol a in the production of disposable gloves for medical use, but bisphenol a should be remembered as a possible contact allergen in pvc products. 
Can maggots accelerate the healing of chronic wounds compared to conventional treatment? [SEP] maggot therapy was more effective and efficient in debriding chronic pressure ulcers than were the conventional treatments prescribed. it is now a universally acknowledged fact that maggot therapy can be used successfully to treat chronic, long-standing, infected wounds, which have previously failed to respond to conventional treatment. this literature review aims to clarify whether using maggot debridement therapy (mdt) for the removal of devitalized and infected tissue in chronic wounds is a valuable tool for healing. to assess the efficacy of maggot therapy for treating foot and leg ulcers in diabetic patients failing conventional therapy. retrospective comparison of changes in necrotic and total surface area of chronic wounds treated with either maggot therapy or standard (control) surgical or nonsurgical therapy. maggot therapy was also associated with hastened growth of granulation tissue and greater wound healing rates. maggot therapy was more effective and efficient in debriding nonhealing foot and leg ulcers in male diabetic veterans than was continued conventional care. maggot therapy was more effective and efficient in debriding non-healing leg ulcers than a conservative treatment (fig. the histopathological examination of wounded tissue of maggot treated groups showed early and better epithelialization, collagenation and neovascularization with complete healing of wound in two weeks. this study aimed to explore the effectiveness of maggot therapy as compared to hydrogel dressings in the healing of chronic wounds. 
Do electric toothbrushes protect oral health better than manual brushes? [SEP] this study compared preferences by users of a novel electric toothbrush and a manual toothbrush in a health care setting. the novel electric toothbrush received significantly higher positive ratings than the standard hospital-issue manual toothbrush in all domains that we surveyed: ease of use, thoroughness, safety, shape and size of the brush head, overall cleanliness, time requirements, and efficiency (p<0.001). the plaque removal and gingival health effects of this new electric toothbrush technology were evaluated in three randomized controlled studies summarized in this supplement, including an 8-week trial versus a manual toothbrush, an 8-week trial versus a premium sonic toothbrush, and a single-brushing, repetitive-use study versus a manual toothbrush. the clinical effects and gingival abrasion aspects of 2 electrical tooth-brushes (braun oral-b plak control ultra and the novel development braun oral-b plak control 3d) were to be compared with conventional manual tooth-brushing. the data suggest that in the early days of electric toothbrush use, subjects perform no better than using a manual brush. analysis of the results showed that the two electric toothbrushes were significantly better at removing stain than the manual toothbrush. clinical studies on electric toothbrushes have compared their plaque removing efficacy to either manual brushing or to other commercial electric toothbrushes. electric toothbrushes are more effective in plaque removal than manual brushing in closely supervised trials. this study investigated the long-term oral hygiene effects in mentally handicapped patients using an electric toothbrush as compared to manual brushing. the main conclusion of this study is that an electric toothbrush is not superior to a manual toothbrush. 
Do antidepressants from the group of serotonin reuptake inhibitors help with depression? [SEP] to examine the evidence for using selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors instead of tricyclic antidepressants in the first line treatment of depression. antidepressants are the most effective medications used for the treatment of depression. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssris), such as sertraline, were most commonly prescribed among depressive patients. our study suggested that out of five major antidepressant drugs available for the treatment of depression, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are preferred over others because of their better side effects and tolerability profile. parallel group randomised controlled trials comparing selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors with tricyclic or heterocyclic antidepressants in people with depression. when the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors were compared to the heterocyclic antidepressants, there was a non significant difference favouring the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. considered with previous reports that serotonin depletion produces depressive relapses in patients in remission maintained with serotonin reuptake inhibitors, but not norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, these findings suggest that antidepressants may not work via a single monoamine-related mechanism. parallel group randomised controlled trials comparing selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors with tricyclic or heterocyclic antidepressants in people with depression. when the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors were compared to the heterocyclic antidepressants, there was a non significant difference favouring the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. specific serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are a relatively recent class of antidepressants which have specificities making them a therapeutic choice. 
Is there a health risk from metal contaminants in lipsticks? [SEP] this study aimed to determine the heavy metals (lead, cadmium, and chromium) concentration in lipsticks of different price categories sold in the malaysian market and evaluate the potential health risks due to daily ingestion of heavy metals in lipsticks. there was no significant non-carcinogenic health risk due to the exposure of these heavy metals through lipstick consumption for the prolonged exposure of 35 years (hq < 1). heavy metals' contamination in cosmetic products is a serious threat. the presence of toxic toxic metals in lipstick can pose a health risk to many consumers of this type of cosmetics, especially for women. thus, the aim of this study was to assess consequences attributed to dermal and oral exposure to toxic metals in lipsticks manufactured in china and europe as determined by non-cancer and cancer risks assessment models from sccs and usepa, respectively. in this study, the concentrations of lead, cadmium, and chromium in lipstick samples were evaluated. therefore, it can be concluded that, due to the simultaneous use of lipstick with other types of cosmetics and hence the potential exposure of consumers to toxic elements through all cosmetics, continuous monitoring of the concentrations of these elements in these types of products is necessary to avoid potential health risks. the data presented in this article are related to the research article entitled "child and adult exposure and health risk evaluation following the use of metal- and metalloid-containing costume cosmetics sold in the united states" [1]. this article describes the concentration of metals and metalloids contained in various cosmetic products such as body paint, lipstick and eye shadow, the relative percent deviation of two analyses performed on the products and the physico-chemico properties of the metals and metalloids used in the skinperm model presented in the aforementioned article. aim: the present study evaluates lead, cadmium, arsenic, and mercury contamination in lipsticks, mascara, eye shadow, and eyebrow pencils, and compares the amounts of these toxic elements in both legal and contraband products. 
Can topiramate reduce the frequency of migraine attacks? [SEP] among neuromodulators used for migraine prevention, topiramate has a high level of evidence-based efficacy. recent evidence suggests that topiramate, by reducing migraine frequency and use of acute medication, may prevent the negative progression of migraine. furthermore, two recently completed multicenter, randomised, placebo-controlled trials have shown that treatment with topiramate 100 mg/day is effective and well tolerated in patients already progressed to chronic migraine and difficult to treat conditions associated with medication-overuse. topiramate seems to be a preventive treatment, which might be able to act at different levels of the migraine cycle: reduction of frequency in episodic migraine, prevention, and treatment of chronic migraine. although topiramate prophylaxis did reduce migraine attack frequency, in this pilot study topiramate prophylactic migraine treatment did not increase the proportion of patients pain-free 2 hours after symptomatic triptan therapy. topiramate has been shown to be effective as a preventive treatment for migraine in three large placebo-controlled, dose-ranging trials. use of medication to treat the acute migraine attack was significantly reduced by topiramate compared with placebo (p < 0.001). the findings confirm that, at a dose of 100 mg/day, topiramate is an effective and well-tolerated drug for migraine prevention. treatment with 100 or 200 mg/day of topiramate was associated with significant reductions in migraine frequency, migraine days and the number of migraine attacks per month. topiramate is one of the preventive migraine treatments of proven efficacy. 
Does particulate matter pollution increase the risk of heart attack - even if the EU limits are complied with? [SEP] exposure to fine particulate matter, a major component of urban air pollution, has been associated with an increase in cardiovascular risk and associated mortality. consequently, epidemiologic studies have identified correlations between air particulate matter concentrations and acute coronary events, ischemic cardiomyopathy, acute heart failure, and stroke. this review aims to summarize recent data on the pathophysiology and epidemiology of cardiovascular disease after particulate matter exposure. fine particulate matter (pm2.5) has been repeatedly associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events, including heart attacks. overall, this work demonstrates that there is an association between elevated local pm concentrations in san diego county communities with emergency hospital visits due to heart attacks, and that these associations are an environmental justice issue disproportionally affecting disadvantaged communities.implications: particulate matter is an adverse contributor to overall health throughout the lifespan, contributing to diseases such as asthma, hypertension, stroke, and increased risk of cardiovascular events. here, we assess the relationship between particulate matter and heart attacks in san diego county using calenviroscreen3.0. overall, we show that specific communities around san diego are more highly exposed to particulate matter, and that these relationships may be disproportionately contributing to heart attacks in disadvantaged communities. long-term exposure to outdoor air pollution increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, but evidence is unclear on the health effects of exposure to pollutant concentrations lower than current eu and us standards and who guideline limits. within the multicentre study effects of low-level air pollution: a study in europe (elapse), we investigated the associations of long-term exposures to fine particulate matter (pm2·5), nitrogen dioxide (no2), black carbon, and warm-season ozone (o3) with the incidence of stroke and acute coronary heart disease. long-term air pollution exposure was associated with incidence of stroke and coronary heart disease, even at pollutant concentrations lower than current limit values. 
Are endocrine disruptors in cosmetics a health risk? [SEP] this is due to many substances in cosmetics and sunscreens that have endocrine active properties which affect reproductive health but which also have other endpoints, such as cancer. reducing the exposure to endocrine disruptors is framed not only in the context of the reduction of health risks, but is also significant against the background and rise of ethical consumerism, and the responsibility of the cosmetics industry in this respect. one of these contaminants includes endocrine disrupting chemicals, molecules capable of mimicking the body's natural hormones and interfering with the endocrine system. some of these endocrine disruptors have been restricted or even banned in cosmetics and pcps given the high risk they pose to health. the present work aims at reviewing the more recently developed analytical methods published in the literature for the determination of endocrine disrupting chemicals in cosmetics and pcps using chromatographic techniques, with a focus on sample treatment and the quality of analytical parameters. a large number of chemicals have been identified as endocrine disruptors and humans can be exposed to them either due to their occupations or through dietary and environmental exposure (water, soil and air). for several years there have been a growing interest on the mechanism and effect of endocrine disruptors and their relation with environment and human health effect. the deleterious effects of endocrine disruptors constitute a real public health issue. we studied the ingredients of cosmetic products as potential endocrine disruptors (ed) by in silico methods (docking). cosmetic products contain various chemical substances that may be potential carcinogen and endocrine disruptors. 
Can a dietary supplement containing omega-3 fatty acids, lipids, vitamins, and nutrients ("Souvenaid") noticeably slow or halt the decline of mental performance in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] clinical trials with souvenaid(®) have shown improved memory performance in patients with mild ad. evidence from randomized controlled trials suggests that souvenaid should be considered as an option for some patients with early alzheimer's disease (ad), including those with mci due to ad (prodromal ad). studies indicate a need for supplementation of vitamin b12 and omega-3 fatty acids to reduce the risk of cognitive decline, although the results of intervention trials using these nutrients in isolation are inconclusive. high dietary intake of antioxidants and omega-3 fatty acids lower the risk of alzheimer disease (ad). the supplementation with single nutrients, like vitamin b, omega-3-polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufa) or antioxidants is generally not effective in lowering the risk of dementia or in slowing the progression of the disease. epidemiologic and animal studies have suggested that dietary fish or fish oil rich in omega-3 fatty acids, for example, docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid, may prevent alzheimer disease (ad). to determine effects of dietary omega-3 fatty acid supplementation on cognitive functions in patients with mild to moderate ad. two hundred four patients with ad (age range [mean +/- sd], 74 +/- 9 years) whose conditions were stable while receiving acetylcholine esterase inhibitor treatment and who had a mini-mental state examination (mmse) score of 15 points or more were randomized to daily intake of 1.7 g of docosahexaenoic acid and 0.6 g of eicosapentaenoic acid (omega-3 fatty acid-treated group) or placebo for 6 months, after which all received omega-3 fatty acid supplementation for 6 months more. administration of omega-3 fatty acid in patients with mild to moderate ad did not delay the rate of cognitive decline according to the mmse or the cognitive portion of the alzheimer disease assessment scale. add-on intake of souvenaid during 24 weeks did not slow cognitive decline in persons treated for mild-to-moderate ad. 
Do vitamin E supplements increase the likelihood of early death? [SEP] among antioxidant users, frequent use of vitamin c and vitamin e was associated with a decreased risk of bc recurrence (vitamin c: hr, 0.73; 95% ci, 0.55-0.97; vitamin e: hr, 0.71; 95% ci, 0.54-0.94); and vitamin e use was associated with a decreased risk of all-cause mortality (hr, 0.76; 95% ci, 0.58-1.00). in analyses adjusted for age and dietary energy intake, vitamin e consumption appeared to be inversely associated with the risk of death from coronary heart disease. there was little evidence that the intake of vitamin e from supplements was associated with a decreased risk of death from coronary heart disease, but the effects of high-dose supplementation and the duration of supplement use could not be definitely addressed. these results suggest that in postmenopausal women the intake of vitamin e from food is inversely associated with the risk of death from coronary heart disease and that such women can lower their risk without using vitamin supplements. in particular, we found that cell death in the gcl increased in vitamin e deficiency and decreased in vitamin e supplementation. these findings were regarded as related to changes in neurogenesis rate, which in turn was influenced by vitamin e availability; a neuroprotective effect of vitamin e on cell death was also proposed. conversely, vitamin e supplementation induces a higher differentiation of immature t cells via increased positive selection by thymic epithelial cells, which results in the improvement of decreased cellular immunity in the aged. supplementation with vitamin e at a concentration of 25 micrograms/ml significantly increased the mean lifespan of the rotifer asplanchna brightwelli. serum vitamin a and e concentrations before treatment were powerful predictors of early mortality, but supplementation did not reduce time with diarrhoea or mortality during the first month, even after taking into account initial vitamin a or e concentrations, cd4 cell count or clinical markers of illness severity. thus, antioxidants such as vitamin e from food sources or supplements appear to be promising for successful aging by improving immune function, and reducing the risk of several age-associated chronic diseases, such as cvd. 
Does meditation help against stress? [SEP] results suggest that mindfulness meditation does not increase working memory or decrease mind wandering but does prevent stress related working memory impairments. the results support the use of an at home mindfulness meditation intervention for reducing stress-related impairments. over time, meditation may help dampen the attention-grabbing power of these thoughts both during practice and in daily life, which may consequently help deepen meditation practice. transcendental meditation is said to induce in its practitioners an altered state of consciousness resulting in relief of stress, an increased sense of awareness, and a sense of well-being. yoga helped reduce stress. meditation is very useful to relieve stress via hypothalamo-pituitory axis. meditation is considered to be useful to relieve stress and cardio-respiratory health. increasing data suggest that meditation impacts stress-related physiological processes relevant to health and disease. in addition to providing the first published data regarding stress responsivity as a potential predictor of subsequent ability/willingness to practice meditation, the current study strengthens findings from our initial work by supporting the conclusion that in individuals who actively engage in practicing the technique, compassion meditation may represent a viable strategy for reducing potentially deleterious physiological and behavioral responses to psychosocial stress. the findings of this review reveal that the practice of yoga has brought about, among other things, improvement in managing and reducing stress and anxiety. 
Are there methods that effectively help against hormonal hair loss? [SEP] female hair loss is a devastating issue for women that has only relatively recently been publicly acknowledged as a significant problem. a brief overview of some of the medical treatments found to be helpful in slowing or reversing female pattern hair loss is included, addressing the available hormonal and topical treatments. hair loss treatment involves both surgical intervention and nonsurgical therapies such as pharmaceuticals, haircare products, vitamins, and low-level laser therapy (lllt). in some cases, randomized controlled trials have investigated the effects of particular therapies and point to the effectiveness of certain hair loss treatments.</p> <p>discussion: in many cases, there have not been sufficient randomized controlled trials to evaluate the effect of different therapies and hair care practices on hair loss. as our understanding of the molecular and hormonal controls on the hair follicle has grown, there has been increased interest in the various modulators of hair growth, including the potential role of estrogen. in this review, management of hair loss in midlife women is discussed with a focus on three most commonly encountered clinical conditions: female pattern hair loss, hair shaft alterations due to hair care, and telogen effluvium. the results of this study showed that stress can cause hair loss by acting through stress hormones. hair loss affects many people, especially adult males. an effective treatment is hair transplantation which involves harvesting hair grafts from a donor site and relocating them to a bald site. the postulation may provide a more mature and realistic treatment for hair loss if it proved to be practical. 
Does eye training help prevent myopia? [SEP] in this article, we perform a review of the current literature discussing interventions for preventing pediatric myopic progression. various interventions, including lifestyle modification, optical methods, and pharmacologic approaches, have been proposed to help control myopic progression. increasing time spent outdoors can help prevent myopia onset, but has a clinically questionable effect on progression of myopia. contact lenses that reduce peripheral retinal hyperopic defocus represent a new area of research and may hold promise as an effective intervention in myopia control. this finding raises the possibility that at least some of the myopia extant in a population is preventable. a 30-yr-old man received biofeedback training of his accommodation to reduce his functional myopia. nonetheless, some generalization was demonstrated with a reduction in the subjective measures of myopia (about 1 d for the right eye, 0.50 d for the left eye) and improvement in unaided visual acuity (from about 20/50 to 20/30 for each eye). atropine eye drops 1% conferred the strongest efficacy on myopia control. low concentration atropine is effective in myopia control. the widespread use of low-concentration atropine, especially in east asia, may help prevent the myopia progression for the high-risk children. 
Does Cryolipolysis cause noticeable body fat reduction? [SEP] noninvasive cryolipolysis results in a predictable and noticeable fat reduction within 6 months and does not cause skin damage. cryolipolysis has been reported to provide non-invasive fat reduction that significantly reduces subcutaneous fat cells with controlled, localized cooling. this study is intended to determine whether a cryolipolysis device can effectively reduce subcutaneous fat without damaging the overlying skin or causing significant side effects and ultimately produce improved cosmetic results. non-invasive selective cryolipolysis has been reported to be a safe and effective treatment modality for the reduction of excess adipose tissue. therefore, cryolipolysis is a promising technology that could be an appropriate and safe therapeutic option for subcutaneous fat reduction. this study evaluated the efficacy and safety of cryolipolysis for subcutaneous fat reduction in the submental area in asians. background: the cryolipolysis is on the spotlight as a non-invasive method which reduces fat layer thickness with no damage to surrounding tissues. this study aims to verify the effectiveness of cryolipolysis in the reduction of localized adiposity in women. cryolipolysis is a promising procedure for nonsurgical fat reduction and body contouring and presents a compelling alternative to liposuction and other, more invasive methods. cryolipolysis is worthy of further study because it has been shown to significantly decrease subcutaneous fat and change body contour without causing damage to the overlying skin and surrounding structures or deleterious changes in blood lipids. 
Is acupuncture for chronic pain more effective than placebo acupuncture treatment? [SEP] in chronic headache treatment, the placebo effect of acupuncture seems to be large. at the same time, individual patient meta-analyses confirm that acupuncture is effective for the treatment of chronic pain, including small but statistically significant differences between acupuncture and sham acupuncture. in a controlled trial the effect of traditional chinese acupuncture v. placebo acupuncture was evaluated in 18 patients with chronic tension headache (mean disease duration 15 years). traditional chinese acupuncture was found to be significantly more pain-relieving than placebo acupuncture, according to the pain registration of the patients themselves. we conclude that acupuncture is effective for the treatment of chronic pain, with treatment effects persisting over time. there is some evidence for the efficacy of acupuncture in chronic low-back pain (lbp), but it remains unclear whether acupuncture is superior to placebo. acupuncture has been promoted for the treatment of chronic pain. the results analyzed from these trials show that diazepam, placebo-diazepam, acupuncture and sham-acupuncture have a more pronounced effect on the affective than on the sensory component of pain. acupuncture was significantly more effective than placebo-diazepam (p less than 0.05), but not significantly more effective than diazepam or sham-acupuncture. we hypothesized that classical acupuncture would be more effective than placebo acupuncture. 
Can Internet-based self-help training based on cognitive behavioral therapy reduce the burden of tinnitus? [SEP] the present study investigated the effects of two cognitive-behavioral treatments on dysfunctional tinnitus-related cognitions in patients with chronic tinnitus. a total of 128 patients with chronic tinnitus were randomly assigned to either an internet-delivered guided self-help treatment (internet-based cognitive-behavioral therapy, icbt), a conventional face-to-face group therapy (cognitive-behavioral group therapy, gcbt), or an active control group in the form of a web-based discussion forum (df). the goal of this study is to highlight the role of existing internet-based and smart technologies for the advancement of tinnitus clinical practice: we consider contributions that refer to treatments and diagnostics, and we include contributions refering to self-help measures. internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy has the potential to increase access to evidence-based services that manage tinnitus. to evaluate whether an internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy intervention is at least as effective as established individualized face-to-face clinical care in reducing tinnitus distress and tinnitus-related difficulties. participants were randomized to receive either 8 weeks of guided internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy or a mean of 2 to 3 individualized face-to-face appointments in a tinnitus clinic. in common with chronic pain, cognitive-behavioral treatment has been found to alleviate the distress and improve the functioning of tinnitus patients. this article describes the tinnitus e-programme, a previously untested internet-delivered self-help intervention for tinnitus. the aim of this randomized controlled trial was to investigate the effects of conventional face-to-face group cognitive behavioral therapy (gcbt) and an internet-delivered guided self-help treatment (internet-based cbt, icbt) on tinnitus distress. the present study examined acceptance of tinnitus as a potential mediator of treatment changes on global tinnitus severity in internet-delivered acceptance and commitment therapy (iact) and internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy (icbt). 
Do probiotic foods have an antidepressant effect or a positive effect on the mind? [SEP] in this context, this review discusses the evidences collected on the anxiolytic and antidepressant effects of probiotics, especially during the time span of 2015-till now. probiotics also showed neuroprotective effects with less pyknotic cells and lower frequency of vacuolization in cerebral cortex. recently the gut microbiota has attracted significant interest in psychiatric research due to the observed bidirectional gut-brain communication. a growing body of evidence from preclinical work has suggested that probiotics may be effective in reducing stress and anxiety and alleviating low mood. we aimed to identify all published evidence on the efficacy of probiotics as treatment for depression in clinically depressed populations. randomized controlled trials of patients with depression where probiotics were used as supplementary or standalone treatment were considered eligible. upon removal of the latter study from the meta-analysis due to clinical heterogeneity, there was an overall positive effect of probiotics on depressive symptoms (standardized mean difference = 1.371, 95% confidence interval 0.130-2.613). there is limited evidence for the efficacy of probiotics in depression at present, although there may be a beneficial effect of probiotics on depressive symptoms when administered in addition to antidepressants. increasing evidence indicates that probiotics can effectively improve depression-like behavior. these results suggest that l. kefiranofaciens zw3 might improve depression by regulating the gut microbiota as a probiotic food. 
Does treatment with radioactive agents help with pain in chronic inflammatory joint disease? [SEP] rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is a systemic, chronic, autoimmune, inflammatory disorder which affects of the both large and small synovial joints in a symmetric pattern. ra initiates as painful inflammation of the joints leading to stiffness of joint, joint destruction and further worsens the condition causing permanent irreversible damage to the joints making them physically disabled. introduction of biological agents for the treatment of the chronic inflammatory joint disease rheumatoid arthritis has reinvigorated research into this debilitating disease. rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disease that can cause severe pain and disability. treatment of rheumatoid arthritis typically involves disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and low-dose corticosteroids--often used in combination. rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is a chronic inflammatory joint disorder that is characterized by inflammation of synovial membrane and the release of inflammatory cytokines that ultimately results in joint destruction and disability. our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis, chronic synovitis, target joints and pain. we conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis, chronic synovitis, target joint or pain. rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis, four target joints, seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain. efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred. 
Does frequent porn use reduce gray matter volume in the brain? [SEP] our findings indicate that experience with everyday car driving in real traffic is associated with greater gray matter volume in the left cerebellar hemisphere. long-term cocaine consumption is associated with brain structural and functional changes. while the animal literature on cocaine use and dependence has traditionally focused on the striatum, previous human studies using voxel-based morphometry have reported reduced volumes of gray matter in several brain areas, but not in the striatum. these results show that cocaine dependence is associated with reduced gray matter volumes in the target structures of the dopaminergic system. these findings are the first to suggest reduced gray matter in the striatum by means of voxel-based morphometry in human users, thereby linking human results to animal models of addiction. in addition, the relationship between years of use and gray matter volumes in numerous brain regions are consistent with these volume reductions arising as a consequence of the cocaine use. an association has been suggested between decreased gray matter volume and poor outcome in chronically ill patients with schizophrenia. the present longitudinal multi-center study investigated whether gray matter volume at illness onset can predict poor outcome in recent-onset schizophrenia after a follow-up of approximately 2 years. a reduction in gray matter volume is common in patients with chronic back pain, and different types of pain are associated with gray matter abnormalities in distinct brain regions. the weakness and slowness components of physical frailty were linked to reduced gray matter volume in brain regions associated with not only physical mobility but also cognitive functions and social processes. 
Can the active ingredient acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) protect against cancer? [SEP] sulphasalazine (sasp), azodisalicylic acid (ads), acetyl-5-asa and acetyl salicylic acid (asa) did not suppress fatty acid oxidation in rat colonocytes. bile acids are believed to be involved in the formation of colonic cancer, and 5-aminosalicylic acid and other salicylates may have a protective role. although its role to prevent secondary cardiovascular complications has been well established, how acetyl salicylic acid (asa, aspirin) regulates certain key molecules in the atherogenesis is still not known. on the contrary, acetyl salicylic acid induced the expressions of abca1 and sr-bi, two molecules known to reduce the progression of atherosclerosis, at both mrna and protein levels. these data suggest that acetyl salicylic acid may alleviate symptoms of atherosclerosis by two potential mechanisms: maintaining the plaque stability via inhibiting activities of inflammatory molecules mmp-9 and nf-kappab, and increasing the cholesterol efflux through inducing expressions of abca1 and sr-bi. the acetyl moiety in aspirin (acetyl salicylic acid: asa) is considered to play a major part in the pathogenesis of asa-induced mucosal injury. it is concluded that replacing the acetyl moiety in asa with choline and magnesium moieties reduces the asa-induced mucosal injury, without affecting blood salicylate concentrations. the lysine salt of acetyl salicylic acid (asa) at a dose equivalent to 400 mg/kg of acetyl salicylic acid (asa) was intraperitoneally administered in rats. the effect of acetyl salicylic acid (asa), 100 mg/kg (i.p. acetyl-salicylic acid (asa, aspirin) is still the most widely used agent and considered as the prototype antiplatelet drug. 
Is tick-borne tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) much milder in children than in adults? [SEP] tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) is a communicable disease caused by a flavi-virus, ticks being the main vectors. this review is a summary of the most important clinical findings and implications of tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) in children. tbe in children shares several features with their adult counterpart but has overall a better prognosis. today, the risk of getting tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) is still underestimated in many parts of europe and worldwide. tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) is a virus infection which sometimes causes human disease. the incidence of tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) in sweden has substantially increased since the mid-1980s. tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) is caused by tick-borne encephalitis virus (tbev), a virus species of the genus flavivirus within the flaviviridae family. tick borne encephalitis virus (tbev) (flaviviridae, flavivirus) is the causative agent of tick-borne encephalitis (tbe), a potentially fatal neurological infection. the isolation of tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) virus from the spinal fluid of a patient with a clinical diagnosis of meningo-encephalitis and the demonstration of virus-neutralizing antibodies in sera from inhabitants of the tribec region have shown this area to be an active natural focus of tick-borne encephalitis. a survey for tick-borne encephalitis virus in trades ricinus ticks was conducted in may 2000 in two districts of the south-bohemian region of the czech republic with a high occurrence of tick-borne encephalitis (tbe) in humans. 
Does treatment with cyanoacrylate (for example, Sapheon Venaseal™) help against varicose veins as well or better than other methods? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to demonstrate the non-inferiority of cyanoacrylate closure with the venaseal™ closure system compared to surgical stripping in terms of clinical outcomes for the treatment of incompetent great saphenous veins. this is an open-label, multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled trial evaluating the non-inferior clinical outcomes of cyanoacrylate closure compared to surgical stripping for the treatment of incompetent saphenous veins. purpose cyanoacrylate closure of the great saphenous vein with the venaseal™ closure system is a relatively new modality. we report the results of a prospective study of cyanoacrylate closure for the treatment of great saphenous vein, small saphenous veins, and/or accessory saphenous veins up to 20 mm in diameter. conclusions cyanoacrylate closure is safe and effective for the treatment of one or more incompetent saphenous or accessory saphenous veins. various treatment methods are available for the treatment of varicose veins, and there has been a recent surge in the usage of cyanoacrylate glue for treating varicose veins. purpose to investigate the technical possibility, efficiency and safety of cyanoacrylate adhesive embolization and sclerotherapy using commonly available n-butyl cyanoacrylate glue for the treatment of primary varicose veins due to great saphenous vein reflux with or without incompetent perforators. materials and methods one hundred forty-five limbs of 124 patients with varicose veins due to great saphenous vein reflux were subjected to cyanoacrylate adhesive embolization and sclerotherapy - adhesive embolization of great saphenous vein in the thigh and perforators using cyanoacrylate followed by sclerotherapy of any residual varicose veins in the leg. posterior tibial vein extension of cyanoacrylate was seen in three patients (2.6%) without untoward clinical effect.significant improvement was found in venous clinical severity score (vcss) from a baseline mean of 7.98 ± 4.42 to 4.74 ± 3, 1.36 ± 1.65 and 0.79 ± 1.19 at 1, 6 and 12 months' follow-up. conclusion cyanoacrylate adhesive embolization and sclerotherapy for the treatment of primary varicose veins is efficacious and can be performed as an outpatient procedure, but has a guarded safety profile due to its propensity to cause deep venous occlusion if not handled carefully. 
Did oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) or other neuraminidase inhibitors help reduce deaths from the H1N1 influenza virus ("swine flu" virus)? [SEP] oseltamivir (tamiflu®) is an important pharmaceutical intervention against the influenza virus. compounds 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 with a hydroxy group at c-1 showed strong inhibitory effects on neuraminidases from various influenza viral strains, h1n1, h9n2, novel h1n1 (wt), and oseltamivir-resistant novel h1n1 (h274y) expressed in 293t cells. in addition, these compounds reduced the cytopathic effect of h1n1 swine influenza virus in mdck cells. oseltamivir and zanamivir are known antiviral drugs for swine flu with observed side effects. tamiflu (oseltamivir), known as a remedy of swine flu, has a saccharide analog structure, especially the sialic acid analog. tamiflu can inhibit the invasion of influenza viruses (swine flu and avian flu viruses) into the host cells by competition with sialic acid on the terminal position of the specific oligosaccharide on the surface of the host cell. in contrast, swine h1n2 and h3n2 influenza a viruses were more sensitive to oseltamivir than to zanamivir. although neuraminidase inhibitors are active against most 2009-2010 pandemic influenza a (h1n1) swine-origin strains, sporadic cases of oseltamivir resistance have been described. the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir has been identified to have significant anti-influenza activity in clinical practice. in vitro, using our influenza pseudotyped particle system, oseltamivir displayed significant inhibitory effects on viral na activity and pp release. 
Is aluminum intake responsible for the development of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] aluminum, responsible of dialysis encephalopathy, is suspected to be involved in other neurological disorders such as alzheimer disease. these results suggest that raised tissue aluminum concentrations reported in alzheimer's disease are not an exaggeration of a normal ageing process, are not likely to be simply secondary to increased dietary aluminum intake, and that alzheimer's disease does not represent the chronic toxic effect of moderately raised aluminum levels at the upper end of the normal distribution. aluminum is a constituent of antacids, deodorants, kitchenware and food additives which allows easy access into the body posing risk to development of senile dementia of alzheimer's type. aluminum accumulation has been implicated in the development of alzheimer's disease, a hallmark of which is decreased brain glucose metabolism. exposure to aluminum remains a controversial risk factor for alzheimer's disease. in recent years aluminum has been implicated as a possible etiological agent in des and in alzheimer's disease. the increased brain aluminum content of patients with alzheimer's disease is derived from the environment. the low levels of aluminum absorbed from the environment may explain why susceptible patients do not develop alzheimer's disease until after many years of exposure, if indeed aluminum is the etiological agent in alzheimer's disease. using a cox model, a high daily intake of aluminum was significantly associated with increased risk of dementia. high consumption of aluminum from drinking water may be a risk factor for alzheimer's disease. 
Can regular exercise prevent or relieve migraine symptoms? [SEP] here, we review the associations between physical exercise and migraine from an epidemiological, therapeutical and pathophysiological perspective. in experimental studies exercise has been reported as a trigger factor for migraine as well as migraine prophylaxis. in conclusion, it seems that although exercise can trigger migraine attacks, regular exercise may have prophylactic effect on migraine frequency. exercise has been frequently discussed as a method of migraine management, but the pathways by which exercise may alter migraines are unclear at present. with this review, we aimed to investigate the effect of exercise on migraine and explored the possibility of exercise as a treatment option for migraine. a close association of physical activity and exercise with migraine has been reported in clinical and population-based studies. recent randomized controlled trials investigating the effect of aerobic exercise as a migraine-preventive treatment have revealed a notable improvement in migraine symptoms. engagement in regular exercise routinely is recommended as an intervention for managing and preventing migraine, and yet empirical support is far from definitive. some migraine patients find that regular exercise helps in reducing the frequency of headache attacks. however, most of these recommendations refer to some anecdotal reports or observational studies in literature stating that regular exercise can reduce the frequency and severity of migraine. 
Does less than 7h of sleep daily increase mental performance? [SEP] sleep restriction to less than 7h per day resulted in higher body mass index, plasma triglyceride level, and obesity prevalence for women, but not for men. sleep duration of less than 7h was found to be associated with both depression/anxiety and loss of positive emotion, whereas sleep duration of 8h or more was associated only with loss of positive emotion. obtaining less than 6 hours of sleep each night (compared to 7 hours) may increase type 2 diabetes risk by approximately 30%. sleep duration and quality are associated with physical and mental wellbeing. sleep duration below 7h per night has been associated with negative health consequences, so enabling older adults to obtain at least 7 hours per night is important for health and wellbeing. sleep schedule regularity may be associated with sleep duration (≥ 7h/24h) in older adults. further, the associations between better sleep (more rested, more nighttime sleep minutes) and less distress were stronger for less lonely students. in contrast, none of the distress indices were directly predictive of next-day restedness or nighttime sleep minutes, though one significant interaction demonstrated that the association between less worry and feeling more rested the next day was stronger for students who reported low compared to high loneliness. together, the results point to sleep as a stronger influence on emotional distress than the reverse pathway and may suggest that social connection facilitates the positive influence of good sleep on student mental health. as sleep is an essential physiological function that is strongly related to mental condition, easy and daily sleep management is considered essential for maintaining good mental health. 
Does regular intake of extra virgin olive oil protect against coronary heart disease such as heart attack? [SEP] the present narrative review focuses on the up-to-date clinical data on the correlations between olive oil consumption and cardiovascular (cv) diseases (i.e., chd, stroke, and peripheral artery disease). high consumption of olive oil, and in particular the extra-virgin, which is rich in phenolic antioxidants, has been suggested to prevent against coronary heart disease (chd). the olive oil-induced cardioprotection was further supported by the findings of a very recent analysis of 2 large us prospective cohort studies showing that a higher olive oil intake was related to a lower risk of cv morbidity and mortality after 24 years of follow-up and that replacement of dairy fat, margarine, butter, or mayonnaise with the equivalent amount of olive oil significantly reduced cv risk. there is evidence for associations between olive oil consumption and lower risk for cv diseases. olive oil is the principal source of fats in the mediterranean diet, which has been associated with a lower incidence of coronary heart disease and certain cancers. olive oil is the principal source of fat in the mediterranean diet, which has been associated with a lower incidence of coronary heart disease and certain cancers. consumption of virgin olive oil, could provide beneficial effects in stable coronary heart disease patients as an additional intervention to the pharmacological treatment. olive oil is the principal source of fat in the mediterranean diet, which has been associated with a lower incidence of coronary heart disease and certain cancers. the authors base their hypothesis on meta-analyses of epidemiological data, numerous experimental studies, and a comprehensive review of the mechanisms of action of extra-virgin olive oil and its components in the prevention of vascular disease. these data reinforce the notion that the mediterranean diet reduces the incidence of coronary heart disease partially due to the protective role of its phenolic components, including those of extra virgin olive oil. 
Do frequent ejaculations have a protective effect against prostate cancer? [SEP] frequent ejaculation seems to be protective from the development of prostate cancer. in a prospective study of 31 925 men with 18 yr of follow-up, higher ejaculation frequency (ef) throughout adulthood was associated with lower rates of prostate cancer. to explore previous findings that men who ejaculate more frequently have lower risk of prostate cancer, we evaluated molecular alterations in the prostate tissue according to each man's frequency of ejaculation prior to diagnosis. we identified biological processes that could link ejaculation frequency and prostate cancer. to examine the association between ejaculation frequency, which includes sexual intercourse, nocturnal emission, and masturbation and risk of prostate cancer. however, high ejaculation frequency was related to decreased risk of total prostate cancer. ejaculation frequency was not statistically significantly associated with risk of advanced prostate cancer. our results suggest that ejaculation frequency is not related to increased risk of prostate cancer. there was no association of prostate cancer with the number of sexual partners or with the maximum number of ejaculations in 24 h. there was a negative trend (p < 0.01) for the association between risk and number of ejaculations in the third decade, independent of those in the fourth or fifth. ejaculatory frequency, especially in early adult life, is negatively associated with the risk of prostate cancer, and thus the molecular biological consequences of suppressed or diminished ejaculation are worthy of further research. 
Does condom use cause depression in women? [SEP] depressed young women are at particularly high risk of sexually transmitted infections (stis), yet little is known about their condom use practices. this study sought (1) to describe condom use errors among depressed adolescent and young adult women and (2) to identify event- and individual-level correlates of incorrect use. having sex to change mood, to relax, or for physical pleasure increased the odds of incorrect condom use, but was no longer significant when individual-level variables were included in the model. even if they use condoms, depressed adolescent and young adult women are at increased risk of stis because they frequently use condoms incorrectly. psychological factors may help identify depressed young women who are at particularly high risk of incorrect condom use. less social support (-0.17, p < 0.05) and relationship power (-0.48, p < 0.001), and greater depression (-0.16, p < 0.05) predicted more condom-use barriers. history of mental health problems predicted condom-use barriers, mediated by recent depression and relationship power (0.15, p < 0.001). these findings suggest depression and diminished relationship power limit highest-risk women's ability to negotiate condom use and abstain from substance use, increasing their risk of acute hiv infection and vertical transmission. in this analysis, a subgroup of participants (n = 245) reporting at or above threshold depressive symptoms involved in a randomized controlled trial were assessed at 6-month and 12-month follow-ups on condom use and psychosocial mediators associated with hiv prevention behaviors. in multivariate logistic regression analyses controlled for age and income, participants that reported sex work, depression, higher number of sex partners and shorter relationship duration had lower odds of consistent condom use in the past month. 
Do today's children have a shorter life expectancy than their parents? [SEP] the long-term health consequences may produce a generation of children with a shorter life expectancy than their parents have. this life-span approach to fatherhood considers the broader sociohistorical context in which fatherhood develops, and emphasizes the urgent need to consider mothers, fathers, and family structure in future research as we seek to understand and model the effects of parenting on children's development. given the emerging global childhood obesity epidemic and the specter of a generation of children who will have a shorter life expectancy than that of their parents, recent research has focused on factors that influence children's weight status and obesogenic behaviors (i.e., eating, physical activity, and screen media use). we asked whether a traumatic separation from both parents during childhood is associated with reproductive and marital traits later in life, measured by age of onset of menarche, timing of menopause, period of fertile years, age at first childbirth, birth spacing, number of children, and history of divorce. the current obesity epidemic has produced a generation of children that may be the first to have a life expectancy shorter than their parents. drawing on multigenerational panel data from the united states (1991-2011), the study examines contemporaneous family factors, but also how parental biographies (their own transition to adulthood) and parents' own adolescent agentic orientations influence their adolescent children. the findings indicate that parents' early orientations and experiences in the transition to adulthood have little effect on their children's mastery beliefs, but that parents' generalized life expectations (in adolescence) and having married before having the child were associated with their children's more optimistic life expectations. contemporaneous family income and optimistic expectations among parents-as-adolescents were somewhat substitutable as positive influences on adolescents' optimistic life expectations. the findings contribute to our understanding of intergenerational and over-time influences on these key adolescent orientations. failure to provide activity opportunities will increase the likelihood that the children of today will live less healthy (and possibly shorter) lives than their parents. 
Do rising temperatures and CO2 levels increase the risk of pollen allergy? [SEP] today, pollen allergy sufferers are confronted with longer pollen seasons and pollen with potentially increased allergenicity. changes in temperature and co2 concentration by climate change affect the growth of plants and their capacity of producing more allergenic pollens, which should be considered in making the future strategy on treating allergy patients. due to global warming and because symptoms may appear earlier in the year people suffering from a pollen allergy might face a new unaccustomed situation. allergy to pollen and pollen season at its beginning, in duration and intensity are altered by climate change. concentrations of particulate matter and ozone in the air have been projected to increase with climate warming and air stagnation, and the rising temperatures and co2 increase pollen, molds, and spores, which escalate the risk of allergic respiratory diseases. the findings from this study provide a greater understanding of airborne pollen dynamics and how climate change might impact the future evolution of airborne poaceae pollen concentrations and thus the future evolution of related pollen allergies. these results suggest that there may be significant increases in exposure to allergenic pollen under the present scenarios of global warming. the rise of pollen allergies is an issue that continues to negatively impact people's daily lives across the globe and has become more important in the light of global warming and increasing air pollution. conclusion we concluded that romania is facing an increasing pollen allergies trend and some actual lifestyle aspects can significantly influence the risk of pollen allergies in the big city environment. our results indicate that increase in atmospheric co2 concentrations can have a negative influence of some features of a. negundo airborne pollen that can influence the reproductive processes as well as respiratory pollen allergies in the future. 
Does training on vibration platforms cause a noticeable buildup of muscle strength? [SEP] analysis of es demonstrated that the type of vibration platform employed is a moderator of the treatment effect of vibration on strength development. differences were noted in both acute and chronic changes in muscle strength when vertical vibration platforms are compared with oscillating platforms. based on the overall analysis, it is apparent that vibration exercise can be effective at eliciting chronic muscle strength adaptations. the vibration exercise can be used by exercise professionals to enhance muscular strength. the aim of this literature review was to determine whether vibration training could produce chronic improvements in the physical performance of trained athletes. vibration causes an increase in the g-forces acting on the muscles, increasing the loading parameters of any exercise. increased loading should aid muscle hypertrophy, and some authors have suggested that vibration may enhance neuromuscular potentiation. considering the 6 studies on trained athletes, there does seem to be some evidence to suggest that vibration may provide a small benefit to maximal strength (1-repetition maximum) and power (countermovement jumps) of trained athletes. the results indicated that vibration training significantly increased the muscle strength and improved dynamic stability control at recovery touchdown after the slip occurrence. six weeks of wbv training on a vibration platform with conventional amplitude was not more efficient than a placebo vibrating platform. 
Does glucosamine prolong life? [SEP] glucosamine sulfate is a dietary supplement that is marketed as a treatment for osteoarthritis. we investigated whether glucosamine sulfate supplementation activates the upr in circulating leukocytes of human subjects. in humans, glucosamine sulfate supplementation did not alter metabolic parameters including lipid levels and glucose tolerance. our results indicate that in healthy human subjects, the recommended dose of glucosamine sulfate (1500 mg · day(-1)) for 14 days does not significantly alter intracellular glucosamine levels and does not activate the upr in circulating leukocytes. glucosamine is a popular nutritional supplement used to treat osteoarthritis. we conclude that oral glucosamine at standard doses for 6 weeks does not cause or significantly worsen insulin resistance or endothelial dysfunction in lean or obese subjects. glucosamine has immunomodulatory effects on autoimmune diseases. these effects suggest that glucosamine may be an important modulator of t cell differentiation and immune homeostasis. glucosamine, a natural glucose derivative and an essential component of glycoproteins and proteoglycans, has been safely used to relieve osteoarthritis in humans. recent studies have shown that glucosamine also possesses immunosuppressive properties and is effective in prolonging graft survival in mice. 
Does Kinesio tape help in the treatment of joint and muscle injuries? [SEP] the analysis revealed that kinesio taping can effectively reduce muscle spasms, rebuild muscle strength of the injured extremity, improve static and dynamic balance and ease pain, due to its ability to improve proprioception of joints and regulate muscle tone. the use of kinesio tape among health care professional has grown recently in efforts to efficiently prevent and treat joint injuries. the data suggest that kinesio tape decreases muscle activity in the ankle during a drop-jump maneuver, although no changes in grfs were observed. however, significant improvements were observed in the kinesio tape group, with regard to joint position sense, pain, kinesiophobia, symptoms, and functional limitations after treatment. [conclusion] although short-term kinesio tape application did not increase hamstring muscle strength, it may have improved joint position sense, pain, kinesiophobia, symptoms, and daily limitations. although research suggests that kinesio taping decreases pain and improves range of motion for some musculoskeletal injuries, its effectiveness in decreasing pain in patients with pfps in unknown. in recent years, kinesio tape has been used to support injured muscle and joints, and relieve pain. when compared to minimal intervention, kinesio taping provided superior pain relief (pooled smd=-0.36, 95% ci -0.64 to -0.09, p=0.009) but the pooled disability scores were not significantly different (pooled smd=-0.41, 95% ci -0.83 to 0.01, p=0.05). kinesio taping is frequently used in the management of lower limb injuries, and has been shown to improve pain, function, and running performance. these results suggest that changes in running biomechanics previously associated with itbs can be improved with the application of kinesio tape, with the greatest effect seen with the application of kinesio tape with tension. 
Do injections with Botulinum Toxin A (Botox®) help with urinary incontinence? [SEP] botulinum toxin type a temporarily prevents incontinence for a few months in about one-third of patients, but it is difficult to administer. botulinum toxin injection has been widely accepted by the urology and urogynecology medical communities as a safe and effective treatment for refractory urinary incontinence. this trial compares the change in urgency urinary incontinence episodes over 6 months, tolerability and cost effectiveness between women receiving daily anticholinergic therapy plus a single intra-detrusor injection of saline versus a single intra-detrusor injection of 100 u of botulinum toxin a plus daily oral placebo tablets. in addition, it might be expected that urethral botulinum toxin injections improve bladder emptying in patients with dysfunctional voiding problems besides detrusor external sphincter dyssynergia. review of the clinical trials in recent years, botulinum toxin type a has been widely used in the urethra or urinary bladder to treat voiding dysfunction due to detrusor sphincter dyssynergia, incontinence due to neurogenic or idiopathic detrusor overactivity, sensory disorders such as bladder hypersensitivity, overactive bladder, and interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome. intravesical botulinum toxin type a injection is effective in treatment of urinary incontinence due to detrusor overactivity in men and women, as well as in children. this article reviewed the recent advances of botulinum toxin type a on lower urinary tract dysfunction. cystoscopic intradetrusor injection of botulinum toxin has helped patients with refractory overactive bladder but with the increased risks of urinary tract infection and urinary retention. to determine the efficacy of intradetrusor injections of botulinum toxin a for non-neurogenic urinary urge incontinence. botulinum toxin increased bladder capacity at cystoscopy and reduced urinary incontinence on 24-hour pad testing in adult females with urinary urge incontinence. 
Can apigenin reduce cancer risk or prevent cancer progression? [SEP] taken together, these findings suggest that low-dose apigenin has the potential to slow or prevent breast cancer progression. apigenin has been shown to possess remarkable anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anti-carcinogenic properties. this review examines the cancer chemopreventive effects of apigenin in an organ-specificity format, evaluating its limitations and its considerable potential for development as a cancer chemopreventive agent. apigenin, a naturally occurring flavonoid, has been shown to inhibit growth in some cancer cell lines but has not been studied in pancreatic cancer. we hypothesized that apigenin would inhibit pancreatic cancer cell growth in vitro. we consider the evidence for actions of apigenin that might hinder the ability of gastrointestinal cancers to progress and spread. apigenin has been shown to inhibit cell growth, sensitize cancer cells to elimination by apoptosis, and hinder the development of blood vessels to serve the growing tumor. as such, apigenin may provide some additional benefit beyond existing drugs in slowing the emergence of metastatic disease. because of its known mechanism of action, low toxicity, and effectiveness at physiologically relevant levels in animal models of prostate cancer, apigenin is an excellent candidate for a pilot study to determine the effect of apigenin supplementation on prostate cancer development and progression in humans. apigenin is a potential chemopreventive agent for cancer prevention. 
Do generic drugs work as well as original drugs? [SEP] slight differences between a generic and its brand-name counterpart are allowed, provided they do not markedly affect the efficacy or adverse effect profile in comparison to the originator drug. there is no tangible proof that generics are less safe than originator drugs, provided they are chosen wisely, taking into account factors such as their packaging quality. more than half preferred original drugs to generic drugs because of clinical experience and generic drugs confidence limits. in the 2013 survey, 73% preferred original drugs to generic drugs because of believed difference in drug effectiveness. although generic drugs prescription was increased slightly more than the 2011 survey, 2013 survey showed that around 70% of respondents still preferred original drugs. generic drugs are interchangeable with original proprietary drugs, as they have the same active pharmaceutical ingredients, dosage forms, strength, quality, indications, effects, directions, and dosage. this review summarizes available data comparing the bioequivalence and therapeutic efficacy of brand-name psychoactive drugs with those of the corresponding generic products. those that were identified revealed differences in the efficacy and tolerability of brand-name and generic psychoactive drugs that had not been noted in the original bioequivalence studies. thirty one and 32 % of the pharmacists and prescribers, respectively, expressed that they believed that the generics did not differ from the original drugs, whereas only 24% of the patients believed so. however, generic drugs may lead to indirect savings as well if their use reduces the average price of those brand-name drugs that are still purchased. 
Are animal-assisted therapies effective for mental illness? [SEP] trials of animal-assisted therapy interventions, a form of human-animal interaction therapy most often used with populations affected by depression/anxiety, mental illness, and trauma, may provide models of how prison-based animal program research can have widespread implementation in jail and prison settings, whose populations have high rates of mental health problems. this paper reviews the components of prison-based animal programs most commonly practiced in prisons today, presents five animal-assisted therapy case studies, evaluates them based on their adaptability to prison-based animal programs, and discusses the institutional constraints that act as barriers for rigorous prison-based animal program research implementation. this paper can serve to inform the development of a research approach to animal-assisted therapy that nurses and other public health researchers can use in working with correctional populations. a growing body of evidence suggests that animal-assisted therapies and activities involving all kinds of real and even robotic animals can have beneficial eff ects in people with neurological disease or mental illness. research in animal-assisted therapy (aat) has revealed that the presence of a dog can have a positive effect on health, e.g., increase quality of life and lessen depression and anxiety. animal-assisted therapy (aat) has been shown to be effective in the treatment of many psychological disorders, including autism spectrum disorders, depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd). animal-assisted therapy (aat) is increasingly researched as a potential treatment for physical and mental illness, including schizophrenia. animal therapy is making strides in the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd). for years, animals have been used with great benefit in the treatment of the aged and the terminally ill. now animal assisted therapy is benefitting sufferers of ptsd. the results of animal assisted therapy in the treatment of ptsd patients have seen significant results. 
Can lack of sleep cause obesity? [SEP] by contributing to energy imbalances, hormonal changes occurring with reduced sleep quality may cause weight gain and obesity. accumulating data suggest that short sleep plays a role in the development of obesity in general population. accumulating evidence supports the role of reduced sleep as contributing to the current obesity epidemic in children and youth. longitudinal studies have consistently shown that short sleep duration is associated with weight gain and the development of obesity. recent experimental studies have reported that sleep restriction leads to weight gain in humans. emerging evidence suggests that chronic sleep restriction contributes to obesity. the aim of this paper is to briefly review epidemiological evidence for an association between chronic sleep restriction and obesity in adults, and outline the key methodological limitations of these studies. this has implications for the development of public health programmes that target sleep as a modifiable risk factor for obesity. adults and children that sleep less, have an increase in obesity and overweight risk with dysfunctional eating behaviors, decreased physical activity, and metabolic changes. increased obesity in subjects reporting short sleep duration leads to speculation that, during recent decades, decreased sleeping time in the general population may have contributed to the increasing prevalence of obesity. 
Is breaking an energy-saving lamp harmful to health? [SEP] with the increasing awareness of energy conservation and environmental protection, high energy-consuming incandescent lamps have been largely withdrawn from the stage of mainland china's lighting industry because the main raw material for electricity production-coal-produces mercury pollution when burned and energy-saving fluorescent lamps have made considerable progress. however, fluorescent lamps emit mercury, which still causes environmental pollution. in this work, the existing problems in the development of fluorescent lamps, and in the collection and treatment of spent fluorescent lamps were analyzed. lighting electricity accounts for about 12% of social electricity consumption in mainland china, while only approximately 15% of electricity is conversed into light when incandescent light bulbs are used. the scope of this paper is to identify the benefits of lamp recycling from the domestic sector. the first one is dependent on previous research data in relation to the number of active lamps while the second one elaborates on electricity consumption and sales data, in order to define the corresponding number of active lamps., the wasted amount of glass, metal and plastic is calculated along with the energy savings, the annual emissions of co2-eq, the economic benefit from their sale and the potential reduction of hazardous waste, such as mercury to solid waste landfills under various scenarios. finally, a future scenario was examined, in which all lamps in the domestic sector were assumed to be leds, an issue that can affect the viability of the recycling factories and it was proved that these might be affected. the article describes the design phase, development and practical application of a smart object integrated in a desk lamp and called "smart lamp", useful to optimize the indoor thermal comfort and energy savings that are two important workplace issues where the comfort of the workers and the consumption of the building strongly affect the economic balance of a company. after the construction phase, the smart lamp was installed in an office normally occupied by four workers to evaluate the indoor thermal comfort and the cooling consumption in summer. the results showed how the application of the smart lamp effectively reduced the energy consumption, optimizing the thermal comfort. 
Does copper intake increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] moreover, we discuss the impact of elevated free serum copper on accompanying alzheimer's disease, knowing that copper plays a crucial role in the formation of amyloid plaques and tau aggregation. some exciting recent work indicates that free copper levels are increased in alzheimer's disease, and copper may be involved in disease pathogenesis, opening the way to possible therapy of alzheimer's disease with anticopper drugs. copper may also be involved in other diseases of neurodegeneration. a very exciting recent study indicts high intake of copper, mostly from copper supplements, in conjunction with a high-fat diet in more rapid cognitive decline in the general population. a high requirement for copper may explain early onset of alzheimer's disease in down's syndrome. copper deficiency is a plausible cause of alzheimer's disease. the idea that copper may play a role in the pathogenesis of alzheimer's disease is gaining momentum. increased exposure to environmental copper (eg, the spread of copper plumbing and the use of copper in supplements) and/or defective ceruloplasmin function may play a role in the current epidemic of alzheimer's disease. recent studies have indicated that alteration of copper metabolism is one of the pathogenetic mechanisms of alzheimer's disease (ad). diseases of aging such as alzheimer's disease, other neurodegenerative diseases, arteriosclerosis, diabetes mellitus, and others may all be contributed to by excess copper and iron. 
Do air ions cause an improvement of allergies? [SEP] to elucidate a potential mechanism by which negative air ions improve aerobic metabolism, changes in venous blood lactate levels, ph, erythrocyte deformability, and plasma superoxide dismutase activity and ceruloplasmin levels were examined during a 1-h exposure to negative air ions created by water shearing or corona discharge in nine adult healthy volunteers. the paper shows that negative air ions created by water shearing method improve aerobic metabolism only during a 1-h exposure, which may be caused by improvement of erythrocyte deformability, but negative air ions created by corona discharge have no effects. this is especially important for pollen allergy sufferers because air pollution plays a central role in the interactions between pollen and humans. new research results from the medical university of vienna prove that out of the most important air pollution parameters (particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and ozone) especially ozone causes increased symptom severity in pollen allergy sufferers during the birch, grass, and ragweed pollen seasons. this review provides an update of the current understanding on the impact of air pollution on allergic diseases in children and facilitates the integration of issues regarding air pollution and allergies into pediatric practices, with the goal of improving pediatric health. it is known that atmospheric pollution is strongly related to the inflammatory disease of the upper and lower airways but it is equally important in the development of sensitization towards pollens. this selective review summarizes recent epidemiological studies on the association between early-life exposure to indoor/outdoor air pollution and childhood allergic diseases. a synergistic effect between indoor and outdoor air pollution is found in the development of allergic diseases. early-life exposure to outdoor air pollution and indoor environmental factors plays an important role in the development of childhood allergic diseases, and the synergy between indoor and outdoor exposures increases allergy risk. here, we show that mice pretreated with silver nanoparticles (nag) and lipopolysaccharides, but not with the silver ions that are thought to cause allergies, developed allergic inflammation in response to the silver. 
Do air ions cause an improvement of asthma?? [SEP] the influence of artificially generated atmospheric ions is studied in 15 patients with bronchial asthma. a slight but significant (at 5% level) improvement in the lung function was demonstrated in nine patients during positive as well as negative ion exposure, but the patients' subjective votings of the air quality did not show any changes due to ion exposure. no change in the histamine threshold of the airways in six patients with bronchial asthma was demonstrated during exposure to ions. previous reports have shown that ion content in the air may have an effect on respiratory function. we conducted a systematic review of the available evidence to determine the effectiveness of positive and negative ion generators in people with asthma. previous reports have shown that ion content in the air may have an effect on respiratory function. we conducted a systematic review of the available evidence to determine the effectiveness of positive and negative ion generators in people with asthma. there were no significant differences in symptoms or beta-2 agonist usage between ionised and control air in three studies.effects of positive ion generators (one study) this study demonstrated that although positively ionised air was associated with a larger fall in fev1 with exercise, this did not reach statistical significance. the effect of prolonged exposure to either positive or negative small air ions was studied in nine patients with bronchial asthma, of whom seven had reported increased respiratory symptoms in association with weather changes. the findings do not support a significant role of small air ions in exacerbations or treatment of bronchial asthma. 
Do smoking bans lead to fewer preterm births? [SEP] capitalising on a natural experimental design in switzerland, we evaluated how regional smoking bans introduced at different time points affected birth outcomes, including preterm and early-term births. greater risk reductions were obtained for preterm births in areas with more comprehensive bans (-6.8%; 95% ci -12.1% to 0.1%), and for pregnancies with the longest gestational time under smoking bans (hr, 0.991; 95% ci 0.984 to 0.997 per 10% increase in duration). this is the first evidence in the united states that population-level intervention using a smoking ban improved maternal and fetal outcomes, measured as maternal smoking and preterm births. for decades, many studies have linked maternal smoking to an increased risk of preterm birth. we found that these studies have largely revealed a significant trend of decreasing population-level preterm birth rates after the implementation of smoking bans. the implementation of the spanish smoke-free policies was associated with a risk reduction for preterm births and low birth weight infants, especially with the introduction of the more restrictive ban. additionally, a public policy shift to prevent nonmedically indicated births at <39 weeks' gestation and smoking bans in several states have been associated with the reduced rate of preterm births. we found reductions in the risk of preterm birth after the introduction of each phase of the smoking ban. our study shows a consistent pattern of reduction in the risk of preterm delivery with successive population interventions to restrict smoking. smoke-free legislation was associated with average reductions of 3.1 preterm births (95% ci 0.1 to 6.0), 2.3 very preterm births (95% ci 0.9 to 3.7), 5.9 small-for-gestational-age births (95% ci 2.6 to 9.3) and 1.0 low birthweight infants (95% ci 0.4 to 1.6) per 1000 live births, as well as a 17.1 g increase in mean birth weight (95% ci 10.7 to 23.6). 
Do special garments with the active ingredient Liporeductyl help against cellulite? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of a novel topical agent based on a plausible pathophysiologic mechanism in the treatment of cellulite, and to compare the efficacy of this agent used in combination with an occlusive bioceramic-coated neoprene garment, to the agent used alone without occlusion. of the 17 subjects who completed the study, 76% noticed an overall improvement in their cellulite, with 54% reporting greater improvement in the thigh that received garment occlusion. the topical agent used in this study was found to be effective in reducing the appearance of cellulite. bioceramic-coated neoprene garment occlusion potentiates the effect of this topical agent in cellulite reduction. however, its mechanism and ingredients responsible for reducing cellulite were not known. the ability of these ingredients to improve cellulite condition in vivo was also determined. the present article reviews the most important botanical extracts used as active ingredients in the treatment of cellulite, as well as the steps to obtain these botanicals as raw material and their standardization and quality control, which are important to guarantee their therapeutic action. in this study, the objective was to assess the efficacy of a topical cosmetic product containing various active ingredients of botanical origin on cellulite blemishes on female volunteers affected by fat accumulations, as well as by slight-to-moderate cellulite in the lower limbs. herbal emgel applied onto the thigh skin twice daily reduced cellulite severity scores in every time point. the herbal emgel safely improved the appearance of cellulite, while the base emgel may play a role for other endpoints. 
Does alcohol in moderate amounts prolong life? [SEP] a prolongation of the bleeding time and impairment of platelet function was also found 2 h after alcohol ingestion. this may explain the favorable effect of moderate alcohol consumption on ischemic heart disease but indicates an increased risk for patients with bleeding. ecg qt interval, the important marker for sudden cardiac death in cardiac patients as well as healthy people, of the strong group were not prolonged after alcohol ingestion, but that of the weak group were significantly prolonged, compared to control. the results of this investigation show that moderate drinking does not have a good effect on everybody with respect to qt interval. this study also shows that moderate alcohol intake does not have a bad effect on the immune system regardless of aldh2 genotype. small amounts of alcohol were held to be beneficial in the 19th century, but the idea died out. multivariate logistic regression analyses revealed that men who were heavy drinkers had approximately 1.4-fold higher odds of having a prolonged qtc interval (odds ratio 1.431, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.033 to 1.982, p = 0.031) than nondrinkers; in women, heavy drinkers had ∼2.3-fold higher odds of having a prolonged qtc interval (odds ratio 2.344, 95% ci 1.202 to 4.571, p = 0.012) than nondrinkers. in conclusion, heavy alcohol consumption was found to be a risk factor for a prolonged qtc interval. to study the effects of prolonged moderate alcohol intake on bone and mineral metabolism, 60 g/day of ethanol was administered to 10 healthy male volunteers during 3 weeks. we conclude that prolonged moderate alcohol intake impairs osteoblastic function, leading to lowered serum levels of osteocalcin, but it does not derange vitamin d metabolism. 
Does caffeine make us die sooner??? [SEP] this study was carried out to test the hypothesis that caffeine accelerates emergence from anesthesia in humans. caffeine has been widely described as a chemo/radiosensitizing agent, presumably by inhibiting dna repair, and affecting preferentially cells with an altered p53 status. we find that at the most currently used concentration, 2mm, caffeine hinders cisplatin or uvc induced apoptosis in k1 cells. in addition, at this already barely achievable concentration in vivo, caffeine does not decrease their clonogenic survival. although surprising, these results (1) are in agreement with the delayed g2/m block caused by caffeine that we previously observed in normal human fibroblasts and k1 cells and (2) allow us to elucidate some discrepancies concerning this molecule throughout the literature such as increase or decrease of apoptosis and clonogenic survival, activation or deactivation of molecules involved in dna damage repair and proliferation inhibition but accelerated g2/m traverse. the addition of 2 mm caffeine during the first 24 hr after nitrogen mustard decreased viability more than 95%. based on further experiments involving the timing of caffeine and cycloheximide additions, caffeine does not affect viability by itself but is involved with some substance such as a protein the rapid synthesis of which is prevented by cycloheximide. in nonhumans, caffeine enhances the effects of dopamine, which might be expected to worsen positive symptoms and improve negative symptoms of schizophrenia and worsen tardive dyskinesia. acute intake of large amounts of caffeine may increase psychoses and hostility. caffeine use is a public health issue and its risks and benefits are regularly considered in scientific literature and the lay media. 
Does light freezing help with weight loss? [SEP] the research sample was freeze-dried at 3 variations of the heating plate temperature were 40, 50, and 60 °c and 3 variations of the drying time were 24, 36, and 48 h. the research parameters observed were weight loss, water content, texture, color, aroma, and taste. the results showed that the freeze-vacuum drying process has a significant influence on the parameters of weight loss, moisture content, texture, and color of frozen strawberries, but does not influence significantly to aroma and taste. the dynamic modulus of elasticity and weight loss of specimens were measured after different cycles of freeze-thaw. the influence of freeze-thaw cycles on the relative dynamic modulus of elasticity and weight loss was analyzed. the findings showed that the dynamic modulus of elasticity and weight decreased as the freeze-thaw cycles were repeated. freeze-thaw increased drip loss but decreased moisture content, cooking loss, tenderness, lightness and redness of meat (p<0.05). therefore, removing meat exudates and avoiding freeze can slow down the quality deterioration of pork during cold storage. during the freezing phase (experiment 1), peach weight loss and surface ice crystal pore size significantly decreased with increased freezing rates. the influence of freezing rate on weight loss during the freezing, thawing and cooking, on water-binding capacity, on sensory and other physico-chemical properties of beef m. longissimus dorsi was investigated. the greatest weight losses during the freezing, thawing and cooking were registered at slow freezing procedures (freezing rate of 0·22 cm/h and 0·29 cm/h), when the meat was tougher and less soft. 
Does acupuncture help against hay fever? [SEP] for a few patients with severe hay fever symptoms, it sometimes helps to give a systemic corticosteroid; one possible option is the injection of a long-acting corticosteroid, such as triamcinolone. the primary outcome was hay fever. however, the negative side-effects of antiallergic medicines cause many patients with allergic rhinitis to choose traditional chinese medical treatments, such as taking chinese herbs or treatment with acupuncture. this study assessed the effect of acupuncture for treatment of allergic rhinitis. eighteen (18) patients with allergic rhinitis were treated with acupuncture 8 times over a 4-week period, and peripheral blood of these patients was collected at each visit for analysis of gene expression via cdna microarray. based upon patients' response to the rqlq, acupuncture therapy significantly reduced allergic rhinitis symptoms, including nasal symptoms, non-hay fever symptoms, and sleep and practical problems (associated with daily activities). in addition, expression of interleukin-1 receptor-alpha (il1r1) in peripheral blood was significantly decreased at 2 hours, 24 hours, and 4 weeks after acupuncture treatment in these patients. to our knowledge, this is the first report of cdna microarray analysis of differential gene expression in the peripheral blood of patients with allergic rhinitis before and after acupuncture treatment. our data suggest that the balance between t-helper 1 and t-helper 2 cell-derived proinflammatory versus anti-inflammatory cytokines might be improved by acupuncture treatment. further, we investigated the use of hay fever masks among young patients and the factors that could improve the effectiveness of the masks and eliminate the discomfort caused by masks used to prevent hay fever. 
Do earrings cause discomfort by destroying acupuncture points or meridians? [SEP] to observe the change of transcutaneous co2 emission on meridian points or nonacupoints when the different needle sensations were gotten and study the associativity between deqi acupuncture and periphery constitution energy metabolism effect. many patients return for repeated applications of the semipermanent needles and ask if permanent earrings inserted in these points would lead to longer-lasting reduction in their pain. case: a patient sought to have permanent earrings placed at his bfa auricular points. results: this patient had earrings implanted on his own where he thought the correct bfa points were. conclusions: the patient tried to have permanent earrings, but they produced very deleterious effects. the acupuncture meridians represent the flow of corporal energy which contains the acupuncture points. needling sensation acupuncture at an acupoint can relatively reduce the perfusion of the micrangium in the projective area of the meridian where the acupoint is located on the body surface (p < 0.05), indicating the specificity of meridians. to investigate the effect of acupuncture on the plasma levels of hormones, we have applied acupuncture in the meridian points. acupuncture in the meridian point b23 decreased plasma levels of immunoreactive atrial natriuretic peptide, while that in the b15 increased plasma levels of immunoreactive atrial natriuretic peptide. our study found evidence that acupuncture meridians were part of the human extracellular matrix and that fascia was an important part of the anatomic substrate of acupuncture meridians. 
Does the "Rolfing" treatment cause an improvement of body malpositions as well as certain pains? [SEP] a review of the historical considerations in the development of the process of rolfing is discussed as well as a description of rolfing. rolfing is a type of treatment that is compatible with nursing principles. rolfing is a technique which involves the use of pressure on areas of the body in which muscle tendons adhere to each other rather than sliding over one another in the normal way. in this study, a series of 10 patients with mild, moderate or severe cerebral palsy underwent rolfing treatment, and the results were evaluated. these results indicate that rolfing can lead to improved performance in mildly affected patients because they possess the neurological capacity to make use of increased tissue mobility, and thus avoid contractures. rolfing, or structural integration, is one of many types of manipulative therapy. this article describes the principles and history of rolfing and reviews current research. rolfing has a physiologic impact on the peripheral nervous system and on myofascial structures. a 51 year-old woman with a history of ureteral stenosis and calculi noted recurrence of severe left flank pain while undergoing a deep body massage using the rolfing method. results indicated that rolfing caused a decrease in state anxiety when compared to the control group. 
Does marijuana use reduce the risk of developing diabetes? [SEP] marijuana use is common among persons living with hiv, but whether it's use increases the risk of type 2 diabetes in this population has not been explored. to determine whether self-reported marijuana use is associated with incident type 2 diabetes in women and men living with and at risk for hiv. the association between self-reported marijuana use and incident type 2 diabetes was analyzed using time-dependent cox regression models among 3578 and 2682 participants in the wihs and macs respectively. in multivariable models, the hazard ratios, collectively indicate a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes, in marijuana users compared to none users, although all associations were not statistically significant. in this prospective analysis of nearly 20 years of data for women and men with and at risk for hiv in the wihs and macs, although we found a pattern of reduced risk of type 2 diabetes among self-reported marijuana users, the associations were not statistically significant. this study sought to clarify the cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between self-reported marijuana use, and prediabetes (defined as fasting glucose 5.6-6.9 mmol/l, 2 h glucose post ogtt 7.8-11.0 mmol/l or hba1c 5.7-6.4% [39-47 mmol/mol]) and diabetes. the association between marijuana use and the prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes was examined in 3,034 participants at cardia examination year 25 (2010-2011), while the incidence of prediabetes and diabetes according to previous marijuana use was assessed in 3,151 individuals who were free from prediabetes/diabetes at year 7 (1992-1993) and who returned for at least one of the four subsequent follow-up examinations over 18 years. after multivariable adjustment, higher odds of prediabetes were found for individuals who reported current use of marijuana (or 1.65 [95% ci 1.15, 2.38]) and a lifetime use of 100 times or more (or 1.49 [95% ci 1.06, 2.11]), compared with individuals who reported never using marijuana. over 18 years of follow-up, a greater risk of prediabetes (but not diabetes) was found for individuals who reported a lifetime use of marijuana of 100 times or more (hr 1.39 [95% ci 1.13, 1.71]), compared with individuals who had never used marijuana. marijuana use in young adulthood is associated with an increased risk of prediabetes by middle adulthood, but not with the development of diabetes by this age. 
Do fish oil capsules promote prostate cancer? [SEP] positive secondary outcomes in the low-fat fish oil versus western group were reduced benign and malignant prostate tissue omega-6:omega-3 ratios, reduced proliferation (ki-67 index), and reduced proliferation in an ex vivo bioassay when patient sera was applied to prostate cancer cells in vitro. these results support further studies evaluating reduction of dietary fat with fish oil supplementation on modulating prostate cancer biology. to examine whether fish and fish oil consumption across the lifespan is associated with a lower risk of prostate cancer. high fish consumption in early- and midlife was not associated with overall or advanced prostate cancer. men consuming fish oil in later life had a lower risk of advanced prostate cancer [hr (95%ci): 0.43 (0.19, 0.95)], no association was found for early life or midlife consumption. salted or smoked fish may increase risk of advanced prostate cancer, whereas fish oil consumption may be protective against progression of prostate cancer in elderly men. fish oil, not oleic acid, suppresses prostate cancer cell viability. this study suggests that suppression of cell viability by fish oil is independent of fatty acid synthase and fish oil regulates prostate cancer cells through activation of other pathways depending upon length of exposure to fish oil. we examined the effects of lycopene and fish oil supplements versus placebo on the normal prostate microenvironment, among men pursuing active surveillance for low-burden prostate cancer. another major 2013 setback occurred when fish oil's dha was shown to significantly increase prostate cancer in men, in particular, high-grade prostate cancer, in the selenium and vitamin e cancer prevention trial (select) analysis by brasky et al. 
Does virgin conception exist? [SEP] since the success of this policy is related to the concept of virginity, the present study was conducted to determine the concept of virginity from the perspective of iranian adolescents. several themes, including virginity as the lack of emotional relationship with the opposite sex, lack of physical contact, nonpenetrative relationship, virginity as a myth, virginity as a commitment, having an intact hymen, and not knowing the meaning of virginity, were extracted from the data. the success of this policy is related to the concept of virginity. trends in virginity, contraceptive protection, and conception rates for five sites are documented. pre-marital conception rates among sexually active single women range from 14.1 per 100 woman-years in nicaragua to 25.8 in bolivia. most pre-marital conceptions ended in live birth, and births that are legitimized by marriage or cohabitation are more likely to be wanted. because of pervasive declines in the protective effect of virginity, conception rates among single women in latin america are rising. traditional conceptions of virginity have implications for theories of female development and sexuality, conceptions of the psychoanalytic process, and theories of social symbolism. contesting and unsettling conventional epistemological assumptions open up the categories of virginity and sainthood to images and representations of female autonomy and integrity. in this paper we study the beginning of the process: first intercourse among adolescents and young adults. 
Are movement exercises useful for back pain? [SEP] therefore, it is discussed in the literature whether higher levels of stability or mobility of the lumbar spine generates better results, both in performance and rehabilitation for low back pain. compare the effects of the low back mobility and stability exercises from pilates method on low back pain, disability and movement functionality in individuals with non-specific chronic low back pain. exercise is considered an effective treatment strategy for non-specific chronic low back pain (nsclbp).background in spite of the wide use of exercise protocols, it is not clear what type of exercise is more effective in decreasing pain, disability and normalizing muscle activation patterns in people with chronic low back pain. to assess the effects of two exercise protocols (stabilization vs movement control) on pain and disability scores and the flexion relaxation ratio (frr) of lumbar multifidus (lm) and iliocostalis lumbarum pars thoracic (iclt) in people with extension related non-specific chronic low back pain. mckenzie exercises for low back pain are beneficial treatment for increasing flexibility of spine and improving the pain with better results in pain relief. although done by minimally trained physiotherapists in mckenzie approach, mckenzie exercises are successful method for decreasing and centralising the pain and increasing spinal movements in patients with low back pain. [purpose] we explored the effect of thoracic movement-mediated training (tmmt) on back pain and trunk range of motion (rom) in a lower back pain (lbp) patient with lumbar flexion rotation syndrome. recent studies have indicated that the deadlift exercise may be effective in decreasing pain intensity and increasing activity for most, but not all, patients with a dominating pattern of mechanical low back pain. in order to examine changes in low back pain in the patients according to the intervention method, muscle activity, pain, and balance elements (left and right side movement distance, forward and backward movement distance) were measured. physical exercise program on the psychomotor performance of lower limbs in subjects with low back pain. 
Does taking the birth control pill adversely affect mate choice? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] new evidence is now emerging that taking the oral contraceptive pill might significantly alter both female and male mate choice by removing the mid-cycle change in preferences. here, we review support for such conclusions and speculate on the consequences of pill-induced choice of otherwise less-preferred partners for relationship satisfaction, durability and, ultimately, reproductive outcomes. the association between use of birth control pills and thyroid function in women has not ever been well studied, but potential risk has been implicated by small sample-sized studies. history of taking birth control pills was based on responses on the reproductive health questionnaire. millions of women use birth control pills for contraceptive and noncontraceptive reasons. in addition, manufacturers continue to modify birth control pills to reduce side effects and medical risks. the introduction of the birth control pill (the pill) in 1960 revolutionized the options for contraception, sparking vibrant discussion in the scientific and social science literature and in the media. but the pill also introduced new questions about risk. this paper charts the narrative of the thromboembolic risk of the pill from its introduction in 1960 until today and reviews the corresponding media response to this history. how does the story of the thromboembolic risk of the pill - explored through the lens of science, media and contemporary social dynamics - frame contemporary understanding of risk for researchers, clinicians, individuals and the public? 
Does UV light reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] however, uv exposure does not come without risk, as it is a major factor in the development of skin cancer. uv-containing light is the most ubiquitous dna-damaging agent existing in nature, but its possible role in cardiovascular diseases had never been suspected before, although it is known that mortality for cardiovascular diseases is increased during periods with high temperature and solar irradiation. because solar uv-radiation represents the most important environmental risk factor for the development of non-melanoma skin cancer, uv protection is important to prevent these malignancies. whilst we could not find any associations between direct uv light exposure and other allergic disease outcomes, exposure to uv light appears to be beneficial in reducing the risk of eczema development in early childhood. in this narrative review, we provide rationale and updated evidence on the potential benefits and harms of sun exposure and ultraviolet (uv) light that may impact covid-19. we review recent studies that provide new evidence for any benefits (or otherwise) of uv light, sun exposure, and the induced mediators, vitamin d and nitric oxide, and their potential to modulate morbidity and mortality induced by infection with sars-cov-2 (severe acute respiratory disease coronavirus-2). we also discuss possible mechanisms by which sun exposure, uv light and induced mediators could affect covid-19 morbidity and mortality, by focusing on likely effects on viral pathogenesis, immunity and inflammation, and potential cardiometabolic protective mechanisms. the aim of this study was to investigate whether occupational exposure to uv light reduces the risk of death from ms. the risk of ms-related death decreased with increasing occupational exposure to uv light. occupational exposure to uv light was associated with a reduced risk of ms. our findings are corroborated by previous observations that uv light has a preventive role in the development of ms, although the possibility of reversed causality cannot be completely ruled out. 
Is the Gynefix® contraceptive necklace as effective for contraception as the birth control pill or the "IUD"? [SEP] effective use of contraception allows couples to control their fertility and, in certain instances, is associated with important noncontraceptive benefits. the availability of long-acting progestin injectable and implantable methods has made highly effective and convenient birth control available for women who are not good pill takers as well as for those for whom contraceptive doses of estrogen are contraindicated. iuds offer convenient, highly effective contraception for appropriate candidates. despite the availability of more effective methods of birth control, safe days and withdrawal remain commonly used. effectiveness was the main reason for choosing iud and pill methods, while concerns about safety were the main reason for discontinuation. the current use of birth control pills and iuds was significantly lower in women with misguided beliefs than those without such beliefs; adjusted or = 0.59 (95% ci: 0.37-0.90) and adjusted or = 0.50 (95% ci: 0.34-0.76) respectively. this study examined the cost-effectiveness of emergency contraceptive pills, minipills, and the copper-t intrauterine device (iud) as emergency contraception. the copper-t iud is not cost-effective as an emergency contraceptive alone, but savings quickly accrue as use continues. emergency contraception can potentially reduce the risk of unplanned pregnancies. the copper iud is the most effective method, and provides ongoing contraception for up to 10 years. 
Can coenzyme Q10 lead to a rejuvenation of the skin's appearance? [SEP] coenzyme q10 levels increased with both treatments and liver nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) coenzyme q reductase with ubiquinone-10. long-term supplementation of coenzyme q10 appeared to be safe. background coenzyme q10 is a fat-soluble antioxidant that can help to prevent collagen and elastin damage and avoid wrinkles. coenzyme q10 is a vitamin-like substance used in the treatment of a variety of disorders primarily related to suboptimal cellular energy metabolism and oxidative injury. coenzyme q10 appears to be a safe supplement with minimal side effects and low drug interaction potential. studies have consistently shown that statins reduce coenzyme q10 levels in serum and that supplementation of coenzyme q10 increases these levels. recently, two pilot studies on coenzyme q10 supplementation in statin-induced myopathy and one study on the effect of coenzyme q10 supplementation on serum muscle enzyme levels were published. carotenoids and coenzyme q10 are naturally occurring antioxidant compounds that are also found in human skin. for the first time ex vivo in human epidermis, we could show also a regeneration of mitochondrial respiratory parameters if the reduced form of coenzyme q10, ubiquinol, was administered. likewise, an increase in the respiratory parameters by the addition of coenzyme q10 could also be shown. 
Is there an increased risk of long-term effects on the unborn child with chemotherapy starting in the 2nd trimester of pregnancy? [SEP] the fetal outcomes seem to depend primarily on the time of exposure to chemotherapy and/or radiation, doses, specific chemotherapy agent given, and frequency of treatment during pregnancy. limited retrospective data suggest that chemotherapy given after the first trimester is relatively safe and does not adversely affect the short- and long-term fetal outcomes. this case demonstrates that combination chemotherapy given after the first trimester did not result in any congenital malformations or acute adverse effects in the fetus. the main aim of this paper is to describe the available evidence concerning the short- and long-term neonatal impact of chemotherapy given to pregnant women. the cardiotoxic effects of chemotherapy are a specific concern for the mother and fetus. the risks of chemotherapy during the second and third trimester are more controversial. in this review, we summarise the evidence on fetal, neonatal, short-term, and long-term effects of prenatal exposure to cancer treatment on the child. the most important risks of chemotherapy during pregnancy are preterm birth and babies being small for gestational age. chemotherapy in the first trimester is contraindicated because of an increased risk of congenital malformations. a proper understanding of the safety of chemotherapy during pregnancy is a vital step to avoid detrimental consequences on the mother and the fetus. 
Can regular screening significantly reduce the risk of dying from prostate cancer? [SEP] the benefit of prostate cancer screening is counterbalanced by the risk of overdiagnosis and overtreatment. twenty-two per cent of men aged 50 years or over had been screened for prostate cancer within the previous 12 months. epidemiologically, screening is justified by the importance of the disease and the lack of prospects for primary prevention, but evidence from natural history is unhelpful since men are more likely to die with, rather than from, prostate cancer. the results of this study suggest that men who have been screened for prostate cancer have a reduced risk of dying as a result of this disease. as the us population continues to age, prostate cancer screening and disease management presents an increasingly important public health issue. who dies from prostate cancer despite participation in a population-based prostate-specific antigen (psa) screening program? men in the screening group in the european randomized study of screening for prostate cancer were 20% less likely than those in the control group to die from prostate cancer. therefore, screening for prostate cancer may not be worthwhile. prostate cancer diagnosis and treatment rates have increased significantly since the introduction of prostate-specific antigen (psa) screening. although it was initially thought that most prostate cancers would lead to death or significant morbidity, recent randomized trials have demonstrated that many patients with screening-detected cancer will not die of their disease. 
Does removal and examination of the first lymph nodes after the prostate is affected by cancer (sentinel lymph nodes or sentinel lymph nodes) improve the chances of cure? (Reader Inquiry) [SEP] tumor was found in the first two sentinel lymph nodes removed in 127 of 129 node-positive patients. sentinel lymph node biopsy would represent a significant advantage as a minimally invasive procedure, considering that, after surgery, about 70% of patients are found to be free from metastatic disease, yet axillary node dissection can lead to significant morbidity. sentinel lymph node biopsy by fluorescence detection using intraoperative imaging with indocyanine green and backup extended pelvic lymph node dissection were conducted prior to prostatectomy. priority should be given to the removal of these sentinel lymph nodes, which are located closer to the prostate, in pelvic lymph node dissection. combined with extended lymph node dissection more positive lymph nodes are removed which possibly improves survival.in renal cell and testicular cancer there are only preliminary results. sentinel lymph node biopsy would represent a significant advantage as a mini-invasive procedure, considering that, after operation, about 70% of patients are found to be free from metastatic disease, yet axillary node dissection can lead to significant morbidity. the higher the preoperative prostate specific antigen, pathological stage and grade, the greater the percent of men with positive sentinel and nonsentinel lymph nodes (p<0.001). in cases of positive sentinel nodes extended lymph node dissection should be performed since tumor cells are also detectable in nonsentinel lymph nodes. the most important feature of sentinel node biopsy for prostate cancer procedure is that staging can be improved. this approach allowed the detection of sentinel nodes outside the extended lymph node dissection template in 3.6-36% of men with intermediate- and high-risk prostate cancer. 
Can a treatment with singing bowls relieve pain? [SEP] studies of any intervention predominantly involving singing bowls (e.g. the effects of singing bowls on human health were investigated in four peer-reviewed studies, one of which investigated patients with metastatic cancer, and another those with chronic spinal pain. singing can have a range of health benefits; this paper reviews the evidence of the effects of group singing for chronic pain in people with long-term health conditions. singing interventions were found to reduce pain intensity in most studies, but there was more equivocal support for reducing pain interference and depression. group singing appears to have the potential to reduce pain intensity, pain interference and depression; however, we conclude that there is only partial support for singing on some pain outcomes based on the limited available evidence of varied quality. this systematic review assesses research evidence for the effectiveness of group singing on chronic pain in people with long-term health conditions. singing during an acute painful stimulus may increase tolerance. various musical characteristics impact volunteers' central pain responses and singing may be an important adjunct pain management strategy. this paper reports findings of a pilot singing intervention to assist people living with chronic pain. results indicate that group singing in chronic pain settings has multiple benefits and may positively complement clinical outcomes, serving as an effective adjunct to conventional pain management care and nursing. 
Is the HIV saliva self-test, which is about to be approved in the U.S., as reliable as a laboratory test or a rapid test at the doctor's office? [SEP] this study was performed to determine the feasibility of using saliva as a diagnostic medium for the detection of antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) and hiv-2 under nonlaboratory conditions and to evaluate the performance characteristics of such a test. the saliva test performed well when hiv-2-positive sera or a low-titer performance panel (hiv-1) of serum or plasma specimens were diluted (1:2,000) in nonreactive saliva. the hiv-1 western blot is a reliable confirmatory test following a repeatedly reactive elisa. the authors evaluate whether, after brief training and under the supervision of a skilled counsellor, blood-based self-sample collection and rapid test performance could be a valuable alternative. the study provides clear evidence that this methodology is a valuable alternative to saliva for hiv testing programmes when medical or nursing staff required to take blood samples is not available. rapid home self-testing using an oral fluid test and testing at a physician's office were the two most preferred options across all demographic and behavioral strata. rapid hiv antibody tests represent a key development in the current diagnosis and management of hiv infection. the objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of conducting laboratory-based hiv and antiretroviral (arv) drug testing, and vl monitoring as part of two studies on self-collected dried blood spots (dbs). self-testing for hiv was approved in the us on the basis that it would facilitate greater hiv testing uptake, despite having a lower sensitivity than laboratory hiv immunoassays. the anti-hiv test strip methodology for whole blood and saliva specimens is rapid, reliable and easy to perform and interpret. 
Does religion promote mental health? [SEP] there has been increased interest in the relationship between religion and spirituality and mental health in recent years. this article reviews recent research into the capacity of religion and spirituality to benefit or harm the mental health of believers. studies indicate that religion and spirituality can promote mental health through positive religious coping, community and support, and positive beliefs. religion and spirituality have the ability to promote or damage mental health. in this chapter, the relation between religion and mental health and vice versa has been described. every religion with their belief system has implications on mental health and illness. the impact and outcome of religion on mental health have been highlighted. research suggests that religion/spirituality promotes a variety of positive health outcomes. however, a growing body of evidence indicates an association between mental health and various religious activities, both private and public. in the last three decades, there has been increased interest in studying the association between religion/spirituality (r/s), and mental health and functional outcomes. 
Do braces treatments have preventive medical benefits in addition to aesthetic ones? [SEP] therefore, aesthetic preferences need to be taken into consideration in the design process of braces. the findings indicate that an aesthetically pleasing brace and the involvement of patients in the design process of the brace are important for increasing user compliance and addressing psychological issues during treatment. to verify the efficacy of bracing on aesthetics in ais. aesthetics can be improved in a clinically significant way when the brace treatment is performed according to the sport concept and by following the sosort management criteria. if a brace is used, rigid braces offer some benefit over soft braces. the purpose of this review is to answer the question whether there are studies on the use of brace treatment in patients with scoliosis and pain and to investigate whether brace treatment does positively influence chronic pain. [conclusion] brace treatment in patients with scoliosis and chronic non-specific low back pain has demonstrated to be effective. a clinical test is demonstrated to predict the most beneficial approach in brace treatment. brace treatment is one alternative method of treatment for iis patients. thus, the present study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of brace treatment in patients with iis until skeletal maturity or spinal fusion. 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of vaccinating infants simultaneously with the usual six-dose vaccine (against diphtheria, tetanus, polio, pertussis, hepatitis B, and Haemophilus influenzae B) and a pneumococcal vaccine? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] does concomitant injection of a combined diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis - hepatitis b virus - inactivated polio virus vaccine influence the reactogenicity and immunogenicity of commercial haemophilus influenzae type b conjugate vaccines? the immunogenic responses and local reactions to four haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) conjugate vaccines licensed for primary immunisation (hiberix, acthib, pedvax, hibtiter) when administered concomitantly but in the opposite thigh with a candidate diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis-hepatitis b-inactivated poliovirus vaccine were studied in 549 healthy infants at 3, 4.5 and 6 months of age. in an open randomised trial, 312 eligible infants were enrolled to receive either a single injection of the hexavalent diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis-hepatitis b virus-inactivated polio/ haemophilus influenzae b (dtpa-hbv-ipv/hib) vaccine, or concomitant injections of commercial dtpa-ipv/hib and hbv vaccines (comparator). the new diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis-hepatitis b virus-inactivated polio/ haemophilus influenzae b vaccine administered at 3, 5 and 11 months of age was safe and at least as immunogenic as the comparator vaccines thus providing an effective and more comfortable option for this infant vaccination schedule. children 17-20 months of age (n = 344) received a diphtheria-tetanus toxoids-acellular pertussis (dtpa)-inactivated poliovirus vaccine (ipv)/haemophilus influenzae (hib) booster after a 3-dose primary vaccination course with dtpa-hepatitis b vaccine-ipv/hib plus conjugate meningococcal c vaccine-crm. infants were given either recombinant hepatitis b vaccine (engerix-b, smithkline beecham pharmaceuticals, 10 micrograms dose-1) or a haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) conjugate vaccine at 2, 4 and 6 months of age simultaneously with diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis and oral polio vaccines. we compared the antibody response to haemophilus influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide (prp) after three doses of a diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine (dtap) combined with a prp-tetanus conjugate (prp-t) in infants randomized to receive oral polio vaccine (opv) or inactivated polio vaccine (ipv). infants aged 6 weeks were randomized to receive three doses of either rotavac® or placebo along with childhood vaccines: oral polio vaccine and vaccines against diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, hepatitis b and haemophilus influenza type b given as pentavalent at 6, 10, 14 weeks of age. the plethora of newly discovered vaccines implies that, in the future, many vaccines will have to be administered simultaneously to infants. infants simultaneously receiving a tetravalent pneumococcal vaccine conjugated to tt (pnct) and a diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis-poliovirus-haemophilus influenzae type b-tetanus conjugate vaccine showed significantly lower anti-h. influenzae type b polysaccharide (polyribosylribitol phosphate [prp]) antibody concentrations than those receiving either a tetravalent pneumococcal vaccine conjugated to diphtheria toxoid or placebo. 
Does the use of laptops with active WLAN (wireless internet access) affect sperm quality in men? [SEP] to evaluate the effects of laptop computers connected to local area networks wirelessly (wi-fi) on human spermatozoa. one sperm aliquot (experimental) from each patient was exposed to an internet-connected laptop by wi-fi for 4 hours, whereas the second aliquot (unexposed) was used as control, incubated under identical conditions without being exposed to the laptop. donor sperm samples, mostly normozoospermic, exposed ex vivo during 4 hours to a wireless internet-connected laptop showed a significant decrease in progressive sperm motility and an increase in sperm dna fragmentation. to our knowledge, this is the first study to evaluate the direct impact of laptop use on human spermatozoa. ex vivo exposure of human spermatozoa to a wireless internet-connected laptop decreased motility and induced dna fragmentation by a nonthermal effect. we speculate that keeping a laptop connected wirelessly to the internet on the lap near the testes may result in decreased male fertility. wireless local area networks (wlans) are increasingly popular in clinical settings because they facilitate the use of wireless pdas, laptops, and other pervasive computing devices at the point of care. additional measurements were conducted at a distance of approximately 1 m from a laptop while it was uploading and downloading large files to the wlan. there were no statistically significant differences between men and women for the computer and internet access, use wireless device to access internet, having laptop and e-mail address and the difficulties encountered using internet. besides delivering high speed internet, wireless local area network (wlan) can be used as an effective indoor positioning system, being competitive both in terms of accuracy and cost. 
Can phthalates cause diabetes? [SEP] we explored the association between urinary phthalate metabolite concentrations and diabetes among women who participated in a cross-sectional study. urinary levels of several phthalates were associated with prevalent diabetes. this study investigated relationship between urinary phthalate metabolites and diabetes. the higher urinary phthalate metabolites, the higher the prevalence of diabetes. the results suggest that levels of some phthalates may play a role in the genesis of diabetes. given the mechanistic support, the large effect sizes for incident diabetes in the single available study, and the coherence with insulin resistance, the association between phthalate exposure and diabetes risk should be considered when assessing the risks and costs of exposure to specific phthalates in humans. in conclusion, phthalate exposure was positively associated with cvd in chinese with type 2 diabetes. because ppar-γ agonists modulate insulin sensitivity and are used to treat type 2 diabetes, we investigated whether circulating levels of phthalate metabolites are related to prevalent type 2 diabetes. following adjustment for sex, bmi, serum cholesterol and triglycerides, educational level, and smoking and exercise habits, high levels of the phthalate metabolites monomethyl phthalate (mmp) (p < 0.01), monoisobutyl phthalate (mibp) (p < 0.05), and monoethyl phthalate (mep) (p < 0.05), but not mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, were associated with an increased prevalence of diabetes. the findings in this cross-sectional study showed that several phthalate metabolites are related to diabetes prevalence, as well as to markers of insulin secretion and resistance. 
Does staining brain tumors with the dye aminolevulinic acid before surgery help patients survive longer? [SEP] in 2006, fluorescence-guided surgery using 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ala) was shown to improve the eor in malignant gliomas. the aims of this study were 1) to compare the 2 fluorescent dyes 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ala) and sodium fluorescein (fluorescein) regarding extent of resection, progression-free survival, and overall survival; and 2) to assess the influence of other risk factors on clinical outcome and screen for potential disadvantages of the dyes. fluorescein can be used as a viable alternative to 5-ala for intraoperative fluorescent guidance in brain tumor surgery. thirty consecutive surgical patients with glioblastoma, were operated upon using fluorescence induced by 5-aminolevulinic acid as guidance. 5-aminolevulinic acid fluorescence guidance is very reliable and can help to study the tumor-brain interface. as for the surgical treatment of glioma, the recent employment of fluorescence-guided resection using 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ala) or high-dose fluorescein sodium has increased the rate of radical tumor resection. in recent years, there is a growing evidence that using 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ala)-guided resection of a cerebral glioblastoma, associated with chemoradiotherapy determine a prolonged survival of these patients, even though this period do not exceed 15 months. on the basis of the analyzed articles, we found that 5-aminolevulinic acid and fluorescein are highly effective in improving the percentage of gross total resection achieved in high-grade glioma surgery. our observations suggest that 5-aminolevulinic acid-induced porphyrin fluorescence may label malignant gliomas safely and accurately enough to enhance the completeness of tumor removal. five- aminolevulinic acid-derived fluorescence is widely used for the resection of malignant gliomas, but its role in pcnsl surgery remains unclear. 
Can exercise prevent premature deaths from heart attacks, strokes, heart failure, and pre-diabetes as effectively as medication? [SEP] to determine the comparative effectiveness of exercise versus drug interventions on mortality outcomes. meta-analyses of randomised controlled trials with mortality outcomes comparing the effectiveness of exercise and drug interventions with each other or with control (placebo or usual care). across all four conditions with evidence on the effectiveness of exercise on mortality outcomes (secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, rehabilitation of stroke, treatment of heart failure, prevention of diabetes), 14,716 participants were randomised to physical activity interventions in 57 trials. physical activity interventions were more effective than drug treatment among patients with stroke (odds ratios, exercise vanticoagulants 0.09, 95% credible intervals 0.01 to 0.70 and exercise v antiplatelets 0.10, 0.01 to 0.62). although limited in quantity, existing randomised trial evidence on exercise interventions suggests that exercise and many drug interventions are often potentially similar in terms of their mortality benefits in the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, rehabilitation after stroke, treatment of heart failure, and prevention of diabetes. to determine the comparative effectiveness of exercise versus drug interventions on mortality outcomes. meta-analyses of randomised controlled trials with mortality outcomes comparing the effectiveness of exercise and drug interventions with each other or with control (placebo or usual care). across all four conditions with evidence on the effectiveness of exercise on mortality outcomes (secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, rehabilitation of stroke, treatment of heart failure, prevention of diabetes), 14,716 participants were randomised to physical activity interventions in 57 trials. physical activity interventions were more effective than drug treatment among patients with stroke (odds ratios, exercise v anticoagulants 0.09, 95% credible intervals 0.01 to 0.70 and exercise v antiplatelets 0.10, 0.01 to 0.62). although limited in quantity, existing randomised trial evidence on exercise interventions suggests that exercise and many drug interventions are often potentially similar in terms of their mortality benefits in the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, rehabilitation after stroke, treatment of heart failure, and prevention of diabetes. 
Can taking the enzyme diamino oxidase prevent alcohol-related hangover symptoms? [SEP] the alcohol dose was 1.5 g/kg, which was consumed during 3 h. the primary results based on correlational analysis showed that l-cysteine prevents or alleviates hangover, nausea, headache, stress and anxiety. drinkers with a hangover reported drowsiness-related symptoms, symptoms related to reduced cognitive functioning, and classic hangover symptoms such as headache, nausea, dizziness, weakness, and stomach pain. of the interventions, the use of polysaccharide rich extract of acanthopanax senticosus, red ginseng antihangover drink, korean pear juice, kss formula, and the after-effect© were associated with a significant improvement of hangover symptoms (p < .05). the available evidence suggests that several products are capable of significantly improving some, but not all, of the symptoms related to alcohol hangover. while hangover has been studied after the typical oral consumption of alcohol, the occurrence of hangover following intravenous (iv) alcohol administration in human laboratory studies has not been previously reported. these findings demonstrate that hangover symptoms are experienced following iv alcohol administration, and extend previous studies of influences of risk factors for alcohol use disorders including recent drinking on hangover. this paper presents a critical analysis of hangover methodology for surveys or studies of effects on cognition with human subjects and provides suggestions for optimum research practice for laboratory-based and naturalistic alcohol hangover studies. recommendations are made with respect to assessing hangover symptoms, cognitive effects of hangover and biological markers of alcohol consumption. we undertook this study to test whether artichoke extract is effective in preventing the signs and symptoms of alcohol-induced hangover. our results suggest that artichoke extract is not effective in preventing the signs and symptoms of alcohol-induced hangover. 
Can an anti-oxidant such as pseudocatalase stop or reverse hair graying? [SEP] we found evidence of melanocyte apoptosis and increased oxidative stress in the pigmentary unit of graying hair follicles. the graying hair follicle, therefore, offers a unique model system to study oxidative stress and aging and to test antiaging therapeutics in their ability to slow down or even stop this process. topical anti-aging compounds for hair include humefactants, hair conditioners, photoprotectors, and antioxidants. in the absence of another way to reverse hair graying, hair colorants are the mainstays of recovering lost hair color. new insights into the role and prevention of oxidative stress could open new strategies for intervention and reversal of the hair graying process and age-dependent alopecia. in summary, our data feed the long-voiced, but insufficiently proven, concept of h(2)o(2)-induced oxidative damage in the entire human hair follicle, inclusive of the hair shaft, as a key element in senile hair graying, which does not exclusively affect follicle melanocytes. this new insight could open new strategies for intervention and reversal of the hair graying process. hair follicular keratinocyte stem cells (hfksc) which provide a functional niche for melanocyte stem cells (msc) are the primary target of hair graying. these results indicate that dietary eat may prevent age-related hair graying and serve as an anti-hair graying herbal medicine. topical applications of monobenzylether of hydroquinone (mbeh) or intraperitoneal injections of phenol induced graying of hair in eumelanic mice but had little effect on hair color in pheomelanic mice. 
Can sexual activity relieve headaches? [SEP] headache associated with sexual activity is a well-known primary headache disorder. in contrast, some case reports in the literature suggest that sexual activity during a migraine or cluster headache attack might relieve the pain in at least some patients. we asked for experience with sexual activity during a headache attack and its impact on headache intensity. in migraine, 34% of the patients had experience with sexual activity during an attack; out of these patients, 60% reported an improvement of their migraine attack (70% of them reported moderate to complete relief) and 33% reported worsening. in cluster headache, 31% of the patients had experience with sexual activity during an attack; out of these patients, 37% reported an improvement of their cluster headache attack (91% of them reported moderate to complete relief) and 50% reported worsening. some patients, in particular male migraine patients, even used sexual activity as a therapeutic tool. our data suggest, however, that sexual activity can lead to partial or complete relief of headache in some migraine and a few cluster headache patients. propranolol and metoprolole have been used for headaches that consistently emerge during frequent sexual activity of any type. herein, we describe the case of a 13-year-old boy who presented with thunderclap headaches (tch) associated with sexual activity. we present, for the first time, two case studies documenting the role of sexual activity in both etiology and course of cluster headache. 
Does transcranial direct current stimulation help against severe depression? [SEP] although transcranial direct current stimulation has plausible evidence for its effect on depression in young adult patients, no study has explored it in older subjects with depression in alzheimer's disease. therefore, we present a study protocol designed to evaluate the safety and clinical effect of transcranial direct current stimulation on depression in alzheimer's disease in subjects aged over 65 years. this study investigates the safety and effect of transcranial direct current stimulation that may bring a significant impact on both depression and cognition in patients with alzheimer's disease, and may be useful to enhance their quality of life. transcranial direct current stimulation is a focal brain stimulation treatment that improves depressive symptoms within 3 weeks of treatment by inducing changes to brain areas involved in depression, without impacting any other brain areas, and without inducing changes to heart rate, blood pressure or core body temperature. the localized nature of transcranial direct current stimulation makes it an ideal therapeutic approach for treating depression during pregnancy, although it has never previously been evaluated in this population. we describe a pilot randomized controlled trial of transcranial direct current stimulation among women with depression in pregnancy to assess the feasibility of a larger, multicentre efficacy study. transcranial direct current stimulation is a novel therapeutic option for treating depression during pregnancy. growing evidence has demonstrated that superficial brain stimulations, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation, cranial electrotherapy stimulation, and magnetic seizure therapy, can improve depressive symptoms. transcranial electrical stimulation has broad potential as a treatment for depression. results are discussed in terms of additive or synergistic relation between transcranial direct current stimulation and positive psychology treatment. 
Is the success of conventional treatment of a herniated disc equivalent to that of disc surgery? [SEP] we have described a novel approach, the transforaminal isthmus plasty approach, for peld to treat highly upmigrated disc herniation. poor outcomes were observed in herniated disc with spinal stenosis (17.9% success), foraminal disc herniation (33.3%), recurrent disc herniation (18.2%) and failed back surgery with instability (33.3%). efficacy was limited in cases of herniated disc with spinal stenosis, foraminal disc herniation, recurrent disc herniation and failed back surgery with instability. to assess the clinical and radiological factors as predictors for successful outcomes in lumbar disc herniation (ldh) treatment. the patients with the disc herniation length larger than 6.31 mm showed successful outcomes with surgery whereas the patients with the disc herniation length less than 6.23 mm showed successful outcomes with nerve block. to explore factors predicting failure of conservative treatment in lumbar-disc herniation. conventional open discectomy as a revision surgery for recurrent lumbar disc herniation showed satisfactory results that were comparable with those of primary discectomy. based on the results of this study, repeat discectomy can be recommended for the management of recurrent lumbar disc herniation. the effect was evaluated in terms of pain reduction, duration of pain relief, and in relation to a recurrent disc herniation in postperative magnetic resonance imaging. the success rate was higher (43%) in patients without a recurrent disc herniation. 
Does regular use of sleeping pills promote the risk of death or cancer? [SEP] those who reported using sleeping pills "often" had 1.5 times the mortality of those who "never" used sleeping pills. sleeping pill use, associated with a 50% increase in overall mortality, is especially dangerous for older people, who have a high risk of sleep apnea. there is virtually no evidence that sleeping pills are effective with prolonged usage and no evidence for life-preserving benefits. frequent use of minor tranquilizers or sleeping pills was also associated with a highly significantly increased risk of colon cancer; relative risk was 3.2 (1.6-6.6) (p = 0.002). we suggest that use of antihypertensive medicine and use of minor tranquilizers or sleeping pills may be strong risk factors for colon cancer. this study elucidated the potential association of sleeping pill use with the risk of ckd and ckd progression to end-stage renal disease (esrd) requiring dialysis. using a cumulative daily dose, we analyzed the types of sleeping pills related to the risk of ckd and esrd. results: sleeping pill use was related to increased ckd risk after adjusting for underlying comorbidities (adjusted hazard ratio [ahr] = 1.806, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.617-2.105, p < 0.001). conclusion: sleeping pill use was related to an increased risk of ckd and esrd. men and women who reported taking prescription sleeping pills 30+ times in the past month had standardized mortality ratios of 3.18 and 2.82, respectively; controlling for 10-year age groups (p < 0.001). 
Does increased time outdoors inhibit myopia in children? [SEP] recent epidemiological evidence suggests that children who spend more time outdoors are less likely to be, or to become myopic, irrespective of how much near work they do, or whether their parents are myopic. time spent outdoors was predictive of incident myopia independently of physical activity level. outdoor activities had protective effect for myopia. to summarize relevant evidence investigating the association between time spent outdoors and myopia in children and adolescents (up to 20 years). three studies (2 prospective cohort and 1 rct) investigated time spent outdoors and myopic progression and found increasing time spent outdoors significantly reduced myopic progression. the overall findings indicate that increasing time spent outdoors may be a simple strategy by which to reduce the risk of developing myopia and its progression in children and adolescents. the objective of this review is to analyse and summarize the evidence investigating the association between time outdoors and myopia prevalence and progression. a high level of outdoor time was a protective factor for children with one myopic parent (hr 0.49, 95% ci 0.27-0.88; p = 0.018). in this sample, parental myopia and outdoor time were associated with myopia in children. it is recommended therefore, that children spend more time outdoors as this could reduce the prevalence and progression of myopia. 
Do household cleaners and room fresheners in spray form cause damage to the heart? [SEP] household cleaning products are associated with adverse respiratory health outcomes, but the cardiovascular health effects are largely unknown. we determined if long-term use of household sprays and scented products at home was associated with reduced heart rate variability (hrv), a marker of autonomic cardiac dysfunction. we recorded 24-hr electrocardiograms in a cross-sectional survey of 581 swiss adults, ≥ 50 years of age, who answered a detailed questionnaire regarding their use of household cleaning products in their homes. in predominantly older adult women, long-term frequent use of household spray and scented products was associated with reduced hrv, which suggests an increased risk of cardiovascular health hazards. commercial spray products are commonly used in daily life and airborne particles generated by these products may cause adverse health effects. the use of cleaning sprays, air fresheners and solvents during pregnancy may increase the risk of wheezing and infections in the offspring. spillage or intentional use of the full strength floor and tile cleaner led to airborne ammonia concentrations that exceed occupational short-term exposure limits, while spillage or use of the spray-on window cleaner did not approach potentially hazardous airborne ammonia levels and likely represents a minimal inhalation health hazard. we conclude that routine household uses of ammonia are unlikely to produce significant exposures when using standard cleaning solutions (0.1-0.2%), but spillage or use of concentrated ammonia solutions (e.g., 3%) in poorly ventilated areas can lead to potentially hazardous airborne ammonia exposures. symptoms of obstructive lung disease in domestic cleaners have been related to the use of bleach and other irritant cleaning products. it is concluded that exposure to certain irritant cleaning products aggravates lower respiratory tract symptoms in female domestic cleaners with asthma or chronic bronchitis. 
Can exercise improve mental performance impaired by alcohol consumption? [SEP] results revealed a significant effect of the mental simulation intervention on number of units of alcohol consumed at follow-up. results are discussed with respect to the importance of the mental simulation intervention to inform practice and the proposed processes by which mental simulations affect alcohol consumption. the consequences of alcohol consumption involve alterations in neural circuits of emotion and cognition, as well as in the motor planning circuit. alcohol use is directly linked to the rate of injury sustained in sport events and appears to evoke detrimental effects on exercise performance capacity. these studies suggested that alcohol consumption decreases the use of glucose and amino acids by skeletal muscles, adversely affects energy supply and impairs the metabolic process during exercise. there is evidence to suggest that exercise may attenuate the ethanol-induced decline in hepatic mitochondria and accelerates ethanol metabolism by the liver. exercise training seems to reduce the extent of the oxidative damage caused by ethanol. available evidence suggests that exercise and moderate alcohol consumption may have favourable effects on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis; however, compelling experimental evidence is lacking to endorse this notion. to investigate the association between alcohol consumption and the risk of cognitive impairment in southern chinese older adults in hong kong. smoking may have a significant negative impact on cognitive function, but current exercise significantly improve cognitive function. 
Can over-the-counter combination medications help with tension headache and migraine better than medications containing only single active ingredients? [SEP] most headache sufferers take medication, primarily over-the-counter varieties. compared with analgesic medication alone, combinations of caffeine with analgesic medications, including acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, and ibuprofen, showed significantly improved efficacy in the treatment of patients with tth or migraine, with favorable tolerability in the vast majority of patients. most of these patients suffer from migraine, tension-type headache, or a combination of the two; they tend to self-medicate using over the counter combination headache preparations, particularly acetylsalicyclic acid (asa) and acetaminophen coformulated with caffeine, which is one of the most commonly used combination analgesics in these patients worldwide. in the treatment of migraine and tension-type headache, the combination of asa, acetaminophen, and caffeine has been shown to be more efficacious and superior to monotherapy with the single substances of the combination. fifty-six percent of respondents used acetaminophen for tension-type and 60% used acetaminophen for migraine. one percent used prescription medication for tension headache and 12% used prescriptions for migraine. the perceived effectiveness of over-the-counter medication was approximately 7 on a scale of 0-10 for tension headaches and 6 for migraine. despite the widespread use of nonprescription drugs, no published literature to date has assessed migraineurs' health-related quality of life associated with use of over-the-counter headache medication. in addition, patients who initially took an over-the-counter medication to treat their migraine headaches reported increased frequency of relief. in the 4 months following availability of an over-the-counter migraine medication and educational migraine materials, health-related quality of life and frequency of relief improved for the managed care migraine sufferers who participated in this study. 
Does hyperthermia treatment support chemotherapy in fighting cancer? (anonymous request with link to the Standard article) [SEP] recent developments have reinvigorated clinical investigations of hyperthermia (ht) as a viable adjuvant treatment in the fight against cancer. hyperthermia has long been used for cancer treatment, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or both. this article describes hyperthermia, details its biological mechanisms of action and immunological effects, and summarizes select preclinical data and key clinical trials combining hyperthermia with standard cancer treatments. hyperthermia has been introduced as an adjuvant anti-cancer therapy and presents promising opportunities especially in combination with chemotherapy. hyperthermia, the procedure of raising the temperature of a part of or the whole body above normal for a defined period of time, is applied alone or as an adjunctive with various established cancer treatment modalities such as radiotherapy and chemotherapy. fortunately, phase ii/iii clinical trials have demonstrated that hyperthermia combination therapy is beneficial for local tumor control and survival in patients with high-risk tumors of different types. the aim of this article is to present a comprehensive review of the latest advances in tumor hyperthermia combined with radiotherapy and/ or chemotherapy. several randomized trials have shown an improvement by adding hyperthermia to radiation that is comparable to the improvement found with the addition of chemotherapy to radiation. the purpose of this article is to demonstrate the important role of hyperthermia as a therapeutic modality by presenting clinical trials on this subject carried out in the last decades. results show that the addition of hyperthermia to radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy for the treatment of breast cancer enhances treatment response and can increase local control. 
Can stress promote dementia? [SEP] literature regarding stress and anxiety in people with dementia was reviewed and critically analysed, and then integrated into the progressive lowered stress threshold model. there is an association between stress and dementia. however, less is known about dementia among persons with varied stress responses and sex differences in these associations. we used this population-based cohort study to examine dementia among persons with a range of clinician-diagnosed stress disorders, as well as the interaction between stress disorders and sex in predicting dementia, in denmark from 1995 to 2011. we used cox proportional hazards regression to estimate associations between stress disorders and dementia. risk of dementia was higher for persons with stress disorders than for persons without such diagnosis; adjusted hazard ratios ranged from 1.6 to 2.8. there was evidence of an interaction between sex and stress disorders in predicting dementia, with a higher rate of dementia among men with stress disorders except posttraumatic stress disorder, for which women had a higher rate. results support existing evidence of an association between stress and dementia. this study contributes novel information regarding dementia risk across a range of stress responses, and interactions between stress disorders and sex. caregivers of individuals with dementia are at risk for chronic stress and social isolation. 
Does the risk for the unborn child to develop asthma later on increase if the mother is exposed to high pollen concentrations during pregnancy? [SEP] the role of maternal allergen exposure during pregnancy in sensitization and development of atopic disease in the child remains controversial. the aim of this study was to assess the influence of exposure during pregnancy to high/low doses of birch pollen on the risk of sensitization and development of atopic disease in children. the children of mothers high-dose exposed during pregnancy in 1993 tended to be more sensitized (spt > or = 3 mm) to birch pollen than the children with low-dose exposure during the corresponding period in 1994 (7.6 and 4.6%, respectively, or: 1.7; 95% ci: 0.7-4.1). children of mothers high-dose exposed during pregnancy were significantly less sensitized to birch pollen than the children high-dose exposed in early infancy (17.9%, or: 0.4; 95% ci: 0.2-0.7). there was an overall trend towards a slightly increased prevalence of bronchial asthma, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and atopic dermatitis in the group with mothers high-dose exposed during pregnancy, compared to those with low exposure. exposure of the mother during pregnancy to high levels of birch pollen resulted in a tendency towards increased risk of sensitization to the same allergen and symptoms of atopic disease in children with atopic heredity. furthermore, our data indicate that exposure of the mother during pregnancy to inhalant allergens is less likely to result in sensitization in the child than exposure of the child in early infancy. however, asthma crises or exacerbations during pregnancy can be life threatening to both the mother and the child. uncontrolled asthma has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes and adverse effects to the fetus (eg, prematurity, low birth weight, increased risk of congenital malformations). this study suggests that supplementation of high-dose folic acid during pregnancy might increase the risk of childhood asthma. 
Are children conceived in May more likely to be born prematurely than children conceived in other months? [SEP] investigations of the health, disease, cognitive, developmental and behavioral outcomes in the children conceived with art are often confounded by parental and other social, environmental and medical factors, including multiplicity, prematurity and low birth weight. we compared ivf-c, ovulating agents conceived (oa-c) and naturally conceived (nc) groups of children with respect to their and their parents' anthropometry and their perinatal/neonatal variables. investigations of the health, disease, cognitive, developmental, and behavioral outcomes are often confounded by other factors, including multiple gestations, prematurity, and low birthweight. pregnancy conceived by assisted reproductive technology (art) carries a higher risk of adverse birth outcomes. though exhibiting a higher incidence of low birth weight as well as prematurity, children born with art enjoyed a similar or faster rate of growth from birth to 18 months old when compared to those children born through naturally conceived pregnancies. high rates of caesarean deliveries, increased incidence of prematurity, multiples and low-birth weight were observed among the 31 pgd children. the main finding was equal long-term growth for children born at term by parents who received fertility treatment or parents waiting more than 12 months to conceive compared with spontaneously conceived children. art children are more likely to be the result of multiple pregnancies, and thus to be born prematurely or low birthweight. in a non-matched case-control study using data from two large national cohort studies, we investigated whether indicators of child health and development up to 7 years of age differ between children conceived using assisted reproductive technology (art), children born after sub-fertility (more than 24 months of trying for conception) and other children. in models adjusted for social and demographic factors there were significant differences between groups in rate of hospital admissions before the children were 9 months old (p=0.029), with the art group showing higher rates of hospital admission than the no fertility issues control group, the sub-fertile control group being intermediate between the two. 
Does osteopathy work? [SEP] osteopathy has gained ground in recent years and has been seeking recognition in france. physicians often lack the information needed to answer patients who have derived from the media, advertisements, and other patients what they believe is a clear idea of osteopathy and its twin sister chiropractic. the circumstances that surrounded the development of osteopathy deserve to be widely known because they explain how contemporary osteopaths work. the history of osteopathy emphasizes the importance of logical thinking in medicine, of the principle of pathophysiological foundation, of diagnostic hypotheses, and of careful treatment selection complying with the rules of deontology and ethics. there is growing recognition of the role that osteopathy can play in the treatment of women during pregnancy (king et al 2003; sandler 1996; green 2000). also, osteopathy can help make a difference in a woman's overall antenatal care by using gentle procedures to help alleviate many common pregnancy related ailments. osteopathy in the cranial field is an approach used by manual and physical therapists. the present study was undertaken to explore patients' experiences of osteopathy in the cranial field. it is only recently that fascial osteopathy research has been aimed at understanding what happens to the fascia following treatment, and as a result of previous studies, we are able to highlight some of the benefits, including a reduction in local pain and inflammation. the authors wish to encourage the initiation of new research in the fields of academic and clinical osteopathy that is aimed at quantifying the possible benefits a patient may derive from osteopathic treatment of the peripheral nerve. 
Do creams with sterol compounds improve the appearance of cellulite skin? [SEP] conclusion: use of up1307 cream produced significant improvements in skin hydration, firmness, and elasticity, with associated improvement in cellulite appearance. we studied the response of intense pulsed light (ipl) treatment with or without a compounded prescription retinyl-based cream on a small group of patients who had visible cellulite present on the buttocks and thigh regions. numerous manufacturers are marketing topical creams, claiming that they improve or eliminate unwanted fat or cellulite in a short period of time. this study failed to support the efficacy of topically applied lipolytic creams in eliminating unwanted fat manifesting as a localized bulge or cellulite presenting as a dimpling of the skin. this new topical cream thus enhances the benefit of a dietetic control for the treatment of the visible aspect of cellulite on the skin. cellulite has been treated with massage which decreases tissue oedema but it is also likely to have its effects at the cellular level by stimulating fibroblast (and keratinocyte) activity while decreasing adipocyte activity. and some of these agents seem to be beneficial for the treatment of cellulite. although more work is needed, clearly these treatments do improve the appearance of skin in subjects with cellulite. in the present study, the ingredients of cellulite creams, the frequency of their use and whether the ingredients have been reported to cause allergy were investigated. the active topical agent used in this study was found to be effective in reducing the appearance of cellulite. 
For women at high risk of breast cancer, does a precautionary mastectomy make more sense than regular participation in intensive screening? [SEP] decision-making concerning risk-reducing mastectomy for women at hereditary risk of breast cancer entails complex personal choices. women suspected to have a genetic predisposition to breast cancer face the difficult choice between regular breast cancer screening and prophylactic mastectomy. to determine the reasons that motivate women in a cohort of women under intensive surveillance for breast cancer to undergo risk-reducing mastectomy (rrm). women who perceived their breast cancer risk to be greater than 50% were more likely to opt for rrm than were women who estimated their risk to be less than 50% (19% versus 6%). in women with a family history of breast cancer, bilateral prophylactic mastectomy is associated with a decreased risk of subsequent breast cancer of approximately 90%. we examined the association between bilateral prophylactic mastectomy and breast cancer risk in women at high risk for breast cancer who also had mutations in brca1 and brca2 genes. prophylactic mastectomy is associated with a substantial reduction in the incidence of subsequent breast cancer not only in women identified as being at high risk on the basis of a family history of breast cancer but also in known brca1 or brca2 mutation carriers. prophylactic mastectomy (pm) is often considered, but variably chosen by women at high inherited risk of breast cancer; few data exist on patient tolerance of intensive breast screening as an alternative to pm. this qualitative study explores the value that women at increased risk placed on screening, both pre- and post-cancer diagnosis and the impact of the diagnosis. for some, prophylactic mastectomy was preferable, to reduce future cancer risk and to alleviate anxieties about the detection of another cancer at each subsequent screen. 
Does tocilizumab specifically help children with rheumatoid arthritis (juvenile idiopathic arthritis) ? [SEP] provided long-term safety can be established, tocilizumab will probably become part of the treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and may become a major breakthrough for the treatment of systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis. tocilizumab was approved for systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis in japan in 2008 and in the european union and the united states in 2011. anakinra, rituximab, abatacept, and tocilizumab have also shown positive results in adult trials, but there is minimal pediatric data published with the exception of small studies involving the subgroup of children with systemic onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis, in whom anakinra and tocilizumab may be effective therapies. tocilizumab , a fully humanised anti-interleukin-6 receptor monoclonal antibody is licensed for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. this article reviews and appraises the available evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of tocilizumab in rheumatoid arthritis, as identified in pubmed and embase searches. to evaluate the pharmacology, clinical efficacy, safety, and role of tocilizumab for the treatment of juvenile idiopathic arthritis. tocilizumab is food and drug administration-approved for use in patients aged 2 years and older with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. tocilizumab provides expansion of the available options for the treatment of systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, specifically in patients who have not responded to conventional therapies. intravenous tocilizumab was effective and generally well tolerated when administered either as monotherapy or in combination with conventional dmards in several well designed clinical studies in adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. the safety and efficacy of tocilizumab have been demonstrated in clinical trials conducted in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune inflammatory diseases, such as juvenile idiopathic arthritis and crohn's disease. 
Does the Toxoplasma gondii parasite affect suicide rates? [SEP] numerous reports have described increased rates of exposure to toxoplasma gondii levels in individuals with a history of suicide attempts in comparison with well controls, or psychiatrically ill individuals, with no suicide attempt history. the present study compared 96 patients with an active depressive disorder and a history of at least two suicide attempts to 126 depressed patients with no history of suicide attempts by igg and igm levels of toxoplasma gondii and cytomegalovirus (cmv). toxoplasma gondii igm levels were higher, and seropositivity more likely, in the suicide attempt group. il_1a levels were lower in suicide attempters and correlated negatively with levels of antibodies to toxoplasma gondii and cmv. these results indicate that exposure to common infectious agents such as toxoplasma gondii and cmv are associated with increased risk of suicide attempts but the mechanism of association does not appear to involve the activation of cytokines. in a sample of 20 european nations, the prevalence of the brain parasite toxoplasma gondii was positively associated with national homicide rates, amplifying previous research indicating a positive association of toxoplasma gondii with suicide rates. toxoplasma infection is classically associated with the frequency of schizophrenia, suicide attempts or "road rage". possible mechanisms by which toxoplasma gondii may affect human behavior and it may also cause humans to attempt suicide. we investigated the sero-positivity level for anti-toxoplasma igg and igm antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in subjects who have attempted to suicide to find out whether there is a probable relationship between t. gondii and suicide attempts. in particular, toxoplasma infection has been linked to schizophrenia, suicide attempt, differences in aspects of personality and poorer neurocognitive performance. 
Is Exemestane better than other hormone-altering drugs for reducing the risk of breast cancer or treating it? [SEP] the mechanism of action, pharmacology, and clinical efficacy and safety of exemestane in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer are reviewed. exemestane, an orally active irreversible inhibitor of aromatase, was recently approved as second-line endocrine therapy of advanced hormone-sensitive postmenopausal breast cancer. exemestane is effective as a second- or third-line treatment of advanced, estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer in postmenopausal patients. exemestane is a third-generation aromatase inhibitor used in the treatment of estrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer in postmenopausal women. exemestane (aromasin) is an orally active steroidal irreversible inactivator of the aromatase enzyme indicated as an adjuvant treatment in postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive early-stage breast cancer following 2-3 years of adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen, and for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women whose disease has progressed following tamoxifen or other antiestrogen therapy. exemestane is effective for the treatment of postmenopausal women with early-stage or advanced breast cancer. available data, some of which are limited, suggest exemestane is also effective in the first-line hormonal treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women. should preference be given to tamoxifen over exemestane? exemestane has shown good efficacy and tolerability in multiple clinical trials among patients with metastatic breast cancer who have failed one or more previous hormonal therapies. in conclusion, exemestane represents a novel and interesting drug for the treatment of advanced breast cancer, with exciting prospects for use in adjuvant therapy and, potentially, breast cancer prevention. 
Does a newly approved contraceptive pill with the active ingredient combination nomegestrol acetate and 17ß-estradiol have fewer undesirable side effects than other birth control pills? [SEP] even though its contraindications are identical to other combined oral contraceptives, this nomegestrol acetate/e2 pill should be considered to be of interest for many women. 35 (74.5%) women reported a subjective positive mood response to nomegestrol acetate/17-beta estradiol, 31 (63.3%) adhered to the medication, and only 10 (20.4%) women reported side effects as the main reason for discontinuing nomegestrol acetate/17-beta estradiol. this preliminary study supports the acceptability and effectiveness of nomegestrol acetate/17-beta estradiol as a treatment for mood symptoms in pmdd. nomegestrol acetate (nomac) is a 19-norprogesterone derivative with high biological activity at the progesterone receptor, a weak anti-androgenic effect, but with no binding to estrogen, glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid receptors. however, unlike the quadraphasic estradiol-containing contraceptive qlaira, it is a monophasic preparation.1,2 it is postulated that combined oral contraceptives (cocs) containing synthetic estradiol, which is structurally identical to endogenous oestrogen,3 are potentially safer and better tolerated than those containing ethinylestradiol, the synthetic oestrogen most commonly used in cocs.4 the progestogen in zoely is nomegestrol acetate, which is structurally related to progesterone,5 in contrast to the majority of progestogens in cocs that are derived from 19-nortestosterone6 and associated with androgenic effects.7 it is suggested that nomegestrol acetate, with its greater specificity for progesterone receptors, may minimise the potential for androgenic, oestrogenic and glucocorticoid effects.7 the company considers zoely an option for women "who want a contraceptive with hormones similar to her own", and claims that it has a high level of contraceptive efficacy, produces shorter, lighter periods compared with a 21-day regimen of drospirenone 3mg/ethinylestradiol 30µg (yasmin) and that most women report no negative impact on weight and skin.8 here we review the effectiveness and place of zoely. nomegestrol acetate/estradiol is a combined oral contraceptive with approval in many countries. this fixed-dose combination tablet contains nomegestrol acetate, a highly selective progestogen, and estradiol, a natural estrogen. in two large, 1-year, randomized, open-label, multicentre, phase iii trials in healthy adult women (aged 18-50 years), nomegestrol acetate/estradiol was at least as effective as drospirenone/ethinylestradiol as contraceptive therapy, as the pregnancy rates in women aged 18-35 years (primary efficacy population) in terms of the pearl index (primary endpoint) were numerically lower with nomegestrol acetate/estradiol, although the between-group difference was not statistically significant. nomegestrol acetate/estradiol therapy for up to 1 year was generally well tolerated in healthy adult women, with an acceptable tolerability profile in line with that expected for a combined oral contraceptive. overall, compared with drospirenone/ethinylestradiol, nomegestrol acetate/estradiol appeared to be associated with less favourable acne-related outcomes, and shorter, lighter or absent periods. 
Does PrEP reduce the risk of HIV infection? [SEP] pre-exposure prophylaxis or prep is a food and drug administration approved human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) prevention tool that reduces the risk of infection by greater than 90%. pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) for hiv is instrumental in the prevention of hiv for hiv-uninfected persons, by drastically reducing the risk of acquisition in the case of high-risk exposures. preexposure prophylaxis (prep) with antiretroviral drugs may prevent transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). our objective was to predict whether prep, in the presence of circulating drug resistance, will reduce the risk of infection with hiv. prep would decrease the median risk of hiv transmission by 21%-33% (effectiveness of prep, 40%-60% and 60%-80%). the uspstf found convincing evidence that prep is of substantial benefit in decreasing the risk of hiv infection in persons at high risk of hiv acquisition. pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) has been shown to be highly effective in reducing the risk of hiv infection in gay and bisexual men who have sex with men (gbmsm). in a cohort with a mean age of 34 years, prep reduced lifetime hiv infection risk from 44% to 25% and increased mean life expectancy from 39.9 to 40.7 years (21.7 to 22.2 discounted quality-adjusted life-years). prep could substantially reduce the incidence of hiv transmission in populations at high risk of hiv infection in the united states. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) preexposure prophylaxis (prep) has helped reduce new hiv infections. 
Does exercise, a restricted diet, or both together help prevent excessive weight gain during pregnancy? [SEP] limiting gestational weight gain to within recommended limits prevents postpartum weight retention. a cochrane review found that healthful diet and/or exercise interventions reduced the risk of excessive gestational weight gain on average by 20%. dietary counselling should accompany information on appropriate weight gain during pregnancy and exercise to prevent excessive weight gain, in the context of the nutrition transition. gestational weight gain is a potentially modifiable risk factor for a number of adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes and meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials report that diet or exercise interventions during pregnancy can help reduce excessive weight gain. this study assessed whether a weight-gain restriction regimen, with or without exercise, would impact glycemic control, pregnancy outcome, and total pregnancy weight gain in obese subjects with gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm). conclusions of this study were that caloric restriction and exercise result in limited weight gain in obese subjects with gdm, less macrosomic neonates, and no adverse pregnancy outcomes. existing interventions primarily target diet and physical activity but lack broad empirical support and typically have only modest effects on weight gain in pregnancy, with few successfully preventing excess weight gain. some studies showed that restricting energy and carbohydrates could minimize gestational weight gain. excess weight gain during pregnancy and post-partum weight retention are risk factors for obesity. the effect of exercise with energy restriction in overweight women on the growth of their infants has also been studied. 
Does taking antibiotics for acute sinusitis speed up the healing of the infection? [SEP] as there is increasing evidence that respiratory viruses play an important role in the pathogenesis of acute community acquired sinusitis and spontaneous healing with only symptomatic treatment is common, the use of antibiotics in the treatment of acute sinusitis may not be needed in all cases. we propose that antioxidant, anti-infective, immunomodulator vitamin a may be a useful addition in the management of sinusitis. the objective of this study was to investigate the therapeutic role of vitamin a on healing of acute sinusitis. to answer the question is it really sinusitis? acute suppurative sinusitis necessitates antibiotic therapy, which should be continued for seven days after the primary symptoms are relieved in order to avoid recurrence or development of subacute or chronic suppurative sinusitis. the aim of this study is to investigate the therapeutic role of vitamin a in addition to standard antibiotic treatment on healing of experimental acute maxillary sinusitis. the recognition that the traditional 10-day or greater duration of therapy for acute otitis media, tonsillopharyngitis and sinusitis does not derive from a strong scientific or medical rationale (with the exception of penicillin therapy for tonsillopharyngitis) and the increasing awareness of the adverse sequelae of long-duration antibiotic therapy have led some clinicians to call for shortening the duration of antibiotic therapy in these infections. although sinusitis data are less plentiful than those for acute otitis media and tonsillopharyngitis, the results available to date are encouraging in suggesting that shortened courses of therapy may also be appropriate for acute maxillary sinusitis. methods: in this retrospective cohort study, antibiotic utilization for acute sinusitis was compared between patients treated through a direct-to-consumer virtual urgent care versus a matched cohort treated through traditional urgent care. conclusions: it is possible to deliver care virtually for acute sinusitis without increasing antibiotic utilization. 
Does colonoscopy reduce mortality from colorectal cancer? [SEP] colonoscopic surveillance programs have led to reduced incidence of colorectal cancer and reduced mortality from colorectal cancer. the aim of this study was to clarify whether colonoscopy reduces colorectal cancer mortality. the colorectal cancer mortality of patients who received colonoscopy without colorectal cancer diagnosis decreased significantly compared with that of individuals in the general population. colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy were associated with a reduced incidence of cancer of the distal colorectum; colonoscopy was also associated with a modest reduction in the incidence of proximal colon cancer. screening colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy were associated with reduced colorectal-cancer mortality; only colonoscopy was associated with reduced mortality from proximal colon cancer. moreover, colonoscopy with polypectomy significantly reduces colorectal cancer incidence and colorectal cancer-related mortality in the general population. there are no randomized controlled trials on the effectiveness of colonoscopy to reduce colorectal cancer-specific mortality; however, several randomized controlled trials comparing colonoscopy with other strategies are in progress. the best available evidence supporting colonoscopy is from prospective cohort studies that demonstrate decreased incidence of colorectal cancer and colorectal cancer-related mortality in individuals undergoing colonoscopy. there is substantial indirect evidence for the effectiveness of colonoscopy in reducing colorectal cancer incidence and mortality. colonoscopy is the cornerstone of colorectal cancer screening programs. 
Do nicotine replacement products like nicotine gum or nicotine patches help with long-term smoking cessation? [SEP] both nicotine gum and nicotine patch significantly improve treatment outcomes, although patch is easier for patients to use correctly. smoking cessation products have not generally proven effective with the exception of nicotine polacrilex gum and the transdermal nicotine patch. a significant correlation was found between type of nicotine replacement and quit rate. use of nicotine patches and chewing gum together had the highest quit rate (95.2%) after 4 weeks and at 12 months follow-up (62.5%). consuming 2 forms of nicotine replacement in therapy could result in enhanced rates of long-term quitting. nicotine patches and chewing gum offer the most effective pharmacologic options, especially when combined with behavioral interventions and counseling. all forms of nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) - gum, patches and inhaler - and bupropion are safe and effective for increasing smoking cessation rates in the short and long-term use. to assess the extent of long-term use of different nicotine replacement treatment products in smokers attending routine smoking cessation treatment and to examine the effect of nicotine replacement treatment cost on its long-term use. long-term use of nicotine replacement treatment was significantly more likely in more dependent smokers. nicotine replacement medications aid smokers in their cessation efforts by relieving the physiologic symptoms of nicotine withdrawal. 
Is short, high-intensity training equally effective as longer, moderate-intensity training? [SEP] the present results indicate that short-term resistance training using moderate volumes of high relative intensity tended to produce higher enhancements in weightlifting performance compared with low and high volumes of high relative training intensities of equal total volume in experienced, trained young weightlifters. participants were then pair-matched and assigned randomly to either a long high-intensity interval training (long) (6-8 × 5 min efforts) or short high-intensity interval training (short) (9-11 × 10, 20 and 40 s efforts) hit cycle training intervention. moderately-trained triathletes should use both short and long high-intensity intervals to improve cycling physiology and performance. category 1: several small, randomized controlled trials showed that improvements in measures of cardiorespiratory fitness did not differ significantly between training regimens based on long or short sessions. category 2: higher-intensity training was consistently found to elicit greater increases in vo(2max) than lower-intensity training of longer duration. in conclusion, high-intensity aerobic interval training was better than moderate-intensity aerobic training in improving aerobic work capacity and endothelial function. the purpose of this review was to gather current knowledge on the effects of high-intensity training versus moderate-intensity continuous exercise on endothelial function in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular patients. interventions comprised of high-intensity training alone, high-intensity training compared to moderate-intensity continuous exercise, or no training, with endothelial function as outcome measure. high-intensity training was equal to moderate-intensity continuous exercise through improvement in endothelial function in 15 of the 20 selected studies, as measured by flow-mediated dilatation, nitric oxide bioavailability and circulating biomarkers. short-term exercise training at markedly different intensities similarly improves cardiovascular fitness but results in intensity-specific changes in cytokine responses to exercise. 
Do behavioral therapy methods help with specific fears (phobias) such as fear of spiders? [SEP] our findings reveal the importance of targeting movement-related fears in in-vivo exposure therapy for spider phobia and using realistically animated spider stimuli in computer-based experimental paradigms and clinical interventions such as virtual reality exposure therapy. here, we investigate whether glucocorticoids enhance the outcome of in vivo exposure-based group therapy of spider phobia. in a double blind, block-randomized, placebo-controlled, between-subject study design, 22 patients with specific phobia of spiders were treated with two sessions of in vivo exposure-based group therapy. exposure-based group therapy led to a significant decrease in phobic symptoms as assessed with the fear of spiders questionnaire (fsq) from pretreatment to immediate posttreatment and to follow-up. the administration of cortisol to exposure therapy resulted in increased salivary cortisol concentrations and a significantly greater reduction in fear of spiders (fsq) as compared to placebo at follow-up, but not immediately posttreatment. furthermore, cortisol-treated patients reported significantly less anxiety during standardized exposure to living spiders at follow-up than placebo-treated subjects. these findings indicate that adding cortisol to in vivo exposure-based group therapy of spider phobia enhances treatment outcome. prior to and after treatment, behavioral approach tests (bats) were conducted to examine avoidance, fear and disgust responses toward the treated phobic stimulus (spider as the extinction stimulus). hence, exposure therapy for spider phobia was effective in reducing fear of untreated stimuli which share common fear-evoking characteristics with spiders but were never presented during the respective exposure treatment. participants also underwent behavioral tests concerning disgust sensitivity and fear of spiders. 
Can honey accelerate the healing of second degree burns with pain, redness and blisters? [SEP] it has been reported that honey hastens wound healing by accelerating wound contractions. macroscopic and microscopic observations under in vivo assessment suggested that the topical application of honey might have favourable influences on the various phases of burn and wound healing hence accelerating the healing process. the present article is a short review of recent patents on the healing effect of honey in wound and burn management. the aim was to evaluate the effect of honey dressing and silver sulfadiazene (ssd) dressing on wound healing in burn patients. thus, the findings of present study signify that the combination of medicinal honey and pbmt accelerates the repair process of burn wounds. the present study substantiates the potential efficacy of honey hydrogel dressings in accelerating burn wound healing. honey has been familiar to possess antimicrobial potential to clear infection against burn wound infecting bacteria since ancient times. the objective of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of the newly formulated honey ointment during the treatment of burn wound infections. clinical trials demonstrated that the topical application of honey ointment have significant control of infections arising form pathogenic bacteria and up to 100% healing results were observed in all burn wound cases within mean healing time for the duration of 8.15 (3-18) days time period. newly formulated ointment containing 20% active antimicrobial honey is more effective and low-cost alternative preparation for the treatment of burn wound infections. 
Does honey heal small, fresh wounds faster than the usual wound treatment? [SEP] among several different alternative therapies, honey is an effective choice because it provides comparatively rapid wound healing. because honey has some unique natural features as a wound healer, it works even more effectively on diabetic wounds than on normal wounds. in this review, the potential role of honey's antibacterial activity on diabetic wound-related microorganisms and honey's clinical effectiveness in treating diabetic wounds based on the most recent studies is described. additionally, ways in which honey can be used as a safer, faster, and effective healing agent for diabetic wounds in comparison with other synthetic medications in terms of microbial resistance and treatment costs are also described to support its traditional claims. wounds of the honey-treated groups healed much faster than the control group. the present results suggest that honey accelerates the inflammatory reaction and initiates healing early on in the treatment process. the aim of this review was to summarize the therapeutic properties of honey and the data regarding its possible favorable effects on diabetic wound healing. honey has antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antibacterial properties and in vitro studies of keratinocytes and fibroblasts, as well as studies in diabetic animal models show that treatment with honey is associated with increased re-epithelialization and collagen production, higher wound contraction, and faster wound healing. honey has been described in ancient and modern medicine as being effective in the healing of various infected wounds. we conclude that honey is useful in the treatment of post-surgical wounds that are infected and do not respond to conventional systemic and local antibiotic treatment. 
Does honey work better than other wound treatments for chronic wounds (open leg, diabetic foot)? [SEP] several studies have documented that, compared to conventional dressings, honey seems to be better in healing time of different types of wounds, including diabetic foot ulcers. this review showed that honey dressing is safer for treatment of diabetic foot ulcer but there is insufficient good quality data to realistically conclude on the efficacy of honey on diabetic foot ulcers. evidence from animal studies and some trials has suggested honey may accelerate wound healing. the objective was to determine whether honey increases the rate of healing in acute wounds (burns, lacerations and other traumatic wounds) and chronic wounds (venous ulcers, arterial ulcers, diabetic ulcers, pressure ulcers, infected surgical wounds). in chronic wounds two trials evaluated the effect of honey in venous leg ulcers and one trial in pressure ulcers, infected post-operative wounds, and fournier's gangrene respectively. evidence from animal studies and some trials has suggested that honey may accelerate wound healing. in chronic wounds, two trials evaluated the effect of honey in venous leg ulcers, and single trials investigated its effect in infected post-operative wounds, pressure injuries, cutaneous lieshmaniasis, diabetic foot ulcers and fournier's gangrene. the aim of this review was to summarize the therapeutic properties of honey and the data regarding its possible favorable effects on diabetic wound healing. the use of honey could be a promising approach for the management of diabetic foot ulcers. in our study we observed excellent results in treating diabetic wounds with dressings soaked with natural honey. 
Does sitting for long periods despite compensatory exercise increasingly lead to type 2 diabetes? [SEP] we tested the effects of sit and moderate-intensity continuous training (mict) on imcl and emcl accumulation in a randomized controlled setting in two different study populations; healthy untrained men (n 28) and subjects with type 2 diabetes (t2d) or prediabetes (n 26). indeed, most adults are exposed to environmental settings (at work, in automobile travel and in the domestic environment) that may not only limit their physical activity, but also promote sitting for prolonged periods of time. however, recent experimental evidence indicates that reducing and breaking up sitting time may also be a useful strategy to improve glycaemic control. in this issue of diabetologia, duvivier and colleagues report findings which suggest that reducing sitting time with standing and light-intensity activity could be a potential alternative to structured exercise for improving glycaemic control in type 2 diabetes patients. in our current society sedentary behaviour predominates in most people and is associated with the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. it has been suggested that replacing sitting time by standing and walking could be beneficial for individuals with type 2 diabetes but the underlying mechanisms are unknown and direct comparisons with exercise are lacking. our objective was to directly compare metabolic responses of either sitting less or exercising, relative to being sedentary. replacing sitting time by standing and walking over 4 days resulted in improved peripheral insulin sensitivity, comparable with the improvement achieved by moderate-to-vigorous exercise. specifically, we report a significant improvement in peripheral insulin sensitivity in the sitting less (~13%) and the exercise regimen (~20%), compared with the sitting regimen. furthermore, sitting less shifted the underlying muscle metabolome towards that seen with moderate-to-vigorous exercise, compared with the sitting regimen. 
Do acupuncture or related smoking cessation methods help you stay smoke-free for at least 6 months? [SEP] the present study examines the usefulness of acupuncture as an aid to stopping smoking. results from 405 subjects show acupuncture can help between 5 and 15 percent of the population to stop smoking for at least six months. this study was undertaken to examine whether acupuncture treatment may have a long-term effect on smoking cessation or reduction. this study confirms that adequate acupuncture treatment may help motivated smokers to reduce their smoking, or even quit smoking completely, and the effect may last for at least 5 years. acupuncture is promoted as a treatment for smoking cessation, and is believed to reduce withdrawal symptoms. the objective of this review is to determine the effectiveness of acupuncture in smoking cessation in comparison with: a) sham acupuncture b) other interventions c) no intervention. receiving sufficient and qualified acupuncture is the leading factor for short-term smoking cessation with acupuncture, whereas individual factors and smoking background play a more important role in long-term smoking cessation with acupuncture. acupuncture and related techniques are promoted as a treatment for smoking cessation in the belief that they may reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms. acupuncture has been promoted as a treatment modality for smoking cessation. it was concluded that acupuncture was a safe method for smoking cessation and was effective in helping smokers to quit; therefore, acupuncture could be considered as one of the methods to help smokers quit. 
Do gastrointestinal surgeries (bariatric surgeries) improve symptoms of type 2 diabetes? [SEP] recent clinical evidence suggests that bariatric surgery not only reduces body weight, but also improves secondary serious diseases, including type 2 diabetes mellitus, in so-called metabolic surgery. bariatric surgery provides substantial, sustained weight loss and major improvements in glycaemic control in severely obese individuals with type 2 diabetes. we examine the indications for and efficacy and safety of conventional bariatric surgical procedures and their effect on glycaemic control in type 2 diabetes. some bariatric procedures improve glycaemic control in people with diabetes beyond that expected for weight loss, and understanding this additional effect could provide insights into the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes and assist in the development of new procedures, devices, and drugs both for obese and non-obese patients. bariatric operations have been documented in clinical trials to promote remission or dramatic improvement of type ii diabetes mellitus and related comorbidities. herein we review randomized trials and meta-analyses published during the last 20 years on the results of bariatric/metabolic surgery in obese patients with type 2 diabetes with the aim of highlighting the scientific evidence available. benefits of bariatric surgery, however, extend well beyond weight loss and include dramatic improvement of type 2 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and reduction of overall mortality. this paper will review the evidence about safety, effectiveness, and cost effectiveness of bariatric surgery in type 2 diabetes mellitus remission and the potential socioeconomic impact of offering bariatric surgery to diabetic patients with bmi bmi < 35 kg/m(2). evidence has shown that bariatric surgery improves the comorbid conditions associated with obesity such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm. bariatric surgery is currently the most effective weight loss treatment of severe obesity and its associated comorbidities and is being increasingly used to treat children and adolescents with severe obesity, including those with type 2 diabetes (t2d). 
Is there a connection between ADHD and neurodermatitis? [SEP] in two group comparisons, the neurodermatitis group had more sexual problems than the psoriasis group and the control group. patients with neurodermatitis and psoriasis have sexual dysfunction and depression in the course of these chronic diseases and the higher frequency of sexual problems was seen in patients with neurodermatitis. neurodermatitis is a common chronic skin disease. neurodermatitis is a chronic disease affecting the patient's psychosocial status and quality of life. a controlled comparison of 25 cases of neurodermatitis with 25 cases of scabies indicated the heavy loading of psychosocial pathology in the neurodermatitis group. neurodermatitis is a common inflammatory and allergic disease, characterized by itching and lichenification plaque. eeg connectivity may represent a neuromarker for adhd symptoms. increasing evidence indicates that altered functional and structural neural connectivity are part of the neurobiological basis of adhd. these findings support the role of altered functional connectivity in understanding the neurobiology and familial transmission of adhd. attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) has substantial heritability, and a recent large-scale investigation has identified common genome-wide significant loci associated with increased risk for adhd. 
Can injections with the enzyme collagenase straighten fingers bent by Dupuytren's disease without surgery? (Reader inquiry) [SEP] the demands and options for collagenase in future treatment regimens for extensile dupuytren contractures are discussed. in recent years, the enzyme collagenase has been developed for the percutaneous treatment of dupuytren's contracture, allowing management of the condition as an outpatient. we present early results on the treatment of dupuytren's contracture using injectable collagenase. collagenase is a safe and effective outpatient-based treatment for dupuytren's contracture, which may be useful in controlling surgical waiting lists. continuous extension of dupuytren's contracture prior to fasciectomy results in a softening of the tissue, allowing straightening of the fingers. injectable collagenase is an alternative to surgical   treatment for dupuytren's disease. this   prospective study reports on the short-term safety and efficacy   of collagenase treatment in five thumb and first web space dupuytren's   contractures. in the short-term collagenase is an effective, well-tolerated   and safe alternative to surgery for dupuytren's disease of the thumb. a case of a vascular complication after collagenase injection and manipulation for dupuytren's contracture in a 57-year-old japanese man is described. previous papers have suggested that a needle inserted into the flexor tendon can be detected prior to the injection of collagenase by asking the patient to actively move the finger, but our test on an awake patient showed that when a 27-gauge needle was inserted into the flexor tendons through a thick palmar cord, the syringe did not move significantly when the patient moved the finger, and therefore this test does not minimise the risk of iatrogenic tendon injury when using collagenase (xiapex) for dupuytren's contracture. 
Do mindfulness-based methods effect improvement in chronic pain? [SEP] participants were n = 23 adults with chronic pain who were new to mindfulness practice. in adults with chronic pain, a four-week mindfulness program is feasible and acceptable, addresses the barrier of a lengthy program, and may improve quality of life and psychological functioning. several themes were identified related to pain reduction, improved attention, improved sleep, and achieving well-being resulting from mindfulness meditation that suggest it has promising potential as a nonpharmacologic treatment of chronic pain for older adults. community-dwelling older adults with chronic low back pain experience numerous benefits from mindfulness meditation including less pain, improved attention, better sleep, enhanced well-being, and improved quality of life. the current conceptual review provides a critique of existing theoretical models of mindfulness that have been applied to understanding and treating chronic pain. studies have shown that mind-body approaches can be effective in various conditions associated with chronic pain, however levels of evidence vary. background/objective: to assess the differential efficacy between mindfulness-based interventions and cognitive-behavioral therapy (cbt) on chronic pain across medical conditions involving pain. mindfulness-based interventions (mbis) are evidence-based nonpharmacological treatments for treating chronic pain. mindfulness significantly predicted variance (r2) in chronic pain and anxiety outcomes. this could help clinicians develop individualized mindfulness treatment plans for chronic pain patients. 
Does high air pollution increase the risk for the unborn to develop autism later in life? [SEP] independent studies report association of autism spectrum disorder with air pollution exposure and a functional promoter variant (rs1858830) in the met receptor tyrosine kinase (met) gene. examination of hazardous pollutants has suggested the importance of air toxics in the etiology of autism, yet little research has examined its association with local levels of air pollution using residence-specific exposure assignments. to examine the relationship between traffic-related air pollution, air quality, and autism. children with autism were more likely to live at residences that had the highest quartile of exposure to traffic-related air pollution, during gestation (aor, 1.98 [95% ci, 1.20-3.31]) and during the first year of life (aor, 3.10 [95% ci, 1.76-5.57]), compared with control children. exposure to traffic-related air pollution, nitrogen dioxide, pm2.5, and pm10 during pregnancy and during the first year of life was associated with autism. prenatal exposure to air pollution has been associated with autism spectrum disorder (asd) risk but no study has examined associations with asd severity or functioning. several studies showed linkage between prenatal, early postnatal air pollution exposure and the risk of developing asd. studies from the united states indicate that exposure to air pollution in early life is associated with autism spectrum disorders (asd) in children, but the evidence is not consistent with european data. perinatal exposure to traffic-related air pollution and autism spectrum disorders. previously, numerous epidemiologic studies reported an association between autism spectrum disorder (asd) and exposure to air pollution during pregnancy. 
Is it harmful to health to eat apple cores with the apple? [SEP] after hearing charges from the natural resources defense council (nrdc) that eating alar-laden apples significantly increased a child's risk of developing cancer, numbers of school districts dropped apples from their menus and parents poured apple juice down the drains. fruit consumption is believed to have beneficial health effects, and some claim, "an apple a day keeps the doctor away." to examine the relationship between eating an apple a day and keeping the doctor away. evidence does not support that an apple a day keeps the doctor away; however, the small fraction of us adults who eat an apple a day do appear to use fewer prescription medications. this study aimed to determine whether chewing an apple produced mechanical removal of dental plaque or had any effect on salivary bacterial viability. chewing an apple does not remove dental plaque, and may favor plaque regrowth during the first 24 hours, but it does produce an immediate reduction in salivary bacterial viability similar to that after tooth brushing. schools that used fruit slicers to pre-slice fruit increased average daily apple sales by 71% compared to control schools (p<0.01). apples as the most frequently-consumed type of fresh fruit in germany may offer the potential to improve the se status of consumers when the produce is enriched with se. the findings indicate a moderate acceptance of se-biofortified apples, as well as of se health and nutrition claims among the participants. the apples serve as a raw material in thefood industry for processing of baby foodstuffs and other apple products. 
Can taking selenium prevent cancer? [SEP] thus, the last part of the article discusses the impact of selenium on cancer risk based on clinical trials (including npc and select), systematic reviews, and meta-analyses. additionally, this review discusses the possible mechanisms of selenium action that prevent cancer development. a recent well-controlled intervention trial studied whether selenium supplementation can prevent cancer in subjects who have a history of skin cancer and live in areas of the united states with low soil selenium levels. selenium supplementation did not reduce skin cancer rates, but the incidence of total, lung, colorectal, and prostate cancers was significantly reduced by the intervention. the role of selenium in the prevention of cancer has been recently established by laboratory experiments, clinical trials, and epidemiological data. key words: selenium • cancer prevention • cancer treatment • soft tissues. in particular, the possible cancer preventive effects of dietary selenium supplementation are now being investigated in several large, randomized trials. a more complete understanding of the mechanisms by which selenium modulates cancer initiation and progression is needed to optimize dietary selenium supplementation as a practical cancer preventive strategy. intakes, higher than recommended intakes, and plasma selenium concentrations that might be protective for cancer or result in other additional health benefits have been proposed. daily supplementation with the essential trace mineral selenium significantly reduced prostate cancer risk in men in the nutritional prevention of cancer trial. 
Does mesotherapy help against pain? [SEP] mesotherapy can be included as an ancillary treatment in the management of localized pain in rehabilitation, but there are no definitive treatment protocols for this approach. five studies analyzed spine diseases (specifically, two was about chronic and nonspecific neck pain, two about acute low back pain and one about chronic spinal pain): the results of mesotherapy treatment are encouraging both for the resolution of acute and chronic musculoskeletal vertebral pain from one to five sessions. mesotherapy showed a good effect to reduce acute and chronic musculoskeletal pain and, also, it is a well-tolerated treatment. mesotherapy was first introduced in europe for the treatment of localized pain. the mesotherapy treatment may be superior than the systemic therapy for pain relief in musculoskeletal injury in short term follow-up in emergency department settings. recommendations by experts from the italian society of mesotherapy for appropriate use of mesotherapy in musculoskeletal pain and an algorithm for treating localized painful conditions are provided. also, patients treated with mesotherapy experienced less pain severity (p = 0.005). although mesotherapy has been used as a treatment for pain syndromes, arthritis, and many other disorders, this article focuses on its cosmetic applications. in this study we treated acute pain in cts patients by means of local intradermal injections of anti-inflammatory drugs (mesotherapy). with the obvious limits of a small-size open-label study, our results suggest that mesotherapy can temporary relieve pain and paresthesias in most cts patients and in some cases its effect seems to be long-lasting. 
Do general health checkups lead to longer life? [SEP] health status, health behavior, frequency of medical checkups, and eating habits were measured. preventive health checkups have gained in importance over the last decade. health checkup types were associated with a significant difference in pcs scores among the public servants. it is crucial that encourage periodically using the health checkup to improve health status and hrqol. the association between health checkup variables and summary population health outcomes (i.e., life expectancy and healthy life expectancy) was investigated using a cross-sectional ecological design with prefectures as the unit of analysis. this study highlights that health examination results, including attitude toward improving health habits, are positively associated with population health. periodic health checkups constitute an important public health strategy to prevent the onset of diseases and promote healthy behaviors. however, adherence to recommendations to undergo further medical examination after annual health checkups is not necessarily high. further study is needed toward effective utilization of annual health checkups in the workplace. a regular checkup could reduce repeated ga and severity of dental treatment. 
Can dementia be prevented? [SEP] one's experience with dementia may affect their perceptions about dementia preventability, which in turn could influence preventive health behaviors. recent developments highlight that there is good potential for the prevention of dementia. one implication of these associations is that strategies used to prevent t2d can be used to prevent dementia. this suggests that interventions targeting these factors could perhaps delay or prevent the onset of dementia. however, to date, results from dementia prevention trials do not provide convincing evidence that treatment of these risk factors reduces the risk of dementia. the current paper aims to give an overview of available evidence for the potential for dementia prevention. recently, it has been suggested that up to a third of the dementia cases might be preventable. while prevention is always better than cure, this is particularly important in the field of dementia, as current interventions are not able to modify the disease. this article revises the evidence "for" and "against" dementia primary prevention. based on results from large cohort studies and using population attributable risk, the commission concluded that up to 35% of dementia cases could be prevented by modifying nine risk factors: low education, midlife hearing loss, obesity, hypertension, late-life depression, smoking, physical inactivity, diabetes, and social isolation. 
Does the plant pigment beta-carotene protect against cancer? [SEP] intervention trials employing beta-carotene, however, either have shown no preventive effect or indeed, in two cases, have enhanced the incidence of lung cancer in middle-aged male smokers and asbestos workers. the possible protective action of carotenoids can be attributed to their properties as singlet oxygen quenchers and as antioxidants, whereas their cancer-enhancing actions in lung can be ascribed to the prooxidant action of carotenoid free radicals in damaged cells. apart from chronic diseases, beta-carotene has shown significant therapeutic value in individuals suffering from photosensitivity disorders and provides temporary relief to persons afflicted with leukoplakia. carotenoid pigments have been found to have a protective function against photosensitization in green plants. beta-carotene and others carotenoids have antioxidant properties in vitro and in animal models. however, three out of four intervention trials using high dose beta-carotene supplements did not show protective effects against cancer or cardiovascular disease. it appears that carotenoids (including beta-carotene) can promote health when taken at dietary levels, but may have adverse effects when taken in high dose by subjects who smoke or who have been exposed to asbestos. beta-carotene) are more advantageous. there was an evident increase in the risk of breast cancer for decreasing beta-carotene, lutein, alpha-carotene, and beta-cryptoxanthin. the most important function of carotenoid pigments, especially beta-carotene in higher plants, is to protect organisms against photooxidative damage (g. britton, in t. w. goodwin, ed., plant pigments--1988, 1988; n. i. krinsky, in o. isler, h. gutmann, and u. solms, ed., carotenoids--1971, 1971). 
Can vitamin supplements protect against life-threatening diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular disease? [SEP] the evidence from basic research, and epidemiological evidence for a possible protective effect of antioxidant vitamins for cardiovascular disease was strongest for vitamin e. more recently, further trials were set up to examine if supplementation with anti-oxidant vitamins might also reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. this review targets the benefits and harm of multivitamins when used to lower the risk of cancer, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease, visual disorders (e.g., cataracts and age-related macular degeneration), and bone disease. in these settings, vitamin supplements help prevent or correct deficiency and related manifestations. numerous studies have raised the question whether vitamin supplements help to prevent cardiovascular diseases. this minireview examines the relevant clinical reports on dietary supplements of vitamins a, c, and e to determine whether they support the premise that patients at risk of cardiovascular disease may be candidates for this therapeutic option. epidemiological studies strongly suggest that high intakes of foods rich in beta carotene, as well as those rich in vitamin e or vitamin c, reduce the risk of some but not all cancers and cardiovascular disease. epidemiological data suggest that diets rich in antioxidants protect against diseases associated with free radical damage, including cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. this article summarizes the u.s. preventive services task force (uspstf) recommendations on routine vitamin supplementation to prevent cancer and cardiovascular disease and the supporting scientific evidence. the uspstf reviewed the evidence on the efficacy of multivitamin or mineral supplements in the general adult population for the prevention of cardiovascular disease and cancer. this link has led to the conclusion that use of antioxidant vitamin supplements to scavenge free radicals could potentially decrease the risks of cancer and cardiovascular disease. 
Is it true that lowering cholesterol does not reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] to discuss the role of serum cholesterol levels, dietary modification and lipid lowering drug treatments in overall cardiovascular risk management. diet has cardioprotective effects separate from modification of serum cholesterol levels and this may be true of some lipid lowering treatments. further research in this area is urgently needed now that it is broadly accepted that cholesterol-lowering does indeed reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. remnant cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, and can be lowered by different types of drugs; however, large scale studies of cardiovascular disease risk reduction through remnant lipoprotein lowering are under way. in this study, the effectiveness of lipid-lowering therapy on mortality and cardiovascular outcomes is explored. some believe that knowledge of serum cholesterol may help target the treatment of mild hypertension more accurately by predicting an increased risk of vascular complications of hypertension. however, serum cholesterol does not predict the risk of cardiovascular complications in hypertensive women. it does predict coronary heart disease (but not stroke) in men, but coronary risk can be estimated satisfactorily without knowledge of serum cholesterol. suggestions that cholesterol should be lowered in hypercholesterolaemic hypertensive patients to reduce the incidence of coronary heart disease are understandable. however, the diet recommended for this has no useful effect on serum cholesterol, and the benefit of lipid-lowering drugs for cholesterol reduction only exceeds the risk in patients at very high risk of coronary mortality, for example those who have had a myocardial infarction. 
Do static magnets help against pain? [SEP] the aim of this review was to establish whether there is evidence for or against the efficacy of static magnets to produce analgesia. static magnets are marketed with claims of effectiveness for reducing pain, although evidence of scientific principles or biological mechanisms to support such claims is limited. static magnets have become an increasingly popular alternative therapy for individuals with musculoskeletal pain despite limited scientific evidence to support their efficacy or safety. the application of static magnets over painful knee joints appears to reduce pain and enhance functional movement. what is the history of the discovery and use of magnets to treat pain? how common is the use of magnets to treat pain? how are static magnets used in attempts to treat pain? what is known from the scientific evidence about the effectiveness of magnets in treating pain? are there scientific controversies associated with using magnets for pain? have any side effects or complications occurred from using magnets for pain? 
Does hypnosis help with chronic bowel problems? [SEP] there is evidence supporting the use of hypnosis for chronic pain, acute pain and emotional distress arising from medical procedures and conditions, cancer treatment-related side-effects and irritable bowel syndrome. this article reviews controlled prospective trials of hypnosis for the treatment of chronic pain. the findings indicate that hypnosis interventions consistently produce significant decreases in pain associated with a variety of chronic-pain problems. however, according to some previous research studies, hypnosis has been shown to be effective in the treatment of ibs. to determine the definite efficacy of hypnosis in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. a systematic review of the literature on hypnosis in the treatment of ibs from 1970 to 2005 was performed using medline. although there are some methodologic inadequacies, all studies show that hypnotherapy is highly effective for patients with refractory ibs, but definite efficacy of hypnosis in the treatment of ibs remains unclear due to lack of controlled trials supporting this finding. comparisons of baseline and posthypnosis reports suggest that hypnosis was successfully used for acute and chronic pain, anxiety, unpleasant body sensations and, possibly, nausea and vomiting. hypnosis can be successfully used to manage recurrent headaches, abdominal pain, irritable bowel syndrome and chemotherapy-related distress. hypnosis alone, though useful for acute pain, is seldom effective in relieving chronic pain because it does not address the significant psychologic components in the patient's illness. 
Does taking vitamin D supplements during pregnancy increase the risk of food allergy for the unborn child? [SEP] early vitamin use was also associated with a higher risk for food allergies in the exclusively formula-fed population (or: 1.63; 95% ci: 1.21-2.20). vitamin use at 3 years of age was associated with increased risk for food allergies but not asthma in both breastfed (or: 1.62; 95% ci: 1.19-2.21) and exclusively formula-fed infants (or: 1.39; 95% ci: 1.03-1.88). the aim of this study was to investigate whether corresponding maternal and cord blood vitamin d levels are associated with atopic outcomes in early infancy. our study demonstrates that high vitamin d levels in pregnancy and at birth may contribute to a higher risk for food allergy and therefore argues against vitamin d supplement to protect against allergy. we reviewed the scientific publications in the last 2 years on the connections between vitamin d and food allergy, and endeavor to focus on the possible indications for supplementation in order to prevent allergies. recent studies evaluating the relationship with vitamin d levels at birth or during pregnancy have shown conflicting results with the lower levels of vitamin d associated with eczema, the higher with increased food allergy prevalence. to investigate the effect of vitamin d supplementation dose on allergic sensitization and allergic diseases in infants, and to evaluate whether vitamin d status in pregnancy and at birth are associated with infant allergy outcomes. infants with high cord blood 25-hydroxyvitamin d (≥100 nmol/l) had a higher risk of food allergen sensitization compared with those with lower 25(oh)d concentration (75-99.9 nmol/l; or, 2.00; 95% ci, 1.19-3.39). high-dose vitamin d supplementation did not prevent allergic sensitization, allergic diseases, or wheezing during the first year of life. in contrast, we observed an increased risk of milk allergy in infants randomized to higher vitamin d supplementation, and an increased risk of allergic sensitization in infants with high cord blood vitamin d status, indicating a possible adverse effect of high concentrations of vitamin d. 
Is combined hormone therapy with estrogen and progestin safe for women in late menopause (after the last menstrual period)? [SEP] observational studies have indicated that hormone therapy given at or after menopause is linked to substantial reduction in cardiovascular disease and its risk factors. in this paper, we review data supporting the use of ht administered to postmenopausal women, showing it to have more benefit than risk for symptom control, prevention of bone mineral loss and fracture, and improvement of the metabolic profile in women who began ht when they were less than 60 years of age and had their last menstrual period less than ten years previous. menopausal hormone therapy, in particular estrogen plus progestin therapy, has been associated with increased breast cancer risk. estrogen therapy started in late postmenopause caused a greater proliferative response than when started in early postmenopause. overall, the greatest proliferative response was observed with combined continuous estrogen + progestin hormone therapy and did not differ significantly in early vs. late nulliparous or parous postmenopausal mice. in contrast, among women with natural menopause, no increased risk of pd was observed with hormone use (estrogen alone or a combined estrogen-progestin regimen). among women with natural menopause for whom the usual treatment is combined estrogen-progestin therapy, no increased risk of pd was observed. observational and randomized studies have suggested that initiation of hormone replacement therapy in early postmenopause could be beneficial from a cardiovascular point of view. clinical judgement, choice of the right dose and estrogen/progestin combination are of pivotal importance to maximize the beneficial effect of estrogen or estrogen-progestin replacement therapy, especially if given within a reasonably short time after the menopause to those women that need this therapy for the relief of menopausal symptoms. in these women, continuation of estrogen or estrogen-progestin replacement therapy may be beneficial. 
Can negative expectancy reduce the effect of pain medications? [SEP] individuals undergoing treatment for a symptom like pain expect that the treatment will reduce the pain. negative emotions increase pain, and it is hypothesized that placebos reduce pain by reducing negative emotions, i.e. negative expectations are formed through verbal suggestions of heightened pain, prior nociceptive and painful experiences and observation of pain in others. moreover, providers' behaviors, environmental cues and the appearance of medical devices can induce negative expectations that dramatically influence pain perception and processing in a variety of pain modalities and patient populations. we measured drug and treatment expectancy effects on pain, attention, and responses to emotional images. pain was additively influenced by treatment expectancy, stimulus expectancy, and drug concentration. it has also been demonstrated that patients who are anxious or expect pain during a procedure, feel more pain because of this negative expectation. in the placebo group, positive expectations significantly reduced activation of the somatosensory cortex during anticipation and of the insula, somatosensory cortex, and amygdala during pain delivery when compared to neutral expectations. within the nocebo group, negative expectations led to significantly increased insula activation during painful stimulation. in conclusion, the experience and neural processing of visceral pain can be increased or decreased by drug-specific expectations. 
Is sex as good an endurance workout as running? [SEP] the current evidence shows that fatigue induced by common running workouts for endurance runners does not counterbalance the potentiation effect in the cmj height. seven highly trained male endurance runners (vo2max = 72.3+/-3.3 ml x kg(-1) x min(-1); mean +/- s) performed three interval running workouts of 10 x 400 m at a speed of 5.94+/-0.19 m x s(-1) (356+/-11.2 m x min(-1)) with a minimum of 4 days recovery between runs. the purposes of this study were to determine whether running economy (re) is adversely affected following intense interval bouts of 10 x 400-m running, and whether there is an interaction effect between re and recovery duration during the workouts. twelve highly trained male endurance athletes [maximal oxygen consumption; vo2max = 72.5 (4.3) ml x kg(-1) x min(-1) mean (sd)] performed three interval running workouts of 10 x 400 m with a minimum of 4 days between runs. however, the group using rpe to monitor exercise intensity had a significantly greater gain in endurance. it is concluded that during aerobic dance the monitoring of exercise intensity with rpe is associated with greater improvement in endurance than is heart rate monitoring. the present study examines whether swim, cycle, and run performance during a triathlon are predicted best by training in the same sport, as suggested by the theory of specificity for the relationship between sport training and performance. using behavioral measures of training (pace, mileage, workouts), multiple regression analyses of questionnaire responses from 624 triathletes (443 men, 181 women) showed pace of training in the same sport to be the best predictor of swim and run performance for both sprint and endurance triathlons. thus, specificity in the relationship between training and performance appears supported, especially for sports that rely more on the body (swim, run) and less on equipment (cycle). a short exercise intervention increased both aerobic capacity and maximum force independent of whether endurance or combined endurance/resistance workouts were performed. 
Can electrical brain stimulation reduce the amount of food eaten? [SEP] three experiments investigate behavioral and biological mechanisms of meal initiation controlled by learning. we demonstrate that: a) aversion to the signalled food markedly reduces consumption but has no effect on eating-related behaviors anticipatory to ingestion; b) naloxone reduces the amount eaten but has no impact on food-anticipatory behaviors; c) dopamine antagonism attenuates food-anticipatory behaviors without influencing amount eaten, and d) satiety signals arising from food in the gut reduce both food-anticipatory behaviors and amount eaten. these results demonstrate that anticipatory (appetitive) and consummatory components of meal initiation can be dissociated and are controlled by different biological mechanisms. cues conditioned to food elicit eating by selectively activating appetitive systems. the determining effect of the sensory qualities of food on amount eaten could be dependent only on a direct action of incoming sensory information on the brain control systems. finally, brain opiates possibly involved in the brain reward system might stimulate oral intake to a larger or lesser degree according to the hedonic hedonic properties of the presented food. valproate alone reduced the latency of eating and enhanced time of eating and the amount of novel food eaten, especially at 300 mg/kg. the changes in pleasantness are highly correlated with the amounts of foods that will be eaten subsequently in a meal. feeding activity in fasted rats resulted in an immediate increase in brain temperature and a decrease in rectal temperature. transformation of the amount of food eaten into the electric signals was performed using electronic weighing machine incorporated into hardware and software system. 
Are plastic kitchen boards more hygienic than wooden ones? [SEP] plastic boards were rinsed for 1 min and wooden boards for 1 and 5 min. this study revealed that new treatment is an effective method for reducing microbial contamination on plastic and wooden cutting boards. in general, wood is said to dull knives less than plastic, and plastic is seen as less porous than wood. small plastic cutting boards can be cleaned in a dishwasher (as can some specially treated wooden boards), but the dishwasher may distribute the bacteria onto other food-contact surfaces. further, one of these studies indicated that use of plastic cutting boards in home kitchens is hazardous, whereas use of wooden cutting boards is not. decontamination of plastic and wooden cutting boards was studied, with a view to preventing cross-contamination of foods in home kitchens. fewer bacteria were generally recovered from wooden blocks than from plastic blocks. the microbiology of plastic and wooden cutting boards was studied, regarding cross-contamination of foods in home kitchens. these results do not support the often-heard assertion that plastic cutting boards are more sanitary than wood. plastic cutting boards have been preferred to wood because they can be washed in dishwashers and used in microwave ovens. 
Does excessive beer or alcohol consumption lead to obesity? [SEP] a systematic review was conducted to assess the evidence linking beer consumption to abdominal and general obesity. data from a subset of studies indicated that beer intake > 500 ml/day may be positively associated with abdominal obesity. data from six experimental studies in men, in which alcoholic beer was compared with low-alcoholic beer, suggested that consumption of alcoholic beer (for 21-126 days) results in weight gain (0.73 kg; p < 0.0001), but data from four studies comparing intake of alcoholic beer with intake of no alcohol did not support this finding. in summary, our results based on a 12-week prospective study provide evidence that moderate intake of beer (traditional and alcohol-free) does not exert vascular detrimental effects nor increases body weight in obese healthy individuals. the high prevalence of frequent alcohol consumption and binge drinking by youth in this study and the substantial number of calories contained in alcoholic beverages suggest alcohol use among youth may warrant consideration in relation to youth obesity prevention. however, for boys, the odds ratio (95% confidence interval [ci]) between becoming overweight and the amount of alcohol consumed was 0.678 (range, 0.534-0.862; p = 0.002) for 2 to <3 bottles of beer and 0.810 (range, 0.674-0.973; p = 0.025) for 3 to <4 bottles of beer. the odds ratio (95% ci) between becoming obese and the amount of alcohol consumed was 0.794 (range, 0.653-0.964; p = 0.020) for 3 to <4 bottles of beer and that between becoming obese and the frequency of severe alcohol intoxication was 0.758 (range, 0.598-0.959; p = 0.021) when alcohol was consumed 1-2 times per month. for girls, the odds ratio (95% ci) between becoming overweight and the amount of alcohol consumed was 0.752 (range, 0.579-0.978; p = 0.033) for 3 to <4 bottles of beer and that between becoming obese and the amount of alcohol consumed was 1.753 (range, 1.033-2.972; p = 0.037) for ≥4 bottles of beer. although weight gain and obesity in boys and girls due to moderate consumption of alcohol are less prevalent, high alcohol consumption can increase weight gain in girls. in conclusion, although heavy and excessive beer consumption exerts deleterious effects on the human body, with increased disease risks on many organs and is associated to significant social problems such as addiction, accidents, violence and crime, data reported in this document show evidence for no harm of moderate beer consumption for major chronic conditions and some benefit against cardiovascular disease. 
Do omega-3 fatty acids or a diet rich in fish help with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] reductions in cardiovascular risk, depression, and rheumatoid arthritis symptoms have been correlated with omega-3 fatty acid intake, and there is increased interest in the use of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation for other psychiatric illnesses and prevention of alzheimer's disease. omega-3 fatty acids also are used to treat hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and rheumatoid arthritis. higher dosages of omega-3 fatty acids are required to reduce elevated triglyceride levels (2 to 4 g per day) and to reduce morning stiffness and the number of tender joints in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (at least 3 g per day). some researchers have hypothesized that omega-3 fatty acids, found primarily in fish oils, may protect against the development of rheumatoid arthritis. consumption of broiled or baked fish, but not of other types of fish, was associated with a decreased risk of rheumatoid arthritis. these results support the hypothesis that omega-3 fatty acids may help prevent rheumatoid arthritis. moreover, an increase in the eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) intake leads to a reduction in the production of inflammatory cytokines (interleukin 1, 2, 6 and tumor necrosis factor); so, it is important to use omega-3 in chronic inflammatory diseases, as the rheumatoid arthritis. evidence from human observational and interventional studies shows that regular fish consumption is associated with reduced incidence of chronic inflammatory conditions like rheumatoid arthritis, and that continuous infusion of fish oil to tube-fed, critically ill patients may improve important outcomes in the icu. indeed, dietary supplementation with omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids has proved efficacious in reducing joint pain, morning stiffness and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs usage in rheumatoid arthritis patients. on the contrary, consumption of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, derived from fish and fish oil, is associated with a reduced risk of ra probably due to their anti-inflammatory properties. 
Does unprocessed red meat increase the risk of cardiovascular disease? [SEP] high processed red meat consumption is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. we evaluated the relation between the consumption of unprocessed and processed red meat and incident hypertension. red meat consumption is associated with increased all-cause and cardiovascular mortality among aa women. to study total, processed, and unprocessed red meat in relation to risk of coronary heart disease (chd) and to estimate the effects of substituting other protein sources for red meat with chd risk. after multivariate adjustment for dietary and non-dietary risk factors, total, unprocessed, and processed red meat intake were each associated with a modestly higher risk of chd (hazard ratio for one serving per day increment: 1.12 (95% confidence interval 1.06 to 1.18) for total red meat, 1.11 (1.02 to 1.21) for unprocessed red meat, and 1.15 (1.06 to 1.25) for processed red meat). high red meat consumption has been associated with increased risk of some cancers and may also be a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. epidemiologic evidence suggests that relationships of red meat consumption with risk of cardiovascular diseases depends on whether or not the meat is processed, including addition of preservatives, but evidence is limited for blood pressure (bp). processed and unprocessed red meat consumption was related to an increase in the presence of atherosclerotic plaques in male and female hypertensive individuals. epidemiologic studies have linked consumption of red or processed meat with obesity, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and cancers. growing evidence suggests that effects of red meat consumption on coronary heart disease (chd) and type 2 diabetes could vary depending on processing. 
Does processed red meat (sausages, ham, bacon) increase the risk of cardiovascular disease??? [SEP] processed red meat (ham, sausages, bacon, frankfurters, salami, etc.) at the same time, there has been growing evidence that high consumption of red meat, especially of processed meat, may be associated with an increased risk of several major chronic diseases. here, a comprehensive summary is provided of the accumulated evidence based on prospective cohort studies regarding the potential adverse health effects of red meat consumption on major chronic diseases, such as diabetes, coronary heart disease, heart failure, stroke and cancer at several sites, and mortality. based on at least six cohorts, summary results for the consumption of unprocessed red meat of 100 g day-1 varied from nonsignificant to statistically significantly increased risk (11% for stroke and for breast cancer, 15% for cardiovascular mortality, 17% for colorectal and 19% for advanced prostate cancer); for the consumption of 50 g day-1 processed meat, the risks were statistically significantly increased for most of the studied diseases (4% for total prostate cancer, 8% for cancer mortality, 9% for breast, 18% for colorectal and 19% for pancreatic cancer, 13% for stroke, 22% for total and 24% for cardiovascular mortality and 32% for diabetes). the evidence-based integrated message is that it is plausible to conclude that high consumption of red meat, and especially processed meat, is associated with an increased risk of several major chronic diseases and preterm mortality. several large cohort studies have shown that a high consumption of processed (red) meat is related to increased overall and cause-specific mortality. a meta-analysis of nine cohort studies observed a higher mortality among high consumers of processed red meat (relative risk (rr) = 1·23; 95 % ci 1·17, 1·28, top v. bottom consumption category), but not unprocessed red meat (rr = 1·10; 95 % ci 0·98, 1·22). increased relative risks were seen in high-quality, adenocarcinoma, cardia and european-population studies for red meat. our findings indicate that consumption of red and/or processed meat contributes to increased gastric cancer risk. this meta-analysis indicates a significant positive association between red and processed meat intake and rcc risk. 
Does hawthorn extract help patients with heart muscle weakness (heart failure)? [SEP] other studies of hawthorn in patients with heart failure have revealed improvement in clinical symptoms, pressure-heart rate product, left ventricular ejection fraction, and patients' subjective sense of well-being. the aim of this meta-analysis was to assess the evidence from rigorous clinical trials of the use of hawthorn extract to treat patients with chronic heart failure. in conclusion, these results suggest that there is a significant benefit from hawthorn extract as an adjunctive treatment for chronic heart failure. hawthorn preparations have a long history in the treatment of heart failure. hawthorn extract is advocated as an oral treatment option for chronic heart failure. to assess the benefits and harms as reported in double-blind randomised clinical trials of hawthorn extract compared with placebo for treating patients with chronic heart failure. these results suggest that there is a significant benefit in symptom control and physiologic outcomes from hawthorn extract as an adjunctive treatment for chronic heart failure. the mechanism(s) by which hawthorn extract may treat heart failure is unknown but may include, theoretically, immunological effects. preparations from crataegus (hawthorn) have a long history in the treatment of heart failure. randomized, controlled trials in patients with heart failure have demonstrated that the herbal medicinal product increases functional capacity, alleviates disabling symptoms, and improves health-related quality of life, all of which have become important targets of heart failure therapy according to current disease management guidelines. 
Is glyphosate carcinogenic? [SEP] the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) published a monograph in 2015 concluding that glyphosate is "probably carcinogenic to humans" (group 2a) based on limited evidence in humans and sufficient evidence in experimental animals. since glyphosate was introduced in 1974, all regulatory assessments have established that glyphosate has low hazard potential to mammals, however, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) concluded in march 2015 that it is probably carcinogenic. after almost forty years of commercial use, and multiple regulatory approvals including toxicology evaluations, literature reviews, and numerous human health risk assessments, the clear and consistent conclusions are that glyphosate is of low toxicological concern, and no concerns exist with respect to glyphosate use and cancer in humans. an independent review by the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) found that glyphosate is a "probable human carcinogen". glyphosate is a widely used broad spectrum herbicide, reported to induce various toxic effects in non-target species, but its carcinogenic potential is still unknown. carcinogenicity study revealed that glyphosate has tumor promoting activity. altogether, these results suggested that glyphosate has tumor promoting potential in skin carcinogenesis and its mechanism seems to be similar to tpa. in 2015, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) concluded that glyphosate is "probably carcinogenic to humans". glyphosate is a widely used herbicide worldwide. the international agency for research on cancer in 2015 declared that glyphosate is probably carcinogenic to humans, noting a positive association for non-hodgkin lymphoma (nhl). 
Does psychotherapy help with burnout? [SEP] solutions to eliminate or decrease the rate of burnout involve institutional changes, primarily respecting weekly working hours, and in more severe cases psychotherapy help is very important. there are some evidence that shows acceptance and commitment therapy is effective to decrease burnout and stigma in clinicians. due to the demands of treating people with psychological problems, burnout is prevalent among psychotherapists. in this article, we present a comprehensive review of 44 quantitative and qualitative studies from the past decade focusing on both the risk factors for, and effects of, burnout among psychotherapists. factors influencing burnout include perceived job control, the nature of psychotherapists' caseload, countertransference reactions, supervisory support, and psychotherapists' mental health history. burnout affects psychotherapists' general well-being, as well as the extent to which clients engage in and benefit from psychotherapy. implications for psychotherapists and their supervisors for burnout prevention and intervention are discussed, and recommendations for further research in this area are identified. the aim of the present systematic review was to (a) explore the levels of both burnout and job stress in psychotherapists, (b) identify tools used to measure work-related stress and burnout, and (c) identify personal risk factors for developing burnout among psychotherapists. over half of sampled psychotherapists reported moderate-high levels of burnout, with the majority of results based on quantitative cross-sectional self-report surveys. it appears that psychotherapists commonly experience some burnout, and personal factors influence burnout development. 
Is electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) in combination with ordinary fitness training more efficient than fitness training alone? [SEP] electrical muscle stimulation (ems) was designed for artificial muscle activation or superimposed training. this scientific analysis revealed that ems is effective for developing physical performance. the ems offers a promising alternative to traditional strength training for enhancing the strength parameters and motor abilities described above. this investigation evaluated training responses to prolonged electrical muscle stimulation (ems) in patients with stable chronic heart failure. finally, in a rehabilitation context, ems is complementary to voluntary exercise because in the early phase of rehabilitation it elicits a strength increase, which is necessary to perform voluntary training during the later rehabilitation sessions. this investigation evaluated training responses to prolonged electrical muscle stimulation (ems) in sedentary adults. these results suggest that ems can be used in sedentary adults to improve physical fitness. our first review from our 2-part series investigated the effects of percutaneous electromyostimulation (ems) on maximal strength, speed strength, jumping and sprinting ability, and power, revealing the effectiveness of different ems methods for the enhancement of strength parameters. on the basis of these results, this second study systematically reviews training regimens and stimulation parameters to determine their influence on the effectiveness of strength training with ems. this paper reviews important findings from studies on the electro-motor stimulation (ems) of human muscles. 
Can vitamin and nutrient supplements prevent the eye disease age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] we found probable evidence that dietary intake of fruits and vegetables, and vitamin c lowered incidence of cataracts and age-related macular degeneration. vitamin a was associated with lower incidence of macular degeneration. the risk of macular degeneration can be reduced through the consumption of antioxidant-rich foods, supplements, and nutraceutical formulas. this review focuses on the antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals that have been reported for reducing the risk of macular degeneration and other eye-related diseases. some observational studies have suggested that people who eat a diet rich in antioxidant vitamins (carotenoids, vitamins c and e) or minerals (selenium and zinc) may be less likely to develop age-related macular degeneration. the aim of this review is to examine the evidence as to whether or not taking vitamin or mineral supplements prevents the development of age-related macular degeneration. there is no evidence to date that people without age-related macular degeneration should take antioxidant vitamin and mineral supplements to prevent or delay the onset of the disease. the objective of this review is to assess the effects of antioxidant vitamin and/or mineral supplementation on the progression of age-related macular degeneration. the question as to whether people with age-related macular degeneration should take antioxidant vitamin or mineral supplements to prevent progression of the disease has not been answered by research to date. to provide a systematic review of the published studies pertaining to the lifestyle modification, dietary, nutritional and vitamins supplements for preventing occurrence or halting deterioration of age-related macular degeneration (amd). 
Can they delay the progression of eye disease? [SEP] outcome measures for each eye were length of time to disease progression, avoidance or delay of ebrt, and globe survival. patients with advanced intraocular disease require more aggressive treatments. disease progression (defined as tumor growth, vitreous or subretinal seed progression, and new tumor formation), delay of external beam radiotherapy, and ocular survival. thirty-six eyes were treated. it is a slowly progressive, delayed-onset disease of retinal blood vessels. in both the sequential cxl and delayed cxl groups, the treated eye(s) showed no evidence of progression after the corneal cxl treatment at last follow-up visit after 358 ± 158 days for sequential cxl and 451 ± 205 days for delayed cxl. delayed cxl carries a risk of progression in the second eye and is associated with a higher economic burden. this finding may not only assist in defining eyes at risk for progressive disease but may also help to elucidate the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration. the results, therefore, show no association between the degree of permanent optic nerve demyelination (as measured by latency delay) and progressive axonal degeneration, at least in the early stages of the disease. ultraviolet corneal collagen cross-linking (cxl) has been shown to possibly delay, halt, or even reverse disease progression in keratoconus. 
Do milk or dairy products promote colon cancer and rectal cancer? [SEP] the summary rr for high milk and dairy product intake, respectively, on colon cancer risk was 0.78 (95% ci = 0.67-0.92) and 0.84 (95% ci = 0.75-0.95). higher consumption of milk/dairy products reduces the risk of colon cancer, and high calcium intake reduces the risk of crc. this meta-analysis supports the inverse association between nonfermented milk consumption and risk of colon cancer in men, and provides an evidence base to assist in the formulation of dietary guidelines involving dairy foods. in finnish citizens followed for 19 to 24 years for cancer incidence, different consumption patterns of dairy items had different relationships with colon and rectal carcinogenesis. after adjustment for potential confounding variables, colorectal cancer risk was weakly inversely associated with the consumption of fermented milk [relative rate (rr) in the highest category of intake compared to nonusers, 0.89; 95% confidence interval (ci), 0.60, 1.33], unfermented milk (rr, 0.86; 95% ci, 0.57, 1.29), and cheese (rr, 0.88; 95% ci, 0.59, 1.33). calcium from unfermented dairy products was inversely associated with rectal cancer risk (rr, 0.55; 95% ci, 0.30, 1.04; trend, p = 0.03). according to world cancer research fund international/american institute for cancer research, it is 'probable' that dairy products decrease the risk of colorectal cancer (crc). the aim of this study was to examine the association between milk intake and risk of crc, colon cancer and rectal cancer among women. our study indicates that there may be a weak inverse association between milk intake and risk of colon cancer among women. there was a modest direct association between milk and dairy products and prostate cancer, and a moderate inverse one for colorectal cancer. 
Does yoga change the genetic makeup? [SEP] yoga is an ancient indian technique of healthy living. numerous studies have corroborated yoga's beneficial effects, including a favorable influence on autonomic function and negative emotions. this, in turn, has accentuated yoga's relevance as a powerful preventive intervention in noncommunicable diseases (ncd). we investigated the effect of a single yoga session on the perception of pain, measured by a standardized pain provocation test in healthy yoga participants while also comparing pain perception to participants' own expectations. regardless of the high positive expectations on the influence of yoga on pain, a single yoga session does not significantly influence pain perception induced by a pain provocation test. hypoalgesic effects of yoga should be explained otherwise. does the heated practice environment enhance the effects of bikram yoga on endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in healthy, middle-aged adults? these findings highlight the efficacy of yoga postures in producing improvements in vascular health and downplay the necessity of the heated practice environment in inducing vascular adaptations. to compare markers of health associated with chronic diseases between yoga and non-yoga participants. this research supports that yoga participation is associated with lower pss and bdi-ii scores but does not support a relationship with markers of inflammation. 
Which of the three most common laser eye surgeries produces the best results and has the fewest side effects? [SEP] sequentially selected patient eyes had laser in situ keratomileusis surgery by the same surgeon using 1 of 3 lasers (visx star s4, ladarvision 4000, wavelight allegretto) with a conventional algorithm or with wavefront-guided software. on average, all lasers improved uncorrected visual acuity and best spectacle-corrected visual acuity, produced predictable refractive change, and induced higher-order aberrations (hoas). these results document that different laser platforms achieve statistically significantly different outcomes depending on refractive, patient, and surgical variables. the aim of this study was to review and meta-analyze whether there are differences between reported femtosecond (fs) lasers for laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (lasik) in terms of efficacy, predictability, and safety as primary outcomes and corneal flap thickness measurements and pre- and postoperative complications as secondary outcomes. intralase and wavelight sf200 had the fewest intraoperative complications. intralase, visumax, and wavelight fs200 had the most seldom postoperative complications. there were dissimilarities between different fs lasers based on efficacy and intraoperative and postoperative complications. the best course of management consists of the most appropriate laser that will produce the most complete clearing of a lesion in the fewest treatment sessions with the least morbidity. conventional lasik to correct myopia and myopic astigmatism was safe and effective using the alcon ladarvision 4000 excimer laser system. seven eyes were treated using a 500-hz scanning spot laser for laser in situ keratomileusis (lasik). 
Can electromagnetic fields with a specific pattern (pulsed electromagnetic fields, PEMF) heal injuries? [SEP] several clinical studies have suggested the impact of sinusoidal and pulsed electromagnetic fields in quickening wound repair processes and tissue regeneration. the clinical use of extremely low-frequency electromagnetic fields could represent a novel frontier in tissue repair and oral health, with an interesting clinical perspective. there is evidence that electromagnetic stimulation may accelerate the healing of tissue damage following ischemia. substantial data indicate that exposure to electromagnetic field can lead to enhanced healing in both soft and hard tissues. preliminary biological studies performed on rats show that exposure of laboratory animals to pulsed electromagnetic fields enhanced the healing of periodontitis. effects of pulsing electromagnetic fields (pemfs) on ligament healing were investigated using 80 rabbits. the objective of this work was to study the effect of pulsed electromagnetic fields on wound healing in rats. there is a basic consensus on the biological effects of pulsed electromagnetic fields (pemfs) on bone formation and bone reconstruction. pulsed electromagnetic field (pemf) therapy can non-invasively treat a variety of pathologies by delivering electric and magnetic fields to tissues via inductive coils. the therapeutic application of pulsed electromagnetic fields (pemfs) can accelerate healing after bone fractures and also alleviate pain according to several studies. 
Does the drug fingolimod reduce the progression of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis similarly or better than previous drugs? [SEP] results from phase ii and iii clinical trials provide robust evidence of the efficacy of fingolimod in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. the pharmacologic data on fingolimod and its efficacy and safety in multiple sclerosis are reviewed in this paper. our real-world data confirm that fingolimod is an effective therapeutic strategy for children with relapsing ms, and its use could be considered in pediatric patients with active disease. to evaluate retrospectively the effectiveness and safety of fingolimod in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis who were prescribed fingolimod by uk neurologists within the national health service. fingolimod was effective in reducing the disease activity in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis patients requiring an escalation from first-line therapies who were prescribed fingolimod in clinical practice in the uk. the clinical trials that led to the approval of fingolimod demonstrated benefit on relapses, disability progression, magnetic resonance imaging (mri) activity, and brain volume loss in treatment-naïve and previously treated patients with relapsing-remitting ms. fingolimod (gilenya--novartis) is a new treatment for patients with highly active relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. the efficacy of the innovative oral drug fingolimod has been proven in the largest study program in multiple sclerosis (ms) demonstrating reduced relapse and reduced disability progression in relapsing-remitting ms patients. fingolimod was the first oral disease-modifying drug approved for the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (ms). the objective was to evaluate two clinical trials of fingolimod in relapsing ms. freedoms (fty720 research evaluation effects of daily oral therapy in multiple sclerosis), a phase iii placebo-controlled trial, showed that fingolimod (0.5 or 1.25 mg) reduced the relapse rate and disability in ms, compared with placebo. 
Can cancer be successfully fought with intentionally induced fever? [SEP] he fought for 10 years successfully against yellow fever, malaria, and other diseases during the construction of the panama canal, and continued triumphs against disease in other world situations. intravenously administered antimicrobial agents have been the standard choice for the empirical management of fever in patients with cancer and granulocytopenia. in a prospective, open-label, multicenter trial, we randomly assigned febrile patients with cancer who had granulocytopenia that was expected to resolve within 10 days to receive empirical therapy with either oral ciprofloxacin (750 mg twice daily) plus amoxicillin-clavulanate (625 mg three times daily) or standard daily doses of intravenous ceftriaxone plus amikacin. all patients were hospitalized until their fever resolved. the results were similar in the intention-to-treat analysis (80 percent and 77 percent, respectively; p=0.03), as were the duration of fever, the time to a change in the regimen, the reasons for such a change, the duration of therapy, and survival. in low-risk patients with cancer who have fever and granulocytopenia, oral therapy with ciprofloxacin plus amoxicillin-clavulanate is as effective as intravenous therapy. the focus has therefore shifted to the immune system's role in cancer and the striking abilities of cancer cells to manipulate and/or deactivate the immune system. researchers and pharma companies have started to target the processes and cells known to support immune surveillance and the elimination of tumor cells. sheelagh fought her illness with characteristic courage and black humour but, ultimately, an aggressive cancer defeated her. the second case, revealed by fever and abdominal pain, was successfully managed by medical treatment. 
Can some forms of headache be successfully treated with heat? [SEP] headache is considered as a common symptom of heat stress disorders (hsd), but no forms of secondary headache from heat exposure are reported in the international classification of headache disorders-2 edition (ichd-ii). here we report the case of a patient who developed a headache clinical picture fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for new daily persistent headache (ndph), after an exertional hs, and discuss about possible pathophysiological mechanisms and classification aspects of headache induced by heat conditions. there is no sure cure for tension headache, and often, several of the many remedies-ethyl chloride spray, moist heat, massage, antidepressant drugs, analgesics, local anesthetics, etc.-must be tried before an effective one is found. the revised technique was used to treat 51 nerves in 49 patients diagnosed as suffering from third occipital headache on the basis of controlled diagnostic blocks of the third occipital nerve. no side effects required intervention, and they were tolerated by the patients in exchange for the relief of headache. no other form of treatment has been validated for this common form of headache. following evidence that acupuncture is clinically feasible and cost-effective in the treatment of headache, the uk national institute for health and care excellence recommends acupuncture as prophylactic treatment for migraine and tension headache. there has thus been expectation that other forms of headache should benefit also. following evidence that acupuncture is clinically feasible and cost-effective in the treatment of headache, the uk national institute for health and care excellence recommends acupuncture as prophylactic treatment for migraine and tension headache. there has thus been expectation that other forms of headache should benefit also. 
Does electro-acupuncture on the ear help against pain? [SEP] electro-acupuncture is considered a potentially useful treatment for osteoarthritis. the purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of electro-acupuncture on pain control, pain perception, plasma cortisol and beta-endorphin levels, patient-perceived quality of life, and pain medication use in patients with chronic knee pain. the findings from this study will help to determine whether electro-acupuncture is effective for chronic knee pain management in older people and whether electro-acupuncture can deliver results for the improvement of pain relief, stiffness, and disability. electro-acupuncture (ea) can help pain-relieving with minimal physiologic disturbance. electric ear acupuncture provides postoperative analgesia, reducing morphine requirement and consequently its side effects. the aim of this study was to find out the effects of acupuncture or electro-acupuncture on post-cesarean pain. the electro-acupuncture group was found to exhibit a lower pain intensity and a better degree of relaxation than the control group (p = 0.018; p = 0.031). brainstem auditory evoked responses were recorded in 17 patients with chronic pain who had been given electro-acupuncture therapy. introduction: although the clinical use of electro-acupuncture is widespread, the neuromodulating influence of various applied frequencies is not well established. but electro-acupuncture also showed functional improvement in the lumbar spine from the odi. 
Does treatment with the new drug erenumab reduce the number of migraine days per month? [SEP] at week 12, 36 (30%) patients in the erenumab had a 50% or greater reduction from baseline in the mean number of monthly migraine days, compared with 17 (14%) in the placebo group (odds ratio 2·7 [95% ci 1·4-5·2]; p=0·002). the mean number of migraine days per month at baseline was 8.3 in the overall population; by months 4 through 6, the number of days was reduced by 3.2 in the 70-mg erenumab group and by 3.7 in the 140-mg erenumab group, as compared with 1.8 days in the placebo group (p<0.001 for each dose vs. placebo). a 50% or greater reduction in the mean number of migraine days per month was achieved for 43.3% of patients in the 70-mg erenumab group and 50.0% of patients in the 140-mg erenumab group, as compared with 26.6% in the placebo group (p<0.001 for each dose vs. placebo), and the number of days of use of acute migraine-specific medication was reduced by 1.1 days in the 70-mg erenumab group and by 1.6 days in the 140-mg erenumab group, as compared with 0.2 days in the placebo group (p<0.001 for each dose vs. placebo). monthly subcutaneous administration (70 mg or 140 mg) of erenumab vs placebo for 3-6 months showed significantly higher efficacy in reducing the mean monthly number of migraine days and the use of migraine-specific medication, and in decreasing physical impairment and impact of migraine on everyday activities (p<0.001). in this predominantly refractory chronic migraine population treated in select headache centers, patients had fewer headache/migraine days per month and outpatient visits after initiating erenumab. erenumab (erenumab-aooe in the us) effectively reduces monthly migraine days in episodic and chronic migraine. cumulative monthly migraine pain decreased significantly with erenumab versus placebo (p < 0.001, for episodic migraine and chronic migraine). erenumab reduced cumulative monthly migraine pain in episodic migraine and chronic migraine patients and significantly reduced monthly average migraine pain in episodic migraine, demonstrating treatment benefit beyond reduction in migraine frequency.clinical trial registration: clinicaltrials.gov, nct02456740; clinicaltrials.gov, nct02066415. conclusion the use of erenumab may be a cost-effective approach to preventing monthly migraine days among patients with chronic migraine versus onabotulinumtoxina and no preventive treatment in the societal and payer perspectives, but is less likely to offer good value for money for those with episodic migraine, unless lost productivity costs are considered. patients without a clinically meaningful improvement, considered as a > 30% reduction in headache days per month, after ≥3 months of therapy switched to monthly erenumab 140 mg. at the first administration and after 3 and 6 months, patients underwent extensive interviews to assess clinical parameters of disease severity and migraine-related disability and impact, and validated questionnaires to explore depression/anxiety, sleep, and quality of life (qol). 
Is screening by optical coherence tomography superior to conventional examinations for the early detection of diabetic macular edema? [SEP] to evaluate optical coherence tomography, a new technique for high-resolution cross-sectional imaging of the retina, for quantitative assessment of retinal thickness in patients with macular edema. survey examination with optical coherence tomography of patients with macular edema. in patients with diabetic retinopathy, measurements of central macular thickness with optical coherence tomography correlated with visual acuity, and optical coherence tomography was more sensitive than slit-lamp biomicroscopy to small changes in retinal thickness. optical coherence tomography appears useful for objectively monitoring retinal thickness with high resolution in patients with macular edema. to study the relationship between retinal vessel diameter and qualitative and quantitative evaluations on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetic macular edema. to describe potential pitfalls in the use of optical coherence tomography for management of diabetic macular edema. review of optical coherence tomographs in 13 eyes with clinically significant diabetic macular edema from 11 consecutive patients in a private retina practice. diabetic macular edema has several patterns on optical coherence tomography. eleven eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema on optical coherence tomography and eight control eyes with 20/20 best-corrected visual acuity were enrolled. recent advances in retinal imaging like the introduction of spectral-domain and swept source-based optical coherence tomography (oct), fundus autofluorescence (faf), oct angiography, and ultrawide field imaging and ffa have helped clinicians in the detection of certain biomarkers that can identify disease at an early stage and predict response to treatment in diabetic macular edema. 
Does the treatment of diabetes-related retinal diseases by injection of VEGF inhibitors provide an advantage compared to conventional laser treatment? [SEP] navigated laser therapy is being used with good success in the treatment of diabetic macular oedema (dmo), retinal vein occlusions (rvo) and fastpattern navigated panretinal photocoagulation in proliferative diabetic retinopathy (pdr). in centre-involving dmo, a combination of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and macular laser may provide advantages over anti-vegf monotherapy. in terms of navigated laser therapy, recent study data from our clinic and other institutions indicate that combined initial anti-vegf and navigated macular laser therapy allows treatment success to be achieved and maintained with a significantly reduced number of interventions. to discuss the current role of laser therapies in the management of retinal vascular and neovascular diseases. laser's role in the management of diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, and venous occlusive disease is discussed, with emphasis on comparing laser with anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) therapy and discussion of situations where these treatment methods can be complementary. the introduction of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors (anti-vegf) and subsequent clinical trials demonstrating their efficacy for treatment of diabetic eye disease have established a new standard in treatment of center-involved diabetic macular edema that is highly specific to the pathologic process and highly effective in preserving and improving vision. this review focuses on clinically relevant developments that led to the shift from focal/grid laser photocoagulation to anti-vegf injections in the treatment of center-involved diabetic macular edema (dme), with an overview of the disease pathophysiology, clinical disease course, and available anti-vegf agents. this article also reviews the scientific evidence exploring the use of anti-vegf agents in nonproliferative and proliferative diabetic retinopathy. the role of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf), including in retinal vascular diseases, has been well studied, and pharmacological blockade of vegf is the gold standard of treatment for neovascular age-related macular degeneration, retinal vein occlusion and diabetic macular oedema. comparative effectiveness research studies in patients with diabetic retinal disease have shown that treatment that inhibits both vegf and pgf may provide superior outcomes in certain patients compared with treatment that inhibits only vegf. 
Do saw palmetto preparations help with benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] d-004 (400 mg/kg) was more effective (p < 0.05) than saw palmetto (400 mg/kg) in lowering prostate enlargement. saw palmetto is an herbal product used in the treatment of symptoms related to benign prostatic hyperplasia. studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of saw palmetto in reducing symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia. saw palmetto is a frequently used botanical agent in benign prostatic enlargement (bph). the use of saw palmetto in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia is safe with no recognized adverse effects. the saw palmetto for treatment of enlarged prostates (step) study was a randomized clinical trial performed among 225 men with moderate-to-severe symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, comparing a standardized extract of the saw palmetto berry (160 mg twice daily) with a placebo over a 1-year period. nowadays, saw palmetto extracts are widely used in europe and north america to treat the urinary symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia even though its mechanisms of action are poorly understood. saw palmetto is an herb used to treat the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia. to evaluate whether saw palmetto supplements are associated with a reduced risk of prostate cancer, we conducted a prospective cohort study of 35,171 men aged 50-76 yr in western washington state. saw palmetto is the most popular herbal supplement used to treat symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). 
Do plant extracts of African plum tree, beta-sitosterol or ryegrass pollen extract (Cernilton) help benign prostate enlargement? [SEP] the objective of this study was to critically review the published literature on the role of phytotherapeutic agents and phytosterols (also referred to as plant extracts) in the medical management of benign prostatic hyerplasia. a number of plant extracts are being used in the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia, predominantly in europe. their alleged efficacy may be based upon a mechanism which is currently not understood and a combination of these extracts with accepted medications may have the potential of improving the overall efficacy of medical therapy in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. sixty patients with outflow obstruction due to benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph) were entered into a double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of a 6-month course of the pollen extract, cernilton. this systematic review aims to assess the effects of cernilton on urinary symptoms and flow measures in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). this systematic review aims to assess the effects of cernilton on urinary symptoms and flow measures in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). the pollen extract, cernilton, is reported to be effective in the treatment of this condition and we present the results of an open trial with cernilton in a group of 15 patients with chronic prostatitis and prostatodynia. we examined the available data from clinical trials for certain botanicals used for lower urinary tract symptoms secondary to benign prostatic hyperplasia, including serenoa repens (saw palmetto), pygeum africanum (african plum), secale cereale (rye pollen) and hypoxis rooperi (south african star grass). to systematically review the evidence for the clinical effects and safety of the rye-grass pollen extract (cernilton) in men with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (bph). clinical symptoms of prostatitis, prostatodynia, and benign prostatic hyperplasia are relieved by the pollen extract cernilton, and the water-soluble fraction of this extract selectively inhibits growth of some prostate cancer cells. 
Does not wearing bras provide medical benefits? [SEP] because women wear brassieres (bras) daily, their scapular motion may be restricted by the garment; however, the influence of bra wearing on this motion has not been reported. subjects performed scapular plane arm elevation while wearing or not wearing bras. the scapular upward and internal rotation angles and the posterior tilt angle were significantly smaller with the subjects wearing bras than not wearing bras. bra wearing may influence shoulder kinematics. participants perceived less breast discomfort and breast movement when wearing a compression bra compared to an encapsulation bra at a high gait speed, suggesting that compression bras are likely to provide the most effective support for chinese women. our research with breast cancer patients and the literature reveal that ready-to-wear bras are inadequate for the variety of patients' needs, and many women lack support and guidance to make decisions about undergarments after cancer. ill-fitting bras and insufficient breast support can lead to the development of musculoskeletal pain and inhibit women participating in physical activity. this study aimed to identify features of commercially available sports bras that deter women from wearing them while participating in physical activity. the new style bra significantly reduced vertical breast displacement and acceleration more consistently than other bras. additional investigation is required to examine the mechanistic reasons why bras improve comfort and potentially performance. 
Are there medical benefits to wearing a bra? [SEP] despite the widespread use of bras among u.s. women and concerns in the lay media that bra wearing may increase breast cancer risk, there is a scarcity of credible scientific studies addressing this issue. the goal of the study was to evaluate the relationship between various bra-wearing habits and breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. for women undergoing median sternotomy, especially those with a bra cup size c or larger, breast support can reduce pain, wound breakdown, and infection. it was concluded that, although encapsulating sports bras have been shown to effectively reduce breast motion and associated exercise-induced breast discomfort, these bras were not the breast support option most commonly chosen by young women during physical activity. it is recommended that all women, irrespective of breast size, be educated on the importance of wearing a well-fitted and supportive bra during physical activity to decrease excessive strain on breast tissue structures and related breast discomfort. subjects performed scapular plane arm elevation while wearing or not wearing bras. the scapular upward and internal rotation angles and the posterior tilt angle were significantly smaller with the subjects wearing bras than not wearing bras. bra wearing may influence shoulder kinematics. although bra-body armour integration was not dependent upon breast size, female soldiers with medium-large breasts reported significantly more breast discomfort and injuries when using body armour compared to participants with small breasts. these findings highlight the importance of developing body armour systems that cater to the range of breast sizes of female soldiers in order to improve bra-body armour integration and reduce breast discomfort and injury. 
Can oral vein products containing herbal active ingredients such as rutosides, hidrosmin, diosmin, extracts of horse chestnut seed and pine bark, Centella asiatica or grape seed extract or the synthetic substances calcium dobesilate or aminaftone relieve symptoms such as itching, restless or swollen legs, pain and cramps in people suffering from varicose veins or chronic venous insufficiency? [SEP] randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trials (rcts) assessing the efficacy of rutosides, hidrosmine, diosmine, calcium dobesilate, chromocarbe, centella asiatica, disodium flavodate, french maritime pine bark extract, grape seed extract and aminaftone in cvi patients at any stage of the disease. four clinical trials in patients with chronic venous insufficiency and 1 study in patients with varicose veins demonstrated the effectiveness of these preparations through the objective measure of reduction in lower leg edema and the subjective alleviation of leg pain, heaviness, and itching. the following available venotonic, hemorheologic, and fibrinolytic agents were reviewed for oral management in treating vlus: pentoxifylline, flavonoids (diosmin, hidrosmin, rutosides, and micronized purified flavonoid fraction, vasculera), red-vine-leaf-extract as 195, ruscus, ginkgo biloba, centella asiatica, pycnogenol (french maritime pine bark), escin/horse chestnut extract, nutritional supplements (ie, zinc and magnesium, glycosaminoglycans [sulodexide], mesoglycans), axaven, cilostazol, fibrinolytic enhancers (stanozolol and defibrotide), calcium dobesilate, aspirin, antibiotics (antimicrobials, doxycycline, levamisole), diuretics, cinnarizine, naftazone, and benzarone. additionally, this paper describes substances of plant origin used in the treatment of venous insufficiency. the flavonoids include quercetin derivatives, micronized purified flavonoid fraction (daflon), natural pine bark extract (pycnogenol), and others such as triterpene saponine, extracts from ruscus aculeatus and centella asiatica, ginkgo biloba extract, coumarin dereivatives that are used in chronic venous insufficiency. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a flavonoid compound, containing troxerutin, diosmin and horse chestnut extract on in vitro model on huvecs cells, due to its production of vasculoregulatory and vasculotropic molecules, on an ex-vivo model on mesenteric vessel contraction, to regularize mesenteric microcirculation and on in vivo model of cvi-induced by saphene vein ligation. furthermore, the flavonoid compound capacity of extensibility and compatibility with peripheral veins was investigated through a tissue block culture study. for the first time, this research revealed the therapeutic potential of a compound, enriched with flavonoids, to be a supportive treatment, suitable to reduce varicose vein pathophysiology and to regularize venous tone. the aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of venostasin (horse chestnut seed extract) and pycnogenol (french maritime pine bark extract) in the treatment of chronic venous insufficiency (cvi). in conclusions, rutosides appear to relieve symptoms of venous insufficiency in late pregnancy. 
Do vein preparations for external use help with varicose veins or chronic venous insufficiency? [SEP] the aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of reconstructive surgery of primary deep venous insufficiency in preventing recurrent varicose veins. retrospective analysis of patients affected by recurrent varicose veins submitted to external banding valvuloplasty of the superficial femoral vein. venous disease, including varicose veins and chronic venous insufficiency, is one of the most common chronic medical conditions. the aim of this study is to emphasize the role of treatment of varicose veins in the prevention of adverse events such as sudden death from acute haemorrhage. to review epidemiologic data on progression of venous pathology in varicose veins and from varicose veins towards chronic venous insufficiency. lower limb varicose veins are the main cause of chronic venous insufficiency, and the classic treatment includes surgery and compressive therapy. minimally invasive alternative treatments for varicose veins include new techniques such as venous thermal ablation using laser or radiofrequency. to determine the relation between pelvic varicose veins and lower extremity venous insufficiency in women with chronic pelvic pain. the presence of pelvic varicose veins is significantly associated with lower extremity venous insufficiency. to compare the validity of a careful clinical examination with venous doppler studies in the management of patients presenting with varicose veins. 
Do milk or dairy products promote bladder cancer? [SEP] evidence has suggested that dairy product consumption lowers the risk of several cancers, but these benefits may not occur with bladder cancer. in a cohort of 101,721 subjects in the prostate, lung, colorectal, and ovarian (plco) cancer screening trial, we analyzed the effects of dairy product intake on bladder cancer risk using cox proportional hazards regression. some studies have reported that milk and dairy product consumption reduces bladder cancer incidence, whereas others have reported null or opposite findings. in conclusion, the present meta-analysis suggests a decreased risk of bladder cancer associated with medium consumption of total dairy products and with medium and high consumption of milk and fermented dairy products. an increased risk of bladder cancer was observed with high consumption of whole milk. dairy product intake and bladder cancer risk were significantly associated, and milk intake and bladder cancer risk more so. our study shows an inverse association between milk consumption and bladder cancer risk. to explore potential relations between the intake of milk or dairy products and the risk of bladder cancer. inconsistent associations between milk and other dairy product consumption and bladder cancer (bc) have been reported. we aimed to examine the association between the intake of cultured milk and other dairy foods and the incidence of bladder cancer in a prospective, population-based cohort. 
Do milk or dairy products promote prostate cancer? [SEP] dietary choices may play an important role in developing prostate cancer; in particular, a higher dairy product intake has been associated with an increased risk of developing prostate cancer. dairy products have been indicated as a risk factor for prostate cancer. in summary, a high intake of dairy products such as milk increased the risk of developing prostate cancer in japanese men. dairy product and calcium intakes have been associated with increased prostate cancer risk, but whether specific dairy products or calcium sources are associated with risk is unclear. high intakes of dairy products, milk, low-fat milk, cheese, and total, dietary, and dairy calcium, but not supplemental or nondairy calcium, may increase total prostate cancer risk. the diverging results for types of dairy products and sources of calcium suggest that other components of dairy rather than fat and calcium may increase prostate cancer risk. this review of the literature aims to study potential associations between high consumption of milk and/or dairy products and prostate cancer (pc). milk and dairy product consumption has been associated with an increase in prostate cancer risk; however, discrepancies have been observed in the literature. in conclusion, this study supports the hypothesis that dairy products, especially milk, are involved in the etiology of prostate cancer. these findings, together with the previous study, suggest that the consumption of milk and dairy products increases the risk of prostate cancer. 
Do green tea products provide effective and safe support for weight loss? [SEP] after 90 days of treatment, significant weight loss and decreased body mass index (bmi) were observed in the group taking the herbal extract (14-kg loss in the green tea group compared to a 5-kg loss in the diet-only group); waistline was reduced only in male subjects. there is some supportive evidence for the use of green tea in cancer prevention. drinking green tea is associated with a decrease in all-cause mortality, but not in cancer-related mortality. small clinical studies have found that green tea may also be helpful in losing and managing weight, and lowering cholesterol. green tea appears to be safe, although there have been case reports of hepatotoxicity possibly related to a specific extract in pill or beverage form. there has been a sizable amount of research on the potential effect of green tea catechins for cancer risk, cardiovascular disease risk and weight loss; all conditions that are relevant to mid-life health. there are a considerable number of rcts to suggest that green tea does reduce body weight in the short term, but this not likely to be of clinical relevance. tea extracts are used in many over-the-counter preparations claiming to promote weight loss. the investigators in this study tested the potential of increasing doses of a mixture of three extracts (50-percent black tea, 20-percent green tea, and 30-percent mulberry) to induce weight loss, steatorrhea, and blood lipid alterations in rats ingesting a high-fat diet, ad lib. literature predicted positive weight-loss effects for green tea and ginger while garcinia was reported for both positive and negative effects. 
Can monk's pepper help with cycle disorders? [SEP] it was found that a co2 extract of the seeds of the mediterranean plant vitex agnus castus (monk's pepper) can be used as a spray to keep away especially ixodes ricinus and rhipicephalus sanguineus ticks from animals and humans for at least 6 h. in addition mosquitoes, biting flies and fleas are also repelled for about 6 h. camel milk has been used for the treatment of allergies to cow milk, diabetes, and autism. camel milk helps decrease cholesterol levels in blood and improves metabolism. monk fruit sweetener is a natural, 0-calorie sweetener with many health-beneficial functions. monk fruit sweetener helps decrease symptoms of asthma and diabetes, prevents oxidation and cancer, protects the liver, regulates immune function, and lowers glucose levels. monk fruit sweetener can be added in camel milk yogurts as a health-beneficial 0-calorie sweetener. "monk's hat" and "pomegranate" were less discriminating than other items, limiting their usefulness in clinical setting. the present study shows that a combination of an extract of the seeds of the plant vitex agnus castus (monk pepper) and the compound paramenthan-3,8-diol (which is also found in some plants, e.g. in order to advance in the understanding of ci in pepper fruits, the cell ultrastructure alterations induced by ci and the physiological and metabolic changes have been studied along with the proteomic study. the comparative proteomic analysis between control and chilled fruits reveals that the main alterations induced by ci in bell pepper fruits are linked to redox homeostasis and carbohydrate metabolism. 
Does brisk walking lower mortality? Is some exercise better than none at all? [SEP] to determine the self-selected exercise intensity of older adults who report that they walk briskly for exercise. these findings demonstrated that regular participation in brisk walking and tai chi have significant beneficial effects on executive function and fitness. this finding lends support for a role of brisk walking in weight management. the study prospectively investigated the relationship of vigorous exercise and brisk walking to the incidence of obesity (bmi ≥ 30) among african-american women aged <40 years. brisk walking has been identified as an activity suited to meet american college of sport medicine/centers for disease control and prevention recommendations for moderate intensity exercise (55-69% hr(max), 40-59% vo(2)r). instructing individuals to "walk briskly" prompts more vigorous activity. regular walking is associated with reduced risk of fracture and, in our recent randomized trial, reduced calcaneal bone loss relative to controls. the present follow-up study compared the effects on dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, ultrasound and biochemical indices of bone density and metabolism of (i) taking up (ii) continuing with and (iii) ceasing brisk walking for exercise. women taking up brisk walking for exercise showed no change in bmd but a significant increase in calcaneal bua. thirty and 45 min of brisk walking provided a similar reduction of the postprandial glucose response (study 5). 
Can arthroscopy reduce pain or improve mobility? [SEP] intra-articular injections of hyaluronic acid products may eliminate pain, improve mobility and quality of life, and delay osteoarthritis progression. patients with osteoarthritis and a symptomatic meniscus tear may experience more pain relief and functional mobility after arthroscopic surgery plus hyaluronic acid injections than after arthroscopy alone. a prospective, randomized study was undertaken to compare arthroscopy and arthrocentesis for treatment of temporomandibular joint disorders. therapeutic success was not significantly different for arthroscopy and arthrocentesis; both surgical modalities are useful for decreasing patient reports of pain while increasing functional mobility of the mandible. although the 2 groups showed substantial improvement after arthroscopy, when comparing differences in outcomes between the groups, the absolute postoperative pain level for group o was significantly lower than for group y (p < .05). groups y and o showed substantial improvement in pain (vas) and mandibular mobility (mio) after surgical tmj arthroscopy. a case series of patients with vulvodynia and fai underwent physical therapy, and, if hip symptoms did not improve, arthroscopy. arthroscopy is increasingly used to improve pain and function in athletes with hip joint pathology. investigate pain and function outcomes following hip arthroscopy with and without femoral osteoplasty in individuals with intra-articular hip pathology. current evidence indicates that hip arthroscopy can significantly reduce pain and improve function in patients with intra-articular hip pathology. 
Do health benefits increase with duration and intensity of exercise? [SEP] in terms of exercise effects, there are multiple benefits of exercise related to human health. increases in intensity and duration of exercise training are necessary for significant fitness benefits, weight loss, and prevention of weight regain. the psychological benefits of exercise are repeatedly and consistently reported in the literature. various forms of exercise, varying in duration and intensity, yield comparably positive changes in affect, which sheds doubt on the significance of exercise characteristics in the acute mental health benefits resulting from physical activity. this narrative review focuses on research evidence demonstrating that the duration and intensity of physical activity are not mediatory factors in the mental health benefits of acute exercise. we will further discuss the effects of exercise parameters, in particular exercise frequency, intensity, duration and modality to improve cognitive health. exercise can increase longevity and improve overall health and quality of life. specifically, individuals who frequently exercise strenuously and for longer time intervals have the same mortality rates as sedentary individuals. the findings from this study may help resolve the following unanswered questions, "for a given exercise dose does higher exercise intensity result in greater health benefits?" "for a given exercise intensity does higher exercise dose result in greater health benefits?". 
