0-dimensional biomaterials lack inductive properties. [SEP] such biomaterials--osteoinductive biomaterials--hold great potential for the development of new therapies in bone regeneration. here we review the properties of osteoinductive biomaterials, in the light of the model and the conditions under which they were tested. lack of such knowledge precludes formulation of engineered scaffolds or tissue constructs that would deliver specific growth-inductive signals required for improved tissue restoration. in the past decade, two-dimensional (2d) biomaterials, as a unique nanoplatform with planar topology, have attracted explosive interest in various fields such as biomedicine due to their unique morphology, physicochemical properties and biological effect. a comprehensive summary of 2d biomaterials for biomedicine is still lacking. in this comprehensive review, we aim to concentrate on the state-of-the-art 2d biomaterials with a particular focus on their versatile biomedical applications. in particular, we discuss the design, fabrication and functionalization of 2d biomaterials used for diverse biomedical applications based on the up-to-date progress. furthermore, the interactions between 2d biomaterials and biological systems on the spatial-temporal scale are highlighted, which will deepen the understanding of the underlying action mechanism of 2d biomaterials aiding their design with improved functionalities. generally, natural biomaterials lack good mechanical properties for skin tissue engineering. in this review, we summarize the recent progress in fabricating bioinspired materials with the emphasis on mimicking the structure from one to three dimensions. 
1 in 5 million in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] of the 32,441 appendix samples 16 were positive for abnormal prp, indicating an overall prevalence of 493 per million population (95% confidence interval 282 to 801 per million). this study corroborates previous studies and suggests a high prevalence of infection with abnormal prp, indicating vcjd carrier status in the population compared with the 177 vcjd cases to date. two previous appendectomy sample surveys (appendix-1 and -2) estimated the prevalence of abnormal prion protein (prp) in the british population exposed to bse to be 237 per million and 493 per million, respectively. the appendix-3 survey was recommended to measure the prevalence of abnormal prp in population groups thought to have been unexposed to bse. seven appendices were positive for abnormal prp, of which two were from the pre-bse-exposure era and five from the post bse-exposure period. there was no statistical difference in the prevalence of abnormal prp across birth and exposure cohorts. either there is a low background prevalence of abnormal prp in human lymphoid tissues that may not progress to vcjd. if, however, this is the case, then a finding of 1 out of 9160 gives a prevalence of disease-related prion protein in the british population of 109 per million, with a 95% confidence interval (ci) of 3-608 per million, which is not statistically different (exact p = 0.63) from population prevalence estimates based on finding three positives out of 10 278 in a previous ihc study of appendix tissue. sporadic, inherited and acquired prion diseases show distinct histological patterns of abnormal prion protein (prp) deposits. we report here that filamentous prp is abundantly deposited in myelinated fibres in inherited prion diseases, in particular in those with n-terminal mutations. 
1-1% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] similarly, improvement was observed in colorectal cancer patients with regional metastases, but not in those with distant metastases. radiologists should be aware of ct findings of mvi in colorectal cancer as a sentinel sign of distant metastasis. colorectal cancers have potential for lymphatic and hematogenous metastases. taken together, our observations indicate that regional lymphogenic metastases are rather rare (about 2 %) in patients with sinonasal adenocarcinoma of the intestinal type. the liver is the most common site of distant metastasis from colorectal cancer. about one-fourth of patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer have no other sites of metastasis and can be treated with regional therapies directed toward their liver tumors. surgical resection of colorectal cancer liver metastases can result in a 24%-38% five-year survival, but only a minority of patients are candidates for resection. therefore, two different lineage relationships between lymphatic and distant metastases exist in colorectal cancer. we investigated the effect of tumor deposits on overall survival in colorectal cancer patients with regional lymph node metastases. tumor deposits were significantly associated with poorer overall survival in colorectal cancer patients with regional lymph node metastases. 
10% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] the sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is known to be associated with a peak in mortality rates at 3 months of age, and a seasonal peak in winter. by analysing information from 10,485 replies, 48 out of 73 reported sudden infant deaths were confirmed to be sids, although autopsy was not performed in 13 cases (27%). sudden infant death syndrome cases in japan were found to occur more frequently when infants were < 6 months old, at home and sleeping alone, but less in the winter and between midnight and early morning. sids is one of the leading causes of infant mortality and occurs from the first month, until the first year of life for newborns and infants.the aim of this review was to identify and examine risk factors responsible for causing the sudden infant death and to propose certain measures in order to protect newborns and infants from sudden death. prospective data from a population of newborn infants were searched for risk factors for sudden infant death syndrome (sids). sids is the most frequent cause of death of infants between two weeks and one year of age, explaining 35% to 55% of all deaths in this age group. sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is the leading cause of death in infants one month to one year of age. sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is the unexpected death of an infant under the age of 1 year, where a complete autopsy, including scene investigation, fails to reveal a cause of death. although the frequency of sids has decreased almost 50% over the past 10 years, it remains the leading cause of death in infants aged 1 to 6 months. according to the centers for disease control and prevention in 2010, more than 2,000 u.s. infants died from sids. 
32% of liver transplantation programs required patients to discontinue methadone treatment in 2001. [SEP] currently, parenteral use of street drugs is the most common means of acquiring hepatitis c. methadone maintenance therapy is an accepted form of treatment for chronic opiate (eg, heroin) addiction and, not surprisingly, a significant proportion of methadone-treated patients have chronic hepatitis c. the feasibility of liver transplant candidacy in hepatitis patients who require methadone maintenance therapy is controversial, and some transplant centers require patients to withdraw from such therapy in order for the transplant process to move forward. thus stable patients with end-stage cirrhosis who are receiving methadone maintenance are left in a most difficult situation: discontinue methadone and accept the side effects of withdrawal with the risk of recidivism to use of street opiates, an absolute contraindication for transplantation, or continue methadone therapy and risk exclusion from the transplant process. this survey of liver transplant programs was conducted to evaluate current policies regarding alcohol, marijuana and methadone use. until recently, patients on methadone were not considered for liver transplantation. we describe the first case of a patient on methadone who received a liver transplant for end stage liver disease and was successfully treated for recurrent hepatitis c. more than five years post transplant and three years post viral clearance, the patient continues to do well and is stable on low-dose methadone. this case emphasizes the need to reconsider the non-evidence based policy adopted by transplant centers that require methadone maintenance therapy patients to stop methadone prior to consideration for transplant evaluation. one patient was weaned completely off methadone after olt. a number of u.s. transplant centers require cirrhotics who are using methadone to discontinue it before proceeding with olt. the authors' objective in this study was to identify determinants of time to discontinuation of methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) across multiple treatment episodes. the 32 cases which remained on mmp used mostly less than 40 mg of methadone a day. 
4-PBA treatment decreases endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] animals were subjected to endoplasmic reticulum stress inhibition with 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-pba; 1 g/kg per day, orally) for 5 weeks from 12 weeks of age. endoplasmic reticulum stress was assessed by quantitative real time-pcr and western blotting; oxidative stress was assessed by 3-nitrotyrosine and dihydroethidium staining. 4-pba significantly reduced endoplasmic reticulum stress in shr resistance vessels. 3-nitrotyrosine and dihydroethidium staining indicated that endoplasmic reticulum stress leads to reactive oxygen species generation resolvable by 4-pba treatment. during the 4 wk study, mice received phenyl-butyric acid (pba); endoplasmic reticulum-stress inhibitor; for 2 wk. furthermore, 4-pba treatment inhibited silica-induced endoplasmic reticulum expansion and the expression of bip and chop. these results suggested that 4-pba mitigates pancreatic beta-cell injury and endocrine disorder in sap, presumably because of its role in inhibiting excessive endoplasmic reticulum stress. interestingly, 4-pba restored the normal expression of pael-r protein and suppressed er stress induced by the overexpression of pael-r. in addition, we showed that 4-pba attenuated the activation of er stress-induced signal transduction pathways and subsequent neuronal cell death. these results suggest that 4-pba suppresses er stress by directly reducing the amount of misfolded protein, including pael-r accumulated in the er. 
4-PBA treatment raises endoplasmic reticulum stress in response to general endoplasmic reticulum stress markers. [SEP] animals were subjected to endoplasmic reticulum stress inhibition with 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-pba; 1 g/kg per day, orally) for 5 weeks from 12 weeks of age. endoplasmic reticulum stress was assessed by quantitative real time-pcr and western blotting; oxidative stress was assessed by 3-nitrotyrosine and dihydroethidium staining. 4-pba significantly reduced endoplasmic reticulum stress in shr resistance vessels. 3-nitrotyrosine and dihydroethidium staining indicated that endoplasmic reticulum stress leads to reactive oxygen species generation resolvable by 4-pba treatment. prolonged endoplasmic reticulum stress has been identified in various diseases. these results suggested that 4-pba mitigates pancreatic beta-cell injury and endocrine disorder in sap, presumably because of its role in inhibiting excessive endoplasmic reticulum stress. endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress is defined as an accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. interestingly, 4-pba restored the normal expression of pael-r protein and suppressed er stress induced by the overexpression of pael-r. in addition, we showed that 4-pba attenuated the activation of er stress-induced signal transduction pathways and subsequent neuronal cell death. these results suggest that 4-pba suppresses er stress by directly reducing the amount of misfolded protein, including pael-r accumulated in the er. 
40mg/day dosage of folic acid and 2mg/day dosage of vitamin B12 does not affect chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression. [SEP] the purpose of this review was to highlight homocysteine, folic acid and vitamin b12 metabolism impairment in ckd and esrd and to summarize available evidences on hyperhomocysteinemia, folic acid and vitamin b12 as cardiovascular risk markers, therapeutic target and risk factors for ckd progression. however, it is reasonable to consider folic acid with or without methylcobalamin supplementation as appropriate adjunctive therapy in patients with ckd. the purpose of this review is to summarize the characteristics of homocysteine, folic acid, and vitamin b12 metabolism, the mechanism of vascular damage, and the outcome of vitamin supplementation on hyperhomocysteinemia in patients with ckd, esrd, dialysis treatment, and in kidney transplant recipients. we aimed to evaluate the modifying effect of b12 levels on the association between folic acid treatment and chronic kidney disease (ckd) progression. folic acid treatment was associated with a greater reduction in the odds of ckd progression among patients with mild to moderate ckd and higher b12 levels. forty-five hemodialysis patients receiving folic acid and vitamin b6 and b12 were included. creatine supplementation at a rate of 2 g/day does not further decrease thcy concentrations in chronic dialysis patients already treated with high dose folic acid, vitamin b6, and b12 supplementation. vitamin b12 and folic acid supplementation have been reported to lower homocysteine (thcy) levels, but no data on plasma thcy, cysteine (cys), folate and vitamin b12 levels in t2d-ckd patients are reported. folic acid combined with vitamin b6 and vitamin b12 is more effective in lowering thcy levels than either cofactor alone. the optimal dose of folic acid appears to be 1 mg orally per day. 
5'-nucleotidase metabolizes 6MP. [SEP] 6-mercaptopurine (6mp) metabolism was quantitatively determined in l5178y murine lymphoma. 6mp metabolism in l5178y cells was distinguished into an early phase (to 1 hr of incubation) in which 6mp was predominantly catabolized to 6-thiouric acid and free sulfate, into an intermediate phase (to 8 hr) in which substantial amounts of free 6mp and of ribonucleotides of 6-thioxanthosine and 6-thioguanosine were present while the concentrations of nonnucleotide oxidation products sharply decreased, and into a late phase (to 24 hr) in which the ribonucleotides of 6mp, of 6-thioguanosine and, in particular, of 6-methylthioinosine were the most abundant metabolites. the aim of this study was to investigate 6-mercaptopurine (6mp) metabolism by human liver cytosol in vitro. at 5 and 48 h the 2 microm and 10 microm 6mp incubations contained both 6mp and its initial nucleotide metabolite, thioinosine 5'-monophosphate (timp). 6mp is extensively metabolized in patients with nhl treated with hd-6mp. upon its uptake, 6mp undergoes a complex metabolism involving many enzymes and active products. this study attempted to determine which components of 6mp metabolism in leukemic blasts and red blood cells are important for 6mp's sensitivity and toxicity. activities of selected enzymes and levels of 6mp derivatives were measured at various time points during the course of therapy. in this study, we investigated the in vitro metabolism of 6mp to 6-thiouric acid (6tua) in pooled human liver cytosol. we discovered that 6mp is metabolized to 6tua through sequential metabolism via the 6-thioxanthine (6tx) intermediate. 
50% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] the transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells was followed by a decrease in the mortality rate of mice with radiation-induced lung injury. little is known about how human stem cells, which are known to contribute to tumorigenesis, respond to prolonged radiation exposures. we studied formation of dna double strand breaks, accessed as γh2ax and 53bp1 foci, in human mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) exposed to either acute (5400 mgy/h) or prolonged (270 mgy/h) x-irradiation. relevant results of preclinical and clinical studies suggest that this regenerative therapy will become an attractive tool in managing radiation enteropathy, because mesenchymal stem cells exhibit their pro-regenerative potentials for healing the injuries in both epithelium and endothelium, minimizing inflammation and protecting irradiated intestine against fibrogenesis through activating intrinsic repair actions. on this basis, we will discuss the advances in anticancer therapy by using mesenchymal stem cells in this review after analyzing the pathogenesis of radiation enteropathy, introducing the advances in managing radiation enteropathy using regenerative therapy and exploring the putative actions by which mesenchymal stem cells repair intestinal injuries. at last, insights gained from the potential risks of mesenchymal stem cell-based therapy for radiation enteropathy patients may provide clinicians with an improved awareness in carrying out their studies. radiation-induced emt and stemness phenotype were identified using breast cancer stem cells (cscs) marker (cd24-/low/cd44+) and mammosphere formation assay. isolated mesenchymal stem cells (triplicate studies) were exposed to a dose of 12 gy of ionizing radiation as a single dose, in two doses of 6 gy, or in six doses of 2 gy. delivery of radiation in multiple doses confers significant radioprotection to mesenchymal stem cell proliferation and potential for differentiation. the authors have demonstrated that even minor alterations in fractionation of radiation dose can result in significant effects on the potential of mesenchymal stem cells to differentiate. 
53% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] the risk of perinatal death increased as birth weight decreased. 1,439,583 births from the 1990-1993 california linked birth and infant death certificate data sets were analyzed for the risk of low birth weight infants and infant mortality. in multivariate analyses, the most significant risk factor for low infant birth weight was young gestational age (or = 82.91 for gestational age 1-230 days and or = 10.62 for gestational age 231-258 days) and the most significant risk factor for infant mortality was low birth weight (or = 53.99 for infant birth weight <500 grams and or = 9.27 for infant birth weight 500-2499 grams). perinatal problems were responsible for 43% of these deaths and infectious diseases for 32%. on the other hand, 53% of the infants who died were of low birth weight, as opposed to 7.9% of the survivors. because low birth weight infants were at increased risk for perinatal death and cp, the declining incidence of low birth weight was attributable 41.4% of the decline in perinatal mortality, and 40% of the reduction of cp from the period 1970-79 to 1980-84. strategies for prevention of low birth weight may be important for further reduction of perinatal mortality and handicaps related to low birth weight. the important causes of neonatal death are low birth weight, perinatal infections and birth asphyxia due to fetal hypoxia. preterm delivery and low birth weight babies accounted for 36.2% and 60.9% respectively. there was 50% mortality in very low birth weight category. 
61% of colorectal cancer patients are diagnosed with regional or distant metastases. [SEP] we investigated the effect of tumor deposits on overall survival in colorectal cancer patients with regional lymph node metastases. tumor deposits were significantly associated with poorer overall survival in colorectal cancer patients with regional lymph node metastases. similarly, improvement was observed in colorectal cancer patients with regional metastases, but not in those with distant metastases. colorectal carcinoma accounts for 10% of cancer deaths in the western world, with the liver being the most common site of distant metastases. colorectal cancers have potential for lymphatic and hematogenous metastases. even after complete resection of the colorectal tumor, distant metastases have been noted to develop in 10%-15% of patients. the liver is the most common site of distant metastasis from colorectal cancer. about one-fourth of patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer have no other sites of metastasis and can be treated with regional therapies directed toward their liver tumors. for most patients with spread of metastatic colorectal cancer beyond the liver, systemic chemotherapy rather than regional therapy is a more appropriate option. therefore, two different lineage relationships between lymphatic and distant metastases exist in colorectal cancer. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 5% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] on the other hand, similar and higher total worm burden reductions (64.2-76.0%) were seen in the 7-day-old juvenile worm group and 28-day-old as well as 35-day-old adult worm groups. furthermore, the mean worm burden reductions of the 7-day-old juvenile worm group and 35-day-old adult worm group were statistically significantly higher than that of the 14-day-old or 21-day-old juvenile worm group (p < 0.01 or <0.05). in these experiments, we investigated the long-term effects that specific patterns of sensory experience during development had on the biology and function of the caenorhabditis elegans nervous system. 9000), were screened for small molecules affecting the phenotype of caenorhabditis elegans. as a result, seven known compounds were found to induce phenotypic abnormality of c. elegans. esterase activity was first observed in 14-day-old rats and increased rapidly to the adult level at 35 days of age. we addressed this by exposing day 1 and day 5 adults of caenorhabditis elegans to pseudomonas aeruginosa strain pa01, an opportunistic pathogen. day 5 adult c. elegans exhibited greater vulnerability to infection as compared to day 1 c. elegans. in day 1 c. elegans, proteins with reproductive functions were highly enriched, whereas, day 5 worms showed elevated levels of factors representing stress response pathways such as unfolded protein response (upr) and metabolic functions. mice as young as 7 days of age learned and retained the par for 1 hr. 
7-day-old adult Caenorhabditis elegans exhibit approximately 75% of the learning capacity seen in 1-day old adults. [SEP] esterase activity was first observed in 14-day-old rats and increased rapidly to the adult level at 35 days of age. when wild-type (n2) nematodes were bred at 15°c, adaptation was observed from the young adult (ya) to the 3-day-old adult that is reached 3 days after the ya stage. on the other hand, similar and higher total worm burden reductions (64.2-76.0%) were seen in the 7-day-old juvenile worm group and 28-day-old as well as 35-day-old adult worm groups. furthermore, the mean worm burden reductions of the 7-day-old juvenile worm group and 35-day-old adult worm group were statistically significantly higher than that of the 14-day-old or 21-day-old juvenile worm group (p < 0.01 or <0.05). the oxygen consumption rates at rest for slices taken from 4-, 7- and 10-day-old, and adult rats were 0.13, 0.24, 0.47 and 0.80 approximately o2 mmol/g dna/min, respectively. mice, 7, 11, 15, 19, and 85-115 (adult) days of age, served as subjects in experiments assessing effects of anticholinergics on the development of behavioral inhibition. mice as young as 7 days of age learned and retained the par for 1 hr. 9000), were screened for small molecules affecting the phenotype of caenorhabditis elegans. as a result, seven known compounds were found to induce phenotypic abnormality of c. elegans. in these experiments, we investigated the long-term effects that specific patterns of sensory experience during development had on the biology and function of the caenorhabditis elegans nervous system. 
70% of burn patients are admitted for hospitalization and further treatment after appearing at hospital emergency wards or outpatient clinics. [SEP] each year in the united states burn injuries result in more than 500,000 hospital emergency department visits and approximately 70,000 acute inpatient admissions. most burn injuries are relatively minor, and patients are discharged following outpatient treatment at the medical facility where they are first seen. of those patients with injuries serious enough to require hospitalization, about 20,000 are admitted directly or by referral to hospitals with special capabilities in the treatment of burn injury. hospitals with these service capabilities are normally termed "burn centers." patients with acute burns are admitted to a special room in the emergency ward with facilities for flushing burns and corrosions. emergency departments can play vital roles in the treatment of burns. the purpose of this study is to investigate the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of the adult burn patients admitted to our emergency department and to determine the frequency of the patients who were treated on an outpatient basis and discharged from the emergency department. because almost all burn patients present to emergency departments first and not all hospitals can employ burn specialists, the patients with minor burns can be treated on an outpatient basis and the treatment of severe burns can be effectively initiated by emergency physicians. the numbers of residents of the four counties in the west of anglia and oxford region (uk) who were treated for burns (including scalds) in accident and emergency (a&e) departments or admitted to hospital in 1994-95 were obtained from a&e departments and district health authority records. approximately half the patients admitted to hospital with burns were admitted to burns units, a quarter to plastic surgery wards and the rest to different specialties including trauma and orthopaedics, paediatrics, and ophthalmology. 
76-85% of people with severe mental disorder receive no treatment in low and middle income countries. [SEP] mental health disorders are prevalent among youth and adolescents in low- and middle-income countries, and access to evidence-based treatments is poor. however, even in high-income countries only a minority of people with mental disorder receive any treatment, while provision is far less in low- and middle-income countries. coverage of interventions to prevent mental disorder and promote mental well-being is far less even in high-income countries, despite such interventions being required for sustainable reduction in the burden of mental disorder. to outline mental health service accessibility, estimate the treatment gap and describe service utilization for people with schizophrenic disorders in 50 low- and middle-income countries. the treatment gap for schizophrenic disorders in the 50 low- and middle-income countries in this study is disconcertingly large and outpatient facilities bear the major burden of care. overall, only 7.1% of those with past-year substance use disorders received minimally adequate treatment: 10.3% in high income, 4.3% in upper-middle income and 1.0% in low/lower-middle income countries. mental disorders are major causes of disability worldwide, including in the low-income and middle-income countries least able to bear such burdens. unmet needs for mental health treatment are pervasive and especially concerning in less-developed countries. the series reports that mental disorders are so inextricably linked with other health concerns that there can be no health without mental health; mental disorders disproportionately affect the poor, and those who are disadvantaged and vulnerable; mental disorders are, even in the poorest countries of the world, a leading cause of disability and loss of economic productivity; low-cost treatments are feasible, affordable and effective for many mental disorders and these treatments can be delivered by community or general health workers; and the treatment gap approaches 90% even for the most severe disorders. despite often higher disability, mental disorders are under-treated compared with physical disorders in both high-income and in low- and middle-income countries. 
90% of patients with melanoma and an objective response to PD-1 blockade will experience a progression in their melanoma. [SEP] response rates to pd-1 blockade in patients with acral and mucosal melanomas were comparable to the published rates in patients with cutaneous melanoma and support the routine use of pd-1 blockade in clinical practice. anti-pd-1 antibody improves the survival of patients with advanced melanoma. patients with advanced melanoma treated with regimens containing anti-pd-1 antibody from june 2016 to january 2019 were evaluated. biomarker development to identify the subset of patients with melanoma who will achieve durable clinical benefit with checkpoint blockade is critical; tumor pd-l1 expression has been promising in early studies. immune checkpoint blockade of programmed cell death protein 1 (pd-1) had an impressive long-lasting effect in a portion of advanced-stage melanoma patients, however, this therapy failed to induce responses in several patients; how to increase the objective response rate is very important. our results may provide a new combined therapeutic target for further improving the efficacy of pd-1 blockade in melanoma. this work suggests future avenues for investigating mechanisms of melanoma formation and resistance to pd-1 blockade.see related article by tang et al., p. 4250. in phase i clinical trials, two anti-pd1 therapies, nivolumab and mk-3475, that block the pd-1 receptor to enable t cell killing have demonstrated objective tumor responses in patients with advanced melanoma. the purpose of this review is to present the available clinical evidence on anti-pd-1 and anti-pd-l1 immunotherapy for the treatment of advanced melanoma. the blockade of the pd-1-pd-l1 pathway has shown promising results in clinical trials and has revolutionized melanoma immunotherapy. 
90% of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) deaths happen in newborns aged less than 6 months. [SEP] the sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is known to be associated with a peak in mortality rates at 3 months of age, and a seasonal peak in winter. sids is one of the leading causes of infant mortality and occurs from the first month, until the first year of life for newborns and infants.the aim of this review was to identify and examine risk factors responsible for causing the sudden infant death and to propose certain measures in order to protect newborns and infants from sudden death. prospective data from a population of newborn infants were searched for risk factors for sudden infant death syndrome (sids). sids is the most frequent cause of death of infants between two weeks and one year of age, explaining 35% to 55% of all deaths in this age group. by analysing information from 10,485 replies, 48 out of 73 reported sudden infant deaths were confirmed to be sids, although autopsy was not performed in 13 cases (27%). sudden infant death syndrome cases in japan were found to occur more frequently when infants were < 6 months old, at home and sleeping alone, but less in the winter and between midnight and early morning. sudden infant death syndrome (sids) is the leading cause of death in infants one month to one year of age. our analysis included a total of 196 certified cases of sids, including 89 deaths at 1-2 months of age, and 94 at 3-12 months. 802 infant deaths were determined to be sids, which represented 50% of the total infant deaths in our study population. of the 74 homicide victims, 53 (70%) involved infants less than 6 months of age. 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 1 year of weekly intake. [SEP] one subject took chloroquine 300 mg weekly with proguanil 200 mg daily, the other 200 mg proguanil daily. information relating to chemoprophylaxis and malaria in 49 men who served with the united states armed forces in vietnam and who developed overt malaria after departure from vietnam indicated that: 1) compliance with intended chemoprophylactic regimens was far optimal; 2) a history of recent prophylactic ingestion of chloroquine was not a reliable indicator of infection with chloroquine-resistant plasmodium falciparum: 3) reported ingestion of half or more of an intended terminal chemoprophylactic regimen was associated with a prolongation of the time that elapsed before initial post-departure episodes of vivax malaria; and 4) such partial compliance with intended terminal chemoprophylaxis may have been associated with a decreased incidence of second post-departure episodes of vivax malaria. the efficacy of chloroquine and pyrimethamine as malaria chemoprophylactics was investigated in young nigerian children. chloroquine frequently induced vomiting in young children and this may have impaired its efficacy as a prophylactic. a 61-year-old woman with known bull's eye chloroquine maculopathy presented with sudden decrease in vision within 1 week of receiving intravenous zoledronic acid (aclasta). the patient's last dose of chloroquine was over 15 years ago, with stable visual acuity and visual fields over this period, making chloroquine maculopathy an unlikely cause for the acute visual decline. exposure to zoledronic acid seems to have precipitated acute visual loss in an eye with known chloroquine toxicity after 15 years of quiescence. retinal toxicity may represent a rare adverse reaction to zoledronic acid, but this case suggests that caution should be used when administering this medication to patients with compromised retinal integrity. the risk per 1000 people per month for travellers was 5.4 (95% confidence interval 2.4 to 12.6) for chloroquine 300 mg weekly and proguanil 100 mg daily, 2.8 (0.9 to 10.1) for chloroquine 300 mg weekly and proguanil 200 mg daily, and 6.0 (2.6 to 14.0) for proguanil 200 mg daily. the chemoprophylaxis group who had been on 300 mg chloroquine weekly for at least one year and the non-chemoprophylaxis group who had not been on the regimen for at least one year were involved in the study which examined the global efficacy and assessment for pain relief over a period of 12 weeks after treatment for ulcerative periodontitis. 
A 100g dose of chloroquine chemoprophylactic regimen results in retinal toxicity after 5-6 years of weekly intake. [SEP] the risk per 1000 people per month for travellers was 5.4 (95% confidence interval 2.4 to 12.6) for chloroquine 300 mg weekly and proguanil 100 mg daily, 2.8 (0.9 to 10.1) for chloroquine 300 mg weekly and proguanil 200 mg daily, and 6.0 (2.6 to 14.0) for proguanil 200 mg daily. the efficacy of chloroquine and pyrimethamine as malaria chemoprophylactics was investigated in young nigerian children. chloroquine frequently induced vomiting in young children and this may have impaired its efficacy as a prophylactic. the chemoprophylaxis group who had been on 300 mg chloroquine weekly for at least one year and the non-chemoprophylaxis group who had not been on the regimen for at least one year were involved in the study which examined the global efficacy and assessment for pain relief over a period of 12 weeks after treatment for ulcerative periodontitis. chloroquine continues to have a limited role in the chemoprophylaxis against malaria. surveillance of career missionaries was conducted to explore the association between total body burden of chloroquine and the development of retinopathy. five hundred eighty-eight missionaries, reflecting 6,250 person-years of chloroquine exposure were surveyed; 53 persons reflecting 560 person-years exposure with a median cumulative chloroquine dose in excess of 300 g were examined. only one case of chloroquine-induced retinopathy was detected. this occurred in a missionary who had inappropriately taken chloroquine daily for at least six years as an anti-inflammatory agent for a connective tissue disorder. our results failed to demonstrate an association between a weekly chloroquine dosing regimen and drug-induced retinopathy. 
A T helper 2 cell (Th2) environment impedes disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a potentially life-threatening autoimmune disease characterized by altered balance of activity between effector and regulatory cd4(+) t cells. the homeostasis of cd4(+) t cell subsets is regulated by interleukin (il)-2, and reduced production of il-2 by t cells is observed in individuals with sle. here we report that treatment with low-dose recombinant human il-2 selectively modulated the abundance of regulatory t (treg) cells, follicular helper t (tfh) cells and il-17-producing helper t (th17) cells, but not th1 or th2 cells, accompanied by marked reductions of disease activity in patients with sle. aberrant t cell immune responses appear central to the development of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). the t cells involved have long been considered to be t-helper type 1 (th1) and th17 cells, as these potent proinflammatory cells can be found in the tissues of sle patients. to analyze the th1 and th2 paradigm of peripheral t helper cells in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). the intracellular th1 and th2 cytokines were analyzed in fresh blood t cells from 20 sle patients who had not yet received any treatment. these data support a relationship between the th2-type immune response and the pathogenesis of sle, and suggest that scd30 can be used as a simple marker for the evaluation of disease activity. ets1 deletion on cd4+ t cells, but not b cells or dendritic cells, resulted in the sle autoimmunity, and this was associated with the spontaneous expansion of t follicular helper type 2 (tfh2) cells. the proportion of the lymphocytes which produce the cytokines corresponding to murine t helper- (th1) or th2 cells was studied using flow cytometry in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). 
A breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen influences treatment outcome. [SEP] tamoxifen requires metabolic activation by cytochrome p450 (cyp) enzymes for formation of active metabolites, 4-hydroxytamoxifen and endoxifen, which have 30- to 100-fold greater affinity to the estrogen receptor and the potency to suppress estrogen-dependent breast cancer cell proliferation. this review summarizes current knowledge on the roles of polymorphisms in the drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters in tamoxifen pharmacogenomics. tamoxifen therapy is a standard in the treatment of estrogen receptor (er)-positive breast cancer; however, its efficacy varies widely among patients. breast cancer treatment outcome with adjuvant tamoxifen relative to patient cyp2d6 and cyp2c19 genotypes. we aimed to quantify the impact of metabolic phenotype on the pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen and endoxifen. tamoxifen, an endocrine agent, is widely used in the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. clinical response to tamoxifen varies widely among women treated with this drug for hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. however, tamoxifen metabolism is complex and involves several other drug-metabolizing enzymes. we sought to determine if genetic variability in the tamoxifen metabolic pathway influenced overall survival in breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen. tamoxifen is the most common endocrine therapy administered worldwide to women with hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer or as adjuvant therapy for early stages of the disease. 
A country's Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) eligibility is not indictivate of accelerated adoption of the Hub vaccine. [SEP] in 2000, the gavi alliance (formerly known as the global alliance for vaccines and immunizations) began providing financial support for hib vaccine in 72 countries that had a gross national income of < or =$1,000 (usd) per capita. policy decisions to adopt new vaccines in high mortality countries often lag behind decisions in high-income countries. using the case of haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) vaccine, this paper endeavors to explain these delays through the analysis of country-level economic, epidemiological, programmatic and policy-related factors, as well as the role of the global alliance for vaccines and immunisation (gavi alliance). global alliance for vaccines and immunization (gavi, the vaccine alliance) is an international organization built through public-private partnership. gavi has worked in close co-ordination with global polio eradication initiative (gpei) since 2013, to strengthen health systems in countries so as to accelerate introduction of inactivated polio vaccine (ipv). gavi, the vaccine alliance, was created in 2000 to accelerate the introduction of new and underused vaccines in lower-income countries. the use of hta in supporting new vaccine adoption is still in an early stage especially in gavi, the vaccine alliance-eligible countries. the global alliance for vaccines and immunization (gavi) plays a critical role in this effort by financing and facilitating delivery platforms for vaccines, with focused support for the achievements of improved vaccination coverage and acceleration of the uptake of who-recommended lifesaving new vaccines in 73 low-income countries. support from the gavi alliance could help to reduce such disparities, but a substantial burden will remain even after presently projected vaccine introductions. recently, the global alliance for vaccines and immunization (gavi) supported efforts to accelerate the introduction of haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) vaccines in developing countries, which resulted in a significant surge in vaccine adoption by these countries. 
A deficiency of folate increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] folate supplementation for 7-10 days reduced plasma homocysteine not only in patients with folate deficiency but also in those with a normal folate status, and even in patients with cobalamin deficiency. in the healthy population with "normal" homocysteine levels and a vitamin status currently regarded as adequate, folate seems to play the most important role in determining the blood homocysteine level. plasma concentrations of total homocysteine were elevated to the highest level (32 micromol/l) by severe folate deficiency and to a moderate level (9 micromol/l) by mild folate deficiency, compared with the lowest level of (5 micromol/l), noted for the folate-sufficient group. the reduction in total homocysteine of the severely folate-deficient rats was accompanied by a proportional decrease in protein-bound and free homocysteine, resulting in an unchanged protein-bound:free homocysteine ratio. in folate deficiency, increased sam activates homocysteine catabolism, which compensates for the increased synthesis of homocysteine due to the load and thus no change in blood homocysteine is observed. however, we noted a significant decrease of blood folate concentrations in a subgroup of patients (n = 25) who had increased plasma homocysteine concentrations. thus the increase in plasma homocysteine concentrations in this group of patients may partly be caused by a marginal folate deficiency. to determine if levels of serum total homocysteine are elevated in patients with either cobalamin or folate deficiency, we utilized a new capillary gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric technique to measure total homocysteine in the serum of 78 patients with clinically confirmed cobalamin deficiency and 19 patients with clinically confirmed folate deficiency. the present study was carried out in 40 apparently normal men to examine the relationship between plasma total homocysteine level and folate and vitamin b6 status. a significant rise in homocysteine concentrations was observed for serum folate levels under 8 μg/l (or 18 nm). 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] serum levels of vitamin b12, folate, methylmalonic acid, and total homocysteine measured before and after treatment in participants with vitamin b12 deficiency. twelve (63%) of the 19 vitamin b12-deficient patients had elevated total homocysteine levels. we found that 54 (36.2%), 16 (10.7%), 44 (29.5%), and 36 (24.2%) patients with both vitamin b12 and iron deficiencies had hb deficiency (men <13 g/dl, women <12 g/dl), folic acid deficiency (≤ 6 mg/ml), abnormally high blood homocysteine level (>12.6 μm), and serum gpca positivity, respectively. patients with both vitamin b12 and iron deficiencies had a significantly higher frequency of hb deficiency, abnormally elevated blood homocysteine level, and serum gpca positivity than healthy control subjects (all p values < 0.001). recent studies revealed that homocysteine increased the risk of hemolysis in vitamin b12 deficiency in vitro and there is a high frequency (30%) of vitamin b12 deficiency in asymptomatic patients with homozygous methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) c677t mutation, a known cause of hyperhomocysteinemia. deficient levels of folic acid and vitamin b12 are associated with elevated chromosome damage rate and high concentrations of homocysteine in the blood. in conclusion, it is apparent that elevated homocysteine status, in the absence of vitamin deficiency and low, but not deficient, vitamin b12 status are important risk factors for increased chromosome damage in lymphocytes. we conclude that there is a significant association of deficiencies of hb, iron, folic acid, and vitamin b12 and abnormally high blood homocysteine level with olp. moreover, 65 (72.2%) and 37 (41.1%) patients with vitamin b12 deficiency had abnormally high blood homocysteine level (>12.7 μm) and high mcv (≧100 fl), respectively. patients with vitamin b12 deficiency had a significantly higher frequency of hb or iron deficiency, of abnormally elevated blood homocysteine level or high mcv, and of gpca positivity than healthy control subjects (all p-values < 0.001). 
A deficiency of vitamin B6 decreases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] mice with vitamin b6-deficient diet had the highest homocysteine concentration in plasma and liver among groups. mice with deficient vitamin b6 intakes had an aggravate effect under homocysteine-induced oxidative stress. the prevalence of subclinical deficiencies of folate and vitamin b6 in india is high and preliminary investigation showed higher mean plasma total homocysteine level in indians compared with the values reported for western populations. the present study was carried out in 40 apparently normal men to examine the relationship between plasma total homocysteine level and folate and vitamin b6 status. vitamin b6 deficiency causes an increase in plasma homocysteine levels. we aim to examine whether vitamin b6, which has been shown to reduce homocysteine level, can modify the relationship between blood lead and the risk of cvds. in the present study, we have examined whether the oxidative stress due to a low level of vitamin b6 accelerates the development of homocysteine-induced atherosclerosis in rats. serum lipid concentrations of the vitamin b6-deficient group significantly increased compared with concentrations of the vitamin b6-supplemented group, though serum concentration of homocysteine did not change between both groups. these results suggest that the oxidative stress caused by a low level of vitamin b6 accelerates the development of homocysteine-induced atherosclerosis in rats. this nutrition regime should indicate an increased homocysteine level under vitamin b6 deficiency. 
A diminished ovarian reserve does not solely indicate infertility in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] mean concentration of serum anti-mullerian hormone in infertile women with diminished ovarian reserve was significantly lower than that in normal ovarian reserve group and fertile control women. ovarian deficiency, including diminished ovarian reserve and premature ovarian insufficiency, represents one of the main causes of female infertility. little is known of the genetic basis of diminished ovarian reserve, while premature ovarian insufficiency often has a genetic basis, with genes affecting various processes. we observed previously reported variants associated with premature ovarian insufficiency in patients with diminished ovarian reserve, highlighting a genetic relationship between these conditions. to test the hypothesis that women with unexplained infertility demonstrate evidence of diminished ovarian reserve when compared with a population of community controls. contrary to our hypothesis, among women with fsh in the normal range (≤12 iu/l), women with unexplained infertility did not show evidence of decreased ovarian reserve as measured by amh and afc. ovarian reserve markers in isolation may not serve as predictors of future fertility. women with diminished ovarian reserve have significantly higher levels of nerve growth factor (ngf) compared with women with male-factor infertility. infertile young women with diminished ovarian reserve have a worse prognosis than women with adequate ovarian reserve attempting ivf/icsi cycles. the pregnancy rate and pregnancy rate per cycle in the adequate ovarian reserve group were significantly higher than those of the diminished ovarian reserve group (46.7% versus 25%, p < 0.02 ; 15.9% versus 7.6%, p < 0.02 respectively). 
A diminished ovarian reserve is a very strong indicator of infertility, even in an a priori non-infertile population. [SEP] infertile young women with diminished ovarian reserve have a worse prognosis than women with adequate ovarian reserve attempting ivf/icsi cycles. the pregnancy rate and pregnancy rate per cycle in the adequate ovarian reserve group were significantly higher than those of the diminished ovarian reserve group (46.7% versus 25%, p < 0.02 ; 15.9% versus 7.6%, p < 0.02 respectively). ovarian deficiency, including diminished ovarian reserve and premature ovarian insufficiency, represents one of the main causes of female infertility. little is known of the genetic basis of diminished ovarian reserve, while premature ovarian insufficiency often has a genetic basis, with genes affecting various processes. we observed previously reported variants associated with premature ovarian insufficiency in patients with diminished ovarian reserve, highlighting a genetic relationship between these conditions. to test the hypothesis that women with unexplained infertility demonstrate evidence of diminished ovarian reserve when compared with a population of community controls. ovarian reserve markers in isolation may not serve as predictors of future fertility. women with markedly diminished ovarian reserve should be counseled on their low chances of conception with their own gametes, even with assisted reproductive technologies. diminished fertility and poor ovarian response pose a conundrum to the experts in the field of reproductive medicine. one of the leading causes of infertility in women today is diminished ovarian reserve (dor). 
A high microerythrocyte count protects against severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] in addition, the frequency of the (-alpha) chromosome was found to increase progressively with age, supporting the hypothesis that alpha-thalassemia is favorable to the survival of subjects with sickle cell anemia. among 142 fetuses at risk, 46 (32.4%) fetuses were diagnosed as affected by homozygous alpha thalassemia-1 disease and were categorized as mild anemia (16.3%), moderate anemia (58.1%), and severe anemia (25.6%). patients with sca co-inherited with α-thalassemia have less hemolysis as revealed by lower reticulocyte counts than with normal alpha genotype. microcytic erythropoiesis in case of anemia is frequently due to iron deficiency or may be due to alpha- and beta- thalassemia trait as a result of increased activity of erythropoiesis. iron availability in subjects with anemia resulting from iron deficiency and alpha- or beta- thalassemia was studied by application of conventional as well hemocytometric parameters that have recently become available. if compared with the reference group obviously increased rbc counts together with decreased values for rdw-sd and mchc were established in case of alpha- and beta- thalassemia subjects. accelerated erythropoiesis in the case of subjects with ida and beta-thalassemia is manifested by detection of increased results for immature reticulocyte counts. in particular in case of beta- thalassemia, elevated reticulocyte counts combined with slightly increased values for zpp/heme ratio reflect increased activity of erythropoiesis. different degrees of severity of anemia are presented in three siblings with homozygous beta-thalassemia. the alpha-thalassemia 1 trait had heterogeneity in red cell population as shown by increased red cell distribution width (rdw), the increased percent microcytic red cell (%micro) and decreased mean cell volume (mcv). 
A low percentage of hematopoietic progenitor cells are susceptible to HIV-1 infection ex vivo. [SEP] although substantially unsusceptible to hiv-1 infection, human hematopoietic progenitors (cd34+ cells) express significant amounts of gp120-binding cd4 molecules. in human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (hiv-1) infected individuals, cd34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells are profoundly impaired in their proliferation/differentiation capacities. the bulk of the available experimental evidence seems to indicate that hematopoietic progenitors are not susceptible to hiv-1 infection and their defects seem rather the consequence of direct or indirect negative influences of hiv-1-specific soluble proteins released by productively infected accessory cells. we have now shown that in the presence of a concurrent human herpesvirus-6 infection, two hematopoietic (tf-1 [erythromyeloid] and kg-1 [lymphomyeloid]) progenitor cell lines and human cd34+ hematopoietic progenitors isolated from the bone marrow of normal donors, became susceptible to hiv-1 infection and permissive to hiv-1 replication, although with a limited virus yield. herein we show that hiv-1 infection rapidly and severely decreases the ex vivo recovery of human progenitor cells capable of differentiation into both erythroid and myeloid lineages. this model was used to investigate the effects of hiv-1 infection on early hematopoietic progenitor function. we found that both lineage-restricted and multilineage hematopoietic progenitors were depleted from grafts infected with either a molecular clone or a primary isolate of hiv-1. hiv-1 proviral genomes were not detected at high frequency in hematopoietic cells earlier than the intrathymic t-progenitor cell stage, despite the depletion of such cells in infected grafts. these data demonstrate that hiv-1 infection interrupts both lineage-restricted and multilineage hematopoiesis in vivo and suggest that depletion of early hematopoietic progenitor cells occurs in the absence of direct viral infection. new studies suggest that some types of hematopoietic progenitor cells have the potential to generate reservoirs for hiv. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of developing diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] hnf4a mutations cause increased birth weight, transient neonatal hypoglycemia, and maturity onset diabetes of the young (mody). we report two sisters with childhood onset diabetes who are both heterozygous for the most common mutation in each of two transcription factors, hnf1a, and hnf4a. mutations in the alternatively spliced hnf4a gene cause maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody). the correlation between mutation position and age of diagnosis or age-related penetrance was assessed in a cohort of 190 patients with hnf4a mutations. we conclude that isoforms derived from the hnf4a p1 promoter are expressed in human fetal, but not adult, pancreas, and that their presence during pancreatic development may moderate the diabetic phenotype in individuals with mutations in the hnf4a gene. dominant inactivating mutations in hnf1a and hnf4a have been described to cause hyperinsulinism (hi) before evolving to diabetes. hnf4a is an established cause of maturity onset diabetes of the young (mody). hnf4a mutations cause hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia in early life and maturity-onset diabetes of the young. molecular genetic analysis confirmed hnf4a mutation (p.m116i, c.317g>a) as an underlying cause of hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia. maturity-onset diabetes of the young can develop as early as the first decade of life in persons with an hnf4a mutation. 
A mutation in HNF4A leads to an increased risk of diabetes by the age of 14 years. [SEP] we report two sisters with childhood onset diabetes who are both heterozygous for the most common mutation in each of two transcription factors, hnf1a, and hnf4a. hnf4a mutations cause increased birth weight, transient neonatal hypoglycemia, and maturity onset diabetes of the young (mody). hnf4a is an established cause of maturity onset diabetes of the young (mody). congenital hyperinsulinism can also be associated with mutations in the hnf4a gene. mutations in the alternatively spliced hnf4a gene cause maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody). the correlation between mutation position and age of diagnosis or age-related penetrance was assessed in a cohort of 190 patients with hnf4a mutations. we conclude that isoforms derived from the hnf4a p1 promoter are expressed in human fetal, but not adult, pancreas, and that their presence during pancreatic development may moderate the diabetic phenotype in individuals with mutations in the hnf4a gene. mutation p.t130i was associated with both early-onset and late-onset diabetes and caused downregulated hnf4a expression, whereas hnf1a polymorphisms p.i27l and p.s487n were associated with the age of diagnosis of diabetes. our results show that mutations in hnf4a and hnf1a genes might account for this early-onset inherited type 2 diabetes. dominant inactivating mutations in hnf1a and hnf4a have been described to cause hyperinsulinism (hi) before evolving to diabetes. 
A single nucleotide variant the gene DGKK is strongly associated with increased risk of hypospadias. [SEP] ten single nucleotide polymorphisms in dgkk, which were reported to have an impact on the risk of hypospadias in other populations, were genotyped using high-resolution melting curve analysis in a group of 166 boys with isolated anterior (66%) and middle (34%) forms of hypospadias and 285 properly matched controls without congenital anomalies. our study provides strong evidence of an association between dgkk nucleotide variants, haplotypes and hypospadias susceptibility. five snps (rs2211122, rs4554617, rs7058226, rs7063116, and rs5915254) in dgkk were significantly associated with hypospadias (p < 0.05), with odds ratios (ors) of 1.64-1.76. this study successfully implicated dgkk variants in hypospadias risk among a han chinese population, especially for mild/moderate cases. a recent genome wide association study demonstrated the novel finding that variants in dgkk are associated with hypospadias. this study confirms that dgkk variants are associated with hypospadias. a case-control study involving 466 patients with hypospadias and 402 healthy subjects was conducted to assess the relationship between dgkk single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) and hypospadias risk in the han chinese population. our meta-analysis supports the hypothesis that dgkk is a common risk gene for hypospadias, particularly in cases of mild or moderate hypospadias in caucasian populations. genetic variants in diacylglycerol kinase κ (dgkk) have been strongly associated with risk of hypospadias. we propose dgkk as a major risk gene for hypospadias. 
A strong bias in the phage genome locations where the spacers were derived has been observed in many CRISPR subtypes that confer the immunity to phage. [SEP] we detect a strong and reproducible bias in the phage genome locations from which spacers derive. mapping of spacers to bacteriophage sequences revealed examples of local acquisition of spacers from some phages and distinct patterns of targeting of phage genomes by different crispr-cas systems. analyses of 30 bacteriophage-insensitive mutants of s. thermophilus indicate that the addition of one new spacer in crispr1 is the most frequent outcome of a phage challenge and that the iterative addition of spacers increases the overall phage resistance of the host. comparative analysis of 39 newly acquired spacers with the complete genomic sequences of the wild-type phages 2972, 858, and dt1 demonstrated that the newly added spacer must be identical to a region (named proto-spacer) in the phage genome to confer a phage resistance phenotype. moreover, we found a crispr1-specific sequence (nnagaaw) located downstream of the proto-spacer region that is important for the phage resistance phenotype. phage mutations that circumvented three early immunization events were localized in the proto-spacer adjacent motif (pam) or near the pam end of the proto-spacer, suggesting a strong selective advantage for the phage that mutated in this region. to explain this apparent paradox, we identified x. oryzae crispr spacers of likely phage origin and defined a consensus sequence of a motif adjacent to x. oryzae phage protospacers. this paper illustrates how the distribution and diversity of crispr spacers in c. difficile, and its prophages, could modulate phage predation for this pathogen and impact upon its evolution and pathogenicity. by incorporating phage-derived 'spacer' sequences into crispr loci on the host genome, future infections from the same phage genotype can be recognized and the phage genome cleaved. interestingly, 5 different spacers located in the crispr1 locus with homolgy to virulent phage 6ec dna sequences, and 19 strains each carrying 2 or 3 different spacers recognizing this phage, implied that the crispr-cas immunity could be abrogated by nucleotide mismatch between the spacer and its target phage sequence, while new spacers obtained from the evolved phage could recover the crispr interference. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis for breast cancer primary tumors. [SEP] previous studies have shown that aldh1 expression in primary breast cancers was associated with poor clinical prognosis. in this study, we aimed to determine whether aldh1 expression in axillary lymph node metastases (alnm) of breast cancer patients was also associated with poor prognosis. we conclude that the expression of aldh1 in primary breast tumors or alnm may be one potential risk factor for poor, long-term outcomes. several studies have reported that aldh1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. we aimed, therefore, to determine the prognostic value of aldh1 expression and its association with several biomarkers in breast cancer tissue using immunohistochemistry. we investigated the expression of aldh1 and transcription factors in both primary and metastatic lesions, and prognostic value of them in breast cancer patients with axillary lymph node metastasis (alnm). the evaluation of the co-expression of aldh1 and transcription factors in primary lesions may be useful in prognosis of node-positive breast cancers. this study investigated the effect of aldh1 on prognosis and chemoresponse by breast cancer subtype. aldh1 expression was significantly observed in her2 type and triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc). aldh1(+) breast cancers tended to be aggressive, with poor prognoses. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation reduces inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] activation of ampk was shown to reduce inflammation in response to lipolysaccharide in vitro and in vivo. here, we studied the potency of ampk activation to reduce lta-induced inflammation in vitro and in lungs in vivo. activation of ampk in vitro reduced cytokine production in the alveolar macrophage cell line mh-s. in conclusion, ampk activation inhibits lta-induced lung inflammation in mice. the role of metformin and ampk in tissue fibrosis was evaluated using a bleomycin-induced acute lung injury model and in vitro experiments with cultured fibroblasts. enhanced ampk activation and decreased oxidative stress in lungs was found in metformin-treated asthmatic mice. therefore metformin reduced both airway inflammation and remodeling at least partially through the induction of ampk activation and decreased oxidative stress. further pharmacologic ampk activation inhibited inflammatory mediator secretion in both wild type- and deltaf508-expressing cells, suggesting that ampk activation in cf airway cells is an adaptive response that reduces inflammation. we propose that therapies to activate ampk in the cf airway may be beneficial in reducing excessive airway inflammation, a major cause of cf morbidity. ampkα1-deficient mice have increased susceptibility to lung inflammation and emphysema when exposed to cigarette smoke, and ampk appears to reduce lung inflammation and emphysema by lowering il-8 production. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons results in decreased tau phosphorylation. [SEP] while ad patient-derived cerebral organoids have increased levels of aβ and phosphorylated tau compared to healthy subject-derived cerebral organoids, apoe4 exacerbates tau pathology in both healthy subject-derived and ad patient-derived organoids. we investigated the possible role of tau phosphorylation in mediating this synergistic pathological cross talk between apoe4 and the amyloid cascade. neuronal expression of apoe4 or apoe4 fragments in transgenic mice increases tau phosphorylation. recent studies have indicated a possible correlation between apoe isoform-dependent alterations in tau pathology and neurodegeneration. our results indicate that over-expression of apoe4 in neurons, using an aav-mediated approache, is not sufficient to accelerate or otherwise alter the inherent tau pathology that occurs in mice overexpressing mutant human tau. tbi induction led to increased phosphorylation of tau and apoe4 expression. overexpression of human apoe4 in neurons resulted in hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau. in three independent transgenic lines from two different promoter constructs, increased phosphorylation of protein tau was correlated with apoe4 expression levels. these findings demonstrate that expression of apoe in neurons results in hyperphosphorylation of protein tau and suggests a role for apoe in neuronal cytoskeletal stability and metabolism. using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), a variant of the apoe gene product and the major genetic risk factor for ad, we demonstrated that apoe4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation, unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (aβ) peptides, and that they displayed gabaergic neuron degeneration. 
ART has no effect on the infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] there is a relationship between art and quality of life of people living with hiv and aids, and several studies have reported a strong positive association between art and improved quality of life in different domains among people living with hiv and aids in both developed and developing countries. however, a few studies have reported on the negative effects of art, which directly or indirectly relate to the quality of life and longevity of hiv-infected persons. in this review, the effects and benefits of art on people living with hiv and aids based on studies done in developed and developing countries is examined. the ability of art to reduce the risk of hiv transmission has been reported in observational studies and in a randomised controlled trial (hptn 052), in which art initiation reduced hiv transmission by 96% within serodiscordant couples. results and conclusion: the expert group concludes that there is no risk of transmission of hiv during vaginal or anal intercourse if the hiv-infected person fulfils the criteria for effective art. the occurrence of other stis does not affect the risk of hiv transmission in persons on effective art. it is plausible that the risk for transmission of hiv infection between people who inject drugs and share injection equipment is reduced if the individual with hiv is on effective art, but there are no studies that directly show this. the success of antiretroviral therapy (art) for treating hiv infection is now being turned towards hiv prevention. the swiss federal commission for hiv/aids has declared that hiv-positive persons who are treated with art, have an undetectable viral load, and are free of co-occurring sexually transmitted infections (stis) should be considered noninfectious for sexual transmission of hiv. it is estimated that expanded access to art for all hiv-positive temporary residents in australia will substantially reduce hiv transmission to their sexual partners at little additional cost. 
ART substantially reduces infectiveness of HIV-positive people. [SEP] the modern antiretroviral therapy (art) era has seen substantial reductions in mortality among people living with hiv. the life-saving benefits of art can be realized among hiv-positive pwid when it is paired with strategies that address barriers to evidence-based medical care. it is estimated that expanded access to art for all hiv-positive temporary residents in australia will substantially reduce hiv transmission to their sexual partners at little additional cost. art use at individual and population levels reduces hiv morbidity and mortality and likely reduces hiv incidence. hiv viral suppression requires high levels of art adherence, which necessitates support through behavioural and structural interventions to optimise effectiveness of the use of art for prevention. in the hptn 052 randomised controlled trial, art used in combination with condoms and counselling reduced hiv transmission by 96·4%. evidence is growing that wider, earlier initiation of art could reduce population-level incidence of hiv. expanded art programmes in southern africa have resulted in dramatically decreased hiv incidence and hiv mortality rates. summary: the effective antiretroviral therapy (art) for hiv-1 infection has dramatically reduced the morbidity and mortality among people who live with hiv. it is plausible that the risk for transmission of hiv infection between people who inject drugs and share injection equipment is reduced if the individual with hiv is on effective art, but there are no studies that directly show this. 
ATF4 is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] transfection of an atf4 expression plasmid specifically induced inhibin βe expression in hela cells and indicates inhibin βe as a hitherto unidentified target gene of atf4, a key transcription factor of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response. endoplasmic reticulum stress is an evolutionarily conserved cell stress response associated with numerous diseases, including cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. the major endoplasmic reticulum stress signaling pathway causing cardiac hypertrophy involves endoplasmic reticulum stress sensor perk (protein kinase-like kinase) and eif2α-atf4-chop signaling. here, we describe a non-canonical, aggf1-mediated regulatory system for endoplasmic reticulum stress signaling associated with increased p-eif2α and atf4 and decreased sxbp1 and chop. specifically, we see a reduced aggf1 level consistently associated with induction of endoplasmic reticulum stress signaling in mouse models and human patients with heart failure. the synthetic machinery of atf4 (activating transcription factor 4) is activated in response to various stress conditions involved in nutrient restriction, endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis, and oxidation. stress-induced inhibition of proteasome activity triggers the unfolded protein response and endoplasmic reticulum stress, where atf4 is crucial for consequent biological events. endoplasmic reticulum stress activated the expression of the atf4 protein, upregulated the level of ddit4, inhibited the mtor signaling pathway, and caused cellular autophagy. these processes are known as the endoplasmic reticulum stress (ers) response. atf4 is a known important transcription factor which plays a pivotal role in osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein are critical for sensing DNA damage. [SEP] a family of phosphoinositide-3-kinase-related protein kinases, which includes ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) and ataxia telangiectasia and rad3 related (atr) kinases, play key roles in sensing dna damage. the related kinases atm (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) and atr (ataxia-telangiectasia and rad3-related) phosphorylate a limited number of downstream protein targets in response to dna damage. here we report a new pathway in which atm kinase signals the dna damage response by targeting the transcriptional cofactor strap. immediate cellular response to genotoxic stress is mediated by a family of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-related protein kinases, such as ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm), atm and rad3-related, and dna-dependent protein kinase. although the initial activation of protein kinase cascade is not fully understood, human protein kinases atm (ataxia-telangiectasia, mutated) and atr (atm and rad3-related) are emerging as potential sensors of dna damage. the activation of the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) and atm/rad3-related (atr) kinases triggers a diverse cellular response including the initiation of dna damage-induced cell cycle checkpoints. this study identifies ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) as a further component of the complex signaling network of radiation-induced dna damage in nontargeted bystander cells downstream of ataxia-telangiectasia and rad3-related (atr) and provides a rationale for molecular targeted modulation of these effects. in directly irradiated cells, atr, atm, and dna-dependent protein kinase (dna-pk) deficiency resulted in reduced cell survival as predicted by the known important role of these proteins in sensing dna damage. several proteins, including the mrx/n complex, tel1/atm (ataxia telangiectasia mutated), and mec1/atr (atm and rad3 related), have been proposed as sensors of dna damage, yet how they recognize the breaks is poorly understood. previous studies have established that mrn (mre11-rad50-nbs1) and atrip (atr interacting protein) interact with atm and atr, respectively, and recruit their partner kinases to sites of dna damage. 
ATM and Rad3 related protein have no role in sensing DNA damage. [SEP] a family of phosphoinositide-3-kinase-related protein kinases, which includes ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) and ataxia telangiectasia and rad3 related (atr) kinases, play key roles in sensing dna damage. this study identifies ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) as a further component of the complex signaling network of radiation-induced dna damage in nontargeted bystander cells downstream of ataxia-telangiectasia and rad3-related (atr) and provides a rationale for molecular targeted modulation of these effects. in directly irradiated cells, atr, atm, and dna-dependent protein kinase (dna-pk) deficiency resulted in reduced cell survival as predicted by the known important role of these proteins in sensing dna damage. in fission yeast, dna damage checkpoint signaling requires rad3, the homolog of the atr (atm and rad3-related) kinase, not tel1, the atm homolog, allowing us to dissect mrn's atm-independent s-phase dna damage checkpoint roles from its role in atm activation. several proteins, including the mrx/n complex, tel1/atm (ataxia telangiectasia mutated), and mec1/atr (atm and rad3 related), have been proposed as sensors of dna damage, yet how they recognize the breaks is poorly understood. ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) and atm- and rad3-related (atr) are members of the phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase-like family of serine/threonine protein kinases (pikks), and play important roles in the cellular response to dna damage. although the initial activation of protein kinase cascade is not fully understood, human protein kinases atm (ataxia-telangiectasia, mutated) and atr (atm and rad3-related) are emerging as potential sensors of dna damage. the ataxia-telangiectasia mutated/atm and rad3-related (atm/atr) family proteins are evolutionarily conserved serine/threonine kinases best known for their roles in mediating the dna damage response. in this minireview, we summarize the key findings and discuss atm/atr as a multifaceted signalling protein capable of mediating cellular response to both dna and protein damage. immediate cellular response to genotoxic stress is mediated by a family of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-related protein kinases, such as ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm), atm and rad3-related, and dna-dependent protein kinase. 
AZT given with ribavirin increases anemia. [SEP] combination treatment with azt and rifampicin caused severe anemia with mortality at 2 to 4 times the therapeutic dose combinations. anemia is the main concern among patients using a zidovudine (azt)-based antiretroviral treatment (art). we analyzed the risk factors associated with azt-induced anemia in a cohort using azt as substitution for stavudine (d4t). factors associated with azt-related anemia requiring azt-discontinuation within the first year after azt initiation were analyzed using cox regression. our findings argue against the need of weight-based dosing of azt to reduce anemia among patients using azt as substitution for d4t. azidothymidine (azt) induces severe anemia in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids). azt-induced anemia was dose- and time-dependent. these data suggest that the anemia induced by azt stimulated a response by immature erythroid elements, but that the maturation or survival of early erythroblasts may be impaired. time to improvement of anemia was longer for those initiating azt-containing regimens and blacks and was shorter for those with moderate and severe anemia or cd4 counts <200 cells/microl. in group a, the hemoglobin decline was steeper in patients receiving zidovudine (azidothymidine [azt], -3.64 g/dl vs. no azt, -2.08 g/dl), and patients receiving zidovudine had more anemia-related rbv dose reductions (azt, 60% vs. no azt, 16%). 
Activated Cdk5 phosphorylates the ATM protein in response to DNA damage. [SEP] here we show that cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5), activated by dna damage, directly phosphorylates atm at ser 794 in post-mitotic neurons. the cdk5-atm signal regulates phosphorylation and function of the atm targets p53 and h2ax. thus, activation of cdk5 by dna damage serves as a critical signal to initiate the atm response and regulate atm-dependent cellular processes. we previously showed that cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5) is activated by dna damage and directly phosphorylates atm at serine 794 in postmitotic neurons. cdk5-atm pathway plays a crucial role in dna damage-induced neuronal injury. here we report a new pathway in which atm kinase signals the dna damage response by targeting the transcriptional cofactor strap. the ataxia telangiectasia mutant (atm) protein kinase regulates the cell's response to dna damage through the phosphorylation of proteins involved in cell-cycle checkpoints and dna repair. the results demonstrate that the tip60 hat plays a key role in the activation of atm's kinase activity in response to dna damage. cdk5 regulates dna damage response by phosphorylating ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) kinase and thereby influencing its downstream cascade. the surveillance kinase ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm) plays a central role in regulation of a wide range of cellular dna damage responses. 
Activated Cdk5 regulates DNA damage-induced neuronal death. [SEP] interruption of the cdk5-atm pathway attenuates dna-damage-induced neuronal cell cycle re-entry and expression of the p53 targets puma and bax, protecting neurons from death. furthermore, evidence that cdk5 can also promote neuronal survival has necessitated a more complex understanding of cdk5 in the control of neuronal fate. moreover, we also find that cdk5 contributes to pro-survival signaling selectively within the cytoplasm, and manipulation of this signal can modify death induced by both excitotoxicity and dna damage. in a transgenic model for neurodegeneration, p25/cdk5 activity elicited cell-cycle activity and double-strand dna breaks that preceded neuronal death. in addition to these physiological roles, cdk5 has been involved in the neuronal death initiated by dna damage. accumulating evidence suggests that deregulated cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) plays a critical part in neuronal death. recent studies indicated that deregulation of cdk5 was involved in neuronal death induced by hypoxia (1% o2). we previously demonstrated a correlation between the up-regulation of cdk5 protein and kinase activity and cell death during development and pathogenesis. our results suggest a role for cdk5 and its regulatory proteins during cp induced cell death. these results further support the view that cdk5 and its regulation may be key players in the execution of cell death regardless of how the cell dies, whether through biological mechanisms, disease states such as alzheimer's disease, or induction by cp. 
Activation of PPM1D enhances p53 function. [SEP] ppm1d is a p53-inducible ser/thr phosphatase. one of the main functions of ppm1d in normal cells is to act as a negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor by dephosphorylating p53 and several kinases. ppm1d (wip1) negatively regulates by dephosphorylation many proteins including p53 tumour suppressor. this result is in excellent agreement with the notion that ppm1d activation is an alternative mechanism for p53 inactivation. our findings demonstrate that ppm1d is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation in breast cancer in a p53-dependent manner and that overexpression of ppm1d contributes to malignant phenotype by promoting sustained cell growth and cell survival. ppm1d also dephosphorylates p53 at phospho-ser 15. ppm1d is a negative regulator of p53 and genomic aberrations resulting in increased activity of ppm1d have been observed in cancers of different origins, indicating that ppm1d has oncogenic properties. ppm1d-expressing mice developed tumors phenotypically and genetically similar to tumors in mice with dysfunctional p53. because ppm1d is transcriptionally activated by p53 in response to dna damage, ppm1d may serve as a critical component of a p53 negative feedback regulatory loop since it now appears that ppm1d can inhibit p53 activity by at least four different molecular mechanisms. ppm1d/wip1 is a negative regulator of the tumor suppressor p53 and is overexpressed in several human solid tumors. 
Activation of the Rac1 homolog CED-10 kills viable cells in SRGP-1 mutant Caenorhabditis elegans. [SEP] caenorhabditis elegans ced-10 is a rac1 homolog that is required for various cellular morphological changes and migration events and is under the control of several guidance signaling pathways. here we show that the vps9 domain protein rin-1 acts as a novel effector for ced-10 in c. elegans. the c. elegans genes ced-2, ced-5, and ced-10, and their mammalian homologs crkii, dock180, and rac1, mediate cytoskeletal rearrangements during phagocytosis of apoptotic cells and cell motility. these studies identify ced-12/elmo as an upstream regulator of rac1 that affects engulfment and cell migration from c. elegans to mammals. the ced-10 rac pathway is also required for the proper migration of the distal tip cells (dtcs) during the development of the c. elegans gonad. programmed cell death in caenorhabditis elegans is initiated by the binding of egl-1 to ced-9, which disrupts the ced-4/ced-9 complex and allows ced-4 to activate the cell-killing caspase ced-3. these data suggest a working mechanism for the release of ced-4 from the ced-4/ced-9 complex upon egl-1 binding and provide a mechanistic framework for understanding apoptosis activation in c. elegans. virus replication was significantly enhanced in ced-3, ced-4, ced-9(gf), and egl-1(lf) mutants, demonstrating that the core programmed cell death (pcd) genes ced-3, ced-4, ced-9, and egl-1 control vaccinia virus replication in c. elegans. s. typhimurium-mediated germ-line cell death is not observed in c. elegans ced-3 and ced-4 mutants in which developmentally regulated cell death is blocked, and ced-3 and ced-4 mutants are hypersensitive to s. typhimurium-mediated killing. here we show that inactivation of the c. elegans csp-3 gene, which encodes a protein similar to the small subunit of the ced-3 caspase, causes cells that normally live to undergo apoptosis in a ced-3-dependent manner. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided ventrally by Xrl-sizzled. [SEP] sizzled is also a natural inhibitor of bmp1, a tolloid metalloproteinase of medical interest. sizzled is ventrally expressed in a bmp-dependent manner and is required for the suppression of bmp signalling on the ventral side of zebrafish embryos. the cysteine-rich domain of sizzled is required for inhibition of bmp1a activity. these results indicate that sizzled represses the activities of tolloid-family proteins, thereby creating the chordin-bmp activity gradient along the dorso-ventral axis. sizzled encodes a secreted protein with both wnt and bmp inhibitor activities. loss of sizzled expression led to decreases in rnas encoding the secreted wnt inhibitor sfrp2 and the secreted bmp inhibitor noggin; the sizzled morphant phenotype could be rescued by co-injection of rnas encoding noggin and either sfrp2 or dickkopf (a mechanistically distinct wnt inhibitor). overexpression of sizzled, resulting in strongly dorsalized phenotypes, and the expression domains of sizzled in wild type embryos, localized in the ventral side during gastrulation and restricted to the posterior end during segmentation stages, correlate with its role in dorsoventral patterning. in contrast, xenopus sizzled appears as a tight binding inhibitor of human bmp-1, with a k(i) of 1.5 ± 0.5 nm, and is shown to strongly inhibit other human tolloid isoforms mtld and mtll-1. because sizzled is the most potent inhibitor of human tolloid-like proteinases known to date, we have studied its mechanism of action in detail and shown that the frizzled domain of sizzled is both necessary and sufficient for inhibitory activity and that it acts directly on the catalytic domain of bmp-1. residues in sizzled required for inhibition include asp-92, which is shared by sfrp-1 and -2, and also phe-94, ser-43, and glu-44, which are specific to sizzled, thereby providing a rational basis for the absence of inhibitory activity of human sfrps. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure consisting of five distinct subunits. [SEP] urease of helicobacter pylori (formerly campylobacter pylori) is believed to represent a critical virulence determinant for this species. by n-terminal analysis, the 29.5-kda subunit of h. pylori urease was found to share significant amino acid sequence similarity with the smallest of three subunits of the proteus mirabilis and morganella morganii ureases, as well as to the amino terminus of the unique jack bean subunit. all flba mutants of eight strains of h. pylori were non-motile and five had a strain-dependent alteration in urease activity. two characteristic monoclonal antibodies (hpu-2 and -18) out of 26 monoclonal antibodies (hpu-1 approximately 26) produced against helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) urease showed a strong inhibitory effect against the enzymatic activity of the urease. the former sequence is present as a part of a loop structure at a position close to the c-terminal of the alpha-subunit of h. pylori urease, although it has been suggested that the active site of the urease resides in the beta-subunit. it is well documented that the enzymatic active site of helicobacter pylori urease is present in the beta-subunit. an important sequence of 135 amino acids of the beta-subunit was determined from the structure of h. pylori urease and by a homology-based study of the urease of other bacteria and plants. here, we show that we have found a unique h. pylori urease-specific igg monoclonal antibody (mab), termed s3, recognizing the conformational structure of the small subunit ure-a, which enhanced the urease enzymatic activity. antiserum to whole cells of h. pylori recognized both h. pylori and h. felis urease b subunits. pcr amplification of the urease genes may enable the differentiation of closely related h. pylori strains by restriction digest analysis of pcr-amplified urea and ureb genes. 
Active Ly49Q induces neutrophil polarization. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. structure function analysis in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that different domains of ly49q are important for its function. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. thus, ly49q has unique features different from other known ly49 family members and appears to be involved in regulation of cytoskeletal architecture of macrophages through itim-mediated signaling. 
Active Ly49Q prevents neutrophil polarization. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. structure function analysis in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that different domains of ly49q are important for its function. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. thus, ly49q has unique features different from other known ly49 family members and appears to be involved in regulation of cytoskeletal architecture of macrophages through itim-mediated signaling. 
Active caspase-11 participate in regulating phagosome-lysosome fusion. [SEP] caspase-11 promoted the fusion of the l. pneumophila vacuole with lysosomes by modulating actin polymerization through cofilin. however, caspase-11 was dispensable for the fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes containing nonpathogenic bacteria, uncovering a fundamental difference in the trafficking of phagosomes according to their cargo. morphological studies confirmed that phagosome maturation and phagosome-lysosome fusion is enhanced by overexpression of rab5a. the results indicate that rab5a controls early phagosome-endosome interactions and governs the maturation of the early phagosome leading to phagosome-lysosome fusion. caspase-1 subsequently cleaves rab39a on the phagosomal membrane, promoting lysosome acidification. although caspase-1 is critical for lysosome acidification, its activation is independent of inflammasomes and cell death mediated by apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase recruitment domain, revealing a role beyond pyroptosis. we hypothesize that rabd and, possibly, rab14, a related gtpase that associates with phagosomes in mammalian cells, are important regulators of homotypic phagosome and endo-lysosome fusion. phagosome-lysosome membrane fusion is a highly regulated event that is essential for intracellular killing of microorganisms. since several intracellular pathogens survive in macrophage phagosomes that do not fuse with lysosomes, we examined the regulation of phagosome-lysosome fusion in macrophages. we have reconstituted fusion between phagosomes and lysosomes in streptolysin o-permeabilized j774-e macrophages. 
Active caspase-11 protein promotes pyroptosis. [SEP] pyroptosis is mediated by inflammasome activation pathways including caspase-1-mediated canonical signaling pathway and caspase-11-mediated noncanonical signaling pathway. caspase-11-mediated hepatocytic pyroptosis promotes the progression of nash. caspase-11-dependent pyroptosis is triggered in ifn-activated macrophages infected with the gram-negative bacterial pathogen legionella pneumophila. given the similar inflammatory outcomes of the canonical and noncanonical pyroptosis pathways, we hypothesized that caspase-1 and -11 should have very similar activities and substrate specificities. we hypothesize that caspase-11 may have evolved a specific exosite to selectively engage pyroptosis without directly activating pro-il-1β or -18. pyroptosis, a type of programmed cell death that along with inflammation, is mainly regulated by two main pathways, cysteinyl aspartate specific proteinase (caspase)-1-induced canonical inflammatory pathway and caspase-11-induced non-canonical inflammatory pathway. the present study describes a pathway that enables lps to directly enter the cell and activate caspase-11, and the key role caspase-11 plays in the activation of pyroptosis and inflammation. the pyroptosis execution protein gsdmd is cleaved by inflammasome-activated caspase-1 and lps-activated caspase-11/4/5. here, we show site-specific caspase-4/11 autoprocessing, generating a p10 product, is required and sufficient for cleaving gsdmd and inducing pyroptosis. pyroptosis is a newly discovered untypical form of programmed cell death by inflammatory response, which is dependent on the classic pathway of caspase-1 and the non-canonical pathway of caspase-11 in mice or orthologue caspase-4/-5 in humans. 
Acute ablation of KRAS causes severe growth impairment. [SEP] given the prevalence of this malignancy and current difficulties in therapeutically targeting kras signaling, our work may have future translational relevance. although the roles of mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) signaling in kras-driven tumorigenesis are well established, kras activates additional pathways required for tumor maintenance, the inhibition of which are likely to be necessary for effective kras-directed therapy. here, we report that systemic atg7 ablation caused susceptibility to infection and neurodegeneration that limited survival to 2 to 3 months. although kras direct binding to and activation of pi3k is required for kras-driven lung tumorigenesis, the contribution of insulin receptor (ir) and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (igf1r) in the context of mutant kras remains controversial. in this study, we found that kras mutation in crc caused alteration in amino acid metabolism. kras mutation causes a marked decrease in aspartate level and an increase in asparagine level in crc. notably, a pronounced growth suppression of kras-mutant crc was observed upon asns knockdown in vivo. kras deficiency altered tcr-induced gene expression profiles, including the reduced expression of various inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. moreover, kras deficiency inhibited il-6-mediated th17 cell differentiation and impaired il-6-induced erk activation and gene expression in cd4 t cells. kras mutations lead to activation of the pi3k/akt/mtor pathway, whose inhibition remains a challenging clinical target. 
Acute ablation of Snail in the embryonic cortex affects the proliferation and number of embryonic cortical precursors. [SEP] here we have asked whether it regulates the biology of neural precursor cells (npcs) in the forebrain of postnatal and adult mice, taking advantage of a mouse containing a floxed snail allele (snailfl/fl mice). we show that when snail is inducibly ablated in the embryonic cortex, this has long-term consequences for cortical organization. in particular, when snailfl/fl mice are crossed to nestin-cre mice that express cre recombinase in embryonic neural precursors, this causes inducible ablation of snail expression throughout the postnatal cortex. this loss of snail causes a decrease in proliferation of neonatal cortical neural precursors and mislocalization and misspecification of cortical neurons. thus, snail is a key regulator of the numbers of neural precursors and newborn neurons throughout life. the snail transcription factor plays a key role in regulating diverse developmental processes but is not thought to play a role in mammalian neural precursors. here, we have examined radial glial precursor cells of the embryonic murine cortex and demonstrate that snail regulates their survival, self-renewal, and differentiation into intermediate progenitors and neurons via two distinct and separable target pathways. thus, snail acts via p53 and cdc25b to coordinately regulate multiple aspects of mammalian embryonic neural precursor biology. a key event in the development of the mammalian cerebral cortex is the generation of neuronal populations during embryonic life. in this study we show that the radial migration of neuronal precursors out of cerebral cortex of embryonic brain slices cultured for 4-7 days gives rise to an organized tissue that forms de novo off developing slices. 
Addition of BMP4, activin A, CHIR99021, and SU504 to reprogramming fibroblasts generates, expands and maintains cardiovascular progenitor cells (CPCs) [SEP] the findings from the present study have demonstrated an efficient protein-transduction method of directly reprogramming fibroblasts into cardiac progenitor cells. we discuss state-of-the-art methods for generating de novo cardiomyocytes from hpscs and reprogrammed fibroblasts, highlighting potential applications and future challenges. fibroblasts can be reprogrammed into cardiovascular progenitor cells (cpcs) using transgenic approaches, although the underlying mechanism remains unclear. a potential cardiac repair therapy involves reprogramming human fibroblasts toward an induced cardiac progenitor-like state. to improve the efficiency of cardiac differentiation of isl1-cpcs, we studied the role of bmp4 in cardiogenesis of isl1-cpcs. we show an inductive role of bmp directly on cardiac progenitors and its enhancement on early cardiac differentiation of cpcs. collectively these findings suggest a cardiomyogenic role for bmp4 directly on a pure population of isl1 expressing cardiac progenitors, which could lead to enhancement of cardiac differentiation and engraftment, holding a significant therapeutic value for cardiac repair in the future. cardiovascular progenitor cells (cvpcs) derived from human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs), including human embryonic stem cells (hescs) and human induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs), hold great promise for the study of cardiovascular development and cell-based therapy of heart diseases, but their applications are challenged by the difficulties in their efficient generation and stable maintenance. cardiac progenitor cells (cpcs) show great potential as a cell resource for restoring cardiac function in patients affected by heart disease or heart failure. recent advances in biomaterials to mimic the native cardiac microenvironment have shown promise to influence cpc regenerative functions, while being capable of integrating with host tissue. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] we propose here to review recent insights about the different embryonic hematopoietic programs responsible for the generation of long-lived tissue-resident macrophages and their maintenance after birth. in contrast to recruited macrophages originating from marrow precursors, tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth and function to coordinate tissue remodeling and maintain tissue integrity and homeostasis. although classified as hematopoietic cells, tissue-resident macrophages (mfs) arise from embryonic precursors that seed the tissues prior to birth to generate a self-renewing population, which is maintained independently of adult hematopoiesis. tissue-resident macrophages can develop from circulating adult monocytes or from primitive yolk sac-derived macrophages. this demonstrates that tissue-resident macrophages can also develop from fetal monocytes that adopt a stable phenotype shortly after birth in response to instructive cytokines, and then self-maintain throughout life. during embryonic organogenesis, macrophages derived from yolk sac and fetal liver precursors are seeded throughout tissues, persisting in the adulthood as resident, self-maintaining populations. rather, most tissue macrophage populations in mice are derived from embryonic precursors, are seeded before birth and can maintain themselves in adults by self-renewal. these tissue-resident macrophages derive from sequential seeding of tissues by two precursors during embryonic development. the new paradigm suggests that several tissue-resident macrophage populations are seeded during waves of embryonic hematopoiesis and self-maintain independently of bm contribution during adulthood. we show that tissue-resident macrophages are found in mammary glands already before birth, and that the yolk sac-derived and fetal liver-derived macrophages outnumber the adult-derived macrophages in the mammary gland also in the adulthood. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth. [SEP] we propose here to review recent insights about the different embryonic hematopoietic programs responsible for the generation of long-lived tissue-resident macrophages and their maintenance after birth. in contrast to recruited macrophages originating from marrow precursors, tissue-resident macrophages are seeded before birth and function to coordinate tissue remodeling and maintain tissue integrity and homeostasis. although classified as hematopoietic cells, tissue-resident macrophages (mfs) arise from embryonic precursors that seed the tissues prior to birth to generate a self-renewing population, which is maintained independently of adult hematopoiesis. tissue-resident macrophages can develop from circulating adult monocytes or from primitive yolk sac-derived macrophages. this demonstrates that tissue-resident macrophages can also develop from fetal monocytes that adopt a stable phenotype shortly after birth in response to instructive cytokines, and then self-maintain throughout life. during embryonic organogenesis, macrophages derived from yolk sac and fetal liver precursors are seeded throughout tissues, persisting in the adulthood as resident, self-maintaining populations. rather, most tissue macrophage populations in mice are derived from embryonic precursors, are seeded before birth and can maintain themselves in adults by self-renewal. these tissue-resident macrophages derive from sequential seeding of tissues by two precursors during embryonic development. the new paradigm suggests that several tissue-resident macrophage populations are seeded during waves of embryonic hematopoiesis and self-maintain independently of bm contribution during adulthood. we show that tissue-resident macrophages are found in mammary glands already before birth, and that the yolk sac-derived and fetal liver-derived macrophages outnumber the adult-derived macrophages in the mammary gland also in the adulthood. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages possess a self-renewing capacity. [SEP] like monocytes, the monocyte-derived macrophages have no proliferative potential and are short-lived, whereas the resident macrophages are long-lived in tissue, possess proliferative capacity and can be sustained by self-renewal. furthermore, these pro-tumoural f4/80himhciilow and f4/80himhciihi macrophages can self-renew in the tumour and maintain their numbers mostly independent from bone marrow contribution. tissue-resident macrophages are heterogeneous as a consequence of anatomical niche-specific functions. self-renewal of macrophages is important for the healthy development and replenishment of tissue-resident macrophage pools. here, we show the presence of adult bone marrow-derived macrophages that retain self-renewing capacity. the self-renewing macrophages were readily obtained by long-term culture of mouse bone marrow cells with macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf), a key cytokine for macrophage development. the traditional view that all tissue-resident macrophages derive from the bone marrow through circulating monocyte intermediates has dramatically shifted recently with the observation that macrophages from embryonic progenitors can persist into adulthood and self-maintain by local proliferation. in this review, we summarize the current knowledge about the identity, proliferation, and turnover of tissue-resident macrophages and how they differ from freshly recruited short-lived monocyte-derived cells. we examine whether macrophage proliferation can be qualified as self-renewal of mature differentiated cells and whether the concepts and molecular pathways are comparable to self-renewal mechanisms in stem cells. finally, we discuss how improved understanding of macrophage identity and self-renewal could be exploited for therapeutic intervention of macrophage-mediated pathologies by selectively targeting freshly recruited or resident macrophages. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] progenitors with macrophage potential in vitro have been described in the yolk sac before emergence of hscs, and fetal macrophages can develop independently of myb, a transcription factor required for hsc, and can persist in adult tissues. our fate-mapping experiments identify, in the fetal liver, a sequence of yolk sac emp-derived and hsc-derived haematopoiesis, and identify yolk sac emps as a common origin for tissue macrophages. adult tissue-resident macrophages largely originate from long-lived, self-renewing embryonic precursors and not from haematopoietic stem-cell activity in the bone marrow. the first wave of hematopoiesis contains primitive erythroid, megakaryocyte and macrophage progenitors that arise in the yolk sac, and these macrophage progenitors are the source of early macrophages throughout the embryo, including the liver. recent investigations have identified that resident macrophages originate from the extra-embryonic yolk sac hematopoiesis from progenitor(s) distinct from fetal hematopoietic stem cells (hsc). these tissue-resident macrophages derive from sequential seeding of tissues by two precursors during embryonic development. later, fetal monocytes, generated from c-myb(+) emps that initially seed the fetal liver (fl), then give rise to the majority of other adult macrophages. a subset of macrophages that reside in adult tissues originate from the fetal yolk sac, while others derive from circulating monocytes. tissue-resident macrophages can originate from embryonic or adult hematopoiesis. we demonstrate that skeletal muscle-resident macrophages originate from both embryonic hematopoietic progenitors located within the yolk sac and fetal liver as well as definitive hematopoietic stem cells located within the bone marrow of adult mice. 
Adult tissue-resident macrophages stem from the embryonal yolk sac and fetal liver. [SEP] progenitors with macrophage potential in vitro have been described in the yolk sac before emergence of hscs, and fetal macrophages can develop independently of myb, a transcription factor required for hsc, and can persist in adult tissues. our fate-mapping experiments identify, in the fetal liver, a sequence of yolk sac emp-derived and hsc-derived haematopoiesis, and identify yolk sac emps as a common origin for tissue macrophages. adult tissue-resident macrophages largely originate from long-lived, self-renewing embryonic precursors and not from haematopoietic stem-cell activity in the bone marrow. the first wave of hematopoiesis contains primitive erythroid, megakaryocyte and macrophage progenitors that arise in the yolk sac, and these macrophage progenitors are the source of early macrophages throughout the embryo, including the liver. recent investigations have identified that resident macrophages originate from the extra-embryonic yolk sac hematopoiesis from progenitor(s) distinct from fetal hematopoietic stem cells (hsc). these tissue-resident macrophages derive from sequential seeding of tissues by two precursors during embryonic development. later, fetal monocytes, generated from c-myb(+) emps that initially seed the fetal liver (fl), then give rise to the majority of other adult macrophages. a subset of macrophages that reside in adult tissues originate from the fetal yolk sac, while others derive from circulating monocytes. tissue-resident macrophages can originate from embryonic or adult hematopoiesis. we demonstrate that skeletal muscle-resident macrophages originate from both embryonic hematopoietic progenitors located within the yolk sac and fetal liver as well as definitive hematopoietic stem cells located within the bone marrow of adult mice. 
Aged patients are less susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] cardiovascular ageing is associated with an increase in cardiac susceptibility to ischaemia and reperfusion and production of reactive oxygen species has been suspected to be responsible for this age-associated particular vulnerability. to determine whether administration of antioxidant treatment could afford some protection against ischaemia and reperfusion during aging, isolated perfused hearts from adult and senescent rats were submitted to normoxia (180 min), prolonged low-flow ischaemia (15% of initial coronary flow;180 min) or low-flow ischaemia/reperfusion (45 min/30 min), without or with antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase+catalase; 50iu/ml). protein oxidation was higher in senescent than in adult hearts after ischaemia-reperfusion, in contrast to prolonged ischaemia. during prolonged ischaemia, antioxidant treatment prevented coronary vasoconstriction at both ages and delayed contractile dysfunction in senescent hearts but did not limit protein oxidation. during reperfusion, antioxidant treatment prevented coronary vasoconstriction and protein oxidation at both ages and considerably improved recovery of contractile function in senescent hearts. in conclusion, antioxidant treatment fully protects the senescent heart against ischaemia/reperfusion but not against prolonged ischaemia injury, indicating that oxidative stress plays a central role in the age-associated vulnerability to ischaemia-reperfusion. there is a general concern that aged organs are more susceptible to ischaemia. the aim of this study was to correlate donor age and the patterns of ischaemia reperfusion injury and synthetic function early after liver transplantation. judiciously selected livers from aged donors are not associated with major increased susceptibility to ischaemia reperfusion injury. this article reviews the mechanisms and implications of the modulatory effects of ageing and sex on myocardial ischaemia-reperfusion injury and their potential effects on cardioprotective interventions. 
Aged patients are more susceptible to ischaemia/reperfusion injury. [SEP] cardiovascular ageing is associated with an increase in cardiac susceptibility to ischaemia and reperfusion and production of reactive oxygen species has been suspected to be responsible for this age-associated particular vulnerability. to determine whether administration of antioxidant treatment could afford some protection against ischaemia and reperfusion during aging, isolated perfused hearts from adult and senescent rats were submitted to normoxia (180 min), prolonged low-flow ischaemia (15% of initial coronary flow;180 min) or low-flow ischaemia/reperfusion (45 min/30 min), without or with antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase+catalase; 50iu/ml). protein oxidation was higher in senescent than in adult hearts after ischaemia-reperfusion, in contrast to prolonged ischaemia. in conclusion, antioxidant treatment fully protects the senescent heart against ischaemia/reperfusion but not against prolonged ischaemia injury, indicating that oxidative stress plays a central role in the age-associated vulnerability to ischaemia-reperfusion. there is a general concern that aged organs are more susceptible to ischaemia. the aim of this study was to correlate donor age and the patterns of ischaemia reperfusion injury and synthetic function early after liver transplantation. judiciously selected livers from aged donors are not associated with major increased susceptibility to ischaemia reperfusion injury. one particular challenge facing translation is the existence of demographic and clinical factors that influence the pathophysiology of ischaemia-reperfusion injury of the heart and the effects of treatments aimed at preventing it. among these factors, age and sex are prominent and have a recognised role in the susceptibility and outcome of ischaemic heart disease. this article reviews the mechanisms and implications of the modulatory effects of ageing and sex on myocardial ischaemia-reperfusion injury and their potential effects on cardioprotective interventions. 
Aggravated inflammation is dependent on NLRP3 inflammasome activation. [SEP] the nlrp3 inflammasome has been identified as the cellular machinery responsible for activation of inflammatory processes. in this study, we hypothesized that the activation of nlrp3 inflammasomes contributes to hhcy-induced inflammation and atherosclerosis. the nlrp3 inflammasome is a complex of multiple proteins that activates the secretion of the proinflammatory cytokine il-1β in a caspase-1-dependent manner to participate in the regulation of inflammation. the nlrp3 inflammasome involvement in ers-induced inflammation has not been completely described. accumulating evidence suggests that ers-induced activation of nlrp3 inflammasome is the pathological basis of various inflammatory diseases. in this review, we have discussed the networks between ers and nlrp3 inflammasome, with the view to identifying novel therapeutic targets in inflammatory diseases. • ers can activate the nlrp3 inflammasome to induce inflammatory responses via oxidative stress, calcium homeostasis, and nf-κb activation. • the interactions between ers and nlrp3 inflammasome are associated with inflammation, which represent a potential therapeutic opportunity of inflammatory diseases. inflammasome-dependent nlrp3 mediates the progression of kidney diseases by escalating the inflammatory response in immune cells and the cross-talk between immune cells and renal nonimmune cells. then, we examined whether nlrp3 inflammasome activation was involved in pm2.5-induced inflammation. 
Albendazole is used to treat soil-transmitted helminths. [SEP] albendazole is one of two standard drugs for the control of soil-transmitted helminthiasis. a total of 149 schoolchildren from port elizabeth, south africa, were examined for soil-transmitted helminth infections using duplicate kato-katz thick smears before and 2 weeks after administration of albendazole (400 mg). trials using albendazole and mebendazole, as single 400 mg dose treatments, against soil-transmitted helminths, were carried out in 7-9 and 10-12 years-old schoolchildren living in urban and rural environments in penang, malaysia. albendazole was more effective against ascaris lumbricoides and hookworms but not against trichuris trichiura, thus in those who remained infected after receiving albendazole, the helminth composition was dominated by t. trichiura. however, there is an interaction between treatment and helminths as in subjects who received albendazole and remained infected there was a significant alteration in bacteroidetes. the benzimidazole anthelmintics, mebendazole and albendazole, are commonly used to remove these infections. albendazole was administered in all the participants at baseline and in all the children who were found to be positive for infection with soil-transmitted helminths at the follow-up assessment at the end of the school year. a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of albendazole (400 mg daily for 3 days) in antiretroviral-naive hiv-1-infected adults (cd4 cell count >200 cells/microl) with soil-transmitted helminth infection was conducted at 10 sites in kenya (clinicaltrials.gov nct00130910). current mda approaches using single-dose albendazole or mebendazole are effective for ascariasis, less so for other soil-transmitted helminth infections. children were examined for soil-transmitted helminth infections using duplicate kato-katz thick smears in march 2015, october 2015 and may 2016, and subsequently treated with albendazole after each survey. 
Algerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] background: the objective of this paper is to describe the numbers, characteristics, and trends in the migration to the united states of physicians trained in sub-saharan africa. methods: we used the american medical association 2002 masterfile to identify and describe physicians who received their medical training in sub-saharan africa and are currently practicing in the usa. results: more than 23% of america's 771 491 physicians received their medical training outside the usa, the majority (64%) in low-income or lower middle-income countries. a total of 5334 physicians from sub-saharan africa are in that group, a number that represents more than 6% of the physicians practicing in sub-saharan africa now. the migration of over 5000 doctors from sub-saharan africa to the usa has had a significantly negative effect on the doctor-to-population ratio of africa. nevertheless, the training programs offered by medical institutions in sub-saharan africa need to be periodically reviewed and take into account professional and occupational roles physicians would take in context of evolving health systems in sub-saharan africa. physicians in sub-saharan africa ought to be trained in all of these capacities. sub-saharan african family physicians and postgraduate trainee physicians value good teachers and recognize that clinical training alone does not provide all of the skills needed by educators. investments in training physician specialists through postgraduate medical education (pgme) are critical for sub-saharan africa, given the increasing burden of non-communicable diseases. second, a "community of practice" has been established to continue strengthening medical education in sub-saharan africa. 
Alirocumab treatment reduces apo(a) fractional clearance rate. [SEP] alirocumab reduced ultracentrifugally isolated ldl-c by 55.1%, ldl-apob by 56.3%, and plasma lp(a) by 18.7%. the increase in apo(a) fcr during alirocumab treatment suggests that increased ldl receptors may also play a role in the reduction of plasma lp(a). alirocumab significantly increased the fractional catabolic rate of apob100 (+29%) but not that of apo(a). conversely, alirocumab sharply and significantly reduced the production rate (pr) of apo(a) (-42%), but not significantly that of apob100, compared with igg1, respectively.in line with the observations made in human hepatocytes, the present kinetic study establishes that pcsk9 neutralization with alirocumab efficiently reduces circulating apob100 and apo(a) levels by distinct mechanisms: apob primarily by enhancing its catabolism and apo(a) primarily by lowering its production. the effects of 12-week alirocumab treatment (150 mg every 2 weeks) on apo(a) kinetics were studied in 21 patients with elevated lp(a) concentration (>0.5 g/l). alirocumab significantly decreased plasma concentrations of total cholesterol (-39%), ldl-cholesterol (-67%), apob (-56%), apo(a) (-25%) and lp(a) (-22%) (p< 0.001 for all). alirocumab also significantly lowered plasma apo(a) pool size (-26%, p <0.001) and increased the fcr of apo(a) (+28%, p< 0.001), but did not alter apo(a) pr, which remained significantly higher relative to a reference group of patients on statins with normal lp(a) (p< 0.001). in statin-treated patients, alirocumab lowers elevated plasma lp(a) concentrations by accelerating the catabolism of lp(a) particles. alirocumab significantly reduced total lp(a) (pooled median: -21%, p = 0.0001) and allele-specific apo(a), an lp(a) level carried by the smaller (median: -18%, p = 0.002) or the larger (median: -37%, p = 0.0005) apo(a) isoform, at week 8 versus baseline. in conclusion, alirocumab-induced lp(a) reduction was independent of apo(a) phenotypes and the presence or absence of a small size apo(a). 
Allogeneic mechanical circulatory support is not as effective as autologous mechanical circulatory support for treating acute myocardial infarction. [SEP] this case highlights the importance of mechanical circulatory support in the management of cardiogenic shock associated with rare complications of myocardial infarction, even after surgical revascularization. the use of percutaneous mechanical circulatory support (mcs) in high-risk coronary intervention and cardiogenic shock is associated with improved ability to obtain complete revascularization. however, whether prolonged left ventricular unloading and mechanical circulatory support prior to coronary revascularization in acute myocardial infarct patients improves outcomes is unclear. mechanical circulatory support is required to unload the ventricles, decrease the myocardial demand, prevent further injury, improve the coronary perfusion, stabilise the haemodynamics and maintain the end-organ perfusion before definitive interventions such as coronary reperfusion can take place. in some centers and prospective registries, outcomes after placement of advanced mechanical circulatory support prior to reperfusion therapy with percutaneous coronary intervention have been encouraging with improved survival. the purpose of this article is to review important landmark trials as well as the relevant recent literature for percutaneous mechanical circulatory support following acute myocardial infarction. the sole use of intraaortic balloon pumps for cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction continues to be questioned with downgrading of its recommendation in recent years, there however may remain a role in patients with mechanical complications of their myocardial infarction. mechanical circulatory support is occasionally needed in the perioperative period of heart transplantation. our hybrid, percutaneous and surgical, approach offered acute short-term circulatory support in stemi patients with acute heart failure, allowing myocardial recovery or selection for long-term mechanical support. in selected patients with ami-cs, there might be a benefit associated with early institution of mechanical circulatory support before revascularization. 
Alteration of origin firing causes changes in termination zones of Okazaki fragments. [SEP] we observe that both okazaki fragment initiation and the productive firing of replication origins are sensitive to pol α abundance, and that both processes are disrupted at similar pol α concentrations. we propose that the global changes we observe in okazaki fragment length and origin firing efficiency are consistent with distributive association of pol α at the replication fork, at least when pol α is limiting. here we sequenced highly purified okazaki fragments from two cell types and, for the first time, quantitated replication fork directionality and delineated initiation and termination zones genome-wide. fifty per cent of the genome is discontinuously replicated on the lagging strand as okazaki fragments. eukaryotic okazaki fragments remain poorly characterized and, because nucleosomes are rapidly deposited on nascent dna, okazaki fragment processing and nucleosome assembly potentially affect one another. disrupting chromatin assembly or lagging-strand polymerase processivity affects both the size and the distribution of okazaki fragments, suggesting a role for nascent chromatin, assembled immediately after the passage of the replication fork, in the termination of okazaki fragment synthesis. we developed a bayesian algorithm to characterize origin firing statistics from okazaki fragment (of) sequencing data. we have modeled repeated cycles of okazaki fragment initiation using a collision with a completed okazaki fragment or primer-primase complexes as the recycling mechanism. the results reproduce experimental data, providing insights into events related to okazaki fragment initiation and the overall functioning of dna replisomes. okazaki fragments radiolabeled during in vitro replication showed a switch in the asymmetry of template preference within the initiation zone identified by electron microscopy, two-dimensional electrophoresis and early labeling. 
Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is inaccurate at diagnosing hypertension. [SEP] unfortunately, patients are misdiagnosed in primary care because of inaccurate office-based blood pressure measurements. in addition, many of the practices did not own an ambulatory blood pressure monitoring device (79.7%) and, therefore, had to refer patients to other clinics or departments for testing. hypertension is a very common disease, and office measurements of blood pressure are frequently inaccurate. detection of mild hypertension by a small number of casual blood pressures may be inaccurate for the determination of average blood pressure. ambulatory blood pressure monitoring is rapidly becoming an integral part of the diagnosis and management of hypertensive patients, particularly in major urban canadian centres. to assess the ability of limited ambulatory blood pressure monitoring as a valid replacement for office blood pressure measurement done to american heart association criteria in diagnosing hypertension. to review published evidence on the use of ambulatory and self-measurement devices in the diagnosis and management of hypertension. less evidence supports self-measured blood pressure in this regard, and data are insufficient to compare ambulatory and self-measured blood pressure in terms of cardiovascular disease risk prediction. limited clinical applications of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and blood pressure self-measurement in the diagnosis and management of hypertension appear to be warranted. compared with blood pressure measurements in the office setting, ambulatory blood pressure monitoring offers a more accurate and reliable method of diagnosing and managing hypertension. 
Amitriptyline is an effective treatment for chronic tension-type headaches. [SEP] the tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, is an effective drug for the treatment of chronic tension-type headache and for other chronic pain syndromes, but it is also effective in the prophylaxis of an episodic type of headache such as migraine. we compared the efficacy of amitriptyline (25 mg/day) in 82 nondepressed patients with either chronic or episodic tension-type headache in an open-label study. amitriptyline significantly reduced (p < 0.05) frequency and duration of headache as well as analgesic consumption in chronic, but not in episodic, tension-type headache. amitriptyline, but not citalopram, is valuable in the prophylactic treatment of chronic tension type headache. the tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, is widely used for the prophylactic treatment of migraine and tension-type headache. amitriptyline has been shown to be moderately effective in chronic tension-type headache in several controlled studies, but the use is often hampered by side effects. the objective of this article was to review the literature published on the use of amitriptyline in the prophylactic treatment of chronic tension-type headache, considering the level of scientific evidence of the different studies using the sort criteria. the tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline is the drug of choice in the preventive treatment of chronic tension-type headache. the tricyclic anti-depressant amitriptyline is widely used in the treatment of chronic tension-type headache. the tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline is the only drug with prophylactic efficacy for chronic tension-type headache. 
An M2-like phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages is quickly induced by cold exposure. [SEP] we examined the role of cd206+ m2-like macrophages in the cold-induced browning of wat using genetically engineered cd206dtr mice, in which cd206+ m2-like macrophages were conditionally depleted. a flow cytometry analysis showed that the partial depletion of cd206+ m2-like macrophages caused an increase in the number of beige progenitors in ingwat in response to cold. obese vat is predominated by pro-inflammatory m1 macrophages; cold exposure induces an m1-to-m2 shift in macrophage composition and dramatic changes in macrophage gene expression in both m1 and m2 macrophages. antibody-mediated csf1r blocking prevented the cold-induced recruitment of adipose tissue m2 macrophages, suggesting the role of csf1r signaling in the process. continuous exposure to cold leads to an activation of adaptive thermogenesis in the brown adipose tissue and induction of brown/beige cell phenotype in the white adipose tissue. the aim of this work was to elucidate the effect of cold exposure on catecholamine and immune responses associated with adipocyte browning in the mesenteric adipose tissue (mwat) of rat. continuous exposure to cold leads to activation of adaptive thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue but also to induction of brown/beige cell phenotype in white adipose tissue. 7-day cold-induced gene expression of anti-inflammatory mediators (il-4, il-13, il-10, adiponectin), markers of m2 macrophages (arg1, retnlα), and eosinophil-associated molecules (eotaxin, il-5), while inhibited expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (ifnγ, il-1b, il-6, il-17) and monocytes (mcp-1, ly6c). our findings shed new light on the integral role of m2-like macrophages for adipose tissue homeostasis and uncover the macrophage-slit3﻿-sympathetic neuron﻿-adipocyte signalling axis as a regulator of long-term cold adaptation. cold exposure is a well-known physiological stimulus that activates the sympathetic nervous system and induces brown adipose tissue (bat) hyperplasia. 
Androgenetic haploid mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can be derived and genetically manipulated in vitro. [SEP] here we provide detailed protocols for the establishment, culture, and manipulation of parthenogenetic and androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells from mouse embryos. haploid embryonic stem cells (escs) have recently been derived from parthenogenetic mouse embryos and offer new possibilities for genetic screens. here, we show that parthenogenetic haploid escs at high passage have robust germline competence enabling the production of transgenic mouse strains from genetically modified haploid escs. haploid mammalian embryonic stem cells (escs) hold great promise for functional genetic studies and assisted reproduction. recently, rodent androgenetic haploid escs (ag-haescs) were generated from androgenetic blastocysts and functioned like sperm to produce viable offspring via the intracytoplasmic ag-haescs injection into oocytes. the recent successful establishment of mouse parthenogenetic haploid embryonic stem cells (phescs) and androgenetic haploid escs (ahescs) has stimulated genetic research not only in vitro but also in vivo because of the germline competence of these cell lines. here we report the derivation of rat androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells (rahescs) as a tool to facilitate such studies. here, we report that mouse haescs can differentiate in vitro into haploid epiblast stem cells (haepiscs), which maintain an intact haploid genome, unlimited self-renewal potential, and durable pluripotency to differentiate into various tissues in vitro and in vivo. in this unit we introduce the derivation and genetic modification of mouse haploid embryonic stem (es) cells. recent success in the derivation of mouse haploid embryonic stem cells (haescs) via parthenogenesis has enabled genetic screening in mammalian cells. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with decreased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] when used judiciously, the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors may also contribute to improved renal function. improvements in renal function may also be observed when angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are employed in other clinical conditions, such as diabetic nephropathy or proteinuric renal disease. although the renal protective effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are well recognized, their use in certain circumstances may actually contribute to renal dysfunction. the factors which may predispose an individual to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-induced renal dysfunction must be recognized by the clinician and appropriate interventions taken to prevent this potentially deleterious effect. this article reviews those factors which increase risk for angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-induced renal dysfunction and provides recommendations for prevention. oral angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are being studied in animals and humans to determine whether they slow the decline in renal function characteristic of progressive renal disease. in human trials, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors decrease proteinuria by altering the glomerular capillary permeability. inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme activity may effectively control blood pressure and ameliorate renal insufficiency. to review the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors on renal pathophysiology and the compensatory mechanisms involved in heart failure. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and β-blockers are associated with similar reductions in mortality in patients with and without renal insufficiency but usually are less often prescribed in patients with renal insufficiency. 
Anthrax spores are very difficult to dispose once they are dispersed. [SEP] central to the persistence of anthrax in an area is the ability of b. anthracis to form long-lasting, highly resistant spores. understanding the ecology of anthrax spores is essential if one hopes to control epidemics. the analysis reveals that an aerosol release of even a relatively small volume of anthrax spores during a terrorist incident has the potential to quickly distribute concentrations that are infectious throughout the building. anthrax spores, once inhaled, are readily taken up by alveolar phagocytes, which then migrate rather quickly out of the lung and into the thoracic/mediastinal lymph nodes. human anthrax is difficult to contain. hemorrhagic meningitis and pulmonary anthrax, the other forms of anthrax, carry a risk of nearly cent percent mortality. fear of use of anthrax spores as a biological weapon has also given a new dimension to the problem. with the anthrax threat becoming a reality, it is very important to have an effective way to sterilize areas contaminated by anthrax. anthrax spores are the dormant form of the anthrax bacteria. b. anthracis spores can spread easily and persist for very long times, which makes decontamination of buildings very difficult. 
Anthrax spores remain deadly until affected areas are decontaminated. [SEP] anthrax is a zoonosis caused by the spore-forming bacterium bacillus anthracis, with potential for high fatality rate, especially in herbivores. accordingly, surveillance to quickly identify and decontaminate anthrax carcasses is crucial to outbreak prevention. with the anthrax threat becoming a reality, it is very important to have an effective way to sterilize areas contaminated by anthrax. anthrax spores are the dormant form of the anthrax bacteria. the potential for personal or environmental decontamination of anthrax spores with phages is discussed. anthrax spores remain viable and infectious in soil for decades. anthrax, caused by the spore-forming bacterium bacillus anthracis, is a zoonotic disease that affects humans and animals throughout the world. future outbreaks in the region are probable, and this analysis identified the spatial extent of the risk area in the region, which can be used to prioritize anthrax surveillance. as observed in the aftermath of the anthrax attacks of 2001, decontamination and remediation of a site contaminated by the accidental or intentional release of bacillus anthracis spores is difficult, costly and potentially damaging to the environment. an emergency response was undertaken to reduce the scale of environmental contamination and dissemination of anthrax spores and hence to reduce the likelihood of future outbreaks. 
Antidepressants increase the severity of migraines. [SEP] the concomitant use of benzodiazepines (rr adj 4.7; 95% ci 3.5-6.3), migraine prophylactic medication (rr adj 2.1; 95% ci 1.6-2.8) and heavy therapeutic intensity use of specific migraine analgesia, defined as >/=150 ddds per year were highly predictive of antidepressant drug use within the migraine population. a number of determinants within the latter were found to be strongly associated with antidepressant drug use, the nature of which most likely reflects an increased severity of migraine whereby therapeutic needs are higher. several antidepressant drugs play a role in migraine prevention. this review discusses the efficacy of antidepressants in migraine prevention. use of antidepressants for migraine prevention in clinical practice is also discussed. antidepressants are commonly used as migraine preventives. antidepressants are an important option for preventive treatment of migraine. for the patient with migraine and depression, use an antidepressant. because of the role of serotonin in migraine mechanisms, antidepressants have been used in the prevention of migraine. antidepressants had a significant advantage over placebo in reducing the migraine frequency or index of adults with a standardized mean difference of -0.79 [95% confidence interval (ci) -1.13 to -0.45, p < 0.00001]. 
Antidepressants reduce the severity of migraines. [SEP] because of the role of serotonin in migraine mechanisms, antidepressants have been used in the prevention of migraine. our aim was systematically to assess the efficacy and feasibility of antidepressants for the prevention of migraine in adults based on currently available literature. antidepressants had a significant advantage over placebo in reducing the migraine frequency or index of adults with a standardized mean difference of -0.79 [95% confidence interval (ci) -1.13 to -0.45, p < 0.00001]. antidepressants are effective in the prophylaxis of migraine in adults, but the level of evidence for antidepressants except for amitriptyline seems to be quite shaky. several antidepressant drugs play a role in migraine prevention. this review discusses the efficacy of antidepressants in migraine prevention. the focus of this review is on the efficacy of antidepressants as preventive treatments for migraine and chronic tension-type headache (tth). use of antidepressants for migraine prevention in clinical practice is also discussed. antidepressants are commonly used as migraine preventives. antidepressants are an important option for preventive treatment of migraine. 
Antimicrobial agents are less effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] ertapenem was effective in our antimicrobial stewardship program and may have helped improve the p. aeruginosa antimicrobial susceptibility to imipenem by decreasing the unnecessary usage and selective pressure of antipseudomonal agents. the highest degree of correlation between antimicrobial usage and resistance to an antimicrobial was obtained using a corrected figure for antimicrobial usage paying regard not only to the use of a particular antimicrobial agent but also to a fraction of the usage of other antimicrobials which may co-select for the resistance trait. this is mainly due to the emergence of newer infectious agents and more specifically due to the appearance of antimicrobial resistance. with time, the bacteria have become smarter and along with it, massive imprudent usage of antibiotics in clinical practice has resulted in resistance of bacteria to antimicrobial agents. the antimicrobial resistance is recognized as a major problem in the treatment of microbial infections. this review discusses the mechanism of action and resistance development in commonly used antimicrobials. antimicrobial resistance in clinical isolates may cause serious infections and treatment failure, and lead to the use of higher doses or more toxic alternative drugs. antibiotic usage was found to be more effective on the aerobic intestinal flora compared with hospitalization without such medication. indiscriminate/inappropriate use of antimicrobial agents delivers a tremendous economic burden to the health care system. guidelines for prudent use of antimicrobial agents may help to slow down the selection for resistance and should be based on knowledge regarding the normal susceptibility patterns of the causative agents and take into account the potential problems for human health. 
Antimicrobial agents are more effective due to the pressure of antimicrobial usage. [SEP] ertapenem was effective in our antimicrobial stewardship program and may have helped improve the p. aeruginosa antimicrobial susceptibility to imipenem by decreasing the unnecessary usage and selective pressure of antipseudomonal agents. the overall resistance to antimicrobial agents increased markedly for staph. the highest degree of correlation between antimicrobial usage and resistance to an antimicrobial was obtained using a corrected figure for antimicrobial usage paying regard not only to the use of a particular antimicrobial agent but also to a fraction of the usage of other antimicrobials which may co-select for the resistance trait. with time, the bacteria have become smarter and along with it, massive imprudent usage of antibiotics in clinical practice has resulted in resistance of bacteria to antimicrobial agents. the antimicrobial resistance is recognized as a major problem in the treatment of microbial infections. antimicrobial resistance among bacteria has arisen ever since antimicrobial agents were introduced in the clinic. antibiotic usage was found to be more effective on the aerobic intestinal flora compared with hospitalization without such medication. utilizing antimicrobial surveillance as a component of antimicrobial utilization review serves as a means for identifying and reporting patterns of antimicrobial usage for the medical center and has a positive economic impact as illustrated. the emergence of resistant bacteria and resistance genes due to the use of antimicrobial agents are well documented. the antimicrobial properties of these agents may extend their usage in patients to both control pain and infection. 
Antiretroviral therapy increases rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] antiretroviral therapy has substantial potential to prevent hiv-associated tuberculosis. we conducted a systematic review of studies that analysed the impact of antiretroviral therapy on the incidence of tuberculosis in adults with hiv infection. antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis in all baseline cd4 count categories: (1) less than 200 cells/µl (hazard ratio [hr] 0.16, 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.07 to 0.36), (2) 200 to 350 cells/µl (hr 0.34, 95% ci 0.19 to 0.60), (3) greater than 350 cells/µl (hr 0.43, 95% ci 0.30 to 0.63), and (4) any cd4 count (hr 0.35, 95% ci 0.28 to 0.44). antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis across all cd4 count strata. the initiation of antiretroviral therapy during tuberculosis therapy significantly improved survival and provides further impetus for the integration of tuberculosis and hiv services. systematic literature review and meta-analysis of tuberculosis incidence rates among hiv-infected individuals taking combination antiretroviral therapy. tuberculosis incidence rates decreased with increasing cd4 count at study entry and duration on combination antiretroviral therapy. summary estimates of tuberculosis incidence among individuals on combination antiretroviral therapy were higher for cohorts from high/intermediate burden settings compared to those from the low tuberculosis burden settings (4.17 per 100 person-years [95% confidence interval (ci) 3.39-5.14 per 100 person-years] vs. 0.4 per 100 person-years [95% ci 0.23-0.69 per 100 person-years]) with significant heterogeneity observed between the studies. tuberculosis incidence rates were high among individuals on combination antiretroviral therapy in high/intermediate burden settings. to determine the short-term and long-term risks of tuberculosis (tb) associated with cd4 cell recovery during antiretroviral therapy (art). 
Approximately 250,000 people are infected with human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 in the United Kingdom. [SEP] human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) was originally discovered in the early 1980s. htlv-1 currently infects approximately 20 million people worldwide. human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 infects 15-20 million people worldwide causing two major diseases: adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma and htlv-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis. human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) and type 2 (htlv-2) were discovered approximately 30 years ago and they are associated with various lymphoproliferative and neurological diseases. human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 prevalence estimates are usually based on serological screening of blood donors, pregnant women, and other selected population groups. previously, data on the global epidemiology of human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 infection have been summarized unsystematically and without a focus on general populations. the widely cited estimate that 10-20 million people are infected with human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 worldwide was calculated from data that are now 25 years old. the prevalence of human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 was highest in the two studies of japanese islands (36.4%; 95% ci: 29.9-42.8) and lowest in studies from mongolia, malaysia and india. we conclude that there is a paucity of general population data from countries in which human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is endemic, and that new studies are required to reevaluate the global burden of infection. on the other hand, human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 seems to be a significant cofactor, with a potentially important role in hiv-1 infection. 
Assessing treatment adherence is more beneficial to clinical practice than measuring routine outcomes. [SEP] the purposes of this review were to catalogue adherence measurement methods and assess existing evidence for the valid and reliable use of the scores that they generate and the feasibility of their use in routine care settings. many adherence measurement methods have been used in treatment research; however, little reliability and validity evidence exists for the use of these methods. nonadherence to treatment is a major challenge in all fields of medicine, and it has been claimed that increasing the effectiveness of adherence interventions may have far greater impact on the health of the population than any improvement in specific medical treatments. the results are mixed, but interventions specifically designed to improve adherence with a more intensive and focused approach and interventions combining elements from different approaches such as cognitive-behavioral therapy, family-based, and community-based approaches have shown better outcomes. strategies to measure and improve adherence in clinical practice are based more on personal experience than on research evidence. this overview focuses on strategies used for improving treatment adherence in psychiatric disorders in the light of current evidence, with emphasis on public health aspects of treatment adherence and the management of nonadherence in routine clinical practice. change in adherence during treatment, as well as its association with outcome, is likely to be dependent on the adherence measure being used. to guide this future direction, the goals of this paper are to review evidence-based adherence assessment and intervention strategies that can be used with youth and families in clinical practice, to illustrate the complexities of addressing adherence concerns in routine practice, and to discuss the challenges of disseminating and implementing evidence-based strategies in the real world. claims-based measures of medication adherence are associated with clinical outcomes in patients with diabetes and may therefore prove to be useful in clinical practice. more research is needed on methods to introduce claims-based adherence measurements into routine clinical practice and how to use these measurements to effectively improve adherence and health outcomes in chronic care management. 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations leads to improved vision. [SEP] to assess whether population screening for impaired vision among older people in the community leads to improvements in vision. systematic review of randomised controlled trials of population screening in the community that included any assessment of vision or visual function with at least 6 months' follow up. assessment of the visual acuity of the elderly and identification of endangering factors help in detecting those with impaired vision which in turn impairs daily activities. impaired vision is highly prevalent in the elderly ambulatory population, a condition which is preventable by tight surveillance of predisposing factors and regular simple measurement of visual acuity. without screening and early detection age-related vision loss can lead to various adverse effects. the purpose of this review is to assess the methods of screening geriatric patients for visual impairment that can be employed by nurse practitioners in the primary care setting. an intervention to improve vision in at-risk elders might preserve function and prevent disability; this warrants further investigation. while the aims of multicomponent screening of older people are broad, any benefit arising from the inclusion of a vision component in the assessment will necessarily be dependent on improved vision. the objective of this review is to assess the effects on vision of mass screening of older people for visual impairment. we included randomised trials of visual or multicomponent screening for vision impairment in people aged 65 or over in a community setting. 
At least 85% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of myofibroblasts. [SEP] interestingly, fibroblasts treated with latent tgf-β and 10 gy radiation also showed significantly increased levels of myofibroblast markers. although prior studies have reported that ionizing radiation induces fibroblast to myofibroblast differentiation and collagen production, the mechanism remains unclear. radiation-induced differentiation of lung fibroblasts to myofibroblasts plays a key role in rili. we recently made an important discovery that radiation induces myofibroblasts, which play a role in radiation-related carcinogenesis via tumor microenvironment formation. here, we investigated the threshold dose and the mechanisms of myofibroblast induction to assess adverse radiation effects on normal cells. in contrast to standard culture conditions, myofibroblasts remained after low or moderate doses of radiation (below 2.5 gy) under growth-restricted conditions. in conclusion, the recovery of damaged cells from radiation is essential for myofibroblast clearance, which restores stromal cell dormancy and prevents tumor microenvironment formation. mechanistically, mitochondrial ros activated tgfβ signaling which in turn mediated the expression of α-sma in radiation-induced myofibroblasts. finally, in vivo tumor growth analysis in a human tumor xenograft model system revealed that long-term fr-induced myofibroblasts promote tumor growth by enhancing angiogenesis.implications: radiation affects malignant cancer cells directly and indirectly via molecular alterations in stromal fibroblasts such as activation of tgfβ and angiogenic signaling pathways. in addition, as the radiation dose increased, the myofibroblast number increased and collected around the separated sequestrum, which indicated that myofibroblasts might relate to the pathogenesis of ornj. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has better graft function than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of msc-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% ci, 0.20-0.85, p=.02) among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous mscs compared with anti-il-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (msc) have emerged as useful cell population for immunomodulation therapy in transplantation. infusion of either embryonic or mesenchymal stem cells prolongs the survival of organ transplants derived from stem cell donors and prevents graft-versus-host-disease (gvhd). here we demonstrate that while human mesenchymal stem cells (hmscs) can promote superantigen-induced activation of purified t cells, addition of antigen-presenting cells (apcs; either monocytes or dendritic cells) to the cultures inhibits the t-cell responses. mesenchymal stem cells are a potential therapeutic agent in renal disease and kidney transplantation. autologous cell use in kidney transplantation is preferred to avoid anti-hla reactivity; however, the influence of renal disease on mesenchymal stem cells is unknown. this syndrome, named autologous graft-versus-host disease, has clear antitumor activity in animal models that can be enhanced by the addition of cytokines such as gamma-interferon and interleukin-2. new strategies to improve transplant outcomes include donor lymphocyte, nk cell and selected t-cell subset infusion, mesenchymal stem cell (msc) co-transplantation and interleukin-2 (il-2) application. anti-interleukin (il)-2 receptor antibody induction and no induction in combination with a cni, mmf or sirolimus, and prednisone have demonstrated excellent graft survival rates but are associated with a higher incidence of acute rejection. 
Autophagy deficiency in the liver increases vulnerability to insulin resistance. [SEP] in this study, we examined the autophagy activity in the presence of insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia and the associated mechanism. our results show that autophagy was suppressed in the livers of mice with insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. transcript levels of some key autophagy genes were also suppressed in the presence of insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. conversely, autophagy activity was increased in the livers of mice with streptozotocin-induced insulin deficiency. to study the mechanism, autophagy was induced by nutrient deprivation or glucagon in cultured hepatocytes in the presence or absence of insulin. autophagy activity and transcript levels of vps34, atg12, and gabarapl1 genes were reduced by insulin. importantly, autophagy of mitochondria (mitophagy) in cultured cells was suppressed by insulin in the presence of insulin resistance. together, our results show that autophagy activity and expression of some key autophagy genes were suppressed in the presence of insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. the onset of obesity-associated insulin resistance is due, in part, to the compromise of hepatic autophagy, a process that leads to lysosomal degradation of cellular components. here, we investigated the role of ptpro-dependent autophagy in insulin resistance, lipid metabolism, and hepatocarcinogenesis. 
B cells go though plasmablast differentiation and antibody production by continuous expression of EBI2. [SEP] here, we show that expression of the orphan g protein-coupled receptor epstein-barr virus-induced gene 2 (ebi2, also known as gpr183) by activated b cells was essential for their movement to extrafollicular sites and induction of early plasmablast responses. ebi2 therefore provides a previously uncharacterized dimension to b cell migration that is crucial for coordinating rapid versus long-term antibody responses. transitioning from a metabolically quiescent naive b cell to an antibody-secreting plasmablast requires division-dependent cellular differentiation. our data offer perspectives for the investigation of differentiation of b cells into antibody secreting cells. ebi2 is expressed in mature b cells and increases in expression early after activation, before being downregulated in germinal centre b cells. these studies identify an important role for ebi2 in promoting b cell localization in the outer follicle, and show that differential expression of this receptor helps position b cells appropriately for mounting t-dependent antibody responses. during antibody responses, b cells undergo a series of migratory events that guide them to the appropriate microenvironments for activation and differentiation. moreover, modulation of ebi2 expression is crucial for the generation of extrafollicular plasma cell responses and germinal center formation. here, we review the current findings that have delineated the function of ebi2 and its ligand and discuss how they collaborate with conventional lymphoid chemokine systems to position b cells optimally during immune responses. the first antibody produced in bacterial or viral infection results from b cell growth as plasmablasts. 
B3-Galectin decreases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] the critical t790m mutation in egfr, which mediates resistance to first- and second-generation egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki; gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib), has facilitated the development of third-generation mutation-selective egfr tkis (rociletinib and osimertinib). thus, we identified a heterogeneous acquired resistance mechanism for third-generation egfr tkis, providing insights into the development of novel treatment strategies. however, the efficacy of the egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) is adversely impacted by the development of resistance. the development of acquired resistance to egfr tkis is facilitated by secondary mutations, phenotypical transformation, aberrance of downstream pathways, and activation of alternate signaling pathways. this review article provides an overview of the common oncogenic drivers, targeted therapies for nsclc, and the established mechanisms implicated in the development of resistance to the egfr tkis. multiple resistance mechanisms have been explored, e.g., the activation of alternative tyrosine kinase receptors (tkrs) sharing similar downstream pathways to egfr. here we analyzed the association of integrin beta1 and c-met that is a recognized mechanism of egfr tkis resistance in nsclc to demonstrate the mechanism of integrin beta1 related egfr tkis resistance. our in vitro studies suggested that activation of egfr signaling and/or genetic alteration of downstream effectors like pik3ca were alternative resistance mechanisms used by capmatinib-resistant nsclc cell lines. we also found that ku55933 enhanced the gefitinib-dependent repression of the phosphorylation of egfr and/or its downstream factors. we examined whether the mutational status of kras might be associated with primary resistance to egfr-tkis in egfr mutation-positive patients with nsclc. 
B3-Galectin increases cell resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) by engaging the alternate KRAS-RalB signaling complex downstream of EGFR. [SEP] the critical t790m mutation in egfr, which mediates resistance to first- and second-generation egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki; gefitinib, erlotinib, and afatinib), has facilitated the development of third-generation mutation-selective egfr tkis (rociletinib and osimertinib). we previously reported heterogeneous afatinib-resistant mechanisms, including emergence of t790m-egfr, and responses to third-generation egfr tkis. thus, we identified a heterogeneous acquired resistance mechanism for third-generation egfr tkis, providing insights into the development of novel treatment strategies. however, the efficacy of the egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) is adversely impacted by the development of resistance. the development of acquired resistance to egfr tkis is facilitated by secondary mutations, phenotypical transformation, aberrance of downstream pathways, and activation of alternate signaling pathways. this review article provides an overview of the common oncogenic drivers, targeted therapies for nsclc, and the established mechanisms implicated in the development of resistance to the egfr tkis. here we analyzed the association of integrin beta1 and c-met that is a recognized mechanism of egfr tkis resistance in nsclc to demonstrate the mechanism of integrin beta1 related egfr tkis resistance. our in vitro studies suggested that activation of egfr signaling and/or genetic alteration of downstream effectors like pik3ca were alternative resistance mechanisms used by capmatinib-resistant nsclc cell lines. multiple resistance mechanisms have been explored, e.g., the activation of alternative tyrosine kinase receptors (tkrs) sharing similar downstream pathways to egfr. we examined whether the mutational status of kras might be associated with primary resistance to egfr-tkis in egfr mutation-positive patients with nsclc. 
BCL-2 activation antagonizes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] we further show that the expression levels of anti-apoptotic bcl-2/bcl2-xl were much elevated in myc-null cells compared with the c-myc-expressing cells; furthermore, depletion of bcl-2/bcl-xl in these cells restored the ability of saha to induce apoptosis by enhancing bax activation. reintroduction of myc into the c-myc null cells restores bax activation, cytochrome c release, and inhibition of apoptosis by bcl-2. the balance between bcl-2 and c-myc and c-jun seems to be an important determinant of cellular sensitivity to the induction of apoptosis. high expression of bcl-2 was noticed to be strongly related to low rates of apoptotic cell death. c-myc and c-jun accumulation were associated with the absence of bcl-2 expression and with increased apoptotic activity. c-myc plays an important role in apoptosis of neurons, in cooperation with the bcl-2 family proteins, and its activity and stability are regulated by phosphorylation and ubiquitination. c-myc-induced apoptosis of hypoxic cells is inhibited in tumors that overexpress the human bcl-2 protein. this result suggests that bcl-2 does not affect c-myc function directly but acts downstream of c-myc to inhibit apoptosis. secondary genetic lesions downstream of c-myc that suppress the apoptotic potential of tumor cells, such as bcl-2 overexpression, might play an important role in the malignant progression of these tumors because they would disrupt the balance between apoptosis and proliferation initiated by c-myc deregulation. bcl-2 and bcl-x(l) protected control cells against apoptosis after either il-3 withdrawal or drug exposure, although in some cases this effect could be overridden by myc oncoproteins, particularly n-myc and l-myc. 
BCL-2 promotes the apoptotic effects of c-Myc. [SEP] we examined in these patients (n = 142) whether the c-myc oncogene influences metastatic progression in conjunction or not with bcl-2 expression and the loss of apoptosis in tumors. moreover, very large associations (por = 6.4) between c-myc and lymph-node metastasis were observed among bcl-2 positive tumors and tumors with loss of apoptosis (por = 8.4). it is concluded that the synergism between bcl-2 and c-myc oncogenes may promote metastasis in breast tumors, linked to loss of apoptosis. the balance between bcl-2 and c-myc and c-jun seems to be an important determinant of cellular sensitivity to the induction of apoptosis. high expression of bcl-2 was noticed to be strongly related to low rates of apoptotic cell death. c-myc and c-jun accumulation were associated with the absence of bcl-2 expression and with increased apoptotic activity. we further show that the expression levels of anti-apoptotic bcl-2/bcl2-xl were much elevated in myc-null cells compared with the c-myc-expressing cells; furthermore, depletion of bcl-2/bcl-xl in these cells restored the ability of saha to induce apoptosis by enhancing bax activation. bcl-2 and bcl-x(l) protected control cells against apoptosis after either il-3 withdrawal or drug exposure, although in some cases this effect could be overridden by myc oncoproteins, particularly n-myc and l-myc. we found that c-myc protein was rapidly down-regulated in the apoptotic cells while bcl-2 protein was expressed at relatively high levels. these results suggest that the down-regulation of c-myc protein expression is a primary event to induce apoptosis and neither consistent expression of c-myc protein nor rapid down-regulation of bcl-2 protein is necessary for the initial processing of apoptosis in hl-60 cells. 
BLM gene encodes RecQ-class DNA helicase. [SEP] the gene responsible for bs, blm, encodes a protein belonging to the recq helicase family. blm, the gene that is defective in bloom's syndrome, encodes a protein homologous to recq subfamily helicases that functions as a 3'-5' dna helicase in vitro. in humans, blm encodes one of five members of the recq helicase family. recq dna helicases function during dna replication and are essential for the maintenance of genome stability. here, we review the functions of eukaryotic recq helicases, focusing primarily on blm in the maintenance of genome stability through various pathways of nucleic acid metabolism and with special reference to dna replication. we have identified an aspergillus nidulans gene encoding a recq family helicase which we have therefore named recq. by analogy with other eukaryotic recq helicases, a. nidulans recq helicase is likely to play an important role in the maintenance of genomic integrity. deficiency in a helicase of the recq family is found in at least three human genetic disorders associated with cancer predisposition and/or premature ageing. recq dna helicases are critical for proper maintenance of genomic stability, and mutations in multiple human recq genes are linked with genetic disorders characterized by a predisposition to cancer. of particular interest for genome stability are the recq class of helicases. 
BRCA 1 mutation carriers' risk of breast and ovarian cancer depends on where the mutation is located. [SEP] in this review, we investigated the association of ovarian cancer risk and brca mutation location, and differences of other brca-related cancer risks by brca1/2 mutation, and furthermore, we discussed the difference in the prevalence of germline brca mutation in ovarian cancer patients. as a result, although there are various discussions, there appear to be differences in ovarian cancer risk by population and brca mutation location. brca-1 and brca-2 mutation carriers have an 85% lifetime risk of developing breast cancer. carriers of mutations in these genes have a greater risk of cancer, especially before menopause in the case of brca-1 carriers. brca mutation carriers have an increased risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer. deleterious mutations in the brca genes are responsible for a small, but significant, proportion of breast and ovarian cancers (5 - 10 %). the lifetime risks for both breast and ovarian cancer for brca mutation carriers far exceeds the general population risk of 13% for breast cancer and 1.4% for ovarian cancer. brca-1 and brca-2 germline mutations increase the risk of ovarian and breast cancer. the number of breast and ovarian cancers per family, a relative young age at ovarian cancer diagnosis, and the occurrence of breast and ovarian cancer in the same patient significantly predicted the presence of a brca-1 mutation. brca mutation carriers have a very high risk of breast and ovarian cancer by age 70, in the ranges 47%-66% and 40%-57%, respectively. 
Bacterial meningitis can be diagnosed on the basis of positive cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures. [SEP] cerebrospinal fluid bacterial culture is the gold-standard for confirmation of acute bacterial meningitis, but many cases are not culture confirmed. this study evaluated the operational characteristics of the multiplex polymerase chain reaction (pcr) for cerebrospinal fluid (csf) from patients with cellular and biochemical characteristics of acute bacterial meningitis and positive or negative csf cultures. multiplex pcr for csf was efficient in the group with csf cellular and biochemical characteristics of acute bacterial meningitis but with a negative csf culture. in some settings, bacterial meningitis is documented depending mainly on positive cerebrospinal fluid (csf) culture results or csf positive latex agglutination test, missing the important role of prior antimicrobial intake which can yield negative culture and latex agglutination test results. this study aimed to utilize molecular technology in order to diagnose bacterial meningitis in culture-negative csf samples. broad-range bacterial pcr, combined with dna sequencing, was compared with culture-based methods for examining cerebrospinal fluid (csf) samples from patients with suspected meningitis. in total, 345 csf specimens from 345 patients were analysed, with acute community-acquired bacterial meningitis being diagnosed in 74 patients. admission cerebrospinal fluid and serum were examined for antimicrobial activity in 296 egyptian patients hospitalized with signs of meningitis. mortality in patients with bacterial meningitis was greatest when cultures were positive and moderate levels of antimicrobial activity were present in the cerebrospinal fluid. a retrospective analysis of the bacterial and viral cerebrospinal fluid (csf) cultures from a 1-year period in a 315-bed children's hospital revealed 5 patients with mixed viral-bacterial meningitis among 276 patients with viral and/or bacterial culture-positive meningitis. 
Bacteriophagaes MS2 and Qβ are members of the Leviviridae. [SEP] here we describe the genetic modification and structural characterization of the leviviridae pp7 capsid protein as a platform for the presentation of functional polypeptides. the pp7 particle is thereby significantly more tolerant of these types of polypeptide additions than qβ and ms2, the other leviviridae-derived vlps in common use. the small lytic phages (microviridae and leviviridae), effect bacterial lysis with the product of a single gene. while this mechanism is conserved throughout the leviviridae family, the coat protein and operator sequences from different phages show remarkable variation, serving as prime examples for the co-evolution of protein and rna structure. infectivities of bacteriophages were effectively reduced by up to 7-log after 9mj/cm2 treatment for ms2 and qβ, and 1mj/cm2 for φx 174. the resulting sequence of phage removal was: ga > qβ ≫ ms2. as for related phages, the orfs code for maturation, coat, replicase, and lysis proteins, but unlike other leviviridae members, the lysis protein gene of phicb5 entirely overlaps with the replicase in a different reading frame. both phages are characterized by similar size and surface charge but significantly different surface hydrophobicity (qβ > ms2, where '>' means 'more hydrophobic than'). the removal of ms2, qβ and ga, f-specific rna bacteriophages, potential surrogates for pathogenic waterborne viruses, was investigated during a conventional drinking water treatment at pilot scale by using river water, artificially and independently spiked with these bacteriophages. the infectious character of ms2 and qβ bacteriophages was mostly removed after clarification followed by sand filtration processes (more than a 4.8-log reduction) while genomic copies were removed at more than a 4.0-log after the complete treatment process. 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of colorectal cancer. [SEP] yet, some research indicates that weight-reducing bariatric surgery also increases colorectal cancer risk. our study suggests that bariatric surgery is associated with an increased risk of colon cancer, while the support for an increased risk of rectal cancer was weaker. bariatric surgery in patients with obesity is generally considered to reduce cancer risk in patients with obesity. however, for colorectal cancer some studies report an increased risk with bariatric surgery, whereas others report a decreased risk. although bariatric surgery is effective against morbid obesity, the association of this surgery with the risk of colorectal cancer remains controversial. to assess whether bariatric surgery is associated with altered risk of colorectal cancer among individuals with obesity. the results of this nationwide cohort study suggested that following bariatric surgery, patients with obesity share the same risk of colorectal cancer as the general population, whereas for patients with obesity who do not undergo bariatric surgery, the risk is 34% above that of the general population. we hypothesized that bariatric surgery would decrease the risk of developing colorectal lesions (new cancer and precancerous polyps). bariatric surgery was associated with lesser, risk-adjusted incidence of new colorectal lesions in this large population of propensity matched patients undergoing bariatric surgery compared with a control group not undergoing bariatric surgery. the controversial association between bariatric surgery and increased colorectal cancer (crc) risk is also recognized and discussed. 
Bariatric surgery increases rates of postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] this retrospective cohort study examined whether bariatric surgery is associated with reduced risk of breast cancer among pre- and postmenopausal women. in multivariable adjusted models, bariatric surgery was associated with a reduced risk of both premenopausal (hr = 0.72, 95% ci, 0.54-0.94) and postmenopausal (hr = 0.55, 95% ci, 0.42-0.72) breast cancer. bariatric surgery was associated with a reduced risk of breast cancer among severely obese women. among the obesity-associated cancers, the risk of postmenopausal breast cancer (hr 0.58, 95% ci 0.44, 0.77, p < 0.001), colon cancer (hr 0.59, 95% ci 0.36, 0.97, p = 0.04), endometrial cancer (hr 0.50, 95% ci 0.37, 0.67, p < 0.001), and pancreatic cancer (hr 0.46, 95% ci 0.22, 0.97, p = 0.04) was each statistically significantly lower among those who had undergone bariatric surgery compared with matched nonsurgical patients. in this large, multisite cohort of patients with severe obesity, bariatric surgery was associated with a lower risk of incident cancer, particularly obesity-associated cancers, such as postmenopausal breast cancer, endometrial cancer, and colon cancer. this study examines whether bariatric surgery affects breast cancer incidence in women with obesity compared to bmi-matched controls. bariatric surgery is associated with reduced incidence and earlier stage at diagnosis of breast cancer in women with obesity compared to bmi-matched controls. women who developed breast cancer after bariatric surgery presented at an earlier stage compared to non-operated, obese controls. bariatric surgery is associated with reduced her2+ breast cancers, suggesting that bariatric surgery can influence breast cancer characteristics and, potentially, tumor biology. given the increased prevalence of bariatric surgery, a certain number of women will develop breast cancer before or after bariatric intervention. 
Bariatric surgery leads to negative outcomes in mental health. [SEP] bariatric surgery leads to changes in mental health, quality of life and social functioning, yet these outcomes differ among individuals. weight loss following bariatric surgery leads to complex changes in self-perception and inter-personal relationships, which may be proximal mediators of commonly assessed mental health outcomes such as depression. to determine the prevalence of mental health conditions among bariatric surgery candidates and recipients, to evaluate the association between preoperative mental health conditions and health outcomes following bariatric surgery, and to evaluate the association between surgery and the clinical course of mental health conditions. mental health conditions are common among bariatric surgery patients-in particular, depression and binge eating disorder. bariatric surgery is an effective treatment for severe obesity; however, high rates of psychiatric comorbidity complicate bariatric surgery care. a qualitative descriptive study to explore personal experiences and the impact of bariatric surgery on physical and mental well-being and life-quality in individuals with serious mental illness. patients with mental health diagnoses before having bariatric surgery appear to have significant positive association with surgical outcomes relating to postsurgical healthcare cost and utilization. recent literature has raised concerns regarding the risk of adverse psychiatric events among bariatric surgery patients. to understand the impact of bariatric surgery on the risk of adverse mental health outcomes, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials that compared surgical and non-surgical treatments and assessed mental health quality of life (qol). mental health disorders are highly prevalent among bariatric surgery patients. 
Bariatric surgery leads to positive outcomes in mental health. [SEP] bariatric surgery leads to changes in mental health, quality of life and social functioning, yet these outcomes differ among individuals. this exploratory study examines the impact of bariatric surgery in terms of positive psychological growth and development. positive impact of bariatric surgery should be taken into account as a therapeutic tool in positive oriented psychological interventions following bariatric surgery. to determine the prevalence of mental health conditions among bariatric surgery candidates and recipients, to evaluate the association between preoperative mental health conditions and health outcomes following bariatric surgery, and to evaluate the association between surgery and the clinical course of mental health conditions. moderate-quality evidence supports an association between bariatric surgery and lower rates of depression postoperatively. a sound body of scientific literature demonstrates positive long-term outcome of bariatric surgery in decreasing mental and physical health morbidity. according to the current state of research, mental health improves due to bariatric surgery. to understand the impact of bariatric surgery on the risk of adverse mental health outcomes, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials that compared surgical and non-surgical treatments and assessed mental health quality of life (qol). these findings caution the hypothesis that weight reduction by bariatric surgery will improve mental health in patients with obesity. patients with mental health diagnoses before having bariatric surgery appear to have significant positive association with surgical outcomes relating to postsurgical healthcare cost and utilization. 
Bariatric surgery reduces colorectal cancer. [SEP] bariatric surgery in patients with obesity is generally considered to reduce cancer risk in patients with obesity. yet, some research indicates that weight-reducing bariatric surgery also increases colorectal cancer risk. although bariatric surgery is effective against morbid obesity, the association of this surgery with the risk of colorectal cancer remains controversial. to assess whether bariatric surgery is associated with altered risk of colorectal cancer among individuals with obesity. pooled estimated data showed that bariatric surgery is associated with a 24% lower colorectal cancer (crc) risk. we hypothesized that bariatric surgery would decrease the risk of developing colorectal lesions (new cancer and precancerous polyps). bariatric surgery was associated with lesser, risk-adjusted incidence of new colorectal lesions in this large population of propensity matched patients undergoing bariatric surgery compared with a control group not undergoing bariatric surgery. bariatric surgery has been shown to provide sustained weight loss and to decrease obesity-related mortality in most patients with morbid obesity, but its effect on cancer risk is less clear. analysis of national-level data demonstrates that prior bariatric surgery is associated with fewer colorectal cancer surgical complications and improved health care resource utilization compared to morbidly obese patients. these findings emphasize and extend the therapeutic effect of bariatric surgery to the colorectal cancer perioperative setting. 
Bariatric surgery reduces postmenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] this retrospective cohort study examined whether bariatric surgery is associated with reduced risk of breast cancer among pre- and postmenopausal women. in multivariable adjusted models, bariatric surgery was associated with a reduced risk of both premenopausal (hr = 0.72, 95% ci, 0.54-0.94) and postmenopausal (hr = 0.55, 95% ci, 0.42-0.72) breast cancer. bariatric surgery was associated with a reduced risk of breast cancer among severely obese women. bariatric surgery is associated with reduced her2+ breast cancers, suggesting that bariatric surgery can influence breast cancer characteristics and, potentially, tumor biology. among the obesity-associated cancers, the risk of postmenopausal breast cancer (hr 0.58, 95% ci 0.44, 0.77, p < 0.001), colon cancer (hr 0.59, 95% ci 0.36, 0.97, p = 0.04), endometrial cancer (hr 0.50, 95% ci 0.37, 0.67, p < 0.001), and pancreatic cancer (hr 0.46, 95% ci 0.22, 0.97, p = 0.04) was each statistically significantly lower among those who had undergone bariatric surgery compared with matched nonsurgical patients. we report the outcomes of 13 individuals who underwent bariatric surgery after definitive breast cancer treatment at a single institution. thirteen females diagnosed with breast cancer (69.2% stage i, 23.1% stage ii) at a median age of 42 years received bariatric surgery between 2001 and 2017. bariatric surgery after breast cancer treatment is feasible and well tolerated. this study examines whether bariatric surgery affects breast cancer incidence in women with obesity compared to bmi-matched controls. bariatric surgery is associated with reduced incidence and earlier stage at diagnosis of breast cancer in women with obesity compared to bmi-matched controls. 
Basophils promote disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] these results enable further studies to decipher molecular mechanisms by which basophils contribute to lupus progression. this study aimed to investigate the role of basophil activation in the development of sle based on studies in patients with sle and spontaneous lupus-prone mrl-lpr/lpr mice. here, we summarize what we have learned about the deleterious role of basophils in lupus both in a mouse model and in sle patients. basophils were also present in the lymph nodes and spleen of subjects with sle. recent advances in the understanding of the immune regulatory role of basophils in several auto immune conditions, including sle and ln, have demonstrated their involvement in the amplification of auto-antibody production and ln pathogenesis in both human sle and lupus-like mouse models. the present review summarizes the currently available literature describing dysregulation of basophil counts, basophil activation status and basophil activating factors in patients with sle and the involvement of basophils in the pathogenesis of sle. increased activation and decreased numbers of peripheral basophils were observed in sle patients compared with controls. recent evidence has suggested that in some murine models of systemic lupus erythematosus and lupus-like nephritis, basophils may also be implicated in autoimmunity processes by promoting autoantibody production and tissue injury. we conducted a systematic search to collect the available evidence on basophils' potential immunomodulatory role in autoimmunity and, particularly, systemic lupus erythematosus. we identified several articles investigating basophils' role in murine models of lupus (n = 3) and in patients affected with systemic lupus erythematosus (n = 8). 
Bcp1 is a chaperone for Rpl23. [SEP] here, we show that bcp1 dissociates rpl23 from the karyopherins and associates with rpl23 afterward. loss of bcp1 causes instability of rpl23 and deficiency of 60s subunits. in summary, bcp1 is a novel 60s biogenesis factor via chaperoning rpl23 in the nucleus. bcp1 is a protein enriched in the nucleus that is required for mss4 nuclear export and identified as the chaperone of ribosomal protein rpl23 in saccharomyces cerevisiae. according to sequence homology, bcp1 is related to the mammalian brca2-interacting protein bccip and belongs to the bcip protein family (pf13862) in the pfam database. here, we report the crystal structure of bcp1, presenting an α/β fold in which the central antiparallel β-sheet is flanked by helices. further modeling and protein-protein docking work provide a plausible model to explain the interaction between bcp1 and rpl23. our structural analysis presents the first structure of bcip family and provides a foundation for understanding the molecular basis of bcp1 as a chaperone of rpl23 for ribosome biosynthesis. overexpression of bccipβ leads to nucleoplasmic accumulation of extra-ribosomal rpl23 and stabilizes overexpressed rpl23, suggesting that bccipβ functions as nuclear chaperone for rpl23. western blot analysis revealed that both rps13 and rpl23 significantly increased the expression level of bcl-2 and bcl-2/bax ratio in sgc7901 cells. 
Beta-band coherence is diminished for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] here we report this robust effect is diminished and even reversed when face stimuli are processed unconsciously. even though the amplitude of the m170, a well-established face-specific signal, was strongly reduced by cfs, there was still a significantly greater signal in response to invisible face compared to invisible house stimuli at the latency and the location of the m170 to visible stimuli. whether high-level properties of stimuli rendered invisible by interocular competition can influence perception and behavior remains controversial. taken together, our findings provide clear evidence for high-level processing of stimuli rendered invisible through interocular suppression. the coherence increased significantly in magnitude, but was unchanged in frequency range (beta band) and scalp location; the eeg and emg spectral power in the beta band were unchanged in amplitude; and the alpha and gamma bands of eeg spectral power were significantly increased and decreased, respectively. when visual stimuli need to be ignored, the cognitive effort and cortico-spinal coherence are enhanced. in this study, eeg signals were used to examine the coherence and imaginary part of coherency within the delta, theta, alpha and beta bands across different conditions of the flanker task. we found that the imaginary part of coherency was more helpful in distinguishing between stimuli - alpha and beta bands resulted in 90.90% classification rate in seven year old children. the beta and theta bands were found to be more effective for stimuli classification in nine year old children - more than 84.09% classification accuracy was achieved. the effects induced by both visible and invisible contexts decayed with equal speed as the interstimulus interval between the inducer and test stimuli increased. 
Beta-band coherence is enhanced for visible stimuli over invisible stimuli. [SEP] the coherence increased significantly in magnitude, but was unchanged in frequency range (beta band) and scalp location; the eeg and emg spectral power in the beta band were unchanged in amplitude; and the alpha and gamma bands of eeg spectral power were significantly increased and decreased, respectively. when visual stimuli need to be ignored, the cognitive effort and cortico-spinal coherence are enhanced. recent evidence suggests that cmc is enhanced by tactile stimulation in the beta-band. the eeg-emg coherence found at c(3) site at 13-30 hz (beta) was increased and sustained in magnitude during the ignore and count conditions, respectively. these results were in contrast to those obtained for the arithmetic task: the beta band eeg-emg coherence was attenuated and the eeg spectral power at 4-7 hz and at 31-50 hz were significantly increased and decreased, respectively. as a conclusion, the present results are consistent with the idea that the enhanced 8-12 hz/decreased 31-50 hz oscillations affect strength of the beta band cortico-muscular synchronization by suppressing the visual processing. interestingly, coherence analysis revealed a functional coupling between auditory cortex and broca's area for congruent stimuli demonstrated by an increase of coherence. in contrast, coherence decreased for incongruent stimuli, suggesting a decoupling of auditory cortex and broca's area. in addition, the increase of coherence was positively correlated with the increase of high gamma-power. the findings provide evidence that coupling of neuronal groups can be mediated by coherence in the theta/alpha band and that low frequency coherence and high frequency power modulations are correlated in audio-visual speech perception. 
BiP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] three markers of endoplasmic reticulum stress, spliced xbp1, grp78/bip and grp94, were upregulated 2.5-9.5 fold in lamellar tissues of moderately to severely laminitic front limbs (n = 12) compared to levels in controls (n = 6-7) measured by immunoblotting and densitometry. immunofluorescent localizations were used to identify cell types expressing high levels of grp78/bip, as an indicator of endoplasmic reticulum stress. glucose-regulated protein of 78 kd (grp78) also referred to as immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein (bip/grp78) plays an important role in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress. er stress marker, bip/grp78 could be a powerful molecular target for the treatment of malignant melanoma. grp94, another endoplasmic reticulum stress protein homologous to hsp90, also associates with unassembled immunoglobulin chains, but its interaction is biochemically, kinetically and structurally distinct from bip's. the glucose-regulated protein (grp78/bip) and pkr-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (perk) plays a crucial role in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress response. silencing β-arrestin-2 downregulated apoptosis by increasing bip levels, which suppressed endoplasmic reticulum stress. wfskd cell lines had significantly increased apoptosis and elevated expression of the genes encoding bip and c/ebp-homologous protein (chop), two markers of endoplasmic reticulum stress. the molecular chaperone bip/grp78 associates with various polypeptides in the endoplasmic reticulum, including immunoglobulin chains. endoplasmic reticulum stress is defined as the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum, and is caused by conditions such as heat or agents that cause endoplasmic reticulum stress, including tunicamycin and dithiothreitol. 
Binding of p53 to enhancer regions (p53BERs) regulates the activity of p53 transcription and cell cycle arrest through the production of p53-dependent eRNAs. [SEP] binding within or nearby target genes involved in cell proliferation and survival enables the p53 tumor suppressor gene to regulate their transcription and cell-cycle progression. we demonstrate that these p53-bound enhancer regions (p53bers) indeed contain enhancer activity and interact intrachromosomally with multiple neighboring genes to convey long-distance p53-dependent transcription regulation. furthermore, p53bers produce, in a p53-dependent manner, enhancer rnas (ernas) that are required for efficient transcriptional enhancement of interacting target genes and induction of a p53-dependent cell-cycle arrest. moreover, erna production from p53bers is required for efficient p53 transcription enhancement. p53 binds enhancers to regulate key target genes. here, we globally mapped p53-regulated enhancers by looking at enhancer rna (erna) production. the pathway of control mediated through e2f governs the transition from g1 into s phase whereas p53 in response to genotoxic stress can facilitate cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. growth suppression by the rb and p53 tumor suppressor proteins is mediated through effects on cell cycle regulatory proteins at the g1/s transition. c-abl binds p53 in vitro and enhances p53 dependent transcription from a promoter containing p53 dna binding sites. the p53 tumor suppressor plays critical roles in diverse cellular responses such as cell cycle arrest, senescence, and apoptosis through transcriptional control of its target genes. 
Birth-weight is negatively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] we investigated the relationship between birth weight and risk of female breast cancer in a cohort of 106,504 danish women. birth weight is positively associated with risk of breast cancer, indicating that prenatal factors are important in the etiology of breast cancer. previous studies have shown that woman's risk of breast cancer in later life is associated with her infants birth weights. giving birth to an infant with high birth weight was associated with increased breast cancer risk in later life, independently of mother's own birth weight and breast cancer risk factors and was also associated with a hormonal environment during pregnancy favoring future breast cancer development and progression. to investigate if birth weight is associated with early-onset breast cancer. the risk of early-onset breast cancer was increased 1.25 times (95% ci 1.00-2.51) for birth weights above 4,000 g and 1.59 times (95% ci 1.00-1.55) for birth weights below 2,500 g in comparison with birthweights of 3,000-3,499 g. the finding that high birth weight is associated with breast cancer is compatible with the hypothesis that level of estrogen during pregnancy is related to breast cancer in early adult life. the finding that low birth weight is also associated with breast cancer may indicate that other characteristics of the fetal environment may be important for breast cancer in early adult life. most, but not all, studies report a positive association between birth weight, as an indirect marker of prenatal hormone exposure, and offspring breast cancer risk, particularly premenopausal breast cancer. birth weight has been identified as a birth-related factor associated with the risk of breast cancer. although these results provided no evidence indicating whether birth weight is more strongly related to early-onset than to later-onset breast cancer, our findings suggest an association between birth weight and breast cancer. 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 prevents TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] in mitochondria, wild-type (wt) and mutant tdp-43 preferentially bind mitochondria-transcribed messenger rnas (mrnas) encoding respiratory complex i subunits nd3 and nd6, impair their expression and specifically cause complex i disassembly. the suppression of tdp-43 mitochondrial localization abolishes wt and mutant tdp-43-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal loss, and improves phenotypes of transgenic mutant tdp-43 mice. thus, our studies link tdp-43 toxicity directly to mitochondrial bioenergetics and propose the targeting of tdp-43 mitochondrial localization as a promising therapeutic approach for neurodegeneration. recently, tdp-43 has been identified as a key protein in the pathogenesis of some cases of als. in addition, mutations at s409/410 of tdp-43 could inhibit its phosphorylation, attenuate nuclear loss, and abolish the increase in neuronal apoptosis in the subcortex. nuclear clearance of tdp-43 into cytoplasmic aggregates is a key driver of neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld), but the mechanisms are unclear. thus, impaired recycling of erbb4 and other receptors to the cell surface may contribute to tdp-43-induced neurodegeneration by blocking trophic signaling. pathological neuronal inclusions of the 43-kda tar dna-binding protein (tdp-43) are implicated in dementia and motor neuron disorders; however, the molecular mechanisms of the underlying cell loss remain poorly understood. in contrast, impairment of the respiratory chain attenuated the lethality upon tdp-43 expression with a stringent correlation between cytotoxicity and the degree of respiratory capacity or mitochondrial dna stability. in a mouse model of mnd, full-length tdp-43 increases association with the mitochondria and blocking the tdp-43/mitochondria interaction ameliorates motor dysfunction. 
Bone Marrow (BM) transplantation is used to treat acute myeloid leukemia (AML) [SEP] multiple studies support that the bone marrow (bm) microenvironment has an important influence on leukemia progression. we have observed renin expression in cells from acute myeloid leukemia (aml), chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) cases. thirty-one patients (19 males and 12 females; mean age 23.9 years, range 4-41 years) were treated with bone marrow transplantation (bmt) after intensive chemoradiotherapy. acute myeloid leukemia (aml) is an extremely rare complication that can be observed following mesenchymal stem cells (msc) transplantation for traumatic brain injury (tbi). the present study reports a case of acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl) following msc transplantation in a 36-year-old female. these findings support evaluation of this antibody in aml therapy, with particular appeal to patients resistant to chemotherapy and to unfit patients, unable to tolerate intensive chemotherapy. most patients with acute myeloid leukemia (aml) die from complications arising from cytopenias resulting from bone marrow (bm) failure. we develop a splenectomized xenograft model to demonstrate that transplantation of human primary aml into immunocompromised mice recapitulates the human disease course by induction of bm failure via depletion of mouse hematopoietic stem and progenitor populations. here we describe that mice receiving transplants of bone marrow (bm) overexpressing mn1 rapidly developed myeloproliferative disease (mpd). this bm also generated myeloid cell lines in culture. 
Bone marrow cells don't contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] in vivo and in vitro studies done in murine bone marrow have shown that monoblasts and promonocytes are the most immature, dividing cells of the mononuclear phagocyte cell line; monocytes and resident macrophages do not divide. in the case of the yolk sac, these cells were not retained in hatched birds. surprisingly, they did not contribute to any other hematopoietic lineage. the data indicate that the yolk sac is not the major source of macrophages in adult birds, and that there is a macrophage-restricted, self-renewing progenitor cell in bone marrow. aryl sulfotransferase activity could not be detected in either bone marrow-derived macrophages or fibroblasts, and there were no significant differences in gsh content between the two cell types. the capacity of fetal bone marrow to form stromal cell colonies, granulocyte-macrophage colonies, stromal cell monolayers and to produce granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating activity from these monolayers was evaluated in comparison to adult bone marrow. the fetal bone marrow colonies were larger in size than those from adult precursors. fetal bone marrow stromal cell monolayer produced granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating activity (gm-csa) effective only for fetal gm precursors, whereas adult bone marrow produces gm-csa effective for fetal and adult normal and cml bone marrow. a hypothesis suggesting that the bone marrow compartment is involved in the generation of macrophage heterogeneity is presented. cell culture studies showed that the phenotype of macrophages derived from spleen is different from those of bone marrow. 
British female students are bullied more than British male students. [SEP] the purpose of the study was to identify if differences existed between male and female nursing students in occurrence rates of bullying and who was perpetrating the bullying. results of a survey of 107 nursing students found that patients, nurses, and other hospital staff bullied female nursing students significantly more than male nursing students. the findings indicate that nurse educators need to be diligent while on the clinical unit as female students are more likely to be bullied by those they are learning from in these settings. it was found that 70% (49) of the students who were bullied were females. therefore, bullying reporting concerns mediated the association between perceived school climate and bullying victimization as well as aggressive behavior for male but not female students. the gender difference of associations between school climate and bullying reporting concerns may reflect the variation of bullying types experienced by male and female students, which calls for attention to the development of anti-bullying strategies that take into account gender differences and address various types of bullying. females had lower n scores and higher p and e scores than the british. male students bullied significantly more than females. more males (12.7%) than females (5.8%) perpetrated bullying. the proportion of males reporting bullying others did not vary by type of school; females were more likely to perpetrate bullying in predominantly male and mixed-gender vocational schools. 
British male students are bullied more than British female students. [SEP] the purpose of the study was to identify if differences existed between male and female nursing students in occurrence rates of bullying and who was perpetrating the bullying. results of a survey of 107 nursing students found that patients, nurses, and other hospital staff bullied female nursing students significantly more than male nursing students. it was found that 70% (49) of the students who were bullied were females. therefore, bullying reporting concerns mediated the association between perceived school climate and bullying victimization as well as aggressive behavior for male but not female students. the gender difference of associations between school climate and bullying reporting concerns may reflect the variation of bullying types experienced by male and female students, which calls for attention to the development of anti-bullying strategies that take into account gender differences and address various types of bullying. on the epq both male and female ss obtained considerably higher mean scores than british ss of the standardization sample. females had lower n scores and higher p and e scores than the british. male students bullied significantly more than females. more males (12.7%) than females (5.8%) perpetrated bullying. the proportion of males reporting bullying others did not vary by type of school; females were more likely to perpetrate bullying in predominantly male and mixed-gender vocational schools. 
Broadly HIV-1 Neutralizing Antibodies (bnAb) 10EB have no affinity for phospholipids. [SEP] here, we report that hiv-1 broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) are frequently polyreactive, cross-reacting with non-hiv-1 molecules, including self-antigens. unliganded paratopes of polyreactive bnabs with improved hiv-1 neutralization exhibit a conformational flexibility, which contributes to enhanced affinity of bnabs to various hiv-1 envelope glycoproteins and non-hiv antigens. most broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) elicited in response to hiv-1 infection are extraordinarily mutated. broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) are not induced by current vaccines, but are found in plasma in ∼20% of hiv-1-infected individuals after several years of infection. here we report that synthetic, homogeneously glycosylated peptides that bind avidly to variable loop 1/2 (v1v2) bnabs pg9 and ch01 bind minimally to strain-specific neutralizing v2 antibodies that are targeted to the same envelope polypeptide site. an hiv-1 vaccine should target bnab unmutated common ancestor (uca) b-cell receptors of naïve b cells, but to date no hiv-1 envelope constructs have been found that bind to the uca of v1v2 bnab pg9. the identification of this infant bnab illustrates that hiv-1-specific neutralization breadth can develop without prolonged affinity maturation and extensive shm. vaccines that protect against viral infection usually elicit neutralizing antibodies, but hiv-1 vaccine candidates have failed to induce broad and potent such responses. recently identified broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) show great potential for clinical interventions against hiv-1 infection. many hiv-1-infected patients evolve broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs). 
C2 works synergistically with A-769662 to activate dephosphorylated AMPK. [SEP] here we show that a-769662 activates ampk independently of α-thr172 phosphorylation, provided β-ser108 is phosphorylated. consequently a-769662 and amp together activate naive ampk entirely allosterically and independently of upstream kinase signaling. here we show that a-769662 activates ampk both allosterically and by inhibiting dephosphorylation of ampk on thr-172, similar to the effects of amp. a-769662 activates ampk harboring a mutation in the gamma subunit that abolishes activation by amp. based on our results we propose a model for activation of ampk by a-769662. we have studied the mechanism of a-769662, a new activator of amp-activated protein kinase (ampk). the small-molecule ampk activator a-769662, which binds and directly activates ampk, has recently been characterized. in this issue of chemistry & biology, scott and colleagues show that the small molecule direct ampk activator, a-769662, bypasses this phosphorylation event and acts synergistically with amp on naive ampk. recently, a-769662 was shown to activate ampk in skeletal muscle. our results show that both a-769662 and 991 activated ampk to a level that was similar to, or greater than, that induced by aicar. 
CCL19 is a ligand for CCR7. [SEP] the c-c chemokine receptor (ccr7) g protein-coupled receptor is expressed on naive t cells, dendritic cells, and nk cells and has two endogenous ligands, ccl19 and ccl21. following binding of ccl21, 21 +/- 4% of ccr7 is internalized in the hut 78 human t cell lymphoma line, while 76 +/- 8% of ccr7 is internalized upon binding to ccl19. the ccl19/ccr7 interaction significantly enhanced phosphorylation of akt, as measured by western blot. it is currently unclear which ccr7 ligand mediates these processes in vivo as ccl19 and ccl21 show an overlapping expression pattern and blocking experiments have given contradictory results. our findings suggest that ccl21 is the critical ccr7 ligand regulating dc homeostasis and function in vivo with ccl19 being redundant for these processes. the purpose of this study is to demonstrate expression of ccr7 by human eosinophils and functional responses to ccl19 and ccl21, the known ligands of ccr7. in particular, a ccr7 ligand, ccl21, plays important roles in recruiting t cells to secondary lymphoid tissues (slt). furthermore, ccl21 together with another ccr7 ligand, ccl19, direct the navigation and compartmentation of t cells within slt. ccr7 and its ligands, ccl19 and ccl21, are responsible for directing the migration of t cells and dendritic cells into lymph nodes, where these cells play an important role in the initiation of the immune response. activated dcs home to lymphoid organs, where the ccr7 ligands ccl19 and ccl21 are expressed. 
CCL19 is predominantly present within dLNs. [SEP] ccl19 and ccl21 were expressed at significantly higher levels in the dlns of recipients with inflamed graft beds. this effect was abolished by neutralizing ccl19 or ccl21. this correlated with decreased expression of ccl19/21 transcripts in dlns. ccl19 and its receptor ccr7 are essential molecules for facilitating the trafficking of mature dendritic cells (dcs) and helping to establish a microenvironment in lymphoid tissues to initiate primary immune responses, whereas ccl17 is required in the ccr7-ccl19-dependent migration of dcs. co-administration of the ccl17 and ccl19 genes in mice caused a greater increase in the number of mature dcs in the spleen and dlns compared with administration of ccl17 or ccl19 genes alone. a nasal adjuvant consisting of a combination of ccl17 and ccl19 attracts more mature dcs to secondary lymphoid tissues, inducing enhanced antibody responses against the anti-caries dna vaccine pcia-p and reducing s mutans infection in rodents. in the thymus, ccl19 is predominantly localized in the medulla including endothelial venules. the dlns is commonly present on mri examinations of patients with sarcoidosis, occurring in approximately half of the participants in our study. ccl19 and ccl21 are thought to be critical for experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae) induction, but their precise role is unknown. exogenous ccl19/ccl21 induced il-23p19 expression and il-23 production by plt/plt or wild-type dcs. 
CD28 initiates tonic signaling in conventional T cells, which causes an exhaustion phenotype and limited efficiency. [SEP] t cell exhaustion limits immune responses against cancer and is a major cause of resistance to chimeric antigen receptor (car)-t cell therapeutics. we further determine that cd28 costimulation augments, whereas 4-1bb costimulation reduces, exhaustion induced by persistent car signaling. with superagonistic cd28-specific monoclonal antibodies (cd28-sa), not only expands these cells in vivo but, as we show here, also mediates large-scale expansion of rat t(reg) cells in vitro. this phenotype was due to a lack of signaling through the c-terminal proline-rich motif within host cd28's cytoplasmic tail, a motif previously shown to be required for development of regulatory t cells (tregs) and function of conventional t cells. thus, host cd28 signaling controlled the pathogenesis of cgvhd through effects on host tregs, whose status impacts qualitatively on the allogeneic immune responses. absence of cd28 on t cells leads to several functional irregularities including reduced tcr diversity, incomplete activation of t cells, and defects in ag-induced proliferation. we found that phenotypically these cd8+cd28- t cells represent a distinct population compared with exhausted t cells. antigen-independent tonic signaling by chimeric antigen receptors (cars) can increase differentiation and exhaustion of t cells, limiting their potency. efficient t cell activation depends on the engagement of both tcr and cd28, although the molecular mechanisms that control this signal integration are not fully understood. we also show that tcr signaling can induce cd28-ligand interactions. 
CD28 signals regulate trafficking of murine auto-reactive T cells into target tissues. [SEP] our findings encourage incorporating cd28 signaling into car design for adoptive t cell treatment of solid tumors. the costimulatory molecule cd28 plays an essential role in the initiation of t-cell-mediated immunity. we investigated the possibility that cd28 may also regulate migration of primed t cells to target tissue. in vitro, cd28-mediated signals enhanced t-cell transendothelial migration, integrin clustering, and integrin-mediated migration. importantly, antibody-mediated cd28 stimulation led to unregulated memory t-cell migration to extra-lymphoid tissue, which occurred independently of t-cell receptor (tcr)-derived signals and homing-receptor expression. together with tissue-selective homing molecules, t-cell receptor (tcr)- and cd28-mediated signals have been shown to promote transendothelial migration of specific t cells into nonlymphoid antigen-rich tissue. here, we demonstrate that the cd28 co-stimulatory pathway regulates the trafficking of self-reactive ctla4(-/-) t cells to tissues. we review here the evidence suggesting that the cd28-b7 costimulatory pathway might play an important role in t cell tolerance and in the development of autoimmune responses. cd28 is a major coreceptor that regulates cell proliferation, anergy, and viability of t cells. these data provide important insights into the role of cd28 in t-cell homeostasis and its possible implication in neoplastic disorders. 
CD44v6 is not associated with constitutive and reprogrammed cancer stem cells driving cancer metastasis. [SEP] here, we show that all colorectal cancer stem cells (cr-cscs) express cd44v6, which is required for their migration and generation of metastatic tumors. cd44v6(-) progenitor cells do not give rise to metastatic lesions but, when treated with cytokines, acquire cd44v6 expression and metastatic capacity. to investigate the role of cancer stem cell marker cd44 variant 6 in the development of distant metastasis in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. the association between the expression of cd44 variant 6 and distant metastasis was evaluated based on a large-scale immunohistochemical analysis. cd44 variant 6 represents an important predictor of distant metastasis and cd44 variant 6-positive ovarian cancer cells play a crucial role in the formation of distant metastases in patients with ovarian cancer. previously some groups demonstrated that cd44 variant 6 (cd44v6) is correlated with progression and metastasis of ovarian cancer. as a cancer stem cell marker, cd44 variant 6 (cd44v6) has been implicated in carcinogenesis, tumor progression, and metastasis in a variety of human carcinomas. tumor stem cell surface marker cd44v6, a member of the cd44 protein family, is causally involved in the metastasis of cancer. cancer cells with high metastatic potential and stem cell-like characteristics express the cell surface marker cd44. we studied cd44v6 signaling in several pancreatic cancer cell lines, and its role in tumor growth and metastasis in several models of pancreatic cancer. 
CDK6 shows impaired binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] we propose that p18(ink4c) sets an inhibitory threshold in t cells and one function of cd28 costimulation is to counteract the p18(ink4c) inhibitory activity on cdk6-cyclin d complexes. cyclin(-d-)-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitors of the ink4 family specifically bind to cdk4 and cdk6, but not to other cdks. conversely, in competing with p18(ink4c) for binding to cdks, cyclin d1 accelerates p18(ink4c) turnover. the cyclin dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitor p18(ink4c) was identified as a potential novel eklf target gene from an expression profiling study. the p18(ink4c) protein functions as an inhibitor of cdk4 and cdk6 activity during early g1 phase of the cell cycle, thus acting as a physiological brake on cell division. to genetically test the notion that the function of ink4 is dependent on cdk4, we generated p18; cdk4 double-mutant mice and examined the organs and tissues which developed abnormalities when either gene is deleted. ink4 proteins function to oppose the action of cdk4/6-cyclin d complexes by inhibiting cdk4/6. we employed genetic and pharmacologic approaches to study the interplay among ink4 proteins and cdk4/6 activity in vivo. these data suggest that p16(ink4a) and p18(ink4c) coordinately regulate the in vivo catalytic activity of cdk4/6 in specific compartments of adult mice. p18(ink4c) is a member of the ink4 family of proteins that regulate the g(1) to s cell cycle transition by binding to and inhibiting the prb kinase activity of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6. 
CDK6 shows improved binding to loss-of-function variants of p18 INK4C. [SEP] we propose that p18(ink4c) sets an inhibitory threshold in t cells and one function of cd28 costimulation is to counteract the p18(ink4c) inhibitory activity on cdk6-cyclin d complexes. cyclin(-d-)-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitors of the ink4 family specifically bind to cdk4 and cdk6, but not to other cdks. conversely, in competing with p18(ink4c) for binding to cdks, cyclin d1 accelerates p18(ink4c) turnover. although it has been generally assumed that p18(ink4c) and p19(ink4d) are biochemically similar cdk inhibitors, the major differences in their stability and turnover are likely key to understanding their distinct biological functions. the cyclin dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitor p18(ink4c) was identified as a potential novel eklf target gene from an expression profiling study. the p18(ink4c) protein functions as an inhibitor of cdk4 and cdk6 activity during early g1 phase of the cell cycle, thus acting as a physiological brake on cell division. ink4 proteins function to oppose the action of cdk4/6-cyclin d complexes by inhibiting cdk4/6. we employed genetic and pharmacologic approaches to study the interplay among ink4 proteins and cdk4/6 activity in vivo. these data suggest that p16(ink4a) and p18(ink4c) coordinately regulate the in vivo catalytic activity of cdk4/6 in specific compartments of adult mice. p18(ink4c) is a member of the ink4 family of proteins that regulate the g(1) to s cell cycle transition by binding to and inhibiting the prb kinase activity of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6. 
CHOP is a general endoplasmic reticulum stress marker. [SEP] c/ebp homologous protein (chop), which is well known to induce cellular apoptosis in response to severe endoplasmic reticulum stress, is reportedly upregulated in plaque lesions. furthermore, in our in vitro experiments, in not only macrophages but also endothelial and smooth muscle cell lines, endoplasmic reticulum stress inducers upregulated inflammation-, adhesion-, or smooth muscle cell proliferation-related proteins, whereas decreased chop expression remarkably suppressed endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced upregulation of these proteins. in addition to the well-known signaling for apoptosis induction, chop may play important roles in augmenting potentially pathological biological stress responses. endoplasmic reticulum stress is an evolutionarily conserved cell stress response associated with numerous diseases, including cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. here, we describe a non-canonical, aggf1-mediated regulatory system for endoplasmic reticulum stress signaling associated with increased p-eif2α and atf4 and decreased sxbp1 and chop. results reveal that many genes implicated in endoplasmic reticulum stress signaling, such as chop (also known as ddit3 or gadd153), grp78 (hspa5), and atf4, are highly up-regulated, suggesting endoplasmic reticulum stress is induced. one of the regulators of endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated cell death is the ccaat/enhancer binding protein (c/ebp) homologous protein (chop). these results suggest a differential response of beta-cells to diverse endoplasmic reticulum stress inducers, leading to a differential regulation of chop transcription. c/ebp homologous protein (chop) expression was also detected, and the relationship between endoplasmic reticulum stress and apoptosis was further determined by sirna silencing of chop. in the previous report, we found that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k) down-regulation is important for inducing chop expression, an endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced transcription factor. 
COPI coatmer is involved in lipid homeostasis. [SEP] lipid droplets are ubiquitous triglyceride and sterol ester storage organelles required for energy storage homeostasis and biosynthesis. those include the vesicle-mediated coat protein complex i (copi) transport complex, which is required for limiting lipid storage. we found that copi components regulate the pat protein composition at the lipid droplet surface, and promote the association of adipocyte triglyceride lipase (atgl) with the lipid droplet surface to mediate lipolysis. these data indicate that the copi complex is an evolutionarily conserved regulator of lipid homeostasis, and highlight an interaction between vesicle transport systems and lipid droplets. however, the detailed mechanism underlying the regulation of lipid homeostasis by copi-dependent transport has been poorly understood. on the basis of these results, we propose other mechanisms how the gbf1-arf-copi-arfgap transport machinery is implicated in the regulation of lipid homeostasis. retrograde trafficking from the golgi complex to endoplasmic reticulum (er) through copi-coated vesicles has been implicated in lipid homeostasis. copi regulates ld homeostasis. we found that the previously documented interaction between trappii and copi was also required for the recruitment of rab18 to the ld we hypothesize that the interaction between copi and trappii helps bring trappii onto ld surface, and trappii, in turn, activates rab18 and recruits it on the ld surface to facilitate its functions in ld homeostasis. lipid homeostasis is essential to the maintenance of life. 
COPI coatmer is involved in viral replication. [SEP] copi and copii have been shown to be involved in the formation of picornavirus-induced vesicles. replication of several picornaviruses, including poliovirus and echovirus 11 (ev11), is dependent on copi or copii. here, we report that copi, but not copii, is required for ev71 replication. furthermore, we found ev71 2c protein interacted with copi subunits by co-immunoprecipitation and gst pull-down assay, indicating that copi coatomer might be directed to the viral replication complex through viral 2c protein. coatomer protein i (copi) is well known as the protein coat surrounding vesicles involved in returning endoplasmic reticulum (er)-resident proteins to the er. copi coats are also found in vesicles involved in other trafficking processes including endocytosis, autophagy and anterograde transport in the secretory pathway. in view of the diverse functions of copi proteins, it is expected that they will affect virus replication, and many reports of such copi involvement have now appeared. here we briefly describe the results obtained with viruses in which copi is found to have a role in replication. the results demonstrate that copi affects viruses quite differently with effects observed in processes such as entry, rna replication, and intracellular transport of viral proteins. using immunofluorescence and cryo-immunoelectron microscopy we examined the association of a copi component, beta-cop, with the rcs of emcv, parv1, and ev11. 
CRP is positively correlated with postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] almost 500 000 coronary artery bypass (cabg) surgeries are performed in the usa annually. to evaluate the preoperative presence of c-reactive protein (crp) and troponin t(hs-tnt) in patients with coronary artery disease (cad) undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) in order to better clarify the role of atrial inflammation and/or myocardial ischemia in the development of postoperative atrial fibrillation (poaf). thirty-eight consecutive ischemic patients admitted to the authors' hospital for cad undergoing elective on-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). in patients undergoing cabg, neither peripheral nor tissue preoperative crp levels, but only postoperative hs-tnt levels, correlated with poaf, suggesting the primary role of an ischemic trigger of atrial fibrillation. the postoperative crp levels were significantly higher than the preoperative levels. the correlation analysis determined that the postoperative crp levels were negatively correlated with the b-sit score (r = -0.48, p = 0.001). our findings suggest that patients after cabg are prone to develop olfactory dysfunction in the early postoperative period and that olfactory dysfunction is associated with postoperative crp levels. this study sought to assess inflammation activation in the follow-up (up to one month) of coronary bypass surgery performed both on- (cabg) and off-pump (opcab). this study aims to investigate the effect of body mass index (bmi) on mortality and morbidity in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) surgery. to investigate the effects of statin use in preoperative period on the development of ventricular fibrillation (vf) following the removal of aortic cross-clamp (acc) and on the levels of inflammation biomarker c-reactive protein (crp) in patients who undergo elective isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). 
Ca2+ cycling controls whole-body energy homeostasis in beige fat. [SEP] here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca2+ cycling by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum ca2+-atpase 2b (serca2b) and ryanodine receptor 2 (ryr2). conversely, enhanced ca2+ cycling by activation of α1- and/or β3-adrenergic receptors or the serca2b-ryr2 pathway stimulates ucp1-independent thermogenesis in beige adipocytes. in the absence of ucp1, beige fat dynamically expends glucose through enhanced glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid metabolism and pyruvate dehydrogenase activity for atp-dependent thermogenesis through the serca2b pathway; beige fat thereby functions as a 'glucose sink' and improves glucose tolerance independently of body weight loss. our study uncovers a noncanonical thermogenic mechanism through which beige fat controls whole-body energy homeostasis via ca2+ cycling. the newest findings on agents driving beige fat recruitment, their mechanisms, and implications on type 2 diabetes are discussed in this review. the goal of this review is to give a comprehensive overview of beige fat development and origins, along with the transcriptional and epigenetic programs that lead to beige fat formation, and subsequent thermogenesis in humans. this paper reviews knowledge on brown/beige adipocytes in energy expenditure and how it may impact obesity therapy and its comorbidities. two types of thermogenic fat cells, brown adipocytes and beige adipocytes, play a key role in the regulation of systemic energy homeostasis in mammals. of particular interest is the role of beige fat in the regulation of glucose homeostasis via uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1)-independent mechanisms. here, we review the recent advances made in our understanding of brown and beige fat in humans and mice. 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-dependent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca2+ cycling by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum ca2+-atpase 2b (serca2b) and ryanodine receptor 2 (ryr2). conversely, enhanced ca2+ cycling by activation of α1- and/or β3-adrenergic receptors or the serca2b-ryr2 pathway stimulates ucp1-independent thermogenesis in beige adipocytes. thermogenic adipocytes express high levels of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) to dissipates energy in the form of heat by uncoupling the mitochondrial proton gradient from mitochondrial respiration. recently, ucp1 independent thermogenic pathway identified in thermogenic adipocytes. the discovery of ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanisms potential offer new opportunities for improving obesity and type 2 diabetes particularly in groups such as elderly and obese populations who do not possess ucp1 positive adipocytes. in recent years, it has become clear that multiple thermogenic mechanisms exist, based on atp sinks centered on creatine, lipid, or calcium cycling, along with fatty acid-mediated ucp1-independent leak pathways driven by the adp/atp carrier (aac). interest in ucp1-independent energy expenditure has begun to showcase the therapeutic potential that lies in refining our understanding of the diversity of biochemical pathways controlling thermogenic respiration. mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1), specific for these tissues, is the key factor for heat production. the ucp1 was thermogenically functional, in that these mitochondria exhibited ucp1-dependent thermogenesis with lipid or carbohydrate substrates with canonical guanosine diphosphate (gdp) sensitivity and loss of thermogenesis in ucp1 knockout (ko) mice. thus, ucp1 remains the only physiologically potent thermogenic uncoupling protein in these cells. 
Ca2+ cycling is a UCP1-independent thermogenic mechanism. [SEP] thermogenic adipocytes express high levels of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) to dissipates energy in the form of heat by uncoupling the mitochondrial proton gradient from mitochondrial respiration. recently, ucp1 independent thermogenic pathway identified in thermogenic adipocytes. the discovery of ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanisms potential offer new opportunities for improving obesity and type 2 diabetes particularly in groups such as elderly and obese populations who do not possess ucp1 positive adipocytes. here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca2+ cycling by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum ca2+-atpase 2b (serca2b) and ryanodine receptor 2 (ryr2). conversely, enhanced ca2+ cycling by activation of α1- and/or β3-adrenergic receptors or the serca2b-ryr2 pathway stimulates ucp1-independent thermogenesis in beige adipocytes. in recent years, it has become clear that multiple thermogenic mechanisms exist, based on atp sinks centered on creatine, lipid, or calcium cycling, along with fatty acid-mediated ucp1-independent leak pathways driven by the adp/atp carrier (aac). interest in ucp1-independent energy expenditure has begun to showcase the therapeutic potential that lies in refining our understanding of the diversity of biochemical pathways controlling thermogenic respiration. mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1), specific for these tissues, is the key factor for heat production. recently, studies in adipocytes have indicated the existence of functional ucp1-independent thermogenic regulators. moreover, several ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanisms have been described, expanding the role of these cells in energy homeostasis. 
Cancer cells can stimulate the accumulation of intra-tumoural myeloid-derived suppressor cells by promoting granulocyte colony stimulating factor production. [SEP] myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) have been shown to contribute to tumor escape from host immune surveillance and to cancer progression by production of tumor-promoting soluble factors. granulocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdsc) are a mdsc subset expanded in various cancer types. myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdsc) have been identified in a range of cancers and are often associated with tumour progression and poor patient outcomes. pancreatic cancer in particular supports mdsc differentiation via the secretion of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf), and mdsc are believed to contribute to the profoundly immune-suppressive microenvironment present in pancreatic tumours. cancer is associated with a profound perturbation in myelopoiesis that results in the accumulation of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) to promote disease progression. we found that, among the factors produced by various tumors, gm-csf, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and il-6 could not only promote the myeloid-biased differentiation, but also induce the differentiation of myeloid precursors into functional mdscs. bone marrow derived myeloid cells progressively accumulate in tumors, where they establish an inflammatory microenvironment that is favorable for tumor growth and spread. pathologically overexpressed mediators produced by cancer cells like granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating- and vascular endothelial growth factor induce myelopoiesis in the bone marrow. unlike other regulatory circuits, cancer-induced myeloid dysfunction involves more than an accumulation of impaired dendritic cells, protumoral macrophages, and myeloid derived suppressor cells in the tumor microenvironment. macrophage colony stimulating factors (csfs) control the recruitment of myeloid cells during peripheral cancer progression, but it is disputable, which csfs drive their accumulation in gliomas. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are constituents of tumor microenvironments [SEP] however, the role of cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs), a predominant stromal constituent, in determining the tumor-immune microenvironment and modulating efficacy of immunotherapies remains poorly understood. rcinoma-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are a major constituent of the tumor microenvironment. cancer cells can induce the transformation from normal fibroblasts (nfs) into cafs, reciprocally, cafs promote tumor invasion and proliferation. this is due to a series of other cellular actors, present in or attracted towards the tumor microenvironment, including regulatory t-cells, myeloid-derived suppressor cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs). cancer associated fibroblasts (cafs) are a major constituent of the tumor microenvironment, and play a critical role in promoting many aspects of tumor function. studies in experimental models suggest that carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (caf) differ from normal fibroblasts and are capable of promoting cancer progression through a variety of mechanisms. cancer-associated fibroblasts (caf) are a major constituent of the tumor stroma, but little is known about how cancer cells transform normal fibroblasts into cafs. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are the major constituents of the tumor microenvironment and promote cancer development via tumor-stromal interactions. cancer-associated fibroblasts (caf) are a major constituent of the pancreatic cancer microenvironment and that the meaning is as intended. in this chapter, we describe on the role of fibroblasts, specifically termed cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs), in the promotion and maintenance of cancers. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) have no known interaction with cancer cells in the formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] cancer-associated fibroblasts (caf) are the most abundant stromal cells in tumor and exert a pro-tumoral effect in cancer progression. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are the most abundant non-neoplastic cells in the stroma and also among the most important cell types interacting with cancer cells. cancer-associated fibroblasts (caf) are a major constituent of the tumor stroma, but little is known about how cancer cells transform normal fibroblasts into cafs. carcinoma associated fibroblasts (cafs) play important roles in breast cancer development and progression. the association between cancer cells and fibroblasts has been highlighted in several previous studies. regulation factors released from cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) into the tumor microenvironment have essential roles, including the support of tumor growth, angiogenesis, metastasis and therapy resistance. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) interact closely with cancer cells, supporting their growth and invasion. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs), a major component of the tumor microenvironment (tme), play an important role in cancer initiation, progression, and metastasis. the elucidation and understanding of the interaction between cancer cells and cafs will pave the way for new cancer therapies [1–3]. cancer-associated fibroblasts (caf) attract increasing attention as potential cancer drug targets due to their ability to stimulate, for example, tumor growth, invasion, angiogenesis, and metastasis. 
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interact with cancer cells to mediate formation and activation of CAFs. [SEP] although cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) have been proposed to generate a tumor-supportive extracellular matrix that promotes the expansion of this type of cancer, the molecular mechanisms by which cafs assist cancer cells are not yet fully understood. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) promote tumour invasion and metastasis. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are the most abundant non-neoplastic cells in the stroma and also among the most important cell types interacting with cancer cells. cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) are major components of stromal cells. cafs contribute to metastasis process through direct or indirect interaction with tumor cells; however, the underlying mechanism is largely unknown. among them, cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) play an important role in promoting cancer progression by secreting various pro-inflammatory factors. in cancer, tgf-β contributes to the generation of cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) that have different molecular and cellular properties from activated or fibrotic fibroblasts. cafs promote tumor progression and chronic tumor fibrosis via tgf-β signaling. fibrosis and caf-mediated cancer progression share several common traits and are closely related. in this review, we consider how tgf-β promotes fibrosis and caf-mediated cancer progression. 
Cancers that initially benefit from epidermal growth factor receptor targeted therapies later become refractory through several mechanisms. [SEP] cetuximab, a chimeric igg(1) monoclonal antibody directed against the ligand-binding domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor, offers a paradigm for the combination of molecularly targeted therapies with cytotoxic agents. epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) has been validated as an important target in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc). we review the use of the egfr-targeted monoclonal antibodies cetuximab and panitumumab in mcrc including the incorporation of kras testing in patients, and also review the use of prophylactic therapy for skin toxicity associated with egfr-targeted therapies. among molecular mechanisms of tumor growth and progression, activated epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase is remarkable for its prevalence and impact on many different solid tumor types, as well as its link to diverse stages of disease. targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) either alone or in combination with chemotherapy is effective for patients with ras wild type metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc). however, only a small percentage of mcrc patients are sensitive to anti-egfr therapy and even the best cases finally become refractory to this therapy. in this review, we provide an overview of known and novel mechanisms that contribute to both primary and acquired anti-egfr therapy resistance, and enlist possible treatment strategies to overcome or reverse this resistance. approaches that target the epidermal growth factor receptor, the platelet derived growth factor receptor, and nuclear factor kappa-b are also discussed. mechanisms responsible for tumor resistance to erbb-targeted agents are as follows: many epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr)- and her2-targeted therapies cannot inhibit signaling through the erbb receptor heterodimer, and anti-egfr agents can suppress extracellular signal-related kinase (erk) signal proliferation but not protein kinase b/akt survival signals. the epidermal growth factor receptor has become a target of increasing interest. 
Cardiac tissue-resident macrophages directly contribute to electrical activity. [SEP] resident cardiac macrophages have been demonstrated to facilitate the electrical conduction in the heart. to further study the role of resident macrophages in cardiac conduction system, a proper isolation of resident macrophages from san and avn is necessary, but it remains challenging. we, therefore, describe a protocol to isolate cardiac resident macrophages located within the cardiac conduction system. in the heart, recent studies suggest that cardiac macrophages are involved in the regulation of heart homeostasis by phagocytosis, production of trophic, and immune-related factors, and by forming direct contacts with cardiomyocytes to regulate electrical conduction. recently, increasing attention has been directed toward novel roles for cardiac resident macrophages, especially in the heart's electrical impulse conduction. this review describes recent advances in our understanding of the role played by macrophages in cardiac tissue maintenance and repair following injury. we examine the involvement of exogenous and resident tissue macrophages in cardiac inflammatory responses and their potential activity in regulating cardiac regeneration. it has also been suggested that cardiac-resident macrophages display distinct functional properties from that of monocyte-derived macrophages in cardiac tissue. recent studies have unraveled cardiac resident macrophages as a critical mediator for normal cardiac function. macrophages within the heart exert phagocytosis and efferocytosis, facilitate electrical conduction, promote regeneration, and remove cardiac exophers to maintain homeostasis. 
Carriers of HNF4A mutations are at reduced risk for diabetes. [SEP] we examined birthweight and hypoglycaemia in 108 patients from families with diabetes due to hnf4a mutations, and 134 patients from families with hnf1a mutations. hnf1a-/hnf4a-mody subjects were compared with nine hnf1a mutation-negative relatives and 20 type 2 diabetic (t2dm) patients. in conclusion, a rare, novel mutation that disrupts a protein binding site in the pancreatic hnf4a promoter associates with late-onset diabetes. hnf4a mutations cause hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia in early life and maturity-onset diabetes of the young. in conclusion, we have identified three novel hnf4a mutations and a 3.7-mb haplotype, including the hnf4a p2 promoter, which was linked with diabetes. mutations in hnf4a cause a form of monogenic beta-cell diabetes. we aimed to identify mutations in the pancreas-specific p2 promoter of hnf4a in families with suspected hnf4a diabetes and to show that they impaired the function of the promoter in vitro. we screened families with a clinical suspicion of hnf4a monogenic beta-cell diabetes for mutations in the hnf4a p2 promoter. we identified two novel hnf4a p2 promoter mutations that co-segregate with diabetes in two families, -136a>g and -169c>t. two novel mutations identified here and the previously identified late-onset diabetes mutation, -192c>g, impair the function of the hnf4a p2 promoter in vitro. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Galliformes. [SEP] surprisingly, we find that sex determination in the pigment cell precursors, as well as the male-specific somatic gonadal precursors, is non-cell autonomous. in drosophila, the sex of germ cells is determined by cell-autonomous and inductive signals. in vertebrates that have been examined to date, the sexual identity of germ cells is determined by the sex of gonadal somatic cells. here, we report a novel mechanism by which sex chromosomes cell-autonomously confer sexually different characters upon germ cells prior to gonad formation in a genetically sex-determined species. in vertebrates so far examined, the sex of germ cells is determined by gonadal somatic cells. thus, somatic signals determine the sex of genetically female germ cells. the conclusion was drawn that the sex determination of xy germ cells is dictated by the sex of the soma. here we report that such germ cells respond to both cell-autonomous and somatic sex-determining signals, depending on the developmental stage. these studies demonstrated that gynandromorph birds are genuine male:female chimaeras, and indicated that male and female avian somatic cells may have an inherent sex identity. our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous. 
Cellular clocks are associated with mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] to screen for output signals that may distinguish the pacemaker in the mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (scn) from peripheral-type oscillators in which the canonical clockworks are similarly regulated in a circadian manner, the rhythmic behavior of the transcriptome in forskolin-stimulated nih/3t3 fibroblasts was analyzed and compared relative to scn2.2 cells in vitro and the rat scn. similar to the circadian profiling of the scn2.2 and rat scn transcriptomes, nih/3t3 fibroblasts exhibited circadian fluctuations in the expression of the core clock genes, per2, cry1, and bmal1, and 323 functionally diverse transcripts, many of which regulate cellular communication. novel techniques were used to determine when in the cell cycle of proliferating nih 3t3 cells cellular ras and cyclin d1 are required. these studies demonstrate a fundamental difference in mitogenic signal transduction between quiescent and cycling nih 3t3 cells and reveal a sequence of signaling events required for cell cycle progression in proliferating nih 3t3 cells. here, we found that the clock protein is kept mostly in the phosphorylated form throughout the day and is partly hyperphosphorylated in the suppression phase of e-box-dependent transcription in the mouse liver and nih 3t3 cells. coexpression of cry2 in nih 3t3 cells inhibited the phosphorylation of clock, whereas cipc coexpression markedly stimulated phosphorylation, indicating that clock phosphorylation is regulated by a combination of the negative regulators in the suppression phase. calyculin a treatment of cultured nih 3t3 cells promoted clock phosphorylation and facilitated its proteasomal degradation. the conferred rhythms in nih/3t3 cells were phase delayed by 4-12 hr relative to scn2.2 circadian patterns, thus resembling the phase relationship between scn and peripheral tissue rhythms in vivo. in serum-shocked nih/3t3 fibroblasts, oscillations in per2, bmal1, and cry1 expression persisted with some change in rhythm amplitude during antisense inhibition of clock, demonstrating that feedback interactions between clock and other core components of the clock mechanism may be regulated differently in scn2.2 cells and fibroblasts. the present results suggest that clock is differentially involved in the generation of endogenous molecular and metabolic rhythmicity within scn2.2 cells and in the regulation of their specific outputs that control rhythmic processes in nih/3t3 cells. 
Cellular clocks are not predictive of mitosis timing in NIH 3T3 cells. [SEP] similar to the circadian profiling of the scn2.2 and rat scn transcriptomes, nih/3t3 fibroblasts exhibited circadian fluctuations in the expression of the core clock genes, per2, cry1, and bmal1, and 323 functionally diverse transcripts, many of which regulate cellular communication. novel techniques were used to determine when in the cell cycle of proliferating nih 3t3 cells cellular ras and cyclin d1 are required. these studies demonstrate a fundamental difference in mitogenic signal transduction between quiescent and cycling nih 3t3 cells and reveal a sequence of signaling events required for cell cycle progression in proliferating nih 3t3 cells. coexpression of cry2 in nih 3t3 cells inhibited the phosphorylation of clock, whereas cipc coexpression markedly stimulated phosphorylation, indicating that clock phosphorylation is regulated by a combination of the negative regulators in the suppression phase. calyculin a treatment of cultured nih 3t3 cells promoted clock phosphorylation and facilitated its proteasomal degradation. the conferred rhythms in nih/3t3 cells were phase delayed by 4-12 hr relative to scn2.2 circadian patterns, thus resembling the phase relationship between scn and peripheral tissue rhythms in vivo. despite these clock gene oscillations the serum-shocked nih/3t3 cells failed to drive circadian rhythms of per1 and per2 expression in cocultures of untreated fibroblasts, suggesting that expression and circadian regulation of the per and cry genes are not sufficient to confer pacemaker function. in serum-shocked nih/3t3 fibroblasts, oscillations in per2, bmal1, and cry1 expression persisted with some change in rhythm amplitude during antisense inhibition of clock, demonstrating that feedback interactions between clock and other core components of the clock mechanism may be regulated differently in scn2.2 cells and fibroblasts. the present results suggest that clock is differentially involved in the generation of endogenous molecular and metabolic rhythmicity within scn2.2 cells and in the regulation of their specific outputs that control rhythmic processes in nih/3t3 cells. the cell proliferation rate of infected cells was higher than the non-transfected nih-3t3 cells, suggesting that circadian clock gene bmal1 can promote proliferation. 
Cellular differentiation of embryonic stem cells is accompanied by changes in replication timing, transcription and nuclear localization. [SEP] the replication timing of some genes is developmentally regulated, but the significance of replication timing to cellular differentiation has been difficult to substantiate. here, we have evaluated the replication timing of 54 tissue-specific genes in mouse embryonic stem cells before and after differentiation to neural precursors. our results provide direct evidence that differentiation-induced autosomal replication-timing changes are a significant part of mammalian development, provide a means to predict genes subject to such regulation, and suggest that replication timing may be more related to the evolution of metazoan genomes than to gene function or expression pattern. differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs) is accompanied by changes in replication timing. to explore the relationship between replication timing and cell fate transitions, we constructed genome-wide replication-timing profiles of 22 independent mouse cell lines representing 10 stages of early mouse development, and transcription profiles for seven of these stages. timing of replication correlates with gene density, transcriptional activity, chromatin structure and nuclear position, making it an intriguing epigenetic mark. recent studies emphasize the roles that gene promoters and alterations in replication timing play in the spatial reorganization of chromatin during cell differentiation. new results suggest that the spatial organization of chromatin in embryonic stem cells may be important for maintenance of the pluripotent state, whereas the nuclear architecture of differentiated cells facilitates formation of transcriptionally active zones with shared transcription and splicing machinery. we have constructed high-resolution replication-timing profiles in mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs) before and after differentiation to neural precursor cells. our results also demonstrate that transcriptional activation, but not chromatin decondensation, is sufficient to change replication timing. 
Certain immunomodulator-human dialyzable leukocyte extract (hDLE) peptides are recognized by toll-like receptors (TLRs) on macrophages and dendritic cells. [SEP] toll-like receptors (tlrs) and dectin-1, as members of pattern recognition receptors play an essential role in innate immune response against bacteria and fungi respectively, contributing to pathogens recognition, phagocytosis, etc. tlrs recognize microbial patterns and are critical in initiating immune responses. we have produced monoclonal antibodies (mabs) against human toll-like receptors (tlrs). several toll-like receptors (tlrs) have also been identified in mammals. these cells utilize tlrs as a recognition and signal transducing receptor for microbial molecular components. the toll-like receptors (tlrs) that are expressed on antigen presenting cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells play a critical role in this process. each tlr recognizes specific structures and induces common inflammatory cytokines. the activation of immune cells is likely to be mediated via toll like receptors (tlrs); thus, the binding of components of the extract to tlr-4 and marginally to tlr-2 could be shown. the nucleic acid-specific toll-like receptors (tlrs) detect and signal within endolysosomal compartments, triggering the induction of cytokines essential for the innate immune response. innate immune cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells (dcs) are involved in the first line of defense against protozoan parasites via sensing the invaders through pattern recognition receptors (prrs), such as toll-like receptors (tlrs). 
Charcoal is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] the binding capacity of activated charcoal for paraquat was evaluated in vitro and in vivo and compared with fuller's earth. in vitro activated charcoal absorbs paraquat and is as effective as fuller's earth. paraquat (200 mg/kg) administered orally to male mice, followed 30 minutes later by activated charcoal, fuller's earth (4 gm/kg), and magnesium citrate (0.01 cc/gm) resulted in a survival rate of 31% in the controls, 63% in the activated charcoal and fuller's earth groups, and 69% in the magnesium citrate group (p values not significant). the efficacy and greater availability of activated charcoal and magnesium citrate make these materials the treatment of choice for gastrointestinal decontamination in oral paraquat poisoning. our patient presented with above lethal dose intake of paraquat containing substance and we did gastric lavage followed by charcoal hemoperfusion and hemodialysis but patient could not be saved despite optimum efforts suggesting the high fatality of this kind of poisoning. review of a case of paraquat poisoning in a tertiary care rural-based icu. the present study retrospectively analyzed 19 patients diagnosed with paraquat (pq) poisoning with the aim to investigate the effect of activated charcoal hemoperfusion on renal function and pq elimination. the best measure to eliminate paraquat from blood and tissue is hemoperfusion with coated activated charcoal; it has to be performed in the sense of "continuous hemoperfusion" about 8 h/d over a period of 2-3 weeks. clinical and in vitro investigations were carried out to test the efficacy of gut lavage, hemodialysis, and hemoperfusion in the treatment of poisoning with paraquat or diquat. a case of paraquat poisoning was successfully treated which would have been considered lethal according to a reported prognostic index. 
Charcoal shows no benefit for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] paraquat also causes renal and liver injury.2 there are few case publications of paraquat poisoning and only few of them have reported that renal failure has ensued before acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards). our patient presented with above lethal dose intake of paraquat containing substance and we did gastric lavage followed by charcoal hemoperfusion and hemodialysis but patient could not be saved despite optimum efforts suggesting the high fatality of this kind of poisoning. ingestion of paraquat results in an extremely dangerous poisoning. the binding capacity of activated charcoal for paraquat was evaluated in vitro and in vivo and compared with fuller's earth. in vitro activated charcoal absorbs paraquat and is as effective as fuller's earth. the efficacy and greater availability of activated charcoal and magnesium citrate make these materials the treatment of choice for gastrointestinal decontamination in oral paraquat poisoning. the present study retrospectively analyzed 19 patients diagnosed with paraquat (pq) poisoning with the aim to investigate the effect of activated charcoal hemoperfusion on renal function and pq elimination. activated charcoal hemoperfusion had little effect on avoiding acute kidney injury in patients with severe pq poisoning. the in vitro results could be confirmed: at serum concentrations of paraquats less than 1 ppm no clearance could be obtained by hemodialysis while by hemoperfusion with activated charcoal quite high clearance values were measured and the serum level dropped down to zero. a case of paraquat poisoning was successfully treated which would have been considered lethal according to a reported prognostic index. 
Chemical injury represses transglutaminase 2 activity. [SEP] we have previously demonstrated that glutamate exposure increased transglutaminase activity and transglutaminase 2 expression in cultured cerebellar granule cells and astrocytes. our results suggest that increases in transglutaminases may be part of the tissue stress response in global brain ischemia. transglutaminases catalyze the cross-linking and amine incorporation of proteins, and are implicated in various biological phenomena. to elucidate the physiological roles of transglutaminase at the molecular level, we need to identify its physiological protein substrates and clarify the relationship between transglutaminase modification of protein substrates and biological responses. transglutaminase (ec 2.3.2.13) activity in chemically induced rat hepatocellular carcinomas was reduced by some 65% when compared to normal rat livers. the use of non-ionic detergent to extract the transglutaminase activity present in both normal and tumour tissue followed by its separation on a mono-q column revealed two distinct peaks of activity. recent evidence implicates a family of enzymes, namely transglutaminases, in the pathological mechanisms of tbi. transglutaminases are multifunctional, calcium-dependent enzymes that are significantly upregulated in tbi. in this review, we will discuss data that support a role for transglutaminases, in particular transglutaminase 2, in mitochondrial damage, excitotoxicity and inflammation and their relationship to the pathobiology of tbi. the results of the present study support the concept that, in the damaged colon, transglutaminases are needed in response to chronic injury and underline the key role of these enzymes in mucosal healing. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment decreases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] the interest in brown adipose tissue (bat) as a target to combat metabolic disease has recently been renewed with the discovery of functional bat in humans. lipoprotein lipase (lpl) supplies brown adipose tissue with fatty acids for nonshivering thermogenesis. in the current study, we examined effect of metap2 inhibition on brown adipose tissue and brown adipocytes. it is apparent that dietary cla decreases white and brown adipose tissue mass, accompanying changes in the gene expression of proteins regulating energy metabolism in white and brown adipose tissues, and skeletal muscle of mice. this enhanced capacity of energy dissipation in brown adipose tissue could contribute to the decreased capacity of i-strain mice to store adipose tissue. the effects of fatty acids and retinoic acid (carotene) on brown adipose tissue differentiation are mediated by activation of the transcription factors ppargamma and pparalpha in combination with rxr. the ability of chronic ppargamma agonist treatment to promote the occurrence of brown-fat features in white adipose tissue-like depots implies a role in anti-obesity treatment, but this will only be effective if the extra thermogenic capacity is activated by adrenergic stimulation. brown adipose tissue mitochondria are uniquely specialized for thermogenesis, possessing a specific proton leakage mechanism that is regulated by the concentration of fatty acids in the cells of the brown adipose tissue. sympathetic stimulation also exerts a trophic influence on brown adipose tissue. defective brown adipose tissue thermogenesis is associated with obesity in a number of different types of obese animals. 
Chenodeoxycholic acid treatment increases brown adipose tissue activity. [SEP] the brown adipose tissue is a potential target for the treatment of obesity and metabolic disorders. its activation by cold exposure or adrenergic drugs can increase systemic insulin sensitivity and improve lipid metabolism; however, little is known about the effects of specific dietary components on brown adipose tissue activity. we asked if a short-term (four weeks) dietary intervention with olive oil could modify brown adipose tissue activity in lean and overweight/obese volunteers. the intervention resulted in significant increase in blood monounsaturated fatty acid levels, which was accompanied by increased brown adipose tissue activity in lean but not in overweight/obese volunteers. in addition, increase in leptin concentration was associated with increased brown adipose tissue activity. the effect of this agent on white and brown adipose tissue of the rat was investigated. in the current study, we examined effect of metap2 inhibition on brown adipose tissue and brown adipocytes. activation of brown adipose tissue with g protein-coupled receptors as key druggable targets as a strategy to increase energy consumption and reduce fat mass. its activation by selective ligands increases brown adipose tissue activity. the effects of fatty acids and retinoic acid (carotene) on brown adipose tissue differentiation are mediated by activation of the transcription factors ppargamma and pparalpha in combination with rxr. 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are less vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] three out of these 4 hyper-homocysteinemia patients were homozygous ( tt ) for mthfr polymorphism (2 with recurrent stroke). primary hyper-homocysteinemia appears to be an important risk factor for ischemic stroke in north indians, most due to mthfr c677t homozygosity. folate levels may modify the presentation of the mthfr tt genotype. as genetic variability of mthfr influences folate status, it is important to ensure an adequate intake that overrides genetic effects but minimises any adverse effects. our aim was to assess the influence of mthfr genotype on folate status followed by response to supplementation. this meta-analysis confirms observations from observational and intervention studies that mthfr tt genotype is associated with increased plasma homocysteine and lowered serum folate and less response to short-term supplementation. we examined the relationship between folate status and presence of the common mutation mthfr c677t in 82 ntd-affected and 260 control mothers. a common polymorphism (t/t) in the gene encoding the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) enzyme has been associated with elevated serum homocysteine, itself a risk factor for stroke. the folate-sensitive polymorphism methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) c. 677 c > t (a222v) referred a non-significant risk of ischemic stroke (odds ratio: 1.20) in all patients, and homozygosity for mthfr c. 677 c > t was associated with an earlier onset of stroke selectively in patients younger than 60 years (38 +/- 3 years vs. 45 +/- 1 years; p = 0.043). this study suggests that the investigated polymorphisms are no major risk factors for stroke, although mthfr c. 677 c > t could be a minor factor of vulnerability especially in young patients (tt genotype), which might be helpful for the clinical work-up of stroke cases and for preventive dietary strategies. 
Chinese individuals with TT homozygosity in the MTHFR gene are more vulnerable to strokes caused by low levels of folate intake. [SEP] three out of these 4 hyper-homocysteinemia patients were homozygous ( tt ) for mthfr polymorphism (2 with recurrent stroke). primary hyper-homocysteinemia appears to be an important risk factor for ischemic stroke in north indians, most due to mthfr c677t homozygosity. folate levels may modify the presentation of the mthfr tt genotype. methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) is a key folate pathway enzyme with the t variant of the mthfr gene increasing the risk of low folate status, particularly coupled with low folate intake. as genetic variability of mthfr influences folate status, it is important to ensure an adequate intake that overrides genetic effects but minimises any adverse effects. our aim was to assess the influence of mthfr genotype on folate status followed by response to supplementation. this meta-analysis confirms observations from observational and intervention studies that mthfr tt genotype is associated with increased plasma homocysteine and lowered serum folate and less response to short-term supplementation. a common polymorphism (t/t) in the gene encoding the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) enzyme has been associated with elevated serum homocysteine, itself a risk factor for stroke. the folate-sensitive polymorphism methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) c. 677 c > t (a222v) referred a non-significant risk of ischemic stroke (odds ratio: 1.20) in all patients, and homozygosity for mthfr c. 677 c > t was associated with an earlier onset of stroke selectively in patients younger than 60 years (38 +/- 3 years vs. 45 +/- 1 years; p = 0.043). this study suggests that the investigated polymorphisms are no major risk factors for stroke, although mthfr c. 677 c > t could be a minor factor of vulnerability especially in young patients (tt genotype), which might be helpful for the clinical work-up of stroke cases and for preventive dietary strategies. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among individuals in their 50s and 60s. [SEP] genital chlamydia trachomatis infection is a common bacterial sexually transmitted infection worldwide. this study determined the prevalence of genital chlamydia trachomatis infection among female undergraduates of university of port harcourt and identify the various associated risk factors. the prevalence of genital chlamydia trachomatis infection was 30.2%. genital chlamydia trachomatis is prevalent among female undergraduates of the university of port harcourt. genital chlamydia trachomatis infection is one of the most prevalent sexually transmitted diseases in young women, and undetected disease is highly associated with long-term complications in women. the overall prevalence of cervical chlamydia trachomatis infection was 31% (95% ci 22-40). to assess the prevalence of chlamydia trachomatis using culture and serology, and its relationship with possible risk factors. the prevalence of chlamydia trachomatis infection was 2.7%, and the seroprevalence was 24.7% among the sexually active women. chlamydia trachomatis is a ubiquitous pathogen worldwide and causes ocular. c. trachomatis infection of lower genital tract is one of the most prevalent sexually transmitted diseases (stds) in different parts of the world. 
Chlamydia trachomatis is most prevalent in the UK among sexually-experienced individuals aged 16 to 24. [SEP] to assess the prevalence of chlamydia trachomatis using culture and serology, and its relationship with possible risk factors. the prevalence of chlamydia trachomatis infection was 2.7%, and the seroprevalence was 24.7% among the sexually active women. as part of a national survey of sexual attitudes and lifestyles (natsal 2000) in britain, we estimated the frequency of self-reported stis, and the prevalence of urinary chlamydia trachomatis infection. to estimate the prevalence of chlamydia trachomatis among young people in year 12 and year 13 in christchurch secondary schools. genital chlamydia trachomatis infection is one of the most prevalent sexually transmitted diseases in young women, and undetected disease is highly associated with long-term complications in women. our goal was to determine the prevalence of cervical chlamydia trachomatis infection in a sexually active population of female adolescents from salvador, brazil, and to describe their socio-demographic, behavioral, and clinical characteristics. the overall prevalence of cervical chlamydia trachomatis infection was 31% (95% ci 22-40). prevalence of infertility causing chlamydia trachomatis infection in women is related to age. chlamydia trachomatis is one of the most common causes of sexually transmitted diseases in sexually active males and females. the main objective was to estimate the prevalence of urogenital chlamydia trachomatis among males aged fifteen years and above. 
Cholesterol loading induces KLF4 expression in VSMCs, resulting in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) switch to macrophage-like cells after cholesterol loading, and this change may play an important role in the progression of atherosclerosis. our data show that in cholesterol-treated vsmcs, ctrp9 significantly reversed the cholesterol-induced increases in pro-inflammatory factor secretion, monocyte adhesion, cholesterol uptake and expression of the macrophage marker cd68. the present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of sirolimus on intracellular cholesterol homeostasis in human vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) in the presence of inflammatory cytokine il-1 beta. we explored the effect of sirolimus on the lipid accumulation of vsmcs in the presence of il-1 beta, using oil red o staining and quantitative measurement of intracellular cholesterol. furthermore, the effect of sirolimus on cholesterol efflux from vsmcs in the presence or absence of il-1 beta was also investigated using [(3)h] cholesterol efflux. sirolimus reduced intracellular lipid accumulation in vsmcs mediated by il-1 beta possibly due to the reduction of expression of low-density lipoprotein (ldl) and very low-density lipoprotein (vldl) receptors. sirolimus increased cholesterol efflux from vsmcs and overrode the suppression of cholesterol efflux induced by il-1 beta. krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) is involved in phenotypic modulation of vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs). thus, our data suggest that klf4 is required for the expression of vsmc differentiation marker genes induced by atra and that this transcription factor is one of the key mediators of retinoid actions in vsmcs. krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) is an important transcriptional regulator of vsmcs phenotypic switch. 
Chronic HIV stimulation of B cells leads to the premature exhaustion of B cells. [SEP] human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease leads to impaired b cell and antibody responses through mechanisms that remain poorly defined. these data suggest that hiv-associated premature exhaustion of b cells may contribute to poor antibody responses against hiv in infected individuals. to discuss a component of the pathogenic mechanisms of hiv infection in the context of phenotypic and functional alterations in b cells that are due to persistent viral replication leading to aberrant immune activation and cellular exhaustion. we explore how b-cell exhaustion arises during persistent viremia and how it compares with t-cell exhaustion and similar b-cell alterations in other diseases. hiv-associated b-cell exhaustion was first described in 2008, soon after the demonstration of persistent virus-induced t-cell exhaustion, as well as the identification of a subset b cells in tonsil tissues with immunoregulatory features similar to those observed in t-cell exhaustion. the phenomenon of b-cell exhaustion is now well established in hiv infection and other diseases characterized by immune activation. chronic immune activation in hiv-infected individuals leads to accumulation of exhausted tissue-like memory b cells. these findings on hiv-associated b cell exhaustion define potential targets for reversing the deleterious effect of inhibitory receptors on immune responses against persistent viral infections. characterization of lymphocytes including b cells during early versus chronic hiv infection is important for understanding the impact of chronic viremia on immune cell function. these findings provide new insights on b cells in hiv infection and how early initiation of art may prevent irreversible immune system damage. 
Cis-acting lncRNAs control the expression of genes that are positioned in the vicinity of their transcription sites. [SEP] cis-acting lncrnas, which constitute a substantial fraction of lncrnas with an attributed function, regulate gene expression in a manner dependent on the location of their own sites of transcription, at varying distances from their targets in the linear genome. through various mechanisms, cis-acting lncrnas have been demonstrated to activate, repress or otherwise modulate the expression of target genes. we discuss the activities that have been ascribed to cis-acting lncrnas, the evidence and hypotheses regarding their modes of action, and the methodological advances that enable their identification and characterization. cis- and trans-regulation analysis of lncrnas showed that znf141, dhx29, noc2l, mas1l, afap1l1, and cpn2 were significantly cis-regulated by lncrna enst00000356347, enst00000456816, hsa-mir-449c, nr_026874, tcons_00012136, uc003lqp.2, and enst00000456816, respectively, and dels were mostly correlated with transcription factors including ctbp2, suz12, rest, stat2, and gata4 to jointly regulate multiple target genes. our findings demonstrate that a lncrna can function in trans at transcriptional regulatory elements distinct from its site of synthesis to control large-scale transcriptional programmes. in this review, we discuss current knowledge of molecular mechanisms underlying cis-regulatory lncrnas and discuss challenges involved in using genetic perturbations to define their function. here we use genetic manipulation in mouse cell lines to dissect 12 genomic loci that produce lncrnas and find that 5 of these loci influence the expression of a neighbouring gene in cis. besides, we uncovered that many lncrnas act in cis to regulate adjacent protein-coding genes (pcgs). we mapped the genome-wide binding sites of two lncrnas with chromatin isolation by rna purification sequencing. one of the most important functions of long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) is to control protein coding gene transcription by acting locally in cis, or remotely in trans. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to disrupt the inflammatory cycle. [SEP] while neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) have been proposed to play a role in the generation of modified autoantigens and in the activation of synovial fibroblasts, it remains unknown whether nets are directly involved in cartilage damage. neutrophils and their extracellular traps have been shown to play an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (ra), but the detailed mechanisms in joints are still unclear, and their regulation remains to be solved. our results suggest that il-6 enhances neutrophil chemotaxis and netosis in inflammatory joints and could be the source of citrullinated proteins. neutrophils isolated from patients with various autoimmune diseases display enhanced neutrophil extracellular trap (net) formation, a phenomenon that exposes autoantigens in the context of immunostimulatory molecules. indeed, during netosis, neutrophils externalized the citrullinated autoantigens implicated in ra pathogenesis, and anti-citrullinated vimentin antibodies potently induced net formation. emerging evidence suggests that neutrophils also have a previously unrecognised role in autoimmune diseases: neutrophils can release neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) containing chromatin associated with granule enzymes, which not only kill extracellular microorganisms but also provide a source of autoantigens. neutrophils from patients with ra have an increased tendency to form nets containing citrullinated proteins, and sera from such patients contain autoantibodies that recognize these proteins. solid evidence exists that supports the contribution of neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) to the production of autoantibodies against citrullinated proteins which can trigger the immune reaction in ra. extracellular traps generated by neutrophils contribute to thrombus progression in coronary atherosclerotic plaques. neutrophil and macrophage extracellular traps were identified using sequential triple immunostaining of cd68, myeloperoxidase, and citrullinated histone h3. 
Citrullinated proteins externalized in neutrophil extracellular traps act indirectly to perpetuate the inflammatory cycle via induction of autoantibodies. [SEP] neutrophils isolated from patients with various autoimmune diseases display enhanced neutrophil extracellular trap (net) formation, a phenomenon that exposes autoantigens in the context of immunostimulatory molecules. indeed, during netosis, neutrophils externalized the citrullinated autoantigens implicated in ra pathogenesis, and anti-citrullinated vimentin antibodies potently induced net formation. solid evidence exists that supports the contribution of neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) to the production of autoantibodies against citrullinated proteins which can trigger the immune reaction in ra. emerging evidence suggests that neutrophils also have a previously unrecognised role in autoimmune diseases: neutrophils can release neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) containing chromatin associated with granule enzymes, which not only kill extracellular microorganisms but also provide a source of autoantigens. neutrophils from patients with ra have an increased tendency to form nets containing citrullinated proteins, and sera from such patients contain autoantibodies that recognize these proteins. recently we reported that exposure of neutrophils to inflammatory conditions induces the citrullination of core histones by peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (pad4) and that patients with autoimmune disorders produce autoantibodies that recognize such citrullinated histones. citrullination offers a unique perspective on autoimmunity because pad activity is stringently regulated, yet autoantibodies to citrullinated proteins predictably arise. citrullination of core and linker histones occurs prior to the release of chromatin from neutrophils, thus implicating the regulation of citrullinated chromatin release in the development of autoreactivity. these autoantibodies also induce the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (nets). autoantibodies against citrullinated proteins are a hallmark of rheumatoid arthritis, a destructive inflammatory arthritis. 
Clathrin stabilizes the spindle fiber apparatus during mitosis. [SEP] here, we show that clathrin stabilizes fibres of the mitotic spindle to aid congression of chromosomes. clathrin ensures mitotic spindle stability and efficient chromosome alignment, independently of its vesicle trafficking function. clathrin is a multimeric protein that has been shown to stabilise k-fibres during early mitosis by a mechanism independent of its role in membrane trafficking. here this review mainly focuses on the clathrin-dependent mechanisms involved in spindle assembly and chromosome alignment. in mitosis, clathrin forms a complex with phosphorylated tacc3 to ensure spindle stability and proper chromosome alignment. during mitosis, clathrin contributes to kinetochore fibre stability. clathrin, a protein best known for its role in membrane trafficking, has been recognised for many years as localising to the spindle apparatus during mitosis, but its function at the spindle remained unclear. recent work has better defined the role of clathrin in the function of the mitotic spindle and proposed that clathrin crosslinks the microtubules (mts) comprising the kinetochore fibres (k-fibres) in the mitotic spindle. this review summarises the role of clathrin in mitotic spindle organisation with an emphasis on the recent discovery of the tacc3-ch-tog-clathrin complex. the results presented here show that clathrin remains associated with the spindle poles throughout mitosis and that this clathrin pool is distinct from the previously characterized spindle-associated population. 
Cnn1 recruitment varies with cell cycle timing. [SEP] cnn1 localizes to kinetochores at basal levels from g1 through metaphase but accumulates abruptly at anaphase onset. how cnn1 is recruited and which activities regulate its dynamic localization are unclear. cnn1 localization was proposed to depend on mps1 kinase activity at cnn1-s74, based on in vitro experiments demonstrating the cnn1-ndc80 complex interaction. in this report, we describe a unique pattern of cnn1 expression during the growth and differentiation of bc3h1 cells, a mouse cell line that has transcriptional characteristics of both smooth and skeletal muscle lineages. cnn1 regulates kmn activity in a spatiotemporal manner by inhibiting the interaction between its complexes. cnn1 activity peaks in anaphase and is driven by the cdc28, mps1 and ipl1 kinases. we herein studied the site-specific effects of cnn1 in ovarian cancer cells using full-length cnn1 (fcnn1), three cnn1 repeats (3cnrs), or the first cnn1 repeat (cnr1) expression vectors. cnn1 expression in mesothelial cells suppressed cancer cell invasion into a monolayer of mesothelial cells. here we show that loss of cnn1 in host mural cells prevents maturation of tumor vasculature. the results indicated that overexpression of cnn1 inhibited the invasion and migration of nci-h2170 cells. 
Cognitive behavioral therapy is an ineffective treatment for insomnia [SEP] the present study examined to examine whether improvement of insomnia is mediated by a reduction in sleep-related dysfunctional beliefs through cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. the results showed that although cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia greatly reduced individuals' scores on both scales, the decrease in dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep with treatment did not seem to mediate improvement in insomnia. the findings suggest that sleep-related dysfunctional beliefs endorsed by patients with chronic insomnia may be attenuated by cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, but changes in such beliefs are not likely to play a crucial role in reducing the severity of insomnia. to evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia during pregnancy. women assigned to cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia experienced significantly greater reductions in insomnia severity (scores decreased from 15.4±4.3 to 8.0±5.2 in the cognitive behavioral therapy group vs from 15.9±4.4 to 11.2±4.9 in the control therapy group [p<.001, d=0.5]). women receiving cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia experienced faster remission of insomnia disorder, with a median of 31 days vs 48 days in the control therapy (p<.001). cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia led to significantly greater reduction in self-reported but not objective total wake time and a small but significantly greater decline in edinburgh postnatal depression scale scores vs the control group. while cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia constitutes the first-line treatment for chronic insomnia, only few reports have investigated how sleep architecture relates to response to this treatment. cognitive-behavioral therapy is a multicomponent psychological and behavioral treatment designed to eliminate the perpetuating factors of insomnia. common methods of cognitive behavior therapy for insomnia include: relaxation, stimulus control, sleep restriction, cognitive interventions or therapy, sleep education and sleep hygiene, light therapy, and chronotherapy. 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion are more effective after 12 weeks of reatment compared to varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] the retrospective study displayed higher success rates (continuous abstinence rates at 52 weeks) with combination varenicline and bupropion (55.0%; compared to varenicline monotherapy (32.1%), p < 0.001). combination bupropion sr and varenicline displayed greater efficacy in smoking cessation than varenicline monotherapy, though further safety analysis is warranted to rule out additive psychiatric adverse effects. bupropion was combined in patients that did not achieve complete tobacco abstinence in 2 or 3 weeks after starting varenicline use or if the patient presented uncomfortable abstinent symptoms. varenicline and bupropion each have been shown to significantly improve cessation of tobacco addiction in humans. higher doses of each drug alone reduced nicotine self-administration compared to control with reductions of 62% and 75% with 3 mg/kg varenicline and 75 mg/kg bupropion respectively. the 0.3 mg/kg varenicline dose combined with the 25 and 75 mg/kg bupropion doses caused greater reductions of nicotine self-administration than either dose of bupropion given alone. during the last 4 weeks of treatment, carbon monoxide-confirmed continuous abstinence rates were generally significantly higher with varenicline than with placebo, bupropion sustained release (sr) or nicotine replacement therapy. with regard to the incremental costs per qaly or life-year gained, 12 weeks' treatment with varenicline consistently dominated bupropion sr and nicotine replacement therapy and was dominant over or considered cost effective relative to unaided cessation, regular brief counselling or nortriptyline in analyses based on markov models. varenicline with bt increased abstinence more than other combinations of a pharmacotherapy with bt (varenicline versus bupropion: or=1.56, 95% credible interval [cri]=1.07, 2.34; varenicline versus nicotine patch: or=1.65, 95% cri=1.10, 2.51; varenicline versus short-acting nicotine-replacement therapies: or=1.68, 95% cri=1.15, 2.53). this review compared the effect of high-dose nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) and combinations of nrt for increasing smoking abstinence rates compared to standard-dose nrt patch, varenicline, and bupropion on smoking abstinence. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus (ComYMV) has three typical badnavirus ORFs, capable of encoding proteins 23, 15, and 216 kD. [SEP] comparisons with the other sequenced badnaviruses, commelina yellow mottle (coymv) and rice tungro bacilliform (rtbv) viruses, indicate that the arrangement of the orfs in these viruses is conserved. its genome organization is typical of badnaviruses, containing three open reading frames (orfs). orf3 encodes a large polyprotein that contains almost all of the conserved domains of badnaviruses. we have characterized the viral transcript and determined the complete sequence of the genome of commelina mellow mottle virus (coymv), a member of this group. the complete genome of the piper yellow mottle virus (pymov), a badnavirus belonging to the family caulimoviridae, was sequenced from three naturally infected hosts namely, black pepper, betelvine, and indian long pepper. canna yellow mottle virus (caymv) is a badnavirus that has been described as the etiological cause of yellow mottle disease in canna, although only a 565bp fragment of the genome has been previously reported from cannas. antibodies were prepared against bacterially expressed commelina yellow mottle badnavirus (coymv) proteins. commelina yellow mottle virus (coymv) is the type member of the badnaviruses, a genus of plant pararetroviruses. its genomic sequence indicates that it is a distinct member of the genus badnavirus, with 7932bp and seven orfs, the first three corresponding in size and location to the orfs found in the type member commelina yellow mottle virus. the unusually long orf 3 of rtbv is predicted to encode a polyprotein of 194.1 kda that includes: the coat protein(s), viral proteinase, reverse transcriptase, and ribonuclease h. the sections of the polyprotein show varying degrees of similarity to the counterparts of commelina yellow mottle virus (a member of the proposed badnavirus group) and caulimoviruses. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 2140 baise pairs. [SEP] it is very likely that cssv is a member of the commelina yellow mottle virus group. its genomic sequence indicates that it is a distinct member of the genus badnavirus, with 7932bp and seven orfs, the first three corresponding in size and location to the orfs found in the type member commelina yellow mottle virus. the viral genome of soybean yellow mottle mosaic virus (symmv) from infected soybean (glycine max) in korea was cloned and sequenced. the complete monopartite single-stranded rna genome of symmv consists of 4009 base pairs with six putative open reading frames and includes 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions of 39 and 229 nucleotides, respectively. the nucleotide and coat protein sequences of symmv share the highest sequence identity with those of cowpea mottle virus. tubular structures containing bacilliform virions were observed in cell-free extracts of commelina diffusa infected with commelina yellow mottle badnavirus (coymv). a complete episomal viral genome sequence in symptomatic m. japonica plants was identified, and the name "metaplexis yellow mottle-associated virus" is proposed for this virus. the commelina yellow mottle virus (coymv) infects the monocot weed commelina diffusa. we have characterized the viral transcript and determined the complete sequence of the genome of commelina mellow mottle virus (coymv), a member of this group. we have demonstrated that a construct containing 1.3 coymv genomes is infective when introduced into commelina diffusa, the host for coymv, using agrobacterium-mediated infection. 
Comparative transcriptome analysis identified new platelet proteins with structural features suggesting a role in platelet function. [SEP] transcripts for well-described platelet proteins are among the most platelet-specific messages. novel platelet and megakaryocyte transcriptome analysis allows prediction of the full or theoretical proteome of a representative human platelet. this genome-wide platelet transcriptome and (non)identified proteome database thus provides a scaffold for discovering the roles of unknown platelet proteins in health and disease. transcriptome analysis is useful in identifying mrna signatures affecting platelet function. platelets have intricate signaling mechanisms and participate in a breadth of cellular interactions. ongoing characterization of the platelet transcriptome, secretome and proteome also suggest that additional functions of platelets relevant to innate and adaptive immunity remain to be discovered. recent progress in high-throughput mrna and protein profiling techniques has advanced our understanding of the biological functions of platelets. in this review, we focus on current advances in platelet proteomic studies, with emphasis on the importance of parallel transcriptomic studies to optimally dissect platelet function. here we summarize the findings of platelet proteome and transcriptome studies and their application to diseases of platelet function. therefore, a comprehensive analysis of the platelet proteome under different environmental conditions may contribute to elucidate complex processes relevant to platelet function regarding bleeding disorders or platelet hyperreactivity and identify new targets for antiplatelet therapy. 
Concentrations of SNV and CNV in stem-cell regulatory elements and binding sites of transcription factors in iPSC-lines are distinct from their founding cells. [SEP] we also identified copy-number variant (cnv) eqtls, including some that appear to affect gene expression by altering the copy number of intergenic regulatory regions. pairwise comparisons showed that the nucleosome organizations in the ipscs, regardless of the ipscs' tissue of origin, were nearly identical to the escs, but distinct from mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mef). interestingly, the tissue-specific genes were highly expressed only in the parental somatic cells of the corresponding ips cell line before reprogramming, but had a similar expression level in all the resultant ipscs and escs. no persistent residual expression program or nucleosome positioning of the parental somatic cells that reflected their tissue of origin was passed on to the resulting mouse ipscs. notably, it was recently reported that reprogramming from somatic cells to ipscs can induce genomic copy number variation (cnv), which is one of the major genetic causes of human diseases. in order to carefully investigate the possible cnv instability during somatic reprogramming, we performed genome-wide cnv analyses with 41 mouse ipsc lines generated from the same parental donor; therefore, the donor's genetic background can be controlled. we detected 63 ipsc cnvs using high-resolution comparative genomic hybridization. notably, the fraction of slow-diffusing molecules in the ipscs was found to be elevated, similar to the profile in embryonic stem cells, probably due to a change in the nuclear milieu during reprogramming. ipscs derived from patients with pids show a stemness profile that is comparable with that observed in human embryonic stem cells. it had previously been shown that hesc lines had significantly higher non-cg methylation than differentiated cells, and we therefore asked whether these sites were conserved across cell lines. 
Consumption of whole fruits increases the risk of type 2 diabetes. [SEP] to determine whether individual fruits are differentially associated with risk of type 2 diabetes. after adjustment for personal, lifestyle, and dietary risk factors of diabetes, the pooled hazard ratio of type 2 diabetes for every three servings/week of total whole fruit consumption was 0.98 (95% confidence interval 0.97 [corrected] to 0.99). the associations with risk of type 2 diabetes differed significantly among individual fruits (p<0.001 in all cohorts). our findings suggest the presence of heterogeneity in the associations between individual fruit consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes. greater consumption of specific whole fruits, particularly blueberries, grapes, and apples, is significantly associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes, whereas greater consumption of fruit juice is associated with a higher risk. as overweight is the most important risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus, an increased consumption of vegetables and fruit therefore might indirectly reduces the incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus. we studied the association of both pure fruit juice and fruit consumption with diabetes risk and investigated the differences between low and high fruit consumers in the association of pure fruit juice consumption with diabetes risk. although whole-fruit consumption is regarded as protective against type 2 diabetes (t2dm), conventionally prepared fruit juice is associated with increased t2dm risk, and current public health advice recommends its restriction. the objective of this study was to determine whether consumption of 100% fruit juice as compared to whole fruit is associated with increased risk of hypertension or diabetes. the purpose of this study was to examine the association between fruit, vegetable, and fruit juice intake and development of type 2 diabetes. 
Continued HHV-8 transmission among MSM in San Francisco may be explained by urogenital contact. [SEP] in the early 1980s, men who have sex with men (msm) in san francisco were one of the first populations to be affected by the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) epidemic, and they continue to bear a heavy hiv burden. the association between injection drug use and human herpesvirus 8 (hhv-8) was examined to investigate bloodborne transmission of the virus. hhv-8 seroprevalence was 10% among women, 10% among heterosexual men, and 23% among men who have sex with men. hhv-8 infection is relatively common among idus in san francisco, and longer duration of injection drug use is associated with an increase in the risk of hhv-8 infection that is not explained by sexual behavior or demographic differences. these results are consistent with the occurrence of bloodborne transmission of hhv-8 among idus. prevention efforts in san francisco must reach hiv-uninfected msm with no discernible behavioral strategy, a group that constitutes 8% of hiv-uninfected msm in the city. environmental factors were reported to increase the risk of human herpesvirus 8 (hhv-8) transmission. in a population of men who have sex with men (msm), we found evidence that chemsex was associated with human herpesvirus 8 seropositivity in vivo and that poppers induced hhv-8 virion production in vitro. our finding may explain the higher hhv-8 transmission in msm. because syphilis infection facilitates acquisition and transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), recent outbreaks of syphilis among men who have sex with men (msm) in major u.s. cities, including san francisco and los angeles, and reported increases in sexual risk behavior have raised concerns about potential increases in hiv transmission. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing prevents the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] apoe4 increased aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. converting apoe4 to apoe3 by gene editing rescued these phenotypes, indicating the specific effects of apoe4. neurons that lacked apoe behaved similarly to those expressing apoe3, and the introduction of apoe4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from apoe4. treatment of apoe4-expressing neurons with a small-molecule structure corrector ameliorated the detrimental effects, thus showing that correcting the pathogenic conformation of apoe4 is a viable therapeutic approach for apoe4-related ad. here, we utilize crispr/cas9 and induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) to examine apoe4 effects on human brain cell types. consistently, converting apoe4 to apoe3 in brain cell types from sad ipscs was sufficient to attenuate multiple ad-related pathologies. thus, a new therapeutic target is to identify small molecules to modulate the inherent neuropathological structure of apoe4, i.e. we envision that unique structural features of apoe4 are responsible for apoe4-associated neuropathology. apoe3 and apoe4 expression was manipulated with gfp-apoe vectors and apoe sirna. ph002 also rescued apoe4-induced impairments of neurite outgrowth in neuro-2a cells and dendritic spine development in primary neurons. 
Converting apoE4 to apoE3 by gene editing worsens the pathology associated with apoE4 in human iPSCderived neurons. [SEP] apoe4 increased aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. converting apoe4 to apoe3 by gene editing rescued these phenotypes, indicating the specific effects of apoe4. neurons that lacked apoe behaved similarly to those expressing apoe3, and the introduction of apoe4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from apoe4. treatment of apoe4-expressing neurons with a small-molecule structure corrector ameliorated the detrimental effects, thus showing that correcting the pathogenic conformation of apoe4 is a viable therapeutic approach for apoe4-related ad. here, we utilize crispr/cas9 and induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) to examine apoe4 effects on human brain cell types. consistently, converting apoe4 to apoe3 in brain cell types from sad ipscs was sufficient to attenuate multiple ad-related pathologies. apoe4 also increases the risk for neurodegenerative diseases, decreases their age of onset, or alters their progression. in addition, apoe4 increased the accumulation of neuronal aβ42 and induced mitochondrial changes, both of which were specifically pronounced in ca3 neurons. thus, a new therapeutic target is to identify small molecules to modulate the inherent neuropathological structure of apoe4, i.e. apoe4 is more susceptible than apoe3 to proteolytic cleavage and is thus more likely to cause detrimental effects in the central nervous system. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data accurately reflect prices for patients in actual clinical practice. [SEP] mothers' crct measures were highly accurate. ninety-six percent of the mothers reported that the crct was easy to learn, they felt comfortable performing the procedure, and it made them feel more involved in infant care. a mean of 23.6 minutes was spent teaching the mother to perform crct, a figure that reflects the cost-effectiveness of the approach. mothers can be taught to perform crcts accurately and easily on their omm. moreover, it should be stressed that the present study, as well as other related studies, make it possible to know the actual cost of hospitalization, and can contribute to the creation of a cost database over time at the level of hospitals or specific clinical departments. a cost utility analysis was conducted alongside the crct. transition probabilities and costs were directly derived from crct study data. most gps (71%) agreed that prescribing costs should be taken into account when deciding on the best treatment for patients. sensitivity analysis confirmed the reliability of these results. to achieve the optimum allocation of resources and to treat more patients efficiently, the information provided by this analysis should be cross-checked with real data taken from actual clinical practice in spain collected in each geographical region and hospital. 
Cost effectiveness evaluations based on cRCT data lack external validity. [SEP] there is a shortage of robust evidence regarding the cost-effectiveness of strategies to improve early child growth. the objective of this study was to evaluate the external validity of published cost-effectiveness studies by comparing the data used in these studies (typically based on rcts) to observational data from actual clinical practice. the published cost-effectiveness analyses of coxibs lacked external validity, did not represent patients in actual clinical practice, and should not have been used to inform prescribing policies. there were no valid data on overall or disease-free survival. no cost effectiveness studies were found. so far economic evaluation in this area has been limited to cost-effectiveness analysis. it is noted that the major problem with these studies is the lack of reliable and valid data to base the cost-effectiveness analyses on, which precludes clear-cut conclusions about the cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis prevention. a cost utility analysis was conducted alongside the crct. this paper describes the methods for the economic evaluation of the shine crct, to determine whether the intervention is cost-effective as an obesity prevention measure. the crct conclusion that the case study of rusizi district does not encourage the use of the chc model for scaling up, raises concerns over the possible misrepresentation of the potential of the holistic chc model to achieve health impact in a more realistic time frame. 
Crossover hot spots are found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] prdm9 directs human meiotic crossover hot spots to intergenic sequence motifs, whereas budding yeast hot spots overlap regions of low nucleosome density (lnd) in gene promoters. crossovers increased toward gene promoters and terminators, and hot spots were associated with active chromatin modifications, including h2a.z, histone h3 lys4 trimethylation (h3k4me3), lnd and low dna methylation. hot spot-enriched a-rich and ctt-repeat dna motifs occurred upstream and downstream, respectively, of transcriptional start sites. crossovers were asymmetric around promoters and were most frequent over ctt-repeat motifs and h2a.z nucleosomes. meiotic reciprocal recombination (crossing over) was examined in the outermost 60-80 kb of almost all saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosomes. surprisingly, the adjacent euchromatic regions underwent crossing over at twice the average genomic rate and contained at least nine new recombination "hot spots." thus, the distribution of crossovers in s. cerevisiae appears to resemble that found in several higher eukaryotes where the outermost chromosomal regions show increased crossing over. initiation of meiotic recombination in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae occurs by localized dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) at several locations in the genome, corresponding to hot spots for meiotic gene conversion and crossing over. the region of saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome iii located between the 5' end of the his4 gene and the 3' end of the adjacent bik1 gene has a very high level of meiotic recombination. crossovers at this hot spot are not obviously affected by a large insertion/deletion polymorphism near the hot spot. 
Cyclin A2 destruction is necessary to switch from unstable to stable kt-mt attachments in mitosis. [SEP] accurate chromosome segregation during mitosis relies on a dynamic kinetochore (kt)-microtubule (mt) interface that switches from a labile to a stable condition in response to correct mt attachments. the switch to more stable k-mt attachments in metaphase requires the proteasome-dependent destruction of cyclin a in prometaphase. persistent cyclin a expression prevents k-mt stabilization even in cells with aligned chromosomes. by contrast, k-mts are prematurely stabilized in cyclin-a-deficient cells. cyclin a creates a cellular environment that promotes microtubule detachment from kinetochores in prometaphase to ensure efficient error correction and faithful chromosome segregation. the fidelity of chromosome segregation in mitosis is safeguarded by the precise regulation of kinetochore microtubule (k-mt) attachment stability. previously, we demonstrated that cyclin a/cdk1 destabilizes k-mt attachments to promote faithful chromosome segregation. these data demonstrate cross-regulation between cyclin a/cdk1-dependent and plk1-dependent phosphorylation of substrates during mitosis to ensure efficient correction of k-mt attachment errors necessary for high mitotic fidelity. a model for mitosis suggests that correct kinetochore-microtubule (kt-mt) attachments are stabilized by spatial separation of the attachment sites from aurora b kinase through sister kt stretching. b-type cyclin destruction is necessary for exit from mitosis and the initiation of a new cell cycle. 
Cytochrome c is transferred from cytosol to the mitochondrial intermembrane space during apoptosis. [SEP] the release of two mitochondrial proteins, cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (aif), into the soluble cytoplasm of cells undergoing apoptosis is well established. we investigated the role of the mitochondrial inner membrane permeability transition and subsequent release of cytochrome c into the cytosol during oxidative stress-evoked apoptosis. an essential role of cytosolic cytochrome c in the execution of apoptosis was demonstrated by its direct microinjection into the cytosol, thus bypassing the need for cytochrome c release from the mitochondrial intermembrane space. translocation of proteins from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to the cytoplasm is a critical event during apoptosis. cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space into the cytosol during apoptosis. during apoptosis, an important pathway leading to caspase activation involves the release of cytochrome c from the intermembrane space of mitochondria. the bcl-2-sensitive release of proteins such as cytochrome c from the mitochondrial intermembrane space into the cytosol is a critical early event in apoptosis. because bcl-2 projects into the mitochondrial intermembrane space and cytochrome c is located in the intermembrane space, we considered the possibility that bcl-2 might protect cytochrome c from inactivation during fas-mediated apoptosis. cytosolic cytochrome c is necessary for the initiation of the apoptotic program, suggesting a possible connection between bcl-2 and cytochrome c, which is normally located in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. cells undergoing apoptosis were found to have an elevation of cytochrome c in the cytosol and a corresponding decrease in the mitochondria. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for TFRC1. [SEP] irp-1 binds to rna structures, known as iron-responsive elements, located in the untranslated regions of specific mrnas, and it regulates the translation or stability of these mrnas. in low-iron conditions, the cytosolic iron-regulatory protein irp1 binds to iron-responsive elements (ires) in mrnas encoding iron-regulated proteins. iron regulatory proteins (irps) are proteins involved in the regulation of intracellular iron homeostasis that bind to specific mrna structures termed iron responsive elements (ires). iron regulatory protein 1 (irp1) binds iron-responsive elements (ires) in messenger rnas (mrnas), to repress translation or degradation, or binds an iron-sulfur cluster, to become a cytosolic aconitase enzyme. iron-responsive elements (ires) are rna motifs that have been identified within the 5' untranslated region of ferritin messenger rna and the 3' untranslated region of transferrin receptor mrna. a single ire mediates iron-dependent control of ferritin translation, whereas multiple ires are found in the region of the transferrin receptor mrna responsible for iron-dependent control of mrna stability. the synthesis of both transferrin receptor (tfr) and ferritin is regulated post-transcriptionally by iron. this is mediated by iron responsive elements (ires) in the 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions, respectively, of tfr and ferritin mrnas. the iron-responsive element-binding protein (ire-bp) has been defined and identified as an rna-binding protein found in iron-deprived eukaryotic cells. irp1 is a bifunctional cytosolic protein which can exhibit aconitase activity or bind to iron responsive element (ires) in the untranslated regions of specific mrnas. 
DMS3 protein enables Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] global chromatin association of pol v requires components of the ddr complex drd1, dms3 and rdm1, but the assembly process of this complex and the underlying mechanism for pol v recruitment remain unknown. we also found that drd1 copurified with pol v subunits and that rdm1, like drd1 and dms3, is required for the production of pol v-dependent transcripts. these results suggest that the ddr complex acts in rddm at a step upstream of the recruitment or activation of pol v. a multiprotein complex (drd1, dms3, dms11, rdm1) known to enable pol v transcription might facilitate duplex unwinding via atp-dependent dna translocase, single-stranded dna binding, and cohesin-like strand capture activities. we found that a substantial set of rddm loci was commonly de-repressed in apc/c and pol v mutants, and that the defects in rddm activity resulted from up-regulated dms3 protein levels, which finally caused reduced pol v recruitment. rddm requires a complex transcriptional machinery comprising two rna polymerase ii-related rna polymerases, called pol iv and pol v, as well as chromatin remodelers, transcription factors, and other novel proteins whose roles in the rddm mechanism remain poorly understood. we suggest that dms11 provides the missing atpase function for dms3 and that these proteins cooperate in the rddm pathway to promote transcriptional repression. we further show that defective in meristem silencing3 (dms3), a structural maintenance of chromosomes (smc) hinge-domain protein, functions in the assembly of pol v transcription initiation or elongation complexes. we have tested several mutated forms of rdm1 altered in the predicted pocket and dimerization regions for their ability to complement defects in rddm and transcriptional gene silencing, support synthesis of pol v transcripts, form homodimers, and interact with dms3. this study contributes to our understanding of how the association of pol v with chromatin is regulated in different chromatin environments. 
DRD1 proteins enable Pol V transcription in vivo. [SEP] global chromatin association of pol v requires components of the ddr complex drd1, dms3 and rdm1, but the assembly process of this complex and the underlying mechanism for pol v recruitment remain unknown. recently, rddm was shown to require intergenic noncoding (ign) transcripts that are dependent on the pol v polymerase. we also found that drd1 copurified with pol v subunits and that rdm1, like drd1 and dms3, is required for the production of pol v-dependent transcripts. these results suggest that the ddr complex acts in rddm at a step upstream of the recruitment or activation of pol v. pol ivb/pol v transcription requires the chromatin-remodeling protein drd1 but is independent of sirna biogenesis. nuclear rna polymerase v (pol v) collaborates with drd1 (deficient in rna-dependent dna methylation 1) to generate transcripts at heterochromatic loci that are hypothesized to bind to sirna-ago4 complexes and subsequently recruit the de-novo dna methylation and/or histone modifying machinery. in drd1 and pol ivb mutants, silent ltrs in euchromatin can be derepressed, resulting in enhanced transcription of adjacent genes or intergenic regions. mutations affecting nuclear proteins drd1 and pol v (nrpe1 or nrpd2) relieved exo-pdsi self-silencing, resulting in higher levels of pdsi transcripts, which increased the non-cell autonomous silencing of endo-pds. we have tested several mutated forms of rdm1 altered in the predicted pocket and dimerization regions for their ability to complement defects in rddm and transcriptional gene silencing, support synthesis of pol v transcripts, form homodimers, and interact with dms3. drd1 is a swi/snf-like protein that cooperates with a plant-specific rna polymerase, pol ivb, to facilitate rna-directed de novo methylation and silencing of homologous dna. 
DUSP4 decreases apoptosis. [SEP] overexpression of dusp4 inhibited the activation of the mapk signaling pathway, thereby reducing oxidative stress levels, inflammatory response and apoptosis in the oa cell model. the addition of pma reversed the inhibitory effects of dusp4 overexpression on oxidative stress, inflammatory response and apoptosis in cells. in the present study, we showed that downregulation of dusp4 suppressed the proliferation of cancer cell lines exhibiting high expression of dusp4 by inducing apoptosis and cell cycle arrest at g2/m phase. these findings suggest that constitutive expression of dusp4 in cancer cells contributes to enhanced proliferation through escape from apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. we propose that dusp4 could be a novel therapeutic target for cancers overexpressing it. immunostaining with cleaved caspase-3 revealed that dusp4 overexpression prevents caspase-3 activation and apoptosis after h/r. treatment with nac prevents dusp4 degradation and protects cells against cd(2+)-induced apoptosis. conversely, dusp4 gene silencing in endothelial cells augments their sensitivity to h/r-induced apoptosis (45.81 ± 5.23%). interestingly, dusp4 gene silencing contributes to the increase in superoxide generation from cells. increased dusp4 expression was significantly associated with better prognosis (p = 0.0162). 
DUSP4 downregulation deactivates the Ras-ERK pathway [SEP] thus, dusp4 downregulation activates the ras-erk pathway in blbc, resulting in an attenuated response to anti-cancer chemotherapy. dusp4 is a negative regulator of erk activity and is up-regulated in egfr-mutant lung cancer cell lines relative to k-ras mutant cells. depletion of dusp4 in egfr-mutant cells unexpectedly results in loss of perk whereas loss of dusp4 in k-ras mutant cells predictably yields increased perk. these data support a role for dusp4, and perhaps dusp1, as a positive activator of erk in egfr-mutant lung cancer cell lines independent of the ability to bind to erk. in this study, we found that downregulation of dusp4 was related to constitutive activation of erks in crc cells. restoration of dusp4 resulted in inactivation of erks, leading to suppression of both proliferation and invasiveness, as shown by treatment with an mek inhibitor. these results suggest that activation of the mapk signaling pathway caused by downregulation of dusp4 is responsible for progression of crcs and would be a promising therapeutic target. in addition, dusp4 knockdown dramatically enhanced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (erk) activation during neuronal differentiation. in the present study, we showed that downregulation of dusp4 suppressed the proliferation of cancer cell lines exhibiting high expression of dusp4 by inducing apoptosis and cell cycle arrest at g2/m phase. our findings suggest that dusp4 acts as an important regulator of cell growth within the mapk pathway and causes enhanced cell growth in msi-h crc. 
DUSP4 increases apoptosis. [SEP] treatment with nac prevents dusp4 degradation and protects cells against cd(2+)-induced apoptosis. overexpression of dusp4 inhibited the activation of the mapk signaling pathway, thereby reducing oxidative stress levels, inflammatory response and apoptosis in the oa cell model. the addition of pma reversed the inhibitory effects of dusp4 overexpression on oxidative stress, inflammatory response and apoptosis in cells. in the present study, we showed that downregulation of dusp4 suppressed the proliferation of cancer cell lines exhibiting high expression of dusp4 by inducing apoptosis and cell cycle arrest at g2/m phase. these findings suggest that constitutive expression of dusp4 in cancer cells contributes to enhanced proliferation through escape from apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. we propose that dusp4 could be a novel therapeutic target for cancers overexpressing it. conversely, dusp4 gene silencing in endothelial cells augments their sensitivity to h/r-induced apoptosis (45.81 ± 5.23%). interestingly, dusp4 gene silencing contributes to the increase in superoxide generation from cells. immunostaining with cleaved caspase-3 revealed that dusp4 overexpression prevents caspase-3 activation and apoptosis after h/r. dusp4 overexpression increased chemotherapy-induced apoptosis, whereas dusp4 depletion dampened the response to chemotherapy. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has fewer specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] direct analysis of unassembled genomic data could greatly increase the power of short read dna sequencing technologies and allow comparative genomics of organisms without a completed reference available. reliable and accurate de novo assembly and annotation of transcriptomes, however, is a critically important step for transcriptome assemblies generated from short read sequences. overall, this paper demonstrates that reliable and accurate de novo transcriptome assemblies can be generated from short read sequencers with the right assembly algorithms. de novo assembly is the best approach to achieve an accurate finished sequence, but multiple sequencing platforms or paired-end libraries are often required to achieve full genome coverage. the results we present suggest pacbio data will be of immense utility for the development of genome sequence assemblies containing fewer unresolved gaps and ambiguities and a significantly smaller number of contigs than could be produced using short-read sequence data alone. due to the different properties of de novo assemblers, no one assembler with any one given parameter space can re-assemble all possible transcripts from a transcriptome. in an effort to maximise the diversity and completeness of de novo assembled transcripts, we utilised four de novo transcriptome assemblers, transabyss, trinity, soapdenovo-trans, and oases, using a range of k-mer sizes and different input rna-seq read counts. noncoding rna genes were poorly resolved in de novo assemblies, while >90% of the protein-coding genes were assembled with 100% accuracy over their full length. this study demonstrates that, in practice, de novo assembly of 36-nucleotide reads can generate reasonably accurate assemblies from about 40 x deep sequence data sets. de novo assembly of a eukaryotic genome with next-generation sequencing data is still a challenging task. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has shorter contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] assembly of paired-end sequence data carrying 400 bp inserts produced longer contigs (n50 up to 15 628 nucleotides), but with increased error rates (0.5%). noncoding rna genes were poorly resolved in de novo assemblies, while >90% of the protein-coding genes were assembled with 100% accuracy over their full length. this study demonstrates that, in practice, de novo assembly of 36-nucleotide reads can generate reasonably accurate assemblies from about 40 x deep sequence data sets. direct analysis of unassembled genomic data could greatly increase the power of short read dna sequencing technologies and allow comparative genomics of organisms without a completed reference available. de novo assembly is the best approach to achieve an accurate finished sequence, but multiple sequencing platforms or paired-end libraries are often required to achieve full genome coverage. metagenome de novo sequence assembly is a crucial analytical step in which longer contigs, ideally whole chromosomes/genomes, are formed from shorter ngs reads. however, the contigs generated from the de novo assembly are often very fragmented and rarely longer than a few kilo base pairs (kb). we demonstrate that choosing multiple sizes of kmer simultaneously for assembly results in the highest yield of extracted loci from de novo assembled contigs, while data sets derived from sequencing read depths as low as 5× recovers the expected species relationships in phylogenetic trees. we have created a de bruijn based de novo assembler for rna-seq data that utilizes a classification system to describe the complexity of underlying graphs from which contigs are created. de novo assembly tools play a main role in reconstructing genomes from next-generation sequencing (ngs) data and usually yield a number of contigs. 
Decrease of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] importantly, sustained p62 expression resulting from autophagy defects was sufficient to alter nf-kappab regulation and gene expression and to promote tumorigenesis. thus, defective autophagy is a mechanism for p62 upregulation commonly observed in human tumors that contributes directly to tumorigenesis likely by perturbing the signal transduction adaptor function of p62-controlling pathways critical for oncogenesis. we investigated whether p62-induced autophagy might control caf activation. thus, targeting the p62-nrf2 autophagy signaling pathway might be a novel, stroma-focused, cancer prevention and/or treatment strategy. activation of cellular autophagy in huh-7.5 cells efficiently cleared p62 and glypican-3 expression and inhibition of autophagy induced the expression of p62 and glypican-3. consequently, high levels of p62 caused a promotion of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in addition to an impairment of autophagy flux, and further led to an enhancement of proliferation, migration, and invasion of prostate cancer cells. p62 promotes metastasis of pca by sustaining the level of hdac6 to inhibit autophagy and promote epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. suppression of autophagy is always accompanied by marked accumulation of p62, a selective autophagy substrate. here we show that p62 levels were reduced in the stroma of several tumors and that its loss in the tumor microenvironment or stromal fibroblasts resulted in increased tumorigenesis of epithelial prostate cancer cells. here, we report that p62-mediated autophagy degrades ar protein and suppresses apoptosis in prostate cancer lncap cells in hypoxia. 
Decreased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] embryonic fibroblasts derived from cpges/p23 knockout mice generated higher amounts of pge(2) in culture supernatants than wild-type-derived cells. in order to elucidate this apparent conflict that absence of pge(2) synthetic enzyme caused facilitation of pge(2) biosynthesis, we examined expression of the pge(2) degrading enzyme in embryonic fibroblasts. we report here that embryonic fibroblasts deficient in cpges/p23 decreased the expression of the pge(2) degrading enzyme, 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh), which catalyzes the inactivating conversion of the pge(2) 15-oh to a 15-keto group, compared with that of wild-type. these results suggest that the pge(2)-inactivating pathway is controlled by the pge(2) biosynthetic enzyme, cpges/p23. pge(2) caused a 15.0% inhibition of jurkat cell proliferation compared with control (p<0.05). pge-2 treatment caused a significant decrease in the content of testicular cholesterol, while no change was observed in the same and prostatic acid phosphatase activity in any of the pg treated groups. pge-2 increases testicular weight possibly by preventing degeneration of spermatids, 2) pge-2 acting directly on the testis, reduces testicular ascorbic acid content, stimulates the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone but depresses the conversion of the latter to testosterone. pge-2 caused a significant increase in testicular weight, rna content, hyaluronidase activity and number of spermatids. it is suggested that pge-2 may be involved in later stages of spermatogenesis, i.e. pge(2) inhibits lps-stimulated tnfalpha production and gene expression, a response that can be desensitized by pretreatment of m&phi; with pge(2). 
Decreased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] the reduced aortic wall stress coincides with the fact that epidemiological studies have shown a decreased risk of aneurysm development in diabetic patients. the relative risk of having an abdominal aortic aneurysm increased 3.4-fold (95% ci 1.06-10.89) for those with a diastolic blood pressure of >90mmhg, p=0.035 and 4.1-fold (95% ci 1.27-13.16) for those with a mean arterial pressure > or = 100mmhg, p=0.009. in smokers, the risk of developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm increases with increasing mean arterial and diastolic blood pressure and two aspects of current smoking habit: the number of cigarettes currently smoked and the depth of inhalation. a total of 199 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms were followed up to investigate the influence of selective management on the prognosis and the risk rupture of abdominal aortic aneurysms. our conclusion is that larger diameter and higher diastolic blood pressure are important risk factors for expansion of abdominal aortic aneurysms. the factors increasing expansion rate of thoracic aortic aneurysms were initial size of aneurysms, diastolic blood pressure, and presence of renal failure by univariate analysis. objectives the purpose of this study was to investigate whether there are differences among clinical conditions and traditional atherosclerotic risk factors between patients with large abdominal aortic aneurysm and those with occlusive non-coronary arterial disease. results in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm, we identified a clear predominance of males ( p < 0.001), more alcohol consumers ( p < 0.05), higher values of diastolic blood pressure ( p < 0.05), higher values of serum creatinine ( p < 0.005), more hyperuricemic patients ( p < 0.005) and less diabetics ( p < 0.001). conclusions patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm were mostly males with diastolic hypertension, impaired renal function and less diabetics, while patients with occlusive arteriopathy were more smokers, hypertensives and more hypertriglyceridemics. risk for abdominal aortic aneurysm was positively associated with age [relative risk (rr) = 4.56, 95% confidence interval (ci) = 2.42-8.61 for > 65 vs < or = 55 years], smoking years (rr = 2.25, 95% ci = 1.33-3.81 for > 40 vs < or = 32 years), systolic blood pressure (rr = 1.92, 95% ci = 1.13-3.25 for > 160 vs < or = 130 mmhg), diastolic blood pressure (rr = 1.80, 95% ci = 1.05-3.08 for > 100 vs < or = 85 mmhg), and serum total cholesterol (rr = 1.85, 95% ci = 1.09-3.12 for > 6.5 vs < or = 5.0 mmol/liter). 
Deleting Raptor increases G-CSF levels. [SEP] in this study, we first deleted raptor, a unique and essential component of mtorc1, in primary calvarial cells. deletion of raptor resulted in loss of mtorc1 but an increase in mtorc2 signaling without overtly affecting autophagy. qpcr analyses revealed that deletion of raptor reduced the expression of late-stage markers for osteoblast differentiation (bglap, ibsp, and col1a), while slightly increasing early osteoblast markers (runx2, sp7, and alpl). in this study, we deleted raptor, a specific and essential component of mtorc1, in osteocytes using dmp1-cre. deletion of raptor in osteocytes did not affect bone development and growth, but caused compartment-specific effects on bone mass. osteocyte-specific deletion of raptor had no obvious effect on cortical bone compartments, but led to increased trabecular bone mass. mechanistically, raptor deletion resulted in decreased bone resorption without altering bone formation activity. previously, we reported s6 kinase phosphorylation to be reduced by over-expression of the cterminally deleted raptor mutant (raptor-δct) not binding to mtor or lst8, while phosphorylation levels of akt were markedly enhanced with no alteration in irs-1 phosphorylation or pi 3-kinase activity. over-expression of raptor-δct abolished formation of the raptor, s6 kinase, mtor and lst8 complex, while the amount of lst8 in the rictor-mtor complex was increased. ki-67 and annexin v stainings revealed a faster turnover rate and increased apoptosis of raptor-deficient lcs, which might additionally affect the preservation of the lc network. 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein is not predictive of acute tissue loss. [SEP] the fission yeast rad3p checkpoint protein is a member of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-related family of protein kinases, which includes human atmp. the kinase domain of rad3p has previously been shown to be essential for function. here, we show that although this domain is necessary, it is not sufficient, because the isolated kinase domain does not have kinase activity in vitro and cannot complement a rad3 deletion strain. using dominant negative alleles of rad3, we have identified two sites n-terminal to the conserved kinase domain that are essential for rad3p function. the other is a novel motif, which may also mediate rad3p protein-protein interactions. we deleted atm from a549 lung adenocarcinoma cells using crispr/cas9 and determined the effects of olaparib and the atm/rad3-related (atr) inhibitor ve-821 on cell viability. rad3 activates the effector protein kinase chk1 by phosphorylation. previous studies have shown that rad3 fulfills its function via the regulation of the chk1 and cds1 protein kinases. here we describe a novel role for rad3 in the control of telomere integrity. mutations in the rad3(+) gene alleviated telomeric silencing and produced shortened lengths in the telomere repeat tracts. 
Deletion of ATM and Rad3 related protein leads to acute tissue loss. [SEP] deletion of atr mediated by the cre recombinase caused the loss of atr and atrip expression, loss of dna damage checkpoint responses, and cell death. rad3 activates the effector protein kinase chk1 by phosphorylation. the atr (atm (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) and rad3-related) checkpoint kinase is considered critical for signalling dna replication stress and its dysfunction can lead to the neurodevelopmental disorder, atr-seckel syndrome. in higher eukaryotes, the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) and atm and rad3-related (atr) checkpoint kinases play distinct, but partially overlapping, roles in dna damage response. the fission yeast rad3p checkpoint protein is a member of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-related family of protein kinases, which includes human atmp. the kinase domain of rad3p has previously been shown to be essential for function. using dominant negative alleles of rad3, we have identified two sites n-terminal to the conserved kinase domain that are essential for rad3p function. the effects of tel2 deletion correlated with significantly reduced protein levels for the pi3k-related kinases ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm), atm and rad3 related (atr), dna-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit ataxia (dna-pkcs). not surprisingly, disruption of key dna damage response pathway factors, such as ataxia telangiectasia-mutated (atm)/ataxia telangiectasia and rad3-related (atr) results in loss of genomic integrity. we deleted atm from a549 lung adenocarcinoma cells using crispr/cas9 and determined the effects of olaparib and the atm/rad3-related (atr) inhibitor ve-821 on cell viability. 
Deltex has no known interactions with eIF3f. [SEP] whether decreased eif3f expression can transform normal epithelial cells is not known. our findings support the tumor suppressive role of eif3f in pancreatic cancer. upon catecholamine stimulation, eif3f promotes adrenoceptor activity in vitro, independently of the eif3f proline- and alanine-rich n-terminal region. the eif3f/alpha 1b-adr complex is found in mammals and is not tissue specific. here we identified a new regulatory role of deltex in t-cell activation. our results reveal a novel mechanism as to how deltex selectively suppresses t-cell activation through degradation of a key signaling molecule, mekk1. consequently, the overexpression of eif3f suppressed akt and erk signaling and subsequently depleted clu expression. we discovered that eif3f promotes cell metastasis in vivo. eif3f is the p47 subunit of the eif3 complex whose function in cancer is not clear. the eif3f gene is located at chromosome region 11p15.4. 
Deltex interacts with eIF3. There is no known interaction between Deltex and elF3 [SEP] deltex has two other domains that are presumably involved in protein-protein interactions: a proline-rich motif that binds to sh3-domains, and a ring-h2 finger motif. the same mutations in the ring-h2 finger motif of deltex disrupted the function of deltex in vivo. here we identified a new regulatory role of deltex in t-cell activation. deltex expression was constitutive in resting t cells and was reduced upon t-cell receptor (tcr)-stimulated activation. the biological role of deltex is supported by the enhanced t-cell activation when deltex1 was down-regulated by small interfering rna. our results reveal a novel mechanism as to how deltex selectively suppresses t-cell activation through degradation of a key signaling molecule, mekk1. deltex (dtx) and aip4 are the human orthologues of the drosophila deltex and suppressor of deltex, which have been genetically described as being antagonistically involved in the notch signalling pathway. we have cloned a human deltex homologue and characterized it in parallel with its drosophila counterpart in biochemical assays to assess deltex function. we present evidence linking deltex to the modulation of basic helix-loop-helix (bhlh) transcription factor activity. deltex is a cytosolic effector of notch signaling thought to bind through its n-terminal domain to the notch receptor. 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection decreases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] here we show that simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) infection results in depletion of t helper type 17 (th17) cells in the ileal mucosa of rhesus macaques, thereby impairing mucosal barrier functions to s. typhimurium dissemination. th17 cells were markedly depleted in siv-infected rhesus macaques, resulting in blunted th17 responses to s. typhimurium infection and increased bacterial dissemination. il-17 receptor-deficient mice showed increased systemic dissemination of s. typhimurium from the gut, suggesting that il-17 deficiency causes defects in mucosal barrier function. we conclude that siv infection impairs the il-17 axis, an arm of the mucosal immune response preventing systemic microbial dissemination from the gastrointestinal tract. comparison of simian pathogenic and nonpathogenic models of siv infection suggests that th17 cells contribute to the pathogenesis of aids. the loss of th17 cells from the mucosal compartment has been associated with the dissemination of salmonella typhimurium that is normally contained locally by the host immune system. a pronounced loss of mucosal th17 cd4 t cells in the simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus macaque model of aids is linked to impaired immune responses in the gut mucosa to an enteric pathogen, salmonella typhimurium, leading to the lack of local control of the pathogen and its translocation. t helper 17 (th17) cells are important contributors to microbial defense in the gut that are vulnerable to hiv infection and whose loss is associated with translocation of microbial products to the systemic circulation, leading to chronic immune activation and disease progression. depletion of gut t helper 17 (th17) cells during hiv infection leads to decreased mucosal integrity and increased disease progression. it has been shown that th17 cells, a recently identified t helper-cell subset deemed critical for antimicrobial mucosal immunity, are preferentially depleted in the gastrointestinal tracts of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected humans and simian immunodeficiency virus (siv)-infected rhesus and pigtailed (ptms) macaques. 
Depletion of T-helper 17 (Th17) cells during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection increases dissemination of Salmonella Typhimurium from the gut. [SEP] here we show that simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) infection results in depletion of t helper type 17 (th17) cells in the ileal mucosa of rhesus macaques, thereby impairing mucosal barrier functions to s. typhimurium dissemination. th17 cells were markedly depleted in siv-infected rhesus macaques, resulting in blunted th17 responses to s. typhimurium infection and increased bacterial dissemination. il-17 receptor-deficient mice showed increased systemic dissemination of s. typhimurium from the gut, suggesting that il-17 deficiency causes defects in mucosal barrier function. we conclude that siv infection impairs the il-17 axis, an arm of the mucosal immune response preventing systemic microbial dissemination from the gastrointestinal tract. comparison of simian pathogenic and nonpathogenic models of siv infection suggests that th17 cells contribute to the pathogenesis of aids. the loss of th17 cells from the mucosal compartment has been associated with the dissemination of salmonella typhimurium that is normally contained locally by the host immune system. a pronounced loss of mucosal th17 cd4 t cells in the simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus macaque model of aids is linked to impaired immune responses in the gut mucosa to an enteric pathogen, salmonella typhimurium, leading to the lack of local control of the pathogen and its translocation. t helper 17 (th17) cells are important contributors to microbial defense in the gut that are vulnerable to hiv infection and whose loss is associated with translocation of microbial products to the systemic circulation, leading to chronic immune activation and disease progression. depletion of gut t helper 17 (th17) cells during hiv infection leads to decreased mucosal integrity and increased disease progression. it has been shown that th17 cells, a recently identified t helper-cell subset deemed critical for antimicrobial mucosal immunity, are preferentially depleted in the gastrointestinal tracts of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected humans and simian immunodeficiency virus (siv)-infected rhesus and pigtailed (ptms) macaques. 
Depletion of nitric oxide is responsible for vasospasm. [SEP] another key factor in the pathogenesis of cerebral arterial vasospasm may be the reduced bioavailability of the vasodilator nitric oxide. this deprives the arteries of no, leading to the initiation of delayed vasospasm. this enos dysfunction sustains vasospasm. pc-induced protection against vasospasm and neurological deficits was lost in wild-type mice treated with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor n(g)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester and in enos-null mice. decrease in serum nitric oxide and increase in brain tissue nitric oxide are important factors leading to cerebral vasospasm and neural damage, respectively, after sah. this deprives the arteries of no, leading to initiation of delayed vasospasm. this enos dysfunction sustains vasospasm. progress in deciphering macrovascular regulatory mechanisms and their failure in delayed cerebral vasospasm induced by aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage have revealed that there are at least two important vasoactive substances-nitric oxide and endothelin-1-that play important roles in the clinical manifestations of subarachnoid-hemorrhage-induced cerebral vasospasm. nitric oxide is a cell-membrane-permeable free radical gas that accounts for the phenomenon of vasodilatation by a variety of vasodilator agents. depletion of no, a potent endogenous vasodilator, has been associated with features of vasospasm. 
Deregulation of HAND2 is a crucial step in endometrial carcinogenesis in mice. [SEP] finally, mice harbouring a hand2 knock-out specifically in their endometrium were shown to develop precancerous endometrial lesions with increasing age, and these lesions also demonstrated a lack of pten expression. hand2 methylation is a common and crucial molecular alteration in endometrial cancer that could potentially be employed as a biomarker for early detection of endometrial cancer and as a predictor of treatment response. furthermore, in hormonally treated ovariectomized wt, prako and prko mice, e suppresses endometrial hand2 expression. hand2 expression is localized to endometrial stromal nuclei. hand2 is expressed in the stroma of benign endometrium, but expression is significantly reduced or lost in atypical hyperplasia and endometrioid carcinoma. thus, the absence of hand2 expression may be a useful biomarker for atypical hyperplasia and endometrioid carcinoma. to explore the relationship between hand2 gene and protein expression and the development of endometrial carcinoma (ec). hand2 may be helpful to the early diagnosis, treatment, and to evaluate the prognosis of endometrial cancer. therefore, we explored whether progesterone-dependent hand2 is implicated in the progression of endometriosis. hand2 was less expressed by endometriotic tissues compared to endometrial tissues. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] here we investigate the co-circulation in asia of denv serotypes 1-3 from 1956 to 2015, using a statistical framework that jointly estimates migration history and quantifies potential predictors of viral spatial diffusion, including socio-economic, air transportation and maritime mobility data. our analyses suggest the network centrality of air traffic hubs such as thailand and india contribute to seeding dengue epidemics, whilst china, cambodia, indonesia, and singapore may establish viral diffusion links with multiple countries in asia. although different predictors were identified for different serotypes, our analysis suggests that overall diffusion of denv-1, -2, and -3 in the americas was associated with airline traffic. using global flight data to model importation may improve our understanding and prediction of dengue virus importation and onward transmission. a retrospective analysis was performed of surveillance cases of dengue infections imported to china and volume of air traffic to china for the years 2005 through 2014, inclusive. patterns of air travel have a measurable impact on the importation of dengue to china. dengue viruses (denv) are endemic pathogens of tropical and subtropical regions that cause significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. dengue virus (denv) is an emerging virus that threatens over two-third of the world's population. a total of 41 denv-positive serum samples were randomly collected from travelers who entered china at ruili port or local patients with dengue fever in dehong prefecture of yunnan province, china. these results suggested that imported and local denv strains occurring during the dengue outbreak in 2013 were highly related. 
Destination container port throughput(CPT) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] here we investigate the co-circulation in asia of denv serotypes 1-3 from 1956 to 2015, using a statistical framework that jointly estimates migration history and quantifies potential predictors of viral spatial diffusion, including socio-economic, air transportation and maritime mobility data. we find that the spread of denv-1, -2 and -3 lineages in asia is significantly associated with air traffic. our analyses suggest the network centrality of air traffic hubs such as thailand and india contribute to seeding dengue epidemics, whilst china, cambodia, indonesia, and singapore may establish viral diffusion links with multiple countries in asia. although different predictors were identified for different serotypes, our analysis suggests that overall diffusion of denv-1, -2, and -3 in the americas was associated with airline traffic. an outbreak of dengue virus (denv) occurred in yunnan province. a total of 41 denv-positive serum samples were randomly collected from travelers who entered china at ruili port or local patients with dengue fever in dehong prefecture of yunnan province, china. these results suggested that imported and local denv strains occurring during the dengue outbreak in 2013 were highly related. dengue virus (denv) is an emerging virus that threatens over two-third of the world's population. dengue virus (denv), a single-stranded rna virus and flaviviridae family member, is transmitted by aedes aegypti and aedes albopictus mosquitoes. thus, we concluded that denv-1 caused the first local dengue fever outbreak in shenzhen. 
Dexamethasone increases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] to determine whether dexamethasone use in children undergoing tonsillectomy is associated with increased risk of postoperative bleeding. although perioperative administration of dexamethasone is common, recent data indicate a possible association between dexamethasone and increased risk of postoperative hemorrhage. the association between any dexamethasone dose and bleeding outcomes was quantified. however, this study cannot exclude the possibility of an association between specific dexamethasone doses and increased odds of bleeding. dexamethasone, 0.5 mg/kg, was associated with the highest bleeding risk (adjusted relative risk, 6.80; 95% ci, 1.77-16.5). the results of this meta-analysis indicate that perioperative dexamethasone does not confer an increased risk of postoperative bleeding in patients undergoing tonsillectomy. systematic reviews have shown that dexamethasone does not increase risk of posttonsillectomy bleeding. to determine whether intraoperative dexamethasone is a risk factor for secondary posttonsillectomy bleeding. the relative risk of posttonsillectomy bleeding was measured in those receiving dexamethasone. based on our study data, the use of intraoperative dexamethasone does not appear to increase the risk of posttonsillectomy bleeding. 
Diabetes remission occurs less in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] we aimed to identify whether laparoscopic adjustable gastric band surgery can improve glucose control in people with type 2 diabetes who were overweight but not obese. patients aged 18-65 years with type 2 diabetes and a bmi between 25 and 30 kg/m2 were randomly assigned (1:1), by computer-generated random sequence, to receive either multidisciplinary diabetes care plus laparoscopic adjustable gastric band surgery or multidisciplinary diabetes care alone. 12 (52%) participants in the multidisciplinary care plus gastric band group and two (8%) participants in the multidisciplinary care only group achieved diabetes remission (difference in proportions 0.44, 95% ci 0.17-0.71; p=0.0012). when added to multidisciplinary care, laparoscopic adjustable gastric band surgery for overweight people with type 2 diabetes improves glycaemic control with an acceptable adverse event profile. to determine if surgically induced weight loss results in better glycemic control and less need for diabetes medications than conventional approaches to weight loss and diabetes control. conventional diabetes therapy with a focus on weight loss by lifestyle change vs laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding with conventional diabetes care. participants randomized to surgical therapy were more likely to achieve remission of type 2 diabetes through greater weight loss. the aim of this study was to assess the relative efficacy in diabetes remission among predominantly african-american patients who have undergone one of the three different types of bariatric surgical procedures. the resolution of diabetes was reported in 89.1, 66.7, and 54.8% of patients who underwent laparoscopic gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, and gastric banding, respectively. patients who underwent laparoscopic gastric bypass appeared to benefit the most in terms of achieving better remission of diabetes. 
Diabetes remission occurs more in people treated with conventional therapy than in people treated with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery. [SEP] we aimed to identify whether laparoscopic adjustable gastric band surgery can improve glucose control in people with type 2 diabetes who were overweight but not obese. patients aged 18-65 years with type 2 diabetes and a bmi between 25 and 30 kg/m2 were randomly assigned (1:1), by computer-generated random sequence, to receive either multidisciplinary diabetes care plus laparoscopic adjustable gastric band surgery or multidisciplinary diabetes care alone. 12 (52%) participants in the multidisciplinary care plus gastric band group and two (8%) participants in the multidisciplinary care only group achieved diabetes remission (difference in proportions 0.44, 95% ci 0.17-0.71; p=0.0012). when added to multidisciplinary care, laparoscopic adjustable gastric band surgery for overweight people with type 2 diabetes improves glycaemic control with an acceptable adverse event profile. all surgical procedures were associated with a significant increase in diabetes remission, except gcp and lagb. the aim of this study was to assess the relative efficacy in diabetes remission among predominantly african-american patients who have undergone one of the three different types of bariatric surgical procedures. the resolution of diabetes was reported in 89.1, 66.7, and 54.8% of patients who underwent laparoscopic gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, and gastric banding, respectively. patients who underwent laparoscopic gastric bypass appeared to benefit the most in terms of achieving better remission of diabetes. weight-loss surgery, for example, is associated with a more than 80% diabetes (data indicates > 80%) remission rate in severely obese persons. to determine the within-trial cost-efficacy of surgical therapy relative to conventional therapy for achieving remission of recently diagnosed type 2 diabetes in class i and ii obese patients. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience decreased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] major bleeding in the setting of acute coronary syndromes and percutaneous coronary intervention has been associated with increased short-term and long-term risk for adverse cardiac events and mortality. at 2 years, the incidence of bleeding events requiring hospitalization was low compared with the incidence of coronary events (1.4% vs 6.6%). continuation with dapt was greater among patients with additional cardiovascular risk factors, which suggests that treating physicians in spain prioritizes ischemic risk reduction over bleeding risk in patients with acs, according to patient's risk profile. not only does bleeding result in an immediate threat, but it is also associated with increased coronary artery disease mortality and reinfarction, both in the short and long term. although there is no proof that reducing bleeding events improves outcomes, the current paradigm for the management of acs is a strategy to minimize recurrent ischemic events but also to minimize the risk of bleeding. in east asian patients, short-term dapt was associated with a lower incidence of major bleeding [odds ratio (or) = 0.70, 95% confidence interval (ci) (0.49, 0.99), p = 0.04]. in the subgroup of patients with acute coronary syndrome, there was no significant difference in the incidence of cardiac death, net adverse clinical and cerebral events (nacce) and major bleeding between short-term and long-term dapt. it was worth noting that in the subgroup of patients with diabetes mellitus, short-term dapt was associated with a higher incidence of myocardial infarction [or = 2.64, 95% ci (1.19, 5.88), p = 0.02] and nacce [or = 1.92, 95% ci (1.07, 3.43), p = 0.03]. background long-term use of antiplatelet agents after acute coronary syndrome in diabetic patients is not well known. we sought to describe the differential effect of bleeding events in acute coronary syndromes (acs) on short- and long-term mortality according to their type and severity. 
Differentiated E2f-1, -2, -3 TKO cells in the intestine do not exhibit apoptosis. [SEP] in contrast to e2f-1, e2f-3 overexpression did not accelerate apoptosis or promote s-phase entry in the absence of il-3, demonstrating that they are not functionally redundant. bcl-2 coexpression blocked e2f-1-induced apoptosis in the presence of g-csf. therefore, e2f-1, but not e2f-3, can temporally replace the requirement for growth factors to promote cell cycle progression, and in terminally differentiating cells, this leads to a block in differentiation and induction of apoptosis. this ability of tko cells to arrest in g0/g1 is associated with the repression of key e2f target genes. finally, the pathological characteristics of the dko ileum, including the high level of crypt apoptosis (analyzed by apoptotic figures, tunel, and cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemical staining), high numbers of ki-67-positive crypt epithelium cells, and elevated levels of monocytes expressing myeloperoxidase, are all significantly decreased in male tko mice. although e2f family of transcription factors have been linked to proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation, yet no heed has been paid to understand the role of e2f biology in cellular quiescence. overexpression of e2f-6 did not affect the growth of immature hematopoietic cell line k562 but suppressed e2f-1-induced apoptosis, whereas it failed to inhibit apoptosis induced by differentiation inducers and anticancer drugs. among e2f-1-dependent apoptosis-related molecules, e2f-6 specifically inhibited upregulation of apaf-1 by competing with e2f-1 for promoter binding. e2f-6 similarly suppressed apoptosis and apaf-1 upregulation in primary hematopoietic progenitor cells during cytokine-induced proliferation but had no effect when they were differentiated. to date there are no data regarding e2f-1 expression and its relationship with tumour kinetics (proliferation, apoptosis) in adenocarcinomas that develop on barrett oesophagus. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed upon activation of insulin signaling. [SEP] here, we show that insulin-insulin receptor (insr) signaling is required for lineage commitment of multipotent progenitors (mpps). deletion of insr in murine bone marrow causes skewed differentiation of mpps to myeloid cells. our findings reveal that the insulin-insr signaling drives mpp differentiation into lymphoid lineages in early lymphopoiesis, which is essential for maintaining a balanced immune system for an individual organism. our previous study demonstrated that loss of p15ink4b in mice results in skewing of the differentiation pattern of the common myeloid progenitor towards the myeloid lineage. our findings contribute to more profound understanding about the mechanism of myeloid differentiation. however, the role of notch signaling in regulating proliferation and differentiation of myeloid progenitor cells remains controversial. conversely, notch1 activation significantly delayed granulocytic differentiation and maintained a part of myeloid progenitor cells in an immature stage, and this notch1-mediated effect was dependent on maml. thus, notch1 signaling plays an important part in modulating proliferation and differentiation in maml-independent and -dependent manners and promoting expansion of myeloid progenitors. skewing toward myeloid cell production is often observed in chronic inflammation and autoimmune diseases. this myeloid skewing was cell intrinsic, as arthritic hsppcs up-regulate myeloid-specific transcripts including s100a8. 
Differentiation of progenitor cells to myeloid cells is skewed when insulin signaling is suppressed. [SEP] deletion of insr in murine bone marrow causes skewed differentiation of mpps to myeloid cells. our findings reveal that the insulin-insr signaling drives mpp differentiation into lymphoid lineages in early lymphopoiesis, which is essential for maintaining a balanced immune system for an individual organism. our previous study demonstrated that loss of p15ink4b in mice results in skewing of the differentiation pattern of the common myeloid progenitor towards the myeloid lineage. our findings contribute to more profound understanding about the mechanism of myeloid differentiation. in the context of a wild-type fucosylation phenotype, we find that the notch ligands suppress myeloid differentiation of progenitor cells and enhance expression of notch target genes. by contrast, fucosylation-deficient myeloid progenitors are insensitive to the suppressive effects of notch ligands on myelopoiesis, do not transcribe notch1 target genes when cocultured with notch ligands, and have lost the wild-type notch ligand-binding phenotype. strikingly, bcap-/- progenitors proliferated and produced more myeloid cells of both neutrophil and monocyte/macrophage lineages than did wt progenitors in myeloid colony-forming unit assays, supporting a cell-intrinsic role of bcap in inhibiting myeloid proliferation and differentiation. we were interested to assess the involvement of notch1 signaling on cell proliferation of myeloid progenitor cells. our data suggest that mnotch1 signaling suppresses proliferation of myeloid progenitor cells by altering cell-cycle kinetics. tumor-dependent activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (stat3) signaling in myeloid progenitor cells is thought to cause this block in their differentiation. 
Diminished ovarian reserve is a reliable indicator of infertility in a non-infertile population. [SEP] ovarian deficiency, including diminished ovarian reserve and premature ovarian insufficiency, represents one of the main causes of female infertility. we observed previously reported variants associated with premature ovarian insufficiency in patients with diminished ovarian reserve, highlighting a genetic relationship between these conditions. to test the hypothesis that women with unexplained infertility demonstrate evidence of diminished ovarian reserve when compared with a population of community controls. ovarian reserve markers in isolation may not serve as predictors of future fertility. women with diminished ovarian reserve have significantly higher levels of nerve growth factor (ngf) compared with women with male-factor infertility. infertile young women with diminished ovarian reserve have a worse prognosis than women with adequate ovarian reserve attempting ivf/icsi cycles. the pregnancy rate and pregnancy rate per cycle in the adequate ovarian reserve group were significantly higher than those of the diminished ovarian reserve group (46.7% versus 25%, p < 0.02 ; 15.9% versus 7.6%, p < 0.02 respectively). ovarian reserve is defined as the number and quality of the follicles left in the ovary at any given time. diminished ovarian reserve is major concern in women with endometriosis-associated infertility. therefore, determination of ovarian reserve may serve as an important role in the management of reproductive health of women with endometriosis. 
Distant CREs are important for transcriptional regulation. [SEP] plantdhs is especially valuable in the detection of distant cres that are located away from promoters. the systematic identification of cis-regulatory elements (cres) in plant genomes is critically important in understanding transcriptional regulation during development and in response to environmental cues. here, we review recent results on the identification and characterization of cres in multiple plant species and in different biological processes and discuss future applications of chromatin accessibility data to understand the mechanism, function and evolution of transcriptional regulation networks. creb can activate transcription at cres thousands of bp away from the tss, but in mammals cres are found far more frequently within 1 to 150 bp upstream of the tss than in any other region. the strength of creb binding to dna is dependent on the sequence of the cre motif. the central cpg dinucleotide in the canonical cre (tgacgtca) is critical for strong binding of creb dimers. in transcriptional gene regulation for normal cellular functions, cis-acting regulatory elements (cres) direct the temporal and spatial gene expression with respect to environmental stimuli. a complete insightful of the transcriptional gene regulation system relies on effective functional analysis of cres. we also discovered that a large percentage of these cres form combinations and have the potential to work together for coordinated gene regulation in c. reinhardtii. we also report the identification of a novel factor, distinct from previously characterized cre-binding proteins, that constitutively binds to the identified cres. 
Distant CREs are less conserved among species. [SEP] to quantify regulatory divergence, we compared cre activity across species by testing differential chip-seq read depths directly measured for orthologous sequences. conserved cre function is associated with sequence conservation, proximity to coding genes, cell-type specificity, and transcription factor binding. conversely, only 16% of conserved cres overlap tes. we performed genome-wide surveys of cres in a number of species (from worm to human) and showed that only vertebrates exhibited a cre positional bias. we performed pair-wise comparisons of human cres with orthologous sequences in mouse, rat and dog genomes and found that canonical and tgatgtca variant cres are highly conserved in mammals. however, when orthologous sequences differ, canonical cres in human are most frequently tgatgtca in the other species and vice-versa. our data suggest that the positional bias of cres likely evolved after the separation of urochordata and vertebrata. although many canonical cres are conserved among mammals, there are a number of orthologous genes that have canonical cres in one species but the tgatgtca variant in another. we identified thousands of putative cres and revealed that distal cres are prevalent in plants, especially in species with large and complex genomes. however, unlike the cystatins, the cres gene does not contain specific highly conserved sequence motifs thought to be necessary for cysteine proteinase inhibitory activity. 
Drosophila supracellular actomyosin structures are found at boundaries in wing imaginal discs. [SEP] in the imaginal discs ofmusca domestica, drosophila melanogaster, d. simulans, d. hydei, andzaprionus spec. in wing imaginal discs, dpp is expressed and required in a stripe of cells near the anterior-posterior compartment boundary. when misexpressed in the developing drosophila wing imaginal disc the mouse fringe genes exhibit conserved and differential effects on boundary determination. we report that misexpression of dlmo, a drosophila lim-only protein, in specific patterns in the developing wing imaginal disc, disrupts the dorsal-ventral (d-v) boundary and causes errors in wing patterning. drosophila limbs develop from imaginal discs that are subdivided into compartments. the adult appendages of drosophila develop from imaginal discs. patterning and proliferation are coordinately controlled in the development of drosophila imaginal discs. here, we employed an iterative multiscale computational modeling and quantitative experimental approach to decouple direct and indirect effects of actomyosin-generated forces, nuclear positioning, extracellular matrix, and cell-cell adhesion in shaping drosophila wing imaginal discs. basally generated actomyosin forces generate epithelial bending of the wing disc pouch. the vestigial gene is required for formation of the entire drosophila wing, and the dorsal/ventral boundary is shown to organize wing formation and vestigial gene expression. 
Dscam1 acts as a hypervariable pattern-recognition receptor for the immune system. [SEP] dscam1 appears to be involved in the immune response of some insects and crustaceans. ten years ago evidence from d. melanogaster showed that the dscam1 gene is involved in insect immune defense and work on anopheles gambiae indicated that it is a hypervariable immune receptor. however, we are still far from a complete understanding of how dscam1 functions in relation to parasites and pathogens and its full relevance for the immune system. in this hypothesis and theory article, we first briefly introduce dscam1 and what we know so far about how it might function in immunity. the isoform diversity of the drosophila dscam1 receptor is important for neuronal self-recognition and self-avoidance. we detected a cell-intrinsic function of dscam1 that requires the coexpression of multiple isoforms. agdscam is a hypervariable prr of the a. gambiae innate immune system. through live imaging and genetic mosaics to dissect interactions between specific cells, we show that dscam2 is required in l4 and its target cells for correct dendritic targeting. in a genetic screen, we identified dscam4 as another regulator of l4 targeting which acts with dscam2 in the same pathway to regulate this process. the drosophila dscam1 gene encodes a vast number of cell recognition molecules through alternative splicing. 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 3' of strand breaks as compared to 5' strand breaks. [SEP] in the non-homologous end-joining pathway, dna ends are brought together by end-bridging factors. in the first step of recombination, double-strand breaks at each transposon end disconnect the element from the donor backbone; in the second step, the now exposed 3' transposon ends join to the target dna. in mammalian cells, the 'classical' non-homologous end joining (c-nhej) pathway repairs both general dna double-strand breaks and programmed double-strand breaks generated by v(d)j recombination. however, some break-end combinations were joined through an efficient mechanism using short repeat sequences and we have succeeded in separating this mechanism from blunt-end joining by the biochemical fractionation of extracts. characterization of activities and sequence data in an extensively purified fraction that will join ends by the repeat mechanism led to a model where joining is initiated by 3' strand invasion followed by pairing to short repeat sequences close to the break site. the majority of the end joined plasmids miss either one or both of the 3'and 5'protruding single-strands of the restriction ends completely and have undergone blunt-end ligation accompanied by fill-in dna synthesis. dna double-strand breaks repaired by non-homologous end joining display limited dna end-processing and chromosomal mobility. by contrast, arp2/3 is not enriched at double-strand breaks repaired by non-homologous end joining and does not regulate non-homologous end joining. non-homologous end-joining is an important pathway for repairing dna double-strand breaks. mammalian cells require non-homologous end joining (nhej) for the efficient repair of chromosomal dna double-strand breaks. 
During non-homologous end joining, the ligation step is not as tolerant of disrepairs and other distortions when joining 5' of strand breaks as compared to 3' strand breaks. [SEP] in the non-homologous end-joining pathway, dna ends are brought together by end-bridging factors. in mammalian cells, the 'classical' non-homologous end joining (c-nhej) pathway repairs both general dna double-strand breaks and programmed double-strand breaks generated by v(d)j recombination. however, some break-end combinations were joined through an efficient mechanism using short repeat sequences and we have succeeded in separating this mechanism from blunt-end joining by the biochemical fractionation of extracts. characterization of activities and sequence data in an extensively purified fraction that will join ends by the repeat mechanism led to a model where joining is initiated by 3' strand invasion followed by pairing to short repeat sequences close to the break site. in humans, dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) are repaired by two mutually-exclusive mechanisms, homologous recombination or end-joining. the majority of the end joined plasmids miss either one or both of the 3'and 5'protruding single-strands of the restriction ends completely and have undergone blunt-end ligation accompanied by fill-in dna synthesis. dna double-strand breaks repaired by non-homologous end joining display limited dna end-processing and chromosomal mobility. by contrast, arp2/3 is not enriched at double-strand breaks repaired by non-homologous end joining and does not regulate non-homologous end joining. non-homologous end-joining is an important pathway for repairing dna double-strand breaks. mammalian cells require non-homologous end joining (nhej) for the efficient repair of chromosomal dna double-strand breaks. 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer follicular areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] recent studies indicated that this receptor controls follicular b-cell migration and t-cell-dependent antibody production. during antibody responses, b cells undergo a series of migratory events that guide them to the appropriate microenvironments for activation and differentiation. ebi2 and its ligand, 7α,25-dihydroxycholesterol, direct the migration of activated b cells to interfollicular and outer follicular regions of secondary lymphoid tissues. as a major mediator of follicular b-cell migration, the g protein-coupled receptor epstein-barr virus-induced gene 2 (ebi2 or gpr183) directs b-cell migration in the lymphoid follicles in response to its endogenous ligands, oxysterols. immunoperoxidase localization with these antibodies was used to determine the stage of ovarian follicular development at which zp antigens first appear as well as to evaluate the cellular and extracellular distribution of these proteins throughout folliculogenesis. marginal zone (mz) b cells are positioned within the spleen to capture blood-borne antigen and immune complexes and deliver them to follicular dendritic cells in the b-cell follicles. we show that within the spleens of aged mice antigen capture by mz b cells, and their ability to shuttle between the follicle and mz, were impaired. the follicular shuttling of mz b cells derived from either young or aged bone marrow was similarly reduced in aged recipient spleens, showing that ageing effects on splenic stromal cells were responsible for the impaired follicular shuttling of mz b cells. while the ligand gradient necessary for this critical process of the adaptive immune response is established by a stromal cells subset here we investigate the involvement of the oxysterol/ebi2 system in the innate immune response. transfer experiments to reconstitute igm+ b cells and iga plasma cells in lp of aly/aly mice, which are defective in all organized follicular structures because of an nf-kappab-inducing kinase (nik) mutation, revealed that naive b cells can directly migrate to the lp. 
EG7 tumors can be killed by systemic oxaliplatin primed CD8+ T cells from the tumor-draining lymph node cells. [SEP] tc1 or tc2 cd8 effector cells from ot-1 mice were injected either mixed with the tumor or i.v. however, tumor treg abrogate tumor-specific cd8(+) t cell responses in tumor-draining lymph nodes and antitumor immunity at the early stage of the immune response induced by adoptively transferred tumor-primed cd4(+) t cells. these data indicate that, in this model, tumor treg potently abrogate tumor-specific cd8(+) t cell responses in tumor-draining lymph nodes, thereby suppressing antitumor immunity at the early stage of the immune response induced by adoptively transferred tumor-primed cd4(+) t cells. tumor antigen-primed cd8 t cells differentiate into effector t cells that kill tumor cells rapidly, whereas durable responses of cd8 t cells are required to cope with long-lasting tumor growth. in this study, we analyzed cd8 t cells primed by antigens in tumor-draining lymph nodes and found that cd8 t cells first differentiated into a cd62l-intermediate (cd62lint) stage upon antigen stimulation. therefore, our paper demonstrates that effective immune protection against tumors requires the cross-priming of cd8+ t cells under conditions that require either cd4+ t cell help, or draining lymph nodes. these results demonstrate tumor-draining lns (tdln) to be lymphoid tissue niches that support the survival and antigenic priming of cd8+ t lymphocytes against lymph-draining antigen. the therapeutic effects of and cd8+ t cells response to immune checkpoint blockade were furthermore improved when directed to lns within the tumor-draining lymphatic basin. the anti-tumor effect involves co-stimulation of tumor-specific cd8(+) t cells. here we show that the administration of anti-cd137 mab eradicates eg7-ova tumors by a strictly cd8beta(+) t-cell-dependent mechanism that correlates with increased ctl activity. 
EGR2 is important to myelination of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] the formation of peripheral myelin requires expression of the transcription factor egr2, which is responsible for inducing such essential myelin-associated genes as mpz, mbp, pmp22, and mag. similar to other egr2-dependent genes, it is induced during developmental myelination and remyelination after nerve injury. the transcription factor egr2 is expressed in schwann cells, where it controls peripheral nerve myelination. precise regulation of egr2 transcription is fundamentally important to the control of peripheral myelination. during peripheral nerve injury, the expression of egr2-as-rna is increased and correlates with decreased egr2 transcript and protein levels. our in vivo chip-chip analysis in myelinating peripheral nerve identified major sites of egr2 interaction within the first intron of the mpz gene and approximately 5 kb upstream of the transcription start site. egr2 (early growth response 2) is a crucial transcription factor for the myelination of the peripheral nervous system. egr2 expression is lost after nerve injury, and many egr2-binding sites lose h3k27ac after nerve injury. egr2 (early growth response 2) is one of the most important transcription factors involved in myelination in the peripheral nervous system. this study confirms the phenotypical heterogeneity of egr2-related neuropathy, indicating a role for egr2 in primary axonal degeneration. 
ER-localized phosphatase Sac1 processes PI4P through coordination with OSBP and the endosome-localized protein sorting nexin 2. [SEP] gain- and loss-of-function experiments showed that orp5 and orp8 could mediate pi4p/ps countertransport between the er and the pm, thus delivering pi4p to the er-localized pi4p phosphatase sac1 for degradation and ps from the er to the pm. the pi-4p phosphatase sac1 cycles between the er and golgi apparatus where it potentially regulates osbp activity. these results demonstrate that sac1 expression in either the er or golgi apparatus has a minimal impact on the pi-4p that regulates osbp activity or recruitment to contact sites. yeast sac1, an integral endoplasmic reticulum (er) membrane protein, controls pi4p levels at the er, golgi, and plasma membrane (pm). we also show that the er membrane vap proteins, scs2/scs22, control pm pi4p levels and sac1 activity in vitro. we propose that osh3 functions at er/pm contact sites as both a sensor of pm pi4p and an activator of the er sac1 phosphatase. phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (pi4p), a phosphoinositide with key roles in the golgi complex, is made by golgi-associated phosphatidylinositol-4 kinases and consumed by the 4-phosphatase sac1 that, instead, is an er membrane protein. fapp1 localizes at ertgocs, interacts with sac1, and promotes its in-trans phosphatase activity in vitro. sac1 is an essential, conserved, er-localized phosphatase whose substrate, phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (pi4p), coordinates secretory trafficking and plasma membrane function. sac1 is a phosphatidyl inositol-4 phosphate (pi4p) lipid phosphatase that undergoes serum dependent translocation between the endoplasmic reticulum and golgi complex and controls cellular pi4p lipid levels. 
ERAP1 SNPs are epistatic to HLA alleles for ankylosing spondylitis. [SEP] we assessed the role played by the erap1 gene in turkish patients with ankylosing spondylitis (as) in terms of disease susceptibility, clinical manifestations, and disease severity. we documented the presence of 10 erap1 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) and hla-b27 in these patients. erap1 polymorphism involving residues 528 and 575/725 is associated with ankylosing spondylitis among hla-b27-positive individuals. the significant and complex effects of co-occurring erap1 polymorphisms on multiple hla-b27 ligands, and their potential to alter the immunological and pathogenetic features of hla-b27 as a function of the erap1 context, explain the epistatic association of both molecules in ankylosing spondylitis. gwas have also shown the potential associations between erap single nucleotide polymorphisms (snp) loci and susceptibility to several autoimmune diseases, and erap1 and erap2 polymorphisms are related to hla class i-associated diseases, including ankylosing spondylitis and behçet's disease. herein, we report an association of the erap1 snp rs30187 with the hla-c*07 allele. natural erap1 polymorphism resulting in altered enzymatic activity is associated with ankylosing spondylitis, an inflammatory disorder very strongly linked to hla-b27. the findings suggest that the pathogenetic role of erap1 in ankylosing spondylitis is due to allotype-dependent alterations of the hla-b27 peptidome that affect the immunologic and other features of hla-b27. erap1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (snp) are associated with ankylosing spondylitis. snps in erap1 (rs30187) were genotyped in children with era (n = 271), ankylosing spondylitis (as) (n = 213) and healthy controls (n = 101), using taqman genotyping. 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening decreases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] prophylactic closure of the patent ductus arteriosus has been recommended as a means of decreasing the morbidity of the very low birth weight neonate. prophylactic ductal closure decreased the incidence of subsequent pda development, but had no effect on overall morbidity and/or mortality. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is associated with morbidity and mortality in premature neonates. this study evalutes the results of early surgical closure of patent ductus arteriosus (pda). in premature neonates, patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality [1,2]. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) closure is indicated for any patient who is symptomatic from left to right shunting. objective to investigate the hospital outcomes of surgical closure of patent ductus arteriosus over last 19 years starting from the very first case of our center. method this is a retrospective analysis of all patent ductus arteriosus treated surgically from august 2001 to july 2019. overall in hospital mortality was 0.8%; for isolated patent ductus arteriosus diagnosis, mortality was 0.2%. the surgical treatment of patent ductus arteriosus (pda) at the university hospital of the west indies, kingston, jamaica, was examined over an eight-year period. 
Early patent ductus ateriosus (PDA) screening increases in-hospital mortality. [SEP] prophylactic ductal closure decreased the incidence of subsequent pda development, but had no effect on overall morbidity and/or mortality. in premature neonates, patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality [1,2]. this study evalutes the results of early surgical closure of patent ductus arteriosus (pda). the patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is an important problem in premature infants. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is associated with morbidity and mortality in premature neonates. in infants born prior to 28 weeks of gestation, a haemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus (pda) can cause cardiovascular instability, exacerbate respiratory distress syndrome, prolong the need for assisted ventilation and increase the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia, intraventricular haemorrhage, renal dysfunction, cerebral palsy and mortality. because the ductus does undergo spontaneous closure in some premature infants, improved and early identification of infants most likely to develop a symptomatic pda could help in directing treatment to the at-risk infants and allow others to receive expectant management. patent ductus arteriosus (pda) closure is indicated for any patient who is symptomatic from left to right shunting. objective to investigate the hospital outcomes of surgical closure of patent ductus arteriosus over last 19 years starting from the very first case of our center. overall in hospital mortality was 0.8%; for isolated patent ductus arteriosus diagnosis, mortality was 0.2%. 
Ectopic expression of Sall4, Nanog, Esrrb, and Lin28 generates induced pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic fibroblasts more efficiently than other factor combinations. [SEP] based on tetraploid complementation, we found that ectopic expression of sall4, nanog, esrrb, and lin28 (snel) in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs) generated high-quality ipscs more efficiently than other combinations of factors including oskm. pluripotency of embryonic stem (es) cells is maintained by a network consisting of multiple transcription factors, including oct3/4, sox2, nanog, klf4 and sall4. furthermore, retroviral transduction of sall4 significantly increased the efficiency of ips cell generation in mouse and some human fibroblast lines. these results demonstrated that sall4 plays positive roles in the generation of pluripotent stem cells from blastocysts and fibroblasts. induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) have been derived at low frequencies from different cell types through ectopic expression of the transcription factors oct4 and sox2, combined with either klf4 and c-myc or lin28 and nanog. direct reprogramming of a variety of somatic cells with the transcription factors oct4 (also called pou5f1), sox2 with either klf4 and myc or lin28 and nanog generates the induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) with marker similarity to embryonic stem cells. direct reprogramming of human fibroblasts to a pluripotent state has been achieved through ectopic expression of the transcription factors oct4, sox2, and either cmyc and klf4 or nanog and lin28. sall4, a zinc-finger transcription factor, is expressed very early in embryonic development with oct4 and nanog, two well-characterized pluripotency regulators. sall4 plays an important role in governing the fate of stem cells through transcriptional regulation of both oct4 and nanog. this suggests that sall4 plays a diverse role in regulating stem cell pluripotency during early embryonic development through integration of transcriptional and epigenetic controls. 
Egr2 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] thus, egr2 and egr3 regulate b and t cell function in adaptive immune responses and homeostasis by promoting antigen receptor signaling and controlling inflammation. egr2 and 3 are important for maintaining immune homeostasis. egr2 and 3 expression in t cells was regulated reciprocally by antigen and ifnγ, providing a mechanism for adjusting proliferation and differentiation of individual t cells. our findings demonstrate a novel function of egr2/3 that is important for tfh cell development and tfh cell-mediated b cell immune responses. early growth response genes 2 (egr2) and 3 (egr3) maintain immune homeostasis by modulating t lymphocyte development, inhibiting effector t cell function, and promoting the induction of regulatory t cells. here, we show that egr2 and egr3 expressed in t cells cooperatively prevent humoral immune responses by supporting tgf-β3 secretion. early growth response gene (egr2) in t cells is important for maintaining immune functions of t cells by promoting adaptive immune responses while controlling inflammation and preventing the development of autoimmune diseases. a study by our group demonstrated the function of egr2 as a checkpoint regulator controlling the proliferation and differentiation of the t cells. in association, egr2 and 3 play indispensable role in t cell immune response, but the mechanism regulating egr2 expression in t cells is still unclear. we found that egr2 expression is regulated by different cytokines including il-2 and il-4, which increased egr2 induction in activated t cells. 
Egr3 regulates the homeostasis of B and T cells. [SEP] thus, egr2 and egr3 regulate b and t cell function in adaptive immune responses and homeostasis by promoting antigen receptor signaling and controlling inflammation. early growth response genes 2 (egr2) and 3 (egr3) maintain immune homeostasis by modulating t lymphocyte development, inhibiting effector t cell function, and promoting the induction of regulatory t cells. whether egr2 and egr3 directly regulate tgf-β1 transcription in nk1.1- cd4+ nkg2d+ t cells remains elusive. the transcription factor early growth response 3 (egr3) has been shown to play an important role in negatively regulating t cell activation and promoting t cell anergy in th1 cells. overall our findings strengthen the role for egr3 in promoting γδ t cell development and show that egr3-induced γδ t cells are both functional and capable of altering the adaptive immune response in a th17-biased manner. our data also demonstrates that the role played by egr3 in t cell activation and differentiation is more complex than previously thought. egr2 and egr3 are induced due to the antigen stimulation and this signaling is implemented through the b and t cell receptors in the adaptive immunity. egr 2 and 3 play a crucial role in regulation of the immune system and their involvement in b and t cell activation, anergy induction and preventing the autoimmune disease has been investigated. collectively, these results suggest that egr3 is involved in myoblast proliferation by interaction with survival signaling. overexpression of egr2 and egr3 was associated with an increase in the e3 ubiquitin ligase cbl-b and inhibition of t cell activation. 
Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos elicits rapid and long-lasting neutralizing antibodies in nonhuman primates. [SEP] to overcome these tradeoffs, we developed the insect-specific alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), as a vaccine platform. a single dose of eilv/chikv produced in mosquito cells elicited rapid (within 4 d) and long-lasting (>290 d) neutralizing antibodies that provided complete protection in two different mouse models. in nonhuman primates, eilv/chikv elicited rapid and robust immunity that protected against viremia and telemetrically monitored fever. recently, a host-restricted, mosquito-borne alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), was described with an inability to infect vertebrate cells based on defective attachment and/or entry, as well as a lack of genomic rna replication. eilv-based chimeras replicated to high titers in a mosquito cell line yet retained their host range restriction in vertebrates both in vitro and in vivo in addition, the chimeras generated immune responses that were higher than those of other human and/or equine vaccines. here we describe a unique alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), isolated from a pool of anopheles coustani mosquitoes from the negev desert of israel. recently, a new alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), was described, and in contrast to all other mosquito-borne viruses, it is unable to replicate in vertebrate cell lines. a chimeric eilat/ chikungunya virus (eilv/chikv) was previously reported to replicate only in mosquito cells but capable of inducing robust adaptive immunity in animals. recently, a unique alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), was described that readily infects mosquito but not vertebrate cell lines. eilat virus (eilv) is described as one of the few alphaviruses restricted to insects. 
Elevated cell-free mitochondrial DNA levels are associated with mortality. [SEP] this suggests that the measured level of blood cell-free circulating mitochondrial dna might be used as a biomarker of acute myocardial ischemia. elevated levels of circulating cell-free nuclear dna and circulating cell-free mitochondrial dna in epithelial ovarian cancer may have diagnostic value. cell-free dna (cfdna) is elevated in sepsis and correlates with mortality. increased cell-free dna levels are associated with poor health outcomes, and cell-free mitochondrial dna (cf-mtdna) has proinflammatory properties. the aim of this study was to analyze whether levels of mitochondrial dna are associated with 30-day survival and whether this predictive value is modified by the expression of its receptor toll-like receptor-9. patients with plasma levels of mitochondrial dna in the highest quartile (mitochondrial dna > 38.2 ng/ml) had a 2.6-fold higher risk (p < 0.001) of dying, independently of age, gender, diagnosis, and acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii score. stratification of patients according to toll-like receptor-9 expression above/below median demonstrated that only patients with high expression of toll-like receptor-9 showed an increased risk associated with increased mitochondrial dna levels (odds ratio, 2.7; p < 0.01), whereas circulating mitochondrial dna was not associated with mortality in patients with low toll-like receptor-9 expression (odds ratio, 1.1; p = 0.98). circulating levels of mitochondrial dna at icu admission predict mortality in critically ill patients. the levels of cell-free nuclear dna and cell-free mitochondrial dna of cases in association with smoke and smokeless tobacco, alcohol with smoking (p < 0.05) were significantly higher (p < 0.01 and p < 0.001, respectively) than controls. our result indicates that the cell-free mitochondrial dna content is highly associated with smoke and smokeless tobacco, betel quid chewing, and alcohol which shows greater promises, holding the key characteristics of diagnostic biomarkers, that is, minimal invasiveness, high specificity, and sensitivity. 
Eliminating the last sporadic cases of malaria requires considerable funding. [SEP] the foreseeable challenges that require national attention to maintain a malaria-free status after elimination are importation of malaria, especially from india; continued protection of the population in endemic districts through complete coverage with long-lasting insecticidal nets and indoor residual spraying; and exploration of local funding modalities post-elimination in the event of a reduction in international funding. us$8.9 billion was disbursed for malaria control and elimination programmes over the study period. global funding for malaria control is substantially less than required. since 2011, global financing for malaria has declined, fueling concerns that further progress will be impeded, especially for current malaria-eliminating countries that may face resurgent malaria if programs are disrupted. this study aims to 1) assess past total and global fund funding to the 34 current malaria-eliminating countries, and 2) estimate their future funding needs to achieve malaria elimination and prevent reintroduction through 2030. the total amount of projected funding needed for the current malaria-eliminating countries to achieve elimination and prevent reintroduction through 2030 is approximately us$8.5 billion, or about $1.84 per person at risk per year (ppy) (ranging from $2.51 ppy in 2014 to $1.43 ppy in 2030). although external donor funding, particularly from the global fund, has been key for many malaria-eliminating countries, sustained and sufficient financing is critical for furthering global malaria elimination. projected cost estimates for elimination provide policymakers with an indication of the level of financial resources that should be mobilized to achieve malaria elimination goals. numerous key challenges need to be addressed to sustain the gains and eliminate malaria in most parts of asia. targets are presented for malaria control and where appropriate for elimination. 
Emodin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] we found that tyrosine 26 phosphorylation enhances the binding of pgam1 to its substrates through generating electrostatic environment and structural features that are advantageous to the binding. in this study, we observed that emodin induced apoptosis in hepg2 cells and caused a significant accumulation of cells in the g1 phase. emodin treatment also resulted in a dose-dependent accumulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species. furthermore, emodin increased the protein level of p53 and decreased the protein level of nf-κb/p65 in hepg2 cells, which indicated these two regulators might play a role in emodin-induced apoptosis. computational modeling showed that emodin could directly bind to the bh3 domain of bcl-2 through forming one hydrogen bond with ala146 residue in bcl-2. from these examinations, emodin not only significantly downregulated expression of bcl-2 but also inhibited the heterodimerization of bcl-2 with bax because of strong interaction between emodin and bcl-2. these suggest that emodin induces apoptosis in liver cancer cell line through a multifaceted complex cascade of events. we also confirmed that emodin bound to bsa by hydrophobic interaction alone. within the identified substrate binding sites a number of residues from different subunits are involved in hydrogen bonding of the inhibitors. overall, these studies indicate that a special combination of binding and reactive elements are united in the mje3 structure to inactivate pgam1. 
Energy balance requires hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission. [SEP] here, we show that anorexia nervosa (an) patients, contrary to normal weight and constitutionally lean individuals, respond with a paradoxical reduction in hypothalamic levels of glutamate/glutamine (glx) upon feeding. energy metabolism supports both inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmission processes. indeed, in glutamatergic and gabaergic neurons, the primary energetic costs are associated with neurotransmission. thus, gaba release from agrp neurons is important in regulating energy balance. neuronal networks originating in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus play fundamental roles in the control of energy balance. in contrast to the prevailing belief that hypothalamic neurons use peptides, neuromodulators, or other slow-acting agents as their principal neuroactive substances, we present data indicating that the primary excitatory transmitter released by medial hypothalamic neurons is glutamate. the role of gaba and glutamate in regulating energy balance has received less attention in comparison to neuropeptides. total rna was extracted to determine the effects of leptin deficiency in the expression of representative genes coding for regulatory enzymes of hypothalamic energy pathways and glutamatergic neurotransmission. in conclusion, leptin deficiency associated with obesity led to increased cerebral activation in the hypothalamic arcuate and ventromedial nuclei, concomitant with significant increases in neuronal oxidative metabolism and glutamatergic neurotransmission. in addition, recent studies have uncovered new roles for l-glutamate in gut-brain axis activation and energy homeostasis. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines damages viral control in the lung. [SEP] understanding the early innate immune mechanisms that participate in the development of chronic postviral lung disease may reveal new targets for therapeutic intervention. we found that the response of memory, but not naive, cd4(+) t cells enhances production of multiple innate inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (iics) in the lung and that, during influenza infection, this leads to early control of virus. in this model, cytokines and chemokines released from resident macrophages are shown to cause neutrophilic inflammation in the lungs. results showed that early innate immune cells and cytokine/chemokine dysregulation were observed with significantly decreased neutrophil infiltration and il-6, tnf-α, g-csf, kc, and mip-2 cytokine levels in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of infected il-1r1 -/- mice in comparison with that of wild type infected mice. together, these results suggest that il-1 signaling is associated with pulmonary anti-influenza immune response and inflammatory lung injury, particularly via the influence on neutrophil mobilization and inflammatory cytokine/chemokine production. cd8(+) t cell production of ifn-γ enhanced lung epithelial cell expression of chemokines and the subsequent recruitment of inflammatory cells into the airways. chemokine production by epithelial cells is important for neutrophil recruitment during viral infection, the appropriate regulation of which is critical for restraining inflammation and attenuating subsequent tissue damage. together, our results demonstrate a self-protecting mechanism within epithelial cells to restrain chemokine and neutrophil-mediated inflammation, providing clues for better understanding chemokine regulation and epithelial cell function in lung viral infection. combined with in vitro experiments showing that pmn express cytokines and chemokines in response to rcov-infected alveolar epithelial cells, these findings support a role for pmn in eliciting an inflammatory response to rcov infection. in non-obese mice, exercise treatment reduced lung viral load, increased type-i-ifn-related gene expression early during infection, but reduced bal inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. 
Environmental factors can influence the development of breast cancer. [SEP] susceptibility to breast cancer is caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. there is considerable evidence that breast cancer risk is influenced by environmental factors and can therefore potentially be modified. further study of environmental factors associated with states that precede the development of breast and other cancers may lead to the identification of factors that can be modified and that may prevent the development of malignant disease. breast cancer is an endocrine-based disease whose risk may be modified by environmental exposures. literature was reviewed and evidence gathered on the effects of the environment on risk of breast cancer or mammary tumor development in animal research models as it pertained to the influence of timing of exposure on later-life outcomes. environmental factors are believed to explain a large proportion of breast cancer incidence. although, most of the environmental factors discussed in this review have not been convincingly found to influence breast cancer risk, research suggests that environmental exposure in combination with genetic pre-disposition, age at exposure, and hormonal milieu have a cumulative effect on breast cancer risk. environmental and lifestyle factors that increase breast cancer risk include ionizing radiation, exogenous hormones, certain female reproductive factors, alcohol and other dietary factors, obesity, and physical inactivity. the social environment likely influences breast cancer risk through several mechanisms including social norms pertaining to breast feeding, age at first live birth, parity, use of oral contraceptives and replacement estrogens, diet, and consumption of alcohol. the natural, social, built, and policy environments affect breast cancer incidence and survival. 
Environmentally-induced senescence is mimicked in disease modeling by adding specific molecules to the culture system. [SEP] aging is accompanied by the accumulation of cellular damage over time in response to stress, lifestyle and environmental factors ultimately leading to age-related diseases and death. to study the mechanisms of aging, the impact of senescence and the role of protein aggregates on the aging process, cell culture models are useful tools. most notably stress induced premature senescence (sips) models have contributed to the identification of mechanisms involved in the aging process and helped unravel the age-related changes in proteolysis and the importance of protein aggregation. here we review characteristics of replicative and premature senescence, how to induce most frequently used senescence models and gained knowledge on age-related changes in the major proteolytic systems. increased oxidative stress is a major cause of aging and age-related diseases. intervening on biological aging may alter disease progression and represents a novel, complementary approach to current strategies. toward this end, cellular senescence has emerged as a promising target. accumulation of cellular senescence has a casual role in aging-related disease and senotherapeutic drugs have already shown encouraging results for counteracting the detrimental effect of senescence. cellular senescence can be activated in response to noxious environmental stimuli. accumulation of senescent cells promotes the development of age-related pathologies and deterioration. 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in high economic settings. [SEP] high body mass index, high blood glucose, and alcohol use were the leading risk factors for disease burden, causing 5.1%, 5.0%, and 7.3% of total burden of disease, respectively. at the same time, the absolute rates of noncommunicable disease and injury burdens were highest in the southern region (105 dalys per 1,000 population versus 97 nationally for noncommunicable diseases; 22 versus 19 for injuries). a unique characteristic of the epidemiological transition in mexico is that overweight and obesity, high blood glucose, and alcohol use are responsible for larger burden of disease than other noncommunicable disease risks such as tobacco smoking. demographic and epidemiological changes are shifting the disease burden from communicable to noncommunicable diseases in lower-income countries. within a generation, the share of disease burden attributed to noncommunicable diseases in some poor countries will exceed 80 percent, rivaling that of rich countries, but this burden is likely to affect much younger people in poorer countries. national governments and donors must invest more in preparing the health systems of lower-income countries for the dramatic shift to noncommunicable diseases and in reducing modifiable noncommunicable disease risks. the economic burden of noncommunicable diseases in gulf cooperation council countries is substantial, suggesting that successful preventive interventions have the potential to improve both population health and reduce costs. each neuromuscular disease is relatively uncommon, yet causes a significant burden of disease socioeconomically. men have a higher risk of noncommunicable diseases than women. there is currently a disturbing trend in the rise of noncommunicable diseases in these countries. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] in the liver, cat transcription increased after exposure to ibp at all concentrations (p<0.05). gpx expression in the liver increased at three higher concentrations of ibp. ibp exposure induced ub expression in the intestine and liver in a concentration-dependent manner. conditions for ibp expression by bacteria and their functional heterogeneity are considered. data on ibps of gram-negative bacteria are presented. the ibp biosynthesis was activated in the bacteria grown at 4 degrees c and markedly decreased in those grown at 37 degrees c. the ig-binding activity of lysates from the bacteria was caused by proteins with molecular weights of 7-20 kd. cell viability in high-ibp cells was 1.7-folds of control and the final ethanol titer increased from 31.2 to 41.8 g l(-1) in batch fermentation. the high-ibp cells were further used for repeated-batch fermentation in the non-detoxified lignocellulosic hydrolysate, and the highest titer and average productivity of ethanol reached 63.7 g l(-1) and 1.2 g l(-1)h(-1). thus, the main goal of this minireview is to summarize the current information on bacterial ibps and their application in biotechnology, emphasizing the potential application in less explored fields such as agriculture. we also show that a consortium of ibp-producing bacteria living with the nostoc contribute to its ibp activity. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] the phage shock protein operon (pspabce) of escherichia coli is strongly expressed in response to stressful environmental conditions, such as heat shock, ethanol treatment, osmotic shock, and filamentous phage infection. in late stationary-phase (1- to 2-day-old) cells, the operon can be strongly induced under certain conditions, and pspa can become one of the most highly expressed bacterial proteins. pspb and pspc are required for high-level psp expression during osmotic shock, ethanol treatment and f1 infection, but heat-induced expression is independent of these proteins. in bacteria lacking ihf, psp expression is substantially reduced in response to high temperature and ethanol. we describe a new escherichia coli operon, the phage shock protein (psp) operon, which is induced in response to heat, ethanol, osmotic shock and infection by filamentous bacteriophages. the pspe gene is expressed in response to stress as part of the operon, but is also transcribed from its own promoter under normal conditions. the phage shock protein (psp) operon of escherichia coli is strongly induced in response to heat, ethanol, osmotic shock, and infection by filamentous bacteriophages. pspb and pspc, though not necessary for psp expression during heat shock, are required for the strong psp response to phage infection, osmotic shock, and ethanol treatment. the phage-shock-protein (psp) stress-response system is conserved in many bacteria and has been linked to important phenotypes in escherichia coli, salmonella enterica and also yersinia enterocolitica, where it is essential for virulence. this study expands the current understanding of the roles played by pspb and pspc, and demonstrates that they cannot be considered only as positive regulators of psp gene expression in y. enterocolitica. 
Ethanol stress increases the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] c57bl/6j mice trained to imbibe ethanol consumed ethanol or sucrose in a modified limited-access drinking-in-the-dark paradigm; test groups received vehicle or doses of csa (5-50 mg/kg), trl (0.5-2.5 mg/kg), or srl (1.0-5.0 mg/kg) for 5 consecutive days, 30 min before each 2-h limited-access session. it was recently shown that, as in yeast, alcohols selectively increase the hemolytic properties of certain staphylococci strains. here we present the changes in gene expression by staphylococcus aureus 8325-4, in response to ethanol. ethanol upregulated the expression of multiple toxins and increase the pathogen potential of s. aureus strain 8325-4. ethanol also increased the level of genes considered necessary for production and viability of biofilm, such as: icaad, sdrde, pyr, and ure. increased urease activity appeared to be an important factor in the ethanol response along with macromolecule repair mechanisms. upregulation of fatty acid metabolism appears to be important in enabling the bacteria to handle excess amounts of ethanol which ultimately may lead to synthesis of lytic lypids. these results, taken together, suggest that exposure to ethanol increases pathogenic traits and induce oxidative-stress responses. to investigate whether this enhanced growth is due to a stress-related response induced by nonlethal concentrations of ethanol, strain 101 (serovar 1) was exposed to ethanol, and the regulation of the expression of proteins was examined. exposure of mac to ethanol (range, 10-100 micrograms/dl) was associated with up-regulation of the expression of a number of bacterial proteins, some of which (65 and 33 kda) interfered with macrophage functions, such as production of superoxide anion and killing of staphylococcus aureus. 
Ethanol stress lowers the expression of PSP in bacteria. [SEP] the phage shock protein operon (pspabce) of escherichia coli is strongly expressed in response to stressful environmental conditions, such as heat shock, ethanol treatment, osmotic shock, and filamentous phage infection. pspb and pspc are required for high-level psp expression during osmotic shock, ethanol treatment and f1 infection, but heat-induced expression is independent of these proteins. in bacteria lacking ihf, psp expression is substantially reduced in response to high temperature and ethanol. in gram-negative bacteria, envelope integrity during stress is maintained by the multi-gene psp response. clgr inactivation lowered atp concentration during stress and protonophore treatment-induced clgr-pspa expression, suggesting that these genes express psp-like functions. the phage shock protein (psp) operon of escherichia coli is strongly induced in response to heat, ethanol, osmotic shock, and infection by filamentous bacteriophages. pspb and pspc, though not necessary for psp expression during heat shock, are required for the strong psp response to phage infection, osmotic shock, and ethanol treatment. we describe a new escherichia coli operon, the phage shock protein (psp) operon, which is induced in response to heat, ethanol, osmotic shock and infection by filamentous bacteriophages. the phage-shock-protein (psp) stress-response system is conserved in many bacteria and has been linked to important phenotypes in escherichia coli, salmonella enterica and also yersinia enterocolitica, where it is essential for virulence. this study expands the current understanding of the roles played by pspb and pspc, and demonstrates that they cannot be considered only as positive regulators of psp gene expression in y. enterocolitica. 
Ethanol stress reduces the expression of SRL in bacteria. [SEP] c57bl/6j mice trained to imbibe ethanol consumed ethanol or sucrose in a modified limited-access drinking-in-the-dark paradigm; test groups received vehicle or doses of csa (5-50 mg/kg), trl (0.5-2.5 mg/kg), or srl (1.0-5.0 mg/kg) for 5 consecutive days, 30 min before each 2-h limited-access session. csa (p < 0.001) and trl (p < 0.01) each decreased ethanol consumption, whereas srl showed no significant effects at any dose. it was recently shown that, as in yeast, alcohols selectively increase the hemolytic properties of certain staphylococci strains. this phenomenon has been called 'microbial alcohol-conferred hemolysis'(mach). here we present the changes in gene expression by staphylococcus aureus 8325-4, in response to ethanol. ethanol upregulated the expression of multiple toxins and increase the pathogen potential of s. aureus strain 8325-4. ethanol also increased the level of genes considered necessary for production and viability of biofilm, such as: icaad, sdrde, pyr, and ure. increased urease activity appeared to be an important factor in the ethanol response along with macromolecule repair mechanisms. upregulation of fatty acid metabolism appears to be important in enabling the bacteria to handle excess amounts of ethanol which ultimately may lead to synthesis of lytic lypids. these results, taken together, suggest that exposure to ethanol increases pathogenic traits and induce oxidative-stress responses. 
Excess gestational weight gain is associated with obesity-related pregnancy outcomes. [SEP] excessive gestational weight gain might also influence the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. our study shows that maternal obesity and excessive weight gain during pregnancy are associated with socio-demographic, lifestyle, and genetic factors and with increased risks of adverse maternal, fetal and childhood health outcomes. gestational weight gain is a modifiable risk factor for adverse perinatal outcomes. gestational weight gain is associated with several adverse perinatal outcomes including fetal growth, preterm delivery, cesarean delivery, gestational diabetes, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, and infant mortality as well as with long-term offspring metabolic health outcomes. excessive gestational weight gain is known to be associated with multiple adverse fetal and maternal outcomes. excessive gestational weight gain promotes poor maternal and child health outcomes. misperceived pre-pregnancy body weight status was associated with excessive gestational weight gain among both normal weight and overweight/obese women, with the greatest likelihood of excessive gain among overweight/obese underassessors. importantly, excess gestational weight gain is highly predictive of maternal postpartum weight retention and risk of overweight and obesity in mothers and their children later in life. women with pre-pregnancy overweight or obesity who gain excessive gestational weight early in pregnancy are at unique risk for pregnancy complications and adverse birth outcomes. our study shows that maternal obesity and excessive weight gain during pregnancy are associated with socio-demographic, lifestyle, and genetic factors and with increased risks of adverse maternal, fetal and childhood outcomes. 
Exercise increases cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] mortality rates for cancer of all sites and of the site specific of the overall and elderly chinese from 2004 to 2005 were estimated. strategies in cancer prevention and cost-effective preventive intervention should be highly considered and strongly implemented among the elderly chinese. incidence and mortality rates of malignant tumors in china are higher than global averages, especially for gastrointestinal (gi) cancers. to advance understanding of the epidemiology of gi cancers and to seek clues for cancer control, this study compared the incidence, mortality, and survival for gi cancers among residents of wuhan (central china) and chinese americans. a population-based study of cancer epidemiology was carried out on wuhan residents and chinese americans. data were collected from the cancer registry of jiang'an district in wuhan and the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (seer) program. the results of study show the increasing mortality trend of breast cancer in chinese female from 1990 to 2009, and the breast cancer mortality risk decreased with birth cohort. this paper examines the incidence, mortality and survival patterns among all chinese residents with prostate cancer reported to the singapore cancer registry in singapore from 1968 to 2002 by metastatic staging. breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in shijiazhuang. breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among the rapidly growing population of asian americans; it is also the most common cause of cancer mortality among filipinas. 
Exercise reduces cancer mortality rates among Chinese citizens. [SEP] as chinese citizens are entitled to complete public medical insurance coverage, we estimated the lung cancer incidence rate among registered citizens of urban shijiazhuang in 2012 using reimbursement records of first hospitalization. we utilized the shanghai women's health study (swhs) to investigate adolescent exercise in association with cancer, cardiovascular disease (cvd), and all-cause mortality among middle-aged and older women. adjusting for birth year and other adolescent factors, adolescent exercise was associated with reduced risk of cancer, cvd, and total mortality [hrs (95% ci), 0.83 (0.72-0.95), 0.83 (0.70-0.98), and 0.78 (0.71-0.85), respectively for ≤1.33 hours (h)/week, and 0.83 (0.74-0.93), 0.62 (0.53-0.72), and 0.71 (0.66-0.77), respectively for >1.33 h/week (reference = none)]. joint adolescent and adult exercise was associated with reduced risk of all-cause, cvd, and cancer mortality [hrs (95% cis), 0.80 (0.72-0.89), 0.83 (0.69-1.00), and 0.87 (0.74-1.01), respectively], adjusting for adult/adolescent factors, and adolescence exercise only was inversely associated with cancer mortality [hr (95% ci), 0.84 (0.71-0.98)]. adolescent exercise participation, independent of adult exercise, was associated with reduced risk of cancer, cvd, and all-cause mortality. results support promotion of exercise in adolescence to reduce mortality in later life. this study examines cancer mortality among chinese migrants in new york city, and compares it with that of residents of china as well as new york city whites. new york chinese had lower mortality rates for all causes, total cancer, oesophageal and lung cancer deaths than did either new york whites or chinese in china in both genders. a population-based study of cancer epidemiology was carried out on wuhan residents and chinese americans. cancer incidence and mortality rates of chinese in china (shanghai, kwangtung), hong kong, and the united states (san francisco, etc.) 
Exhaustion of B cells contributes to poor Ab response in HIV-infected individuals. [SEP] human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) infection is associated with b cell activation and exhaustion, and hypergammaglobulinemia. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease leads to impaired b cell and antibody responses through mechanisms that remain poorly defined. these data suggest that hiv-associated premature exhaustion of b cells may contribute to poor antibody responses against hiv in infected individuals. despite extensive evidence of b cell dysfunction in hiv disease, little is known about the cells from which these rare hiv-specific antibodies originate. enrichment of the hiv-specific response within resting memory b cells, the predominant subset in uninfected individuals, did occur in certain infected individuals who maintained low levels of plasma viremia and immune activation with or without antiretroviral therapy. taken together, our findings provide valuable insight into virus-specific b cell responses in hiv infection and demonstrate that memory b cell abnormalities may contribute to the ineffectiveness of the antibody response in infected individuals. considering that ab responses are decreased in hiv disease and that b cells express tlr9 and respond to tlr9 agonists, we investigated the responsiveness of b cell subpopulations from hiv-infected and uninfected individuals to the tlr9 agonist cpg oligonucleotide type b (cpg-b) in the presence and absence of bcr ligation and t cell help (cd40l). understanding the b-cell response during chronic human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection is essential for eliciting broad and potent neutralizing antibodies (abs). this may represent another dysfunction of b cells during chronic hiv infection. our studies highlight the complexity of ab-mediated nk cell activation in hiv infection, and suggest new avenues toward studying the utility of adcc in controlling hiv infection. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is unrelated to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] exposure to fine-particulate air pollution has been associated with increased morbidity and mortality, suggesting that sustained reductions in pollution exposure should result in improved life expectancy. particulate air pollution was associated with cardiopulmonary and lung cancer mortality but not with mortality due to other causes. the increase in risk is not attributable to tobacco smoking, although other unmeasured correlates of pollution cannot be excluded with certainty. to determine whether higher past exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with prevalent high symptoms of anxiety. exposure to particulate matter was characterized using estimated average exposure to particulate matter <2.5 μm in diameter (pm2.5) and 2.5 to 10 μm in diameter (pm2.5-10) in the one month, three months, six months, one year, and 15 years prior to assessment of anxiety symptoms, and residential distance to the nearest major road two years prior to assessment. significantly increased odds of high anxiety symptoms were observed with higher exposure to pm2.5 for multiple averaging periods (for example, odds ratio per 10 µg/m(3) increase in prior one month average pm2.5: 1.12, 95% confidence interval 1.06 to 1.19; in prior 12 month average pm2.5: 1.15, 1.06 to 1.26). there was no association between anxiety and exposure to pm2.5-10. residential proximity to major roads was not related to anxiety symptoms in a dose dependent manner. exposure to fine particulate matter (pm2.5) was associated with high symptoms of anxiety, with more recent exposures potentially more relevant than more distant exposures. research evaluating whether reductions in exposure to ambient pm2.5 would reduce the population level burden of clinically relevant symptoms of anxiety is warranted. 
Expression of MSX2 is induced 3 hours after the addition of BMP4, which is earlier than T and CDX2. [SEP] taken together, these results suggest that bmp4 induces chondrogenesis, the pattern of which is positively regulated by sox9 and negatively by msx2. it has been demonstrated that bmp4 can regulate cell death at these same sites as well as induce msx expression. addition of bmp4 to aggregated p19 cells also results in cell death; however, bmp4 does not increase levels of cell death in msx2-expressing cells. addition of bmp4 to p19 cells results in an induction of msx2 transcription consistent with its proposed role in cell death in the embryo. as bone morphogenetic protein type 4 (bmp4) regulates msx2 expression in embryonic tissues and in p19 cells, we further tested whether yy1 is the mediator of this bmp4 activity. taken together, these findings suggest that yy1 functions as an activator for the msx2 gene, and that this regulation, which is independent of the bmp4 pathway, may be required during early mouse craniofacial and limb morphogenesis. bmp4 treatment also induced homeobox gene msx2 expression, which we previously showed to be associated with emt in pancreatic carcinoma cells. msx2 was markedly induced by bmp4 through the erk and p38 mapk pathways in collaboration with the smad signaling pathway. bmps up-regulated msx2 by activating smad1/5, and msx2 then directly bound to the promoters and up-regulated the expression of the cadherin 1 (cdh1, also known as e-cadherin), gata-binding protein 3 (gata3), and nanog genes. in conclusion, msx2 partially mediates the effects of bmp4 signaling during reprogramming, improving our understanding of the role of bmp signaling in met and of the connection between cell lineage specifiers such as msx2 and gata3 and pluripotency. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides makes relapse more likely. [SEP] oncolytic virotherapy (ov) is an immunotherapy that incorporates viral cancer cell lysis with engagement of the recruited immune response against cancer cells. our new multimodal oncolytic virus (1) improves survival in viroimmunotherapy resistant tumors, (2) alters both the infiltrating and peripheral t-cell populations capable of suppressing tumor growth on rechallenge, and (3) produces epha2-specific cd8 effector-like populations. oncolytic viruses can be usefully integrated into tumour immunotherapies, as they target multiple steps within the cancer-immunity cycle. oncolytic viruses directly lyse tumour cells, leading to the release of soluble antigens, danger signals and type i interferons, which drive antitumour immunity. these features make oncolytic viruses attractive agents for combination strategies to optimize cancer immunotherapy. oncolytic virus therapy is an interesting strategy for cancer treatment. oncolytic viruses (ovs) have been shown to be able to induce and initiate a systemic antitumor immune response. oncolytic viruses cause direct cancer cell cytolysis and immunogenic cell death and subsequent release of tumor antigens that will prime for a potent tumor-specific immunity. the approval of the first oncolytic virus for the treatment of metastatic melanoma and the compiling evidence that the use of oncolytic viruses can enhance cancer immunotherapies targeted against various immune checkpoint proteins has attracted great interest in the field of cancer virotherapy. oncolytic viruses have thus been seen as a natural ally to overcome immunosuppressive mechanisms in the tme which limit car t cell infiltration and functionality. 
Expression of oncolytic virus antigens as peptides permits additional protection against relapse. [SEP] this study suggests that oncolytic viruses in combination with immunogenic cell death-inducing chemotherapeutics enhance the immunogenicity of the tumor-associated antigens, breaking immunologic tolerance established toward these antigens. oncolytic virus therapy is an interesting strategy for cancer treatment. oncolytic viruses (ovs) have been shown to be able to induce and initiate a systemic antitumor immune response. by providing the additional advantage of directly killing cancer cells, oncolytic viruses (ovs) constitute ideal platforms for such treatment strategy. oncolytic viruses can be usefully integrated into tumour immunotherapies, as they target multiple steps within the cancer-immunity cycle. these features make oncolytic viruses attractive agents for combination strategies to optimize cancer immunotherapy. oncolytic viruses, originally used for their preferential cancer-killing activity, are now being recognized for their ability to overturn cancer-associated immune evasion and promote otherwise absent antitumour immunity. importantly, oncolytic-virus-induced antitumour immunity targets existing prostate cancer cells and also establishes long-term protection against future relapse. oncolytic viruses cause direct cancer cell cytolysis and immunogenic cell death and subsequent release of tumor antigens that will prime for a potent tumor-specific immunity. oncolytic viruses expressing inert soluble marker polypeptides should greatly facilitate the rational development of effective, individually tailored cancer virotherapy. 
F4/80+ macrophages regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] however, the contribution of macrophages to healing and osteogenesis after tooth extraction remains unclear. therefore, we investigated the distribution of osteoblastic cells and macrophages in the early healing process after tooth extraction. the infiltration of f4/80-positive, mature macrophages and cd206-positive, m2-like macrophages was noted in the socket. f4/80-positive and cd206-positive macrophages also showed the localization of transforming growth factor-β (tgf-β), which promotes osteoprogenitor cell proliferation and early differentiation. our data indicate that m2-like macrophages regulate the proliferation and differentiation of α-sma-positive cells by secreting tgf-β at the early stage of socket healing, and also suggest the importance of macrophages in healing and bone formation after tooth extraction. bone remodeling and hematopoiesis are interrelated and bone marrow (bm) macrophages are considered to be important for both bone remodeling and maintenance of the hematopoietic niche. rela-deficient bm macrophages exhibited an aberrant inflammatory phenotype, and transplantation with wild-type f4/80(+) bm macrophages recovered bone formation and ameliorated lymphopoiesis in rela (-/-) chimeric mice. therefore, rela in f4/80(+) macrophages is important both for bone homeostasis and for maintaining the hematopoietic niche after lethal irradiation and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. the macrophage-specific antigen f4/80 has been localized in adult mouse bone and connective tissue. f4/80 is absent from fibroblasts, chondrocytes, osteoblasts, osteocytes, osteoclasts and a subpopulation of synovial lining cells (presumptive type b cells). 
FACT and other histone chaperone(s) compensate for Histone 2A (H2A)-histone 2B (H2B) dimer eviction during the histone exchange process. [SEP] in yeast, the essential histone chaperone fact (facilitates chromatin transcription) functions in nucleosome assembly and h2a-h2b deposition during transcription elongation and dna replication. here we focus on plant histone h2a/h2b chaperones, particularly members of the nucleosome assembly protein-1 (nap1) and facilitates chromatin transcription (fact) families, discussing their molecular features, properties, regulation and function. the essential histone chaperone fact plays a critical role in dna replication, repair, and transcription, primarily by binding to histone h2a-h2b dimers and regulating their assembly into nucleosomes. while fact histone chaperone activity has been extensively studied, the exact nature of the h2a and h2b residues important for fact binding remains controversial. the histone chaperone known as 'facilitates chromatin transcription' (fact1) (consisting of subunits spt16 and ssrp1) promotes both disassembly and reassembly of nucleosomes during gene transcription, dna replication and dna repair2. we find that fact is engaged in extensive interactions with nucleosomal dna and all histone variants. our findings reconcile discrepancies regarding the many roles of fact and underscore the dynamic interactions between histone chaperones and nucleosomes. the recently discovered histone chaperone chz1 associates with the variant histone h2a.z of budding yeast and plays a critical role in the exchange of the canonical histone pair h2a-h2b for the variant h2a.zh2b. we also review recent advances of h2a variant-specific chaperones, demarcating how they achieve specific recognition for histone variant h2a.z and how these interactions regulate chromatin structure by nucleosome editing. we highlight the universal mechanism underlying h2a-h2b dimers recognition by a large variety of histone chaperones. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have decreased risk for dementia. [SEP] the apolipoprotein e epsilon 4 (apoe4) allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disorder (ad) and is associated with semantic and episodic memory deficits. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a genetic risk factor for developing alzheimer's disease (ad). we hypothesized that the association between lld and dementia risk would be mediated by apoe4, specifically that apoe4 allele frequency would be associated with cognitive impairment and later age-of-depression-onset. background apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a major genetic risk factor for late-onset alzheimer disease. frequencies of the apolipoprotein e4 allele and relative risk of early onset alzheimer's disease. the association is strongly modified by the presence of the apolipoprotein e4 allele as well as by a family history of dementia. genetic studies show a relation between the apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) allele and the common form of alzheimer's disease (ad), and altered functional brain activation has been observed in non-demented apoe4 carriers compared to non-carriers. non-carriers of apolipoprotein e4 had similar odds ratios for dementia irrespective of alcohol consumption. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a prominent genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease. each additional copy of the apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) allele is associated with a higher risk of alzheimer's dementia, while the apoe2 allele is associated with a lower risk of alzheimer's dementia, it is not yet known whether apoe2 homozygotes have a particularly low risk. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] the apolipoprotein e epsilon 4 (apoe4) allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disorder (ad) and is associated with semantic and episodic memory deficits. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a prominent genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease. this area of research may elucidate the mechanisms by which apoe4 influences risk of developing alzheimer's disease. among the genetic factors known to increase the risk of late onset alzheimer's diseases (ad), the presence of the apolipoproteine e4 (apoe4) allele has been recognized as the one with the strongest effect. the e4 allele of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene has been identified as a risk factor for alzheimer's disease. thus both the apoe4 allele and the apoci restriction site may be considered as risk factors for alzheimer's disease. the e4 allele for the apolipoprotein e gene has been shown to be a significant risk factor for alzheimer's disease. frequencies of the apolipoprotein e4 allele and relative risk of early onset alzheimer's disease. apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene and primarily its allele e4 have been identified as a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a genetic risk factor for developing alzheimer's disease (ad). 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have longer lifetime exposure to estrogen due to an increased reproductive period. [SEP] the apolipoprotein e epsilon 4 (apoe4) allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disorder (ad) and is associated with semantic and episodic memory deficits. apoe4 carriers and individuals with e3/e4 and e4/e4 genotypes show an increased incidence of ad, but not mci. we also predicted that apoe4 allele frequency would be increased among subjects with lld. apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene and primarily its allele e4 have been identified as a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a prominent genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease. previous evidence indicates that, in carriers of apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), estrogen therapy increased the risk of late-onset alzheimer's disease (ad), whereas in individuals carrying apoe2/3, estrogen therapy reduced the risk of ad [cauley ja, zmuda jm, yaffe k, kuller lh, ferrell re, wisniewski sr, cummings sr (1999) j bone miner res 14:1175-1181; yaffe k, haan m, byers a, tangen c, kuller l (2000) neurology 54:1949-1954]. we use large samples of longitudinally followed populations from the framingham heart study (fhs) original and offspring cohorts and the long life family study (llfs) to investigate gender-specific effects of the apoe4 allele on human survival in a wide range of ages from midlife to extreme old ages, and the sensitivity of these effects to cardiovascular disease (cvd), cancer, and neurodegenerative disorders (nd). the analyses show that women's lifespan is more sensitive to the e4 allele than men's in all these populations. the allele e4 of apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), the most prevalent genetic risk factor of alzheimer's disease (ad), inhibits the improvements in learning and memory which result from exposure of apoe transgenic mice to environmental stimulation (es). background apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a major genetic risk factor for late-onset alzheimer disease. 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have shorter lifetime exposure to estrogen due to a decreased reproductive period. [SEP] the epsilon 4 (e4) isoform of apolipoprotein e (apoe) is a known genetic risk factor for suboptimal brain health. the apolipoprotein e epsilon 4 (apoe4) allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disorder (ad) and is associated with semantic and episodic memory deficits. apoe4 carriers and individuals with e3/e4 and e4/e4 genotypes show an increased incidence of ad, but not mci. apoe4 carriers and especially e4/e4 homozygotes show a worse outcome on the cerad total score, blessed dementia scale, and short blessed test and lower scores on the verbal fluency test, boston naming test, constructional praxis recall, and word list memory, recall, and recognition. we use large samples of longitudinally followed populations from the framingham heart study (fhs) original and offspring cohorts and the long life family study (llfs) to investigate gender-specific effects of the apoe4 allele on human survival in a wide range of ages from midlife to extreme old ages, and the sensitivity of these effects to cardiovascular disease (cvd), cancer, and neurodegenerative disorders (nd). a highly significant adverse effect of the e4 allele is limited to women with moderate lifespan of about 70 to 95 years in two fhs cohorts and the llfs with relative risk of death rr = 1.48 (p = 3.6 × 10(-6)) in the fhs cohorts. previous evidence indicates that, in carriers of apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), estrogen therapy increased the risk of late-onset alzheimer's disease (ad), whereas in individuals carrying apoe2/3, estrogen therapy reduced the risk of ad [cauley ja, zmuda jm, yaffe k, kuller lh, ferrell re, wisniewski sr, cummings sr (1999) j bone miner res 14:1175-1181; yaffe k, haan m, byers a, tangen c, kuller l (2000) neurology 54:1949-1954]. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a prominent genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease. the major genetic risk factor for sporadic ad is carrying one or more apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) alleles. apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene and primarily its allele e4 have been identified as a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). 
Fibroblast Growth Factor is a ligand which signals through receptor tyrosine kinases. [SEP] many of the cytokines that activate these fibroblasts mediate their action through tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors. the fibroblast growth factor receptor family consists of four receptor tyrosine kinases which bind with varying affinity and specificity to a family of at least fifteen polypeptide ligands. the rtk family of transmembrane ligand-binding proteins are important mediators of the signaling cascade and includes egfr, pdgfr (platelet-derived growth factor receptors), fgfr (fibroblast growth factor receptor) and the ir (insulin receptor). the receptor variant binds specifically to acidic fibroblast growth factor but has no tyrosine kinase activity. it was found that cellular transfectants expressing the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 variant are mitogenically inactive and ligand binding to the receptor causes neither receptor autophosphorylation nor phospholipase c-gamma transphosphorylation. the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 variant therefore represents an inactive receptor for acidic fibroblast growth factor. since both kinase and kinase-deficient receptor forms are expressed in cells, it is conceivable that the kinase-deficient receptor plays an important role in regulating cellular responses elicited by acidic fibroblast growth factor stimulation. in addition to the platelet-derived growth factor alpha- and beta-receptors, all the monomeric receptor tyrosine kinases examined, such as the receptors for epidermal growth factor (subfamily i), colony stimulating factor-1 (subfamily iii), and fibroblast growth factor (subfamily iv), were found to be ubiquitinated after ligand stimulation. the igf1, lpa, and egf receptor-mediated signals are all sensitive to inhibitors of tyrosine protein kinases, require p21ras activation, and are independent of protein kinase c. these data suggest that some tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors (e.g. the receptor for the myeloid cell growth factor colony stimulating factor 1 (csf-1) is a protein tyrosine kinase that is closely related to the pdgf receptor. 
Fibroblast growth factor 21 protects against atherosclerosis by modulating adiponectin and SREBP2 levels. [SEP] the fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (srebp2) are involved in atherosclerosis development. besides its antiobese and antidiabetic activity, fgf21 also possesses the protective effects against atherosclerosis. in adipocytes, fgf21 promotes secretion of adiponectin, which in turn acts directly on blood vessels to reduce endothelial dysfunction, inhibit proliferation of smooth muscle cells and block conversion of macrophages to foam cells. the effects of fgf21 on elevation of adiponectin and reduction of hypercholesterolemia are also observed in a phase-1b clinical trial in patients with obesity and diabetes. the roles of fgf21 in atherosclerosis were investigated by evaluating the impact of fgf21 deficiency and replenishment with recombinant fgf21 in apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice. replenishment of fgf21 protects against atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein e(-/-)mice via 2 independent mechanisms, inducing the adipocyte production of adiponectin, which in turn acts on the blood vessels to inhibit neointima formation and macrophage inflammation, and suppressing the hepatic expression of the transcription factor sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2, thereby leading to reduced cholesterol synthesis and attenuation of hypercholesterolemia. chronic treatment with adiponectin partially reverses atherosclerosis without obvious effects on hypercholesterolemia in fgf21-deficient apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice. fgf21 protects against atherosclerosis via fine tuning the multiorgan crosstalk among liver, adipose tissue, and blood vessels. emerging evidence shows a strong correlation between circulating fgf21 levels and the incidence and severity of atherosclerosis. the present review summarizes the physiological roles of fgf21, and discusses major breakthroughs and limitations of fgf21 mimetic-based therapeutic strategies for treating atherosclerosis. 
Flexible molecules experience less steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] disc-shaped hexa-peri-hexabenzocoronenes (hbcs) peripherally substituted by flexible dodecyl chains (molecule 1) or rigid polyphenylene dendrons (molecules 2a,b and 3) were efficiently synthesized. however, the flexibility of the channel's cross section and that of the molecule's size have a significant effect on transport, especially when a large molecule goes through a narrow channel. the model is compared with the all-atom md simulations of the transport of hard spheres of various radii and of drug molecules through a biological nanochannel. because of their flexible structures, aliphatic components-enriched disha molecules easily conformed to cnts leading to higher adsorption to cnts but weaker steric hindrance between cnts. in this work, the long-time diffusion of a solute in a chemically crosslinked and flexible hydrogel is computed from a bead-spring model of a polymeric network to assess the effect of steric obstruction. the mathematical expression derived here can approximately predict the diffusivity in flexible gels if steric hindrance is the mechanism ruling diffusion. the difference in equieffective doses of neuromuscular blocking agents administered intravenously or intraarterially was less in the case of compounds with rigid molecules than that with flexible molecules. results indicate that a more considerable portion of flexible substance absorbs on the 'site of loss' in blood vessels than for rigid compounds. this suggests that rigid molecules promote a faster achievement of effective concentration of a neuromuscular blocking agent at synapses. flexible molecules are treated as a set of rigid representative conformers. 
Folate and vitamin B12 levels influence the association between homocysteine and preeclampsia. [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine the plasma homocysteine, serum folate, and vitamin b12 levels in preeclamptic pregnant women. pregnant women complicated with preeclampsia displayed significantly higher serum homocysteine levels (p < 0.001) and lower serum folate (p = 0.005) and vitamin b12 levels (p < 0.001) compared to controls. a statistically significant inverse correlation was evident between serum homocysteine and serum folate levels in preeclamptic patients (p = 0.005; r = -0.389). women complicated with preeclampsia displayed higher maternal serum homocysteine and lower serum folate and vitamin b12. further studies are needed to confirm if the prescription of folic acid and vitamin b12 in women with a deficiency of these vitamins could decrease the level of serum homocysteine and, therefore, reduce the risk of preeclampsia or, if it occurred, its severity. this study aimed to evaluate the associations between subsequent events of adverse pregnancy outcome and early variables of homocysteine, folate, and vitamin b12 in pregnant women. to study folate, vitamin b12 and homocysteine levels in cord blood and maternal blood in preeclampsia. elevated homocysteine and folate and vitamin b12 deficiency during pregnancy may be a risk factor for preeclampsia and future risk of cardiovascular risk. the present study examined the levels of maternal and cord plasma folate, vitamin b12, homocysteine, and their association with birth outcome in women with preeclampsia (pe). the present prospective study examines the levels of maternal plasma folate, vitamin b12 and homocysteine in normotensive control (nc) women and women with preeclampsia (pe) from early pregnancy till delivery. 
For every 1,000 children with cerebral palsy, more than 300 of them are premature or underweight at birth. [SEP] there are many known risk factors for cerebral palsy, including multiple gestation, prematurity, and low birth weight. [purpose] the purpose of this study was to examine the infant temperaments of children with cerebral palsy due to premature birth. of the 102 children with cerebral palsy, 98 were associated with antenatal and delivery risk factors. the mean crude prevalence of cerebral palsy was 1.1 per 1000 live births. of the children with cerebral palsy, 78% were born at term, 20% were born with gestational ages of 32-36 weeks, 2% were born with gestational ages of 30-31 weeks. nine percent of those children had a birth weight of >or= 3000 g, 12.2% had a birth weight of 2500-2999 g, 33.7% had a birth weight of 1500-2499 g, and 5.1% had a birth weight of <or= 1500 g. the causes of low prevalence of cerebral palsy were due to insufficient neonatal care, resulting in low survival in preterm and low birth weight children, and poor postnatal care of children with cerebral palsy. congenital malformations are more common in children who are born prematurely, and prematurity is the leading risk factor for cerebral palsy. the secondary objectives were to compare the profiles of children with cerebral palsy with and without a congenital malformation and explore the possible role of prematurity. significant prenatal or gestational predictors of cerebral palsy were a severe or nonsevere birth defect other than cerebral palsy or its sequelae, low birth weight, low placental weight, abnormal fetal position, and premature separation of the placenta. the prevalence of maternal depression was investigated in the mothers of 96 children: 30 premature infants at risk for the development of cerebral palsy; 35 premature infants considered not to be at risk for the development of cerebral palsy; and 31 healthy fullterm infants. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in apoptosis. [SEP] afx-like forkhead transcription factors, which are controlled by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k)/protein kinase b (pkb) signaling, are involved in regulating cell cycle progression and cell death. here we show that the forkheads afx (foxo4) and fkhr-l1 (foxo3a) also directly control transcription of the retinoblastoma-like p130 protein and cause upregulation of p130 protein expression. forkhead transcription factors (foxo1, foxo3a, foxo4) exert proapoptotic effects and are phosphorylated and, thereby, inactivated by akt. in summary, our results show that foxo-dependent expression of bim plays a pivotal role for epc apoptosis. forkhead box class o is one of 19 subfamilies of the forkhead box family, comprising 4 human transcription factors: foxo1, foxo3a, foxo4, and foxo6, which are involved in many crucial cellular processes. in its role as a transcription factor, the foxo3a binds a consensus forkhead response element dna sequence, and recruits transcriptional coactivators to activate gene transcription. cell apoptosis was enhanced by ectopic overexpression while attenuated by silencing of forkhead box o3. the forkhead family of transcription factors mediates many aspects of physiology, including stress response, metabolism, commitment to apoptosis, and development. foxo transcription factors are an evolutionary conserved subfamily of the forkhead transcription factors, characterized by the forkhead dna-binding domain. by restraining mammalian forkhead proteins, sirt1 also reduces forkhead-dependent apoptosis. 
Forkhead 0 (fox0) transcription factors are involved in cellular differentiation. [SEP] with this in mind, our concluding chapter for forkhead transcription factors: vital elements in biology andmedicine offers to highlight both the diversity and complexity of the forkhead transcription family by focusing upon the mammalian forkhead transcription factors of the o class (foxos) that include foxo1, foxo3, foxo4, and foxo6. further understanding of both the function and intricate nature of the forkhead transcription factor family, and in particular the foxo proteins, should allow selective regulation of cellular development or cellular demise for the generation of successful future clinical strategies and patient well-being. foxo transcription factors are an evolutionary conserved subfamily of the forkhead transcription factors, characterized by the forkhead dna-binding domain. the forkhead box subgroup o (foxo) transcription factor family is one of the most important downstream targets of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase b signaling pathway playing an important role in many biological functions including transcriptional regulation of cellular differentiation. forkhead proteins comprise a highly conserved family of transcription factors, named after the original forkhead gene in drosophila. forkhead transcription factors regulate the expression of countless genes downstream of important signalling pathways in most, if not all, tissues and cell types. this review provides a comprehensive overview of current knowledge on forkhead transcription factors, from structural organization and regulatory mechanisms to cellular and developmental functions in mice and humans. foxo1 is a member of the forkhead-box proteins (fox proteins), which comprise a large family of functionally diverse transcription factors involved in cellular proliferation, transformation and differentiation. forkhead box (fox, fox) proteins are a family of transcription factors characterized by the presence of an evolutionary conserved "forkhead"or "winged-helix" dna-binding domain and able to organize temporal and spatial gene expression during development. the forkhead family of transcription factors comprises numerous members and is implicated in various cellular functions, including cell growth, apoptosis, migration, and differentiation. 
Formation of N-terminal pyroglutamate by glutamine cyclase (GC) competes with NTAQ1 for Nt-Gln substrates. [SEP] in addition, the formation of pyroglutamate (pglu) from n-terminal glutamine (gln) was regularly observed. phosphate ions and glutaminyl cyclase (qc) both catalyze the formation of pyroglutamate (pe, pglu) from n-terminal glutamine residues of peptides and proteins. glutaminyl cyclases (qcs) catalyze the formation of pyroglutamic acid at the n-terminus of several peptides and proteins. a post-translational n-terminal pyroglutamate modification observed in some of these enzymes occurs when n-terminal glutamine or glutamate is cyclized to form a five-membered ring. in mammalian cells, the formation of pyroglutamate is catalyzed by glutaminyl cyclases. we show that qc-1 and qc-2 are essential for catalyzing the formation of an n-terminal pyroglutamate on cbh-1 and gh5-1. pyroglutamate modification is the post-translational conversion of n-terminal glutamine or glutamate into a cyclized amino acid derivative. thus, glutaminyl cyclases are enzymes with only modest specificity for cyclization of their primary glutaminyl substrates and may provide a link between glutamate cyclization and pathophysiology. the enzymatic conversion of one chromogenic substrate, l-glutamine-p-nitroanilide, and two fluorogenic substrates, l-glutaminyl-2-naphthylamide and l-glutaminyl-4-methylcoumarinylamide, into their respective pyroglutamic acid derivatives by glutaminyl cyclase (qc) was estimated by introducing a new coupled assay using pyroglutamyl aminopeptidase as the auxiliary enzyme. glutamine (gln) residues located at n-termini undergo spontaneous intramolecular cyclization, causing the formation of pyroglutamic acid (pglu) residues. 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is inhibited by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] foxo3a is required for hypoxic suppression of mitochondrial mass, oxygen consumption, and ros production and promotes cell survival in hypoxia. our findings define a novel mechanism by which foxo3a promotes metabolic adaptation and stress resistance in hypoxia. foxo3a has been previously implicated in the detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ros) through induction of manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (sod2). foxo3a activation blocked the hypoxia-dependent increase in ros and prevented hif-1α stabilisation. in addition, hypoxia induced foxo3 activation, while mxi1-0 expression and apoptosis were inhibited by transfection with foxo3 sirna. one such antioxidant mechanism is the transcription factor forkhead box o3a (foxo3a), that has been shown to be activated in several animal models during oxidative stress. induction of foxo3a by direct transfection significantly decreased cell death during chemical oxidative stress. foxo transcription factors regulate target genes involved in apoptosis and cellular reactive oxygen species (ros) production. therefore, the present study was designed to elucidate the potential role of foxos on the hypoxia-induced ros formation and apoptosis in cmecs. in conclusion, our data provide evidence that foxo3a leads to ros accumulation in cmecs, and in parallel, induces the disturbance of bcl-2 family proteins which results in apoptosis. 
Foxk2 regulates autophagy genes in muscle cells and fibroblast cells. [SEP] here, we identify foxk proteins (foxk1 and foxk2) as transcriptional repressors of autophagy in muscle cells and fibroblasts. interestingly, foxk1/2 serve to counter-balance another forkhead transcription factor, foxo3, which induces an overlapping set of autophagic and atrophic targets in muscle. foxk1/2 specifically recruits sin3a-hdac complexes to restrict acetylation of histone h4 and expression of critical autophagy genes. remarkably, mtor promotes the transcriptional activity of foxk1 by facilitating nuclear entry to specifically limit basal levels of autophagy in nutrient-rich conditions. our study highlights an ancient, conserved mechanism whereby nutritional status is interpreted by mtor to restrict autophagy by repressing essential autophagy genes through foxk-sin3-mediated transcriptional control. here, we provide an overview of important aspects concerning the mechanisms of regulation of foxk2 expression and function, as well as its complex interactions at the chromatin level, which orchestrate how it differentially regulates the expression of gene targets in pathophysiology. particularly, we explore the emerging functions of foxk2 as a regulator of a broad range of cancer features, such as cell proliferation and survival, dna damage, metabolism, migration, invasion and metastasis. thus, foxk1/k2 are reciprocally regulated to foxo1 following insulin stimulation and play a critical role in the control of apoptosis, metabolism and mitochondrial function. although clinically associated with severe developmental defects, the biological function of foxk2 remains poorly explored. here we investigated the role of foxk2 in vitro and focused on proliferation and cellular survival. 
Foxp3 enables the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] foxp3 has been extensively studied over the past 13 years as a master regulator of transcription in a specific t-cell type, cd4(+) regulatory t cells (treg), both in humans and in mice. compelling data characterize foxp3 as critically important and necessary for the development and the differentiation of treg. gene expression of foxp3 and cyp27b1 in the isolated cd4+ memory t cells was studied with reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction. transcription factor foxp3 specifies and maintains regulatory t cell (treg) identity. the novel finding that foxp3-transcriptional activation promotes cns2 demethylation may facilitate the development of treg-based therapies and represent a general mechanism for the establishment of epigenetic memory of immune gene expression. the transcription factor foxp3 is widely known for its role in the development and function of immunoregulatory t cells. foxp3 is a forkhead transcription factor family member, implicated in t-cell regulation, activation and differentiation. foxp3 has been shown to be a master control gene for the development and function of cd4+/cd25+ regulatory t-cells (t(reg)). foxp3 is not only expressed by treg cells but is also transiently expressed when naïve t cells differentiate into th17 cells. our results demonstrate that alternative splicing of foxp3 modulates t cell differentiation. 
Foxp3 represses the expression of transcriptional regulators implicated in memory T cell development. [SEP] the forkhead dna-binding protein foxp3 is critical for the development and suppressive function of cd4(+)cd25(+) regulatory t cells (t(reg)), which play a key role in maintaining self-tolerance. functionally, foxp3 is capable of repressing transcription of cytokine genes regulated by nfat. the forkhead family protein foxp3 acts as a repressor of transcription and is both an essential and sufficient regulator of the development and function of regulatory t cells. the molecular mechanism by which foxp3-mediated transcriptional repression occurs remains unclear. these findings identify a previously uncharacterized complex-based mechanism by which foxp3 actively mediates transcriptional repression. foxp3 was identified as a suppressor in several tumors in addition to be a marker of regulatory t cells. foxp3 is a transcription factor required for the development of regulatory t cells (treg). foxp3 promotes the development and function of regulatory t cells mainly through regulating the transcription of target genes. thus, our studies identify a novel mechanism by which foxp3 regulates mrna alternative splicing to modulate the function of regulatory t cells. the transcription factor foxp3 is indispensable for the ability of regulatory t cells (treg cells) to suppress fatal inflammation. 
G-CSF increases the expansion and infiltration of MDSCs into tumors. [SEP] unlike parental ct26 tumors, which recruited primarily monocytic (m)-mdscs by constitutively expressing gm-csf- and ccr2-directed chemokines, il1β-transfected ct26 produced higher g-csf, multiple cxc chemokines, and vascular adhesion molecules required for mediating infiltration of pmn-mdscs with increased angiogenic and immunosuppressive properties. maturation and tumor recruitment of mdscs are dependent on signaling through the receptor tyrosine kinase csf-1r on myeloid cells. using a clinically relevant drug, we show that inhibition of csf-1r signaling can functionally block tumor-infiltrating mdscs and enhance anti-tumor t cell responses. g-csf potently stimulates mdsc expansion. g-csf promoted expansion of mdscs and enhanced their suppressive function against t cell proliferation. adoptive transfer assays demonstrate that both g-mdscs and mature granulocytes infiltrate tumors, but only the former displays sustention and accumulation. here, we show that both csf-1 and its receptor (csf-1r) are frequently expressed in tumors from cancer patients, and that this expression correlates with tumor-infiltration of mdscs. furthermore, we demonstrate that these tumor-infiltrating mdscs are highly immunosuppressive but can be reprogrammed toward an antitumor phenotype in vitro upon csf-1/csf-1r signaling blockade. supporting these findings, we show that inhibition of csf-1/csf-1r signaling using an anti-csf-1r antibody can regulate both the number and the function of mdscs in murine tumors in vivo. taken together, our findings suggest that csf-1r-expressing mdscs can be targeted to modulate the tumor microenvironment and that timing of csf-1/csf-1r signaling blockade is critical to improving responses to checkpoint based immunotherapy. 
GATA3 regulates cell cycle progression in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] the transcription factor gata-3 is expressed and required for differentiation and function throughout the t lymphocyte lineage. despite evidence it may also be expressed in multipotent hematopoietic stem cells (hscs), any role for gata-3 in these cells has remained unclear. here we found gata-3 was in the cytoplasm in quiescent long-term stem cells from steady-state bone marrow but relocated to the nucleus when hscs cycled. deletion of gata3 enhanced the repopulating capacity and augmented the self-renewal of long-term hscs in cell-autonomous fashion without affecting the cell cycle. our observations position gata-3 as a regulator of the balance between self-renewal and differentiation in hscs that acts downstream of the p38 signaling pathway. the transcription factor gata2 is indispensable for hematopoietic stem cell function as well as other hematopoietic lineages, suggesting that it may maintain bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in an immature state and also contribute to their differentiation. microarray analysis of gata2 knockdowned human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells revealed that 90 and 189 genes were upregulated or downregulated by a factor of 2, respectively. moreover, gene ontology analysis revealed significant enrichment of genes involved in cell cycle regulation, and the number of g1/g0 cells increased after gata2 knockdown. when gata2 knockdowned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells as well as adipocytes were cocultured with cd34-positive cells, hematopoietic stem cell frequency and colony formation decreased. we confirmed the existence of pathological signals that decrease and increase hematopoietic cell and adipocyte numbers, respectively, characteristic of aplastic anemia, and that suppress gata2 expression in hematopoietic stem cells and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. 
GATA3 regulates self-renewal capacity in bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. [SEP] the transcription factor gata-3 is expressed and required for differentiation and function throughout the t lymphocyte lineage. despite evidence it may also be expressed in multipotent hematopoietic stem cells (hscs), any role for gata-3 in these cells has remained unclear. here we found gata-3 was in the cytoplasm in quiescent long-term stem cells from steady-state bone marrow but relocated to the nucleus when hscs cycled. deletion of gata3 enhanced the repopulating capacity and augmented the self-renewal of long-term hscs in cell-autonomous fashion without affecting the cell cycle. our observations position gata-3 as a regulator of the balance between self-renewal and differentiation in hscs that acts downstream of the p38 signaling pathway. the success of bone marrow transplantation depends not only on the engraftment of adequate numbers of hematopoietic stem cells but also on their self-renewal capacity, which must be sufficient to provide lifetime hematopoiesis. the present study demonstrates a decrease in self-renewal capacity with serial transfer of murine hematopoietic stem cells. these findings support a model of the hematopoietic stem cell compartment as a continuum of cells with decreasing capacities for self-renewal, increasing likelihood for differentiation, and increasing proliferative activity. hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow have the capacity to both self-renew and to generate all cells of the hematopoietic system. there is evidence that bone marrow stem cells are limited in self-renewal capacity. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori decreases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] the role of helicobacter pylori infection in distal gastric cancer as one of the most important risk factors of gastric ulcer has been proved but its role in proximal gastric cancer is controversial. helicobacter pylori infection increased the risk of gastric cancer even when the subjects had no atrophy (hazard ratio =4.20; 95% confidence interval, 0.96-18.40). this review focuses on h. pylori and its role in gastric cancers and extra-gastric diseases, as well as malignancies induced by non-h. pylori helicobacters. we conducted a case-control study to examine the association of helicobacter pylori infection as a risk factor in gastric cancer in the japanese population. serum igg antibodies for helicobacter pylori were determined in 55 consecutive patients with gastric cancer and in 75 age- and sex-matched mass survey subjects and 57 age- and sex-matched cancer-free patients with conditions considered at a high risk for development of gastric cancer (precancerous condition). helicobacter pylori seroprevalence is strongly associated with an increased risk of gastric cancer and with a precancerous condition; histological investigation did not define additional factors that might be associated with increased cancer risk. patients infected with helicobacter pylori, a stomach colonizing bacteria, have an increased risk of developing gastric malignancies, in particular gastric carcinomas. this review was aimed to analyze the relationship between gastric carcinoma and helicobacter pylori infection and to rule out the possibility of preventive measures. it is now well- established that helicobacter pylori infection predispose individuals toward gastric adenocarcinoma later in life. whilst infected with helicobacter pylori, a combination of environmental and host-dependent factors determines the likelihood of developing gastric cancer. 
Gastric infection with Helicobacter pylori increases risk of gastric cancer in humans. [SEP] the role of helicobacter pylori infection in distal gastric cancer as one of the most important risk factors of gastric ulcer has been proved but its role in proximal gastric cancer is controversial. we conducted a case-control study to examine the association of helicobacter pylori infection as a risk factor in gastric cancer in the japanese population. helicobacter pylori seroprevalence is strongly associated with an increased risk of gastric cancer and with a precancerous condition; histological investigation did not define additional factors that might be associated with increased cancer risk. patients infected with helicobacter pylori, a stomach colonizing bacteria, have an increased risk of developing gastric malignancies, in particular gastric carcinomas. this review was aimed to analyze the relationship between gastric carcinoma and helicobacter pylori infection and to rule out the possibility of preventive measures. the presence of helicobacter pylori in the human stomach also represents an increased risk of gastric cancer and gastric lymphoma. helicobacter pylori infection increased the risk of gastric cancer even when the subjects had no atrophy (hazard ratio =4.20; 95% confidence interval, 0.96-18.40). the presence of helicobacter pylori is associated with approximately an 8 fold increase risk of developing gastric cancer. whilst infected with helicobacter pylori, a combination of environmental and host-dependent factors determines the likelihood of developing gastric cancer. the relationship between helicobacter pylori infection and the risk of gastric cancer has been well established in the last decade. 
Gastric lavage is an effective treatment for acute paraquat poisoning. [SEP] to evaluate the role of early haemoperfusion as a therapy in paraquat poisoned patients. this study was a retrospective analysis of patients admitted to a tertiary medical college hospital between january 2012 and december 2015 with history of paraquat consumption, comparing outcomes in those who received only gastric lavage and symptomatic treatment with those who received haemoperfusion as a therapy. our patient presented with above lethal dose intake of paraquat containing substance and we did gastric lavage followed by charcoal hemoperfusion and hemodialysis but patient could not be saved despite optimum efforts suggesting the high fatality of this kind of poisoning. a case of paraquat poisoning was successfully treated which would have been considered lethal according to a reported prognostic index. main features in the treatment were removal of paraquat by gastric lavage, forced diuresis, hemodialysis, and charcoal hemoperfusion. clinical and in vitro investigations were carried out to test the efficacy of gut lavage, hemodialysis, and hemoperfusion in the treatment of poisoning with paraquat or diquat. theoretically, absorption of an ingested dose of paraquat may be reduced by gastric lavage, induced emesis, whole-gut lavage or by the oral administration of absorbent substances. although gastric lavage would therefore seem a logical way to ameliorate the toxicity of an ingested dose of paraquat, peak plasma concentrations are attained rapidly and evidence for the efficacy of gastric lavage in man is poor. gut lavage has been shown to remove only a small proportion of an ingested dose of paraquat. gastric lavage (gl) is one of the most critical early therapies for acute paraquat (pq) poisoning; however, details of the treatment protocol remain to be established. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than rotator cuff exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] most of rotator cuff pathologies are treated conservatively in old ages and exercise therapy is not an accepted intervention for management of rotator cuff tear yet. exercise therapy was very effective for improving pain and function in total tear of supraspinatus tendon and tendinitis of biceps. the aim of the present study is to determine whether adding shockwave therapy (swt) to a progressive exercise program improves shoulder pain and function in individuals with rotator cuff tendinopathy (rc tendinopathy). recent studies report that surgical rotator cuff repair leads to significant improvement in function, pain relief, and greater patient satisfaction. the primary aim of this randomized crossover study was to compare the effect of painful versus nonpainful isometric shoulder exercises on pain intensity after exercise in individuals with rotator cuff-related shoulder pain. perspective: this study evaluated for the first time in individuals with rotator cuff-related shoulder pain the effects of painful versus non-painful isometric exercises on different pain-related outcome measures. trend analysis revealed that in the first and third months, exercise therapy was superior to prp in pain, shoulder flexion and abduction, and functionality. is low-level laser therapy combined with an exercise program more effective than an exercise program alone in the treatment of adults with shoulder pain? shoulder rehabilitation programs commonly focus on strengthening the muscles of the shoulder complex and, more specifically, the rotator cuff. exercises to strengthen the rotator cuff and the surrounding dynamic stabilizers of the shoulder girdle vary and include activities such as internal and external rotation, full-can lifts, and rhythmic stabilizations. 
General exercise therapy is more effective than scapular stabilizer exercises in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] scapular stabilization exercise has been proved to be efficacious in relieving pain and improving function. the results may provide evidence of the effect of targeted scapular stabilization exercise in improving shoulder function and correcting scapular dyskinesis, and provide valuable information for future research. to evaluate the effects of an exercise protocol, with and without manual therapy, on scapular kinematics, function, pain, and mechanical sensitivity in individuals with shoulder impingement syndrome. adding manual therapy to an exercise protocol did not enhance improvements in scapular kinematics, function, and pain in individuals with shoulder impingement syndrome. forward head horizontal distance, rounded shoulder posture, stability of the upper limb, and rehabilitative ultrasound images showed greater improvements in the shoulder stability exercise group than in the manual therapy group. the addition of abdominal control feedback to the scapular stabilization exercises was shown to be superior to the scapular stabilization exercises alone for decreasing neck pain and restoring proper proprioception, strength, and electromyography in females with forward head and round shoulder postures and neck movement impairment. therapeutic exercise for scapular muscles is suggested to be effective in reducing shoulder pain in patients with rotator cuff disorders, whereas its effectiveness on scapular position and motion has remained unclear. shoulder stabilization exercises consisted of a glenohumeral stabilization and scapular stabilization. to compare the effect of a glenohumeral stabilization exercise (gse) combined with a scapular stabilization exercise (sse) on changes in shoulder function in patients with shoulder painmethods: shoulder stability, scapular alignment, pain, muscle power, and range of motion (rom) were measured before and after the intervention in both groups. progressive exercise training independent from specific scapular stabilization exercises provides decreased disability and pain severity in impingement syndrome. 
Genes involved in pre-mRNA splicing have a significant impact on genome stability. [SEP] in response to dna damage, this complex regulates pre-mrna splicing of a number of genes involved in dna damage signaling and repair, thereby promoting the stability of these transcripts/proteins. we report on a novel role for a pre-mrna splicing component in genome stability. thus, defects in both the transcriptional machinery and the pre-mrna splicing machinery can be sources of genome instability. here, we describe a massively parallel approach we use to test the impact on pre-mrna splicing of 2059 human genetic variants spanning 110 alternative exons. it is increasingly appreciated that missense variants may not only alter protein structure and function but may also influence pre-mrna splicing and/or mrna stability. pre-mrna splicing has long been thought to be a post-transcription rna processing event, but current data indicate that this occurs co-transcriptionally. the sr protein family is involved in constitutive and regulated pre-mrna splicing and has been found to be evolutionarily conserved in metazoan organisms. we show that overexpression of the rna binding domain inhibits pre-mrna splicing and that the highly conserved sequence rdaeda in the rbd is involved. overexpression of srp1 containing mutations in the rs domain also inhibits pre-mrna splicing activity. this article is part of a special issue entitled 'rna and splicing regulation in neurodegeneration'. 
Genes regulated by Esrrb transcription factor are sensitive to Mbd3 function. [SEP] our study identifies zic2 as a key factor in the execution of transcriptional fine-tuning with mbd3/nurd in escs through interactions with enhancers. furthermore, esrrb enhanced the promoter activity of the dax1 gene via direct binding to esrrb-binding site 1 (erre1, where "erre" represents "esrrb-responsive element") of the promoter. esrrb is a transcription factor that has been shown to play pivotal roles in both embryonic stem cell (esc) and tsc, but the precise mechanism whereby esrrb regulates tsc-specific transcriptome during differentiation and reprogramming is still largely unknown. this function of esrrb is exerted by directly binding and activating a core set of tsc-specific target genes including cdx2, eomes, sox2, fgfr4, and bmp4. we investigated the mrna profile alterations induced by esrrb expression and its synthetic ligand dy131 in human prostate cancer du145 cells via rna-seq analysis. when esrrb was expressed, dy131 treatment further regulated 15 esrrb-altered mrnas. our results characterized mrna profiles in du145 prostate cancer cells driven by esrrb expression and esrrb ligand dy131, and provided multiple markers to characterize esrrb's function in esrrb research. specifically, we found that in mouse escs, tfcp2l1 binds directly to the esrrb gene promoter and regulates its transcription. conversely, esrrb overexpression blocked differentiation induced by tfcp2l1 down-regulation. we found that esrrb could directly regulate the expressions of trophoblast stem cell (tsc)-specific markers, including krt8, krt18 and cdx2, through binding to their promoter regions. 
Genetic deficiency of mast cells leads to decreased weight gain in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity. [SEP] kit mutant mice are protected from diet-induced obesity and associated co-morbidities, and this phenotype has previously been attributed to their lack of mast cells. mast cells are potent inducers of inflammatory responses and could potentially contribute to obesity-induced at inflammation and metabolic dysregulation. herein, we analyzed diet-induced obesity in mcpt5-cre r-dta mice, in which the lack of mast cells is caused by a principle different from mast cell deficiency in cpa3cre/+ mice or kit mutations. this study presents evidence that mast cells also contribute to diet-induced obesity and diabetes. furthermore, in the context of mice on a western diet, genetically induced deficiency of mast cells, or their pharmacological stabilization, reduces body weight gain and levels of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and proteases in serum and wat, in concert with improved glucose homeostasis and energy expenditure. we found the increase of mast cell numbers in fat tissue of obese mice fed with a high-fat diet allowed us to speculate contributions of mast cells to adipogenesis. contribution of mast cells to obesity was evaluated by using mast cell-deficient mice fed with a western diet. weight gain of mast cell-deficient mice during high-fat feeding was impaired compared with their littermate wild-type mice; on the other hand, transplantation of bone marrow-derived cultured mast cells to mast cell-deficient mice restored the weight gain by intake of a high-fat diet. two types of mast cell-deficient mice, along with corresponding wild-type control mice, were fed a western diet to induce obesity and diabetes. mast cell deficiency or pharmacological stabilization reduced body weight gain and improved glucose and insulin sensitivities. 
Genetic deletion of JAM-A increases gut permeability. [SEP] we aimed to understand the molecular mechanisms through which jam-a expression regulates tight junction organization to control endothelial permeability, with potential implications under pathological conditions. genetic deletion of jam-a in mice significantly increased vascular permeability. gut permeability can be modulated by commensal microbiota. deletion of jam-a results in a dramatic increase in susceptibility to dss colitis, as assessed by weight loss, disease activity index, histologic and endoscopic severity, and strikingly high mortality rates. jam-a(-/-) mice displayed increased intestinal permeability and inflammatory cytokine production, and marked epithelial apoptosis. silencing of jam-a in intestinal epithelial cells resulted in increased permeability in vitro. our results show a nonredundant and novel role of jam-a in controlling mucosal homeostasis by regulating the integrity and permeability of epithelial barrier function. in contrast, worsened intestinal hyperpermeability by genetic deletion of jam-a increased enterocyte migration. using villin-cre;jam-afl/fl mice, targeted loss of jam-a on intestinal epithelial cells resulted in increased intestinal permeability along with reduced peritoneal pmn migration as well as lower levels of cxcl1 and active nf-kb similar to that observed in jam-ako animals. in contrast, jam-a deficiency in bone marrow cells impeded monocyte de-adhesion, thereby increasing vascular permeability and lesion formation, whereas somatic jam-a deletion revealed no significant effects. 
Genomic aberrations of metastases provide information for targeted therapy. [SEP] we present an overview of the most prominent studies investigating the expression of endocrine receptors, transcriptomics, and genome aberrations in primary tumors and metastases. furthermore, molecular profiling of metastatic tissue provides invaluable mechanistic insight into the biology underlying metastatic progression and has the potential to identify novel, potentially druggable, drivers of progression. patterns of genomic aberrations in primary colorectal tumors may reveal a chromosomal signature for organ specific metastases. liver specific crc metastases may be predicted with a high accuracy based on specific genomic aberrations in the primary crc tumor. the ability to predict the site of metastases is important for improvement of personalized patient management. moreover, without improved understanding of the genomic aberrations that drive metastatic brain tumours, development of biomarkers and molecularly targeted therapies will remain stalled and patient outcomes will continue to be dismal. genomic evaluation of the tumor revealed an aberration involving the rearranged during transfection (ret) receptor tyrosine kinase. however, with the ability to test the tumor for genomic aberrations, molecular targeted therapies-such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors-may provide extended survival in these individuals. the deeper knowledge of molecular aberrations that characterize tumor growth has provided novel targets in cancer therapy. we here present a case of therapy-refractory, progressive ependymoma with cerebrospinal as well as extraneural metastases, which allowed us for the first time to follow the stepwise accumulation of chromosome aberrations during disease progression. 
Genomic sequences involved in alternative splicing responsible for Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) are abundant in the ''progerinonly'' allele of Lmna knock-in models. [SEP] hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps, progeria) is an extremely rare premature aging disorder affecting children, with a disease incidence of ∼1 in 18 million individuals. hgps is usually caused by a de novo point mutation in exon 11 of the lmna gene (c.1824c>t, p.g608g), resulting in the increased usage of a cryptic splice site and production of a truncated unprocessed lamin a protein named progerin. strategies to interfere with the post-translational processing of lamin a, to enhance progerin clearance, or directly target the hgps mutation to reduce the progerin-producing alternative splicing of the lmna gene have been developed. the hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a mutation in the lmna gene, which normally produces lamins a and c through alternative splicing. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a rare premature aging disorder that belongs to a group of conditions called laminopathies which affect nuclear lamins. mutations in lmna cause multiple diseases known as laminopathies, including hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps), a premature aging disorder caused by a point mutation that activates a cryptic 5' splice site in exon 11, resulting in a 150 bp deletion in the lmna mrna and the production of the dominant lamin a isoform progerin. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) also known as progeria of childhood or progeria is a rare, rapid, autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by premature aging which occurs shortly after birth. this redundancy suggests that diseases, such as hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps), that are caused by prelamin a-specific mutations could be treated by shifting the output of lmna more toward lamin c. here, we investigated mechanisms that regulate lmna mrna alternative splicing and assessed the feasibility of reducing prelamin a expression in vivo. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a mutant prelamin a, progerin, that terminates with a farnesylcysteine. hgps knock-in mice (lmna(hg/+)) develop severe progeria-like disease phenotypes. 
Glial calcium waves influence seizures. [SEP] it has been postulated that glia play a critical role in modifying neuronal activity, mediating neurovascular coupling, and in seizure initiation. we investigated the role of glia in ictogenesis and neurovascular coupling through wide-field multicell and 2-photon single cell imaging of calcium and intrinsic signal imaging of cerebral blood volume in an in vivo rat model of focal neocortical seizures. glial calcium waves exhibited a stereotypical spread that terminated prior to seizure offset and propagated to an area ~60% greater than the propagation area of neural and vascular signals. using in vivo bulk loading of calcium dyes, we imaged neuronal and glial activity in an acute pharmacologic rodent model of neocortical seizures. optical calcium-based ecog maps revealed that neuronal waves propagated rapidly and remained mostly confined to the seizure focus. recently astrocyte intercellular calcium waves have been shown to underlie seizures, and conventional antiepileptic drugs have been shown to attenuate these calcium waves. our results suggest that patterns of calcium rises on neurons, like those seen in glutamate cytotoxicity, can cause calcium waves in surrounding glial cells. our results indicate that hippocampal neurons growing on hippocampal or cortical astrocytes respond to glial calcium waves with elevations in calcium and increased electrical activity. the glial calcium signals could be evoked by neuronal activity and vice versa they may initiate electrical and ca2+ responses in adjacent neurones. although calcium waves have been widely observed in glial cells, their occurrence in vivo during behavior remains less understood. 
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is characterized by extensive invasion, rapid growth, necrosis, and angiogenesis. [SEP] as well as other types of carcinomas, overexpression of igfbp-2 has been reported in glioblastoma multiforme (gbm), the most malignant brain tumor characterized by rapid growth, extensive invasiveness, and angiogenesis. these include glioblastoma multiforme (gbm), which is characterized by independent but interrelated features of extensive invasion into normal brain parenchyma, rapid growth, necrosis, and angiogenesis. although deregulation of gbp1 expression did not affect glioma cell proliferation, overexpression of gbp1 enhanced glioma cell invasion through mmp1 induction, which required its c-terminal helical domain and was independent of its gtpase activity. gbp1 expression was high and positively correlated with egfr expression in human gbm tumors and cell lines, particularly those of the neural subtype. glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) tumors are the most common type of brain tumors. the recent use of anti-angiogenesis (aa) drugs for the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) has uncovered unusual tumor responses. we review the role of peptide growth factors in angiogenesis and progression of low grade glial tumors to higher grade glioblastoma multiforme (gbm). vascular pathology is a key feature of glioblastoma multiforme characterized by hypervascularity, vascular permeability, and hypercoagulability. glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is recognized as one of the most deadly cancers characterized by cellular atypia, severe necrosis, and high rate of angiogenesis. glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is the most frequent and the most malignant human brain tumor. 
Glucose restriction to 0.05% reduces RLS (replicative life span) by 20-40% in S. cerevisiae. [SEP] loss of the protein kinase sch9p increases both the chronological life span (cls) and the replicative life span (rls) of saccharomyces cerevisiae by mimicking calorie restriction, but the physiological consequences of sch9 deletion are poorly understood. a yeast model of calorie restriction has been developed in which limiting the concentration of glucose in the growth media of saccharomyces cerevisiae leads to enhanced replicative and chronological longevity. since s. cerevisiae are crabtree-positive cells that present repression of aerobic catabolism when grown in high glucose concentrations, we investigated if this phenomenon participates in life span regulation in yeast. s. cerevisiae only exhibited an increase in chronological life span when incubated in limited concentrations of glucose. furthermore, in kluyveromyces lactis, a crabtree-negative yeast, glucose limitation did not promote an enhancement of respiratory capacity nor a decrease in reactive oxygen species formation, as is characteristic of conditions of caloric restriction in s. cerevisiae. excluding the 2% (wt/vol) glucose experiments from cr experiments, we determined that the average rls of the yeast strains by4741 and by4742 is 25.9 buds at 2% (wt/vol) glucose and 30.2 buds under cr conditions. the replicative life span (rls) of saccharomyces cerevisiae has been established as a model for the genetic regulation of longevity despite the inherent difficulty of the rls assay, which requires separation of mother and daughter cells by micromanipulation after every division. the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae is a useful model for elucidating the pathways that control life span and the influence of environmental factors, such as calorie restriction (cr). here we describe how to calorically restrict yeast cells, the methods used to determine the replicative life span (rls) of budding yeast cells, how to selectively kill daughter cells using the mother enrichment program (mep), how to measure recombination frequency at the rdna locus, how to isolate large quantities of old cells, and how to analyze the circular forms of dna known as extrachromosomal rdna circles (ercs), a cause of aging in s. cerevisiae (petes, cell 19:765-774, 1980; sinclair and guarente, cell 91:1033-1042, 1997; defossez et al., mol cell 3:447-455, 1999). increased replicative longevity in saccharomyces cerevisiae because of calorie restriction has been linked to enhanced mitochondrial respiratory activity. 
Glycan adaptation involves insertion-deletion events. [SEP] amino acid insertions and deletions in proteins are considered relatively rare events, and their associations with the evolution and adaptation of organisms are not yet understood. we tested the hypothesis that the tshr 50 amino acid insertion was further downstream than we previously concluded, a possibility that would relocate the crucial lh/cgr glycan at n291 relative to the position of the tshr insertion, and that would mitigate against the 50 amino acid insertion playing a role in tshr intramolecular cleavage. thus, we transferred the lh/cgr glycan at amino acid 291 from downstream (n367) to upstream of the 50 amino acid insertion (n317) in the tshr, leaving this insertion intact. sequence analysis of gp120 showed that most had deletions of 1 to 5 mannose-rich glycans. glycosylation sites at positions 230, 234, 241, 289 located in the c2 region and 339, 392 and 448 in the c3-c4 region were affected. these data suggest that loss of glycosylation sites on gp120 as well as rearrangement of glycans in v4 are mechanisms involved in hiv-1 subtype c escape from grft, cv-n and svn. here, we describe a two-step chemoenzymatic approach for n-glycan-subtype-selective editing on the surface of living cells that consists of a first 'delete' step to remove heterogeneous n-glycoforms of a certain subclass and a second 'insert' step to assemble a well-defined n-glycan back onto the pretreated glyco-sites. such glyco-edited cells, carrying more homogeneous oligosaccharide structures, could enable precise understanding of carbohydrate-mediated functions. in particular, n-glycan-subtype-selective remodeling and imaging with different monosaccharide motifs at the non-reducing end were successfully achieved. the s-layer proteins as well as other surface-exposed proteins are modified via n-glycosylation, in which the oligosaccharyl transferase aglb catalyzes the final step of the transfer of the glycan tree to the nascent protein. 
Glycan adaptation is rarely observed in the B-cell repertoire. [SEP] although nearly all membrane proteins bear glycans, the identity and function of most of these sugars on leukocytes remain unexplored. here, we characterize the n-glycan repertoire (n-glycome) of human tonsillar b cells. we observe that naive and memory b cells express an n-glycan repertoire conferring strong binding to the immunoregulatory lectin galectin-9 (gal-9). understanding how glycosylation affects immunodominance on complex protein antigens may help decipher underlying b cell biology. we found that glycan addition changed the initially diverse antibody repertoire into an epitope-focused, genetically restricted response. however, the role of these glycans in the humoral immune response remains poorly understood. by analyzing b-cell repertoires by next-generation sequencing, we demonstrate that n-glycosylation sites are introduced at positions in which glycans can affect antigen binding as a result of a specific clustering of progenitor glycosylation sites in the germline sequences of variable domain genes. pathogenic organisms can display host-like glycans to evade the host immune response. despite the reactivity of these abs to glycans shared between microorganisms and host, diverse tolerance-inducing mechanisms permit the b cell precursors of these ab-secreting cells to exist within the normal b cell repertoire. bacterial glycans contain rare, exclusively bacterial monosaccharides that are frequently linked to pathogenesis and essentially absent from human cells. 
Gpr124 increases BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] here gpr124 conditional knockout (cko) in the endothelia of adult mice did not affect homeostatic bbb integrity, but resulted in bbb disruption and microvascular hemorrhage in mouse models of both ischemic stroke and glioblastoma, accompanied by reduced cerebrovascular canonical wnt-β-catenin signaling. we thus identify gpr124 as an endothelial gpcr specifically required for endothelial wnt signaling and bbb integrity under pathological conditions in adult mice. this finding implicates gpr124 as a potential therapeutic target for human cns disorders characterized by bbb disruption. this study aimed to investigate the role of pge2 ep1 receptor in neurovascular injury in stroke. our findings indicated that inhibiting aim2 preserved the bbb integrity after ischemic stroke, at least partially by modulating stat3 activation and that aim2 may be a promising therapeutic target for cerebral ischemic stroke. we sought to identify and characterize the relevance of ceacam1-expressing inflammatory cells in bbb breakdown and outcome after ischemic stroke in ceacam1(-/-) and wild-type mice. to investigate the mechanisms underlying ischemia-/reperfusion-related bbb opening, we applied multiple immunofluorescence labeling and electron microscopy in a rat model of thromboembolic stroke as well as mouse models of permanent and transient focal cerebral ischemia. background and purpose- in ischemic stroke, breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (bbb) aggravates brain damage. here, we investigated how loss of rgs5 (regulator of g protein signaling 5) in pericytes affects bbb breakdown in stroke and its consequences. conclusions- our findings show that loss of rgs5 affects pericyte-related bbb preservation in stroke and identifies rgs5 as an important target for neurovascular protection. 
Gpr124 suppresses BBB breakdown in mouse models of ischemic stroke. [SEP] here gpr124 conditional knockout (cko) in the endothelia of adult mice did not affect homeostatic bbb integrity, but resulted in bbb disruption and microvascular hemorrhage in mouse models of both ischemic stroke and glioblastoma, accompanied by reduced cerebrovascular canonical wnt-β-catenin signaling. we thus identify gpr124 as an endothelial gpcr specifically required for endothelial wnt signaling and bbb integrity under pathological conditions in adult mice. this finding implicates gpr124 as a potential therapeutic target for human cns disorders characterized by bbb disruption. breakdown of bbb integrity during cerebral ischemia initiates a devastating cascade of events that eventually leads to neuronal loss. our findings indicated that inhibiting aim2 preserved the bbb integrity after ischemic stroke, at least partially by modulating stat3 activation and that aim2 may be a promising therapeutic target for cerebral ischemic stroke. accumulation of cox-2-derived prostaglandin e2 (pge2) parallels the substantial increase in stroke-mediated blood-brain barrier (bbb) breakdown. in conclusion, novel mechanisms of a pparα agonist were elucidated to attenuate bbb breakdown during traumatic brain injury in vitro. to investigate the mechanisms underlying ischemia-/reperfusion-related bbb opening, we applied multiple immunofluorescence labeling and electron microscopy in a rat model of thromboembolic stroke as well as mouse models of permanent and transient focal cerebral ischemia. this article reviews recent advances in our knowledge of the mechanisms underlying bbb dysfunction and recovery after ischemic stroke. with the development of novel research tools, future research on the bbb is likely to reveal promising potential therapeutic targets for protecting the bbb and improving patient outcome after ischemic stroke. 
Guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (Rho-GDI) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] here we show that direct interaction of the rho gdp dissociation inhibitor (rho-gdi) with p75(ntr) initiates the activation of rhoa, and this interaction between p75(ntr) and rho-gdi is strengthened by mag or nogo. we also found that p75(ntr) facilitates the release of prenylated rhoa from rho-gdi. the peptide ligand that is associated with the fifth alpha helix of p75(ntr) inhibits the interaction between rho-gdi and p75(ntr), thus silencing the action mediated by p75(ntr). rho gtpase activation is partially regulated at the level of guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitors, or gdis. the binding of rho gtpases to gdis has been shown to dramatically reduce the action of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) to initiate rho gtpase activation. structural and biochemical analysis of the sopb gtpase binding domain in complex with cdc42 shows for the first time that sopb structurally and functionally mimics a host guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (gdi) by contacting key residues in the regulatory switch regions of cdc42 and slowing cdc42 nucleotide exchange. this regulatory protein, designated here as gdp dissociation inhibitor (gdi) for the rho proteins (rho gdi), inhibited the dissociation of gdp from rhob p20 and the binding of guanosine 5'-(3-o-thio)triphosphate (gtp gamma s) to the gdp-bound form of rhob p20 but not of that to the guanine nucleotide-free form. three decades of research have documented the spatiotemporal dynamics of rho family gtpase membrane extraction regulated by guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitors (gdis), but the interplay of the kinetic mechanism and structural specificity of these interactions is as yet unresolved. guanine-nucleotide dissociation inhibitors (gdis) are negative regulators of rho family gtpases that sequester the gtpases away from the membrane. the gdp dissociation inhibitors (gdis) are pivotal regulators of rho gtpase function. 
Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) mediate RhoA activation in response to tensional forces on fibronectin-binding integrins. [SEP] rho gtpases play an essential role in regulating cell spreading, adhesion, and migration downstream of integrin engagement with the extracellular matrix. in this review, we focus on rhoa and rac1--2 rho gtpases that are required for efficient adhesion and migration--and describe how specific guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) and gtpase-activating proteins (gaps) regulate the extensive crosstalk that exists between them. we show that stimulation of integrins with tensional force triggers activation of these two gefs and their recruitment to adhesion complexes. guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) stimulate guanine nucleotide exchange and the subsequent activation of rho-family proteins in response to extracellular stimuli acting upon cytokine, tyrosine kinase, adhesion, integrin, and g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs). rhoa gets activated upon binding to guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs), which catalyze the exchange of guanosine diphosphate (gdp) for guanosine triphosphate (gtp). the fak/p66shc complex specifically bound and activated the rho guanyl exchange factors (gefs) p115-rhogef and gef-h1, leading to tension-induced rhoa activation. rhoa activity is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) and gtpase activating proteins (gaps) that are themselves regulated by many different signaling pathways. in this brief review, we consider how rhoa activity is regulated downstream from cell adhesion molecules and mechanical force. gef337 promoted nucleotide exchange on rhoa in vitro and promoted f-actin stress fiber assembly in fibroblasts, characteristic of rhoa activation. rhoa gtpases facilitate fa formation, yet fa-associated rhoa-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) remain unknown. 
H.pylori-mediated gastric cancer occurs due to the accumulation of mutations in host epithelial cells. [SEP] recently, new insights into the mechanisms through which h. pylori and mucosal inflammation lead to cancer development have emerged. h. pylori virulence factors, in particular specific caga genotypes, represent main factors in gastric cancer, inducing altered intracellular signaling in epithelial cells. mutation of the epithelial cell genome, a hallmark of cancer, was demonstrated to accumulate in h. pylori infected stomach partly due to inadequate dna repair. these findings indicate that h. pylori-mediated chac1 overexpression degrades intracellular glutathione, allowing the accumulation of ros which subsequently causes mutations that could contribute to the development of gastric cancer. infection with helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) is a risk factor for the development of gastric cancer. our findings provide evidence that aberrant aid expression caused by h. pylori infection might be a mechanism of mutation accumulation in the gastric mucosa during h. pylori-associated gastric carcinogenesis. helicobacter pylori infection of gastric epithelial cells leads to aberrant expression of aid and somatic gene mutations. helicobacter pylori infection is a major gastric cancer risk factor. these data suggest that h. pylori infection might lead to a deficiency of dna mmr in gastric epithelial cells that may increase the risk of mutation accumulation in gastric mucosa cells and the risk of gastric cancer during chronic h. pylori infection. it has also been demonstrated that h. pylori may predispose to cancer by altering gastric epithelial cell turnover acting specifically on transcription factors. 
H4 G94P proteins induce chromatin assembly, which increases free histones. [SEP] their mobilization increased the levels of h2b and h4 in the free pools and decreased the rate of h2b fast chromatin exchange. in nucleosome assembly, deposition of a histone h3-h4 tetramer onto dna is the first and critical step, which is mediated by the histone chaperones hira and caf-1. this chromatin may contain either deacetylated histone h4 when assembled under standard conditions or diacetylated h4 when assembled in the presence of butyrate. introduction of a wild-type copy of histone h4 restores mating, despite the presence of the mutant protein, suggesting that mutant h4 protein is either excluded from, or tolerated in, chromatin. to understand how the cell differentiates wild-type histone and mutant histone in which the four n-terminal lysines were replaced with alanine (h4-4a), we analyzed silencing, growth phenotypes, and the histone composition of chromatin in yeast strains coexpressing equal amounts of wild-type and mutant h4 proteins (histone h4 heterozygote). we found that histone h4 heterozygotes have defects in heterochromatin silencing and growth, implying that mutations in h4 are not completely recessive. we conclude that n-terminal lysines of histone h4 are important for efficient histone nuclear import. histones h3 and h4 have a well defined structural role in the nucleosome and an established role in the regulation of transcription. however, the remainder of the h3 and h4 histone folds are essential for incorporation of these proteins into chromatin. human p48 can bind to histone h4 in the absence of caf-1 p150 and p60. 
H4 G94P proteins induce degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] deletion of the major histone h3-h4 pair suppresses rad53-rep-cdc7-1 synthetic lethality, suggesting rad53's functions in degradation of excess cellular histone and in replication initiation are related. the ddr kinase rad53chk1/chk2 controls histone degradation to assist dna repair. under physiological conditions, rad53 regulates histone levels through inhibitory phosphorylation of the transcription factor spt21npat on ser276. here we showed that abrogation of prmt1-mediated senescence was accompanied with decreasing histone h4 level. reduction of h4r3me2as level increased the interaction between proteasome activator pa200 and histone h4, which catalyzes the poly-ubiquitin-independent degradation of h4. moreover, h4 degradation promoted nucleosome decomposition, resulting in increased senescence-associated genes transcription. this finding also points to the value of histone h4 as a senescence indicator and a potential anti-aging drug screening marker. degradation of polysome-associated h4 histone mrna and of deproteinized histone mrna begins at or near the 3' terminus. here, we show that rad53, but not mec1 mutants, are extremely sensitive to histone overexpression, as rad53 is required for degradation of excess histones. rad53 monitors excess histones by associating with them in a dynamic complex that is modulated by its kinase activity. 
H4 G94P proteins inhibit chromatin assembly, which decreases free histones. [SEP] their mobilization increased the levels of h2b and h4 in the free pools and decreased the rate of h2b fast chromatin exchange. h4-k16ac also inhibits the ability of the adenosine triphosphate-utilizing chromatin assembly and remodeling enzyme acf to mobilize a mononucleosome, indicating that this single histone modification modulates both higher order chromatin structure and functional interactions between a nonhistone protein and the chromatin fiber. this histone, called soluble histone, could be distinguished from that bound to chromatin by the state of h4 modification and the lack of h2a ubiquitination. this chromatin may contain either deacetylated histone h4 when assembled under standard conditions or diacetylated h4 when assembled in the presence of butyrate. histone h4 proteins that contain mutations in n-terminal lysines disrupt heterochromatin and result in yeast that cannot mate. introduction of a wild-type copy of histone h4 restores mating, despite the presence of the mutant protein, suggesting that mutant h4 protein is either excluded from, or tolerated in, chromatin. to understand how the cell differentiates wild-type histone and mutant histone in which the four n-terminal lysines were replaced with alanine (h4-4a), we analyzed silencing, growth phenotypes, and the histone composition of chromatin in yeast strains coexpressing equal amounts of wild-type and mutant h4 proteins (histone h4 heterozygote). we found that histone h4 heterozygotes have defects in heterochromatin silencing and growth, implying that mutations in h4 are not completely recessive. nuclear preparations from histone h4 heterozygotes contained less mutant h4 than wild-type h4, consistent with the idea that cells exclude some of the mutant histone. the biased partial exclusion of h4-4a was dependent upon cac1p, the largest subunit of yeast chromatin assembly factor 1 (caf-1), as well as upon the karyopherin kap123p, but was independent of cac2p, another caf-1 component, and other chromatin assembly proteins (hir3p, nap1p, and asf1p). 
H4 G94P proteins suppress degradation of free histones via Rad53-dependent mechanisms. [SEP] deletion of the major histone h3-h4 pair suppresses rad53-rep-cdc7-1 synthetic lethality, suggesting rad53's functions in degradation of excess cellular histone and in replication initiation are related. this unique requirement for rad53 can be suppressed by the deletion of the major histone h3/h4 gene pair, indicating that rad53 may be regulating initiation by controlling histone protein levels and/or by affecting origin chromatin structure. here, we show that rad53, but not mec1 mutants, are extremely sensitive to histone overexpression, as rad53 is required for degradation of excess histones. consequently, excess histones accumulate in rad53 mutants, resulting in slow growth, dna damage sensitivity, and chromosome loss phenotypes that are significantly suppressed by a reduction in histone gene dosage. rad53 monitors excess histones by associating with them in a dynamic complex that is modulated by its kinase activity. our results argue that rad53 contributes to genome stability independently of mec1 by preventing the damaging effects of excess histones both during normal cell cycle progression and in response to dna damage. thus rad53 competes with histones h3-h4 and cochaperones hira/caf-i for binding to asf1. the ddr kinase rad53chk1/chk2 controls histone degradation to assist dna repair. under physiological conditions, rad53 regulates histone levels through inhibitory phosphorylation of the transcription factor spt21npat on ser276. degradation of polysome-associated h4 histone mrna and of deproteinized histone mrna begins at or near the 3' terminus. 
HAND2 methylation is a key step in early endometrial carcinogenesis. [SEP] the objective of this study was to determine the functional role of epigenetic factors in endometrial cancer development. epigenome-wide methylation analysis of >27,000 cpg sites in endometrial cancer tissue samples (n = 64) and control samples (n = 23) revealed that hand2 (a gene encoding a transcription factor expressed in the endometrial stroma) is one of the most commonly hypermethylated and silenced genes in endometrial cancer. a novel integrative epigenome-transcriptome-interactome analysis further revealed that hand2 is the hub of the most highly ranked differential methylation hotspot in endometrial cancer. increased hand2 methylation was a feature of premalignant endometrial lesions and was seen to parallel a decrease in rna and protein levels. furthermore, women with high endometrial hand2 methylation in their premalignant lesions were less likely to respond to progesterone treatment. hand2 methylation is a common and crucial molecular alteration in endometrial cancer that could potentially be employed as a biomarker for early detection of endometrial cancer and as a predictor of treatment response. to explore the relationship between hand2 gene and protein expression and the development of endometrial carcinoma (ec). dna methylation plays a key role in gene expression regulation and influences functional changes in endometrial tissue. to identify a dna methylation signature of endometrioid carcinoma of the endometrium (eec) in the early stages of endometrial carcinogenesis. promoter region methylation of rassf1a and rarb2 genes is an early event in endometrial carcinogenesis. 
HIV trans-activator protein (TAT) effectively transports large and small molecules across cellular membranes into larger populations of neurons. [SEP] recently, the trans-activator protein (tat) human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) transcriptional factor has proven to be effective in transporting molecules across cellular membranes. the potential use of the retro-inverso form of the tat (d-tat) peptide, the protein transducing domain of the hiv-1 transcriptional factor, as a molecular transporter was investigated. the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) trans-activator protein tat may be one such factor, as it can act as a neurotoxin, induces marked morphological changes in neurons and astrocytes in primary embryonic rodent brain cultures, and is released by certain hiv-1-infected cells. to explore the possibility that tat may also mediate neuronal dysfunction in aids through non-lethal effects on neurons, we determined the trans-activating ability of tat in human neuronal cells. furthermore, tat significantly enhanced virus expression in neuronal cells transfected with molecular clones of hiv-1. the trans-acting activator of transcription (tat) peptide, which is derived from human immunodeficiency virus-1 (hiv-1), has been widely used as an effective nanocarrier to transport extracellular substances into cells. furthermore, tat can facilitate transport of exogenous molecules across cell membranes and is implicated in pathogenesis of hiv dementia. to deliver hsp70 across cellular membranes and into the brain, we linked it to a cell-penetrating peptide derived from the hiv trans-activator of transcription (tat) protein. cell-penetrating peptides like the cationic human immunodeficiency virus-1 trans-acting activator of transcription (tat) peptide have the capability to traverse cell membranes and to deliver large molecular cargoes into the cellular interior. human immunodeficiency virus type 1 trans-activating transcriptional activator protein (hiv tat) contains a protein transduction domain that can be added to a fusion protein partner to allow for transport of the partner across membranes. 
HNF4A mutations are associated with macrosomia in infancy. [SEP] hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (hnf4a) gene mutations have a well-recognized role in maturity-onset diabetes of the young and have recently been described in congenital hyperinsulinism. birthweight was increased by a median of 790 g in hnf4a-mutation carriers compared to non-mutation family members (p < 0.001); 56% (30/54) of hnf4a-mutation carriers were macrosomic compared with 13% (7/54) of non-mutation family members (p < 0.001). hnf4a mutations are associated with a considerable increase in birthweight and macrosomia, and are a novel cause of neonatal hypoglycaemia. children carrying hnf4a (mody1) mutations can present in early infancy with macrosomia and diazoxide-responsive hyperinsulinism. recently, heterozygous mutations in the hnf4a gene were reported to cause transient hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia associated with macrosomia. sequencing of the hnf4a gene identified heterozygous mutations in all three families. heterozygous hnf4a mutations can therefore cause both transient and persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia associated with macrosomia. we recommend that macrosomic infants with transient or persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia should be screened for hnf4a mutations if there is a family history of youth-onset diabetes. heterozygous hnf4a mutations cause a beta cell phenotype of neonatal hyperinsulinism with macrosomia and young onset diabetes. the hnf4a mody phenotype has been expanded by the reports of macrosomia in ∼50% of babies, and more rarely, neonatal hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. 
HOXB4 facilitates HSC expansion when co-cultured with HSCs. [SEP] it is thus feasible to exploit recombinant hoxb4 protein for rapid and significant ex vivo expansion of normal hscs. hoxb4 has been shown to stimulate hsc self-renewal. here we demonstrate the potency of hoxb4 to enable high-level ex vivo hsc expansion. in sharp contrast, cultures of hoxb4-transduced cells achieved rapid, extensive, and highly polyclonal hsc expansions, resulting in over 1000-fold higher levels relative to controls and a 40-fold net hsc increase. hoxb4 is a key regulator orchestrating the differentiation of pscs into all cells types across the mesodermal lineage, including hscs. moreover, the ectopic expression of hoxb4 enhances the in vitro generation and expansion of hscs. we previously showed that hoxb4 is a potent stimulator of hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) proliferation in vivo and ex vivo. the molecular basis of hoxb4-mediated benign hsc expansion in vivo is not well understood. altogether, these studies define the transcriptional pathways involved in hoxb4 hsc expansion in vivo and identify repression of prdm16 transcription as a mechanism by which expanding hscs avoid leukemic transformation. the findings demonstrate that increased expression of hoxb4, in combination with suppression of p21 expression, could be a useful strategy for effective and robust expansion of hscs. 
HOXB4 is a highly expressed component of cellular secretome from fetal liver cell populations. [SEP] to evaluate accurately the pattern of hoxb4 expression and to gain a better understanding of the physiologic role of hoxb4 in the hemato-poietic system, we generated a knock-in hoxb4-yellow fluorescent protein (yfp) reporter mouse model. furthermore, yolk sac and placental hsc populations express hoxb4. unexpectedly, hoxb4 expression in the fetal liver hscs is lower than in the bm, reaching negligible levels in some hscs, suggesting an insignificant role of hoxb4 in expansion of fetal liver hscs. hoxb4 expression therefore would not appear to correlate with the cycling status of fetal liver hscs, although highly proliferative hscs from young bm show strong hoxb4 expression. quantitative analysis of mrna from fetal liver revealed that a deficiency of hoxb4 alone changed the expression levels of several other hox genes and of genes involved in cell cycle regulation. quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that hoxb4(-/-) c-kit+ fetal liver cells expressed moderately higher levels of several hoxb cluster genes than control cells, raising the possibility that normal hsc activity in hoxb4(-/-) mice is due to a compensatory up-regulation of other hoxb genes. quantitative hox gene expression profiling in purified c-kit+ hoxb1-b9(-/-) fetal liver cells revealed an interaction between the hoxa, b, and c clusters with variation in expression levels of hoxa4,-a11, and -c4.together, these studies show a complex network of genetic interactions between several hox genes in primitive hematopoietic cells and demonstrate that hscs lacking up to 30% of the active hox genes remain fully competent. taken together, these data suggest that nuclear hoxb4 protein may play a role in the regulation of cellular proliferation/adhesion in developing fetal human epidermis and in hyperproliferation conditions, including cancers, in adult epidermis. enforced expression of the hoxb4 gene promotes expansion of hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) and enhances hematopoietic development of both murine and human embryonic stem (es) cells. the variation of hoxb4 expression levels might be a key regulatory mechanism in the differentiation of human embryonic stem cell (hesc)-derived hematopoietic stem cells (hscs). 
HSCT-T dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before AMI. [SEP] effective early noninvasive diagnosis of patency after thrombolysis is possible in patients treated > 3 hours after symptom onset by use of criteria derived from the relative increase over 90 minutes in plasma markers, particularly myoglobin, troponin t, and mm3/mm1 creatine kinase isoforms. however, there are no satisfactory cardiac biomarkers for the diagnosis of ami within 6 hours of onset of symptoms. to compare the diagnostic value of h-fabp with that of ck-mb and myoglobin in suspected ami patients within first 6 hours after the onset of symptoms. the diagnostic efficiency of h-fabp is greater than ck-mb and myoglobin for the early diagnosis of ami within first 6 hours of chest pain. the present study examines the times of onset of ami in relation to awakening in 137 patients with confirmed ami. of the patients studied, approximately 23% reported onset of the initial symptoms of ami within 1 hour after awakening. normal ecg findings cannot be used to rule out an ami, even those obtained up to 12 hours after symptom onset. no test is both highly sensitive and highly specific for acute infarction within 6 hours following the onset of chest pain, the timeframe of interest to most emergency physicians in making diagnostic and therapeutic decisions. patients presenting to the ed with chest pain or other symptoms suggestive of acute cardiac ischemia therefore cannot make a diagnosis of ami excluded on the basis of a single cardiac marker value obtained within a few hours after symptom onset. after 6 to 8 hours of symptom duration has elapsed, the cardiac-specific markers are highly effective in diagnosing ami, and such values obtained can be used more appropriately to make final disposition decisions. 
Having a main partner improves HIV outcomes. [SEP] identifying whether and how partnering trends have evolved at a national level could improve understanding of hiv transmission and prevention among msm partnerships. the percentage of msm with both main and casual partners increased, and we observed a shift from having ≥1 main and 0 casual partners to having ≥1 main and ≥2 casual partners. adherence was highest (92%) among those without a main partner and lowest (57%) among those with an hiv seropositive main partner. in adjusted analysis, adherence was 75% less likely among women with an hiv seropositive main partner and 78% less likely among those relying on their partner for emotional support. furthermore, hiv seropositive versus other serostatus main partners were most likely to provide medication taking assistance and to be preferred in helping participants deal with hiv, yet were no more likely to be nominated as the most helpful to them. seroconcordant couples-focused intervention that enhances mutual support of haart adherence may be an effective approach to improving women's haart adherence and reducing us gender disparities in hiv health outcomes. we contrasted sample characteristics of hiv-positive gay and bisexual men with and without main partners and then examined differences in sexual behaviors among men participating in an enhanced hiv prevention intervention compared to those in a standard condition. men with main partners showed a greater likelihood of having unprotected anal sex with any partner, although the number of male sexual partners was higher for men without a main partner. our findings underscore the importance of partner characteristics in understanding hiv transmission. discussion of hiv status between sexual partners is potentially a key prevention behavior. 
Having a main partner worsens HIV outcomes. [SEP] men with main partners showed a greater likelihood of having unprotected anal sex with any partner, although the number of male sexual partners was higher for men without a main partner. among msmw, having five or more male partners, having a main male partner, and having a main female partner were associated with undiagnosed seropositivity. our findings underscore the importance of partner characteristics in understanding hiv transmission. in general, women with a risky main partner are the least likely to use condoms consistently. compared to us men, us women have worse haart and hiv health outcomes. adherence was highest (92%) among those without a main partner and lowest (57%) among those with an hiv seropositive main partner. in adjusted analysis, adherence was 75% less likely among women with an hiv seropositive main partner and 78% less likely among those relying on their partner for emotional support. furthermore, hiv seropositive versus other serostatus main partners were most likely to provide medication taking assistance and to be preferred in helping participants deal with hiv, yet were no more likely to be nominated as the most helpful to them. male sex workers (msw) in the dominican republic (dr) have multiple sexual partners, including personal and client-relationships, and are disproportionately affected by human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). partner and social network characteristics associated with ci among msw suggest the utility of dyadic and network interventions to reduce hiv risk. 
HbA1c consistently overestimates glycemic control in black individuals with Sickle cell trait (SCT). [SEP] fasting glucose (fg) and glycated hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) perform sub-optimally in people of african origin, especially in individuals with sickle-cell trait (sct). the glycated hemoglobin (hba1c) test can be unreliable in the presence of hemoglobinopathies. fructosamine was highly correlated with both hba1c and fasting glucose independently of sickle cell trait. sickle cell disease (scd) and sickle cell trait (sct) are genetic conditions that occur predominantly among black individuals. hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) is a popular invaluable tool in the diagnosis of type 2 diabetes for red blood cells (rbcs) with a lifespan of 120 days; however, many factors, including hemoglobinopathies, affect its accuracy. we performed a traditional review to identify how the sickle cell trait (sct) affects the interpretation of hba1c and the further implications it may have on the diagnosis and management of type 2 diabetes. a literature search was performed using pubmed®/medline® and google scholar with formulated keywords (sickle cell trait, hbas, hba1c, glycosylated hemoglobin, diabetes, rbc lifespan, race, and genetics), with the majority of results being mainly observational studies. many african americans (aa) have both sickle cell trait (sct) and diabetes mellitus. emerging evidence suggests that, in addition to apol1 high-risk genotypes, hemoglobin variants, including sickle cell trait (sct) and hemoglobin c trait, have a role in kidney disease in blacks. sickle cell trait (sct) is a condition in which an individual inherits one sickle hemoglobin gene (hbs) and one normal beta hemoglobin gene (hba). 
Headaches are correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] current headaches were reported by 22.8%, 25%, and 27.1%, respectively, across normal, mild cognitive impairment, and dementia subgroups. a negative correlation was observed between age and average headache days in cognitively normal (ρ = -0.163, 95% confidence interval [ci] = -0.246 to -0.022, p = 0.004), mild cognitive impairment (ρ = -0.255, 95% ci = -0.274 to 0.229, p = 0.0475), and dementia groups (ρ = -0.295, 95% ci = -0.457 to 0.159, p = 0.068). aging is associated with a decline in headache days in the absence of any confounding cognitive pathology and is weakly predictive of headache days across the cognitive spectrum. two measures of headache severity, the headache impact test and pain on the numeric rating scale, were negatively associated with the composite cognitive score, as was ocular pain, vision-related disability, and mental health. patients with ptcs may be cognitively impaired, and this correlates with measures of headache burden. the severity of cognitive impairment appears to be correlated with migraine history. we investigate the possible association between impaired cognitive function and chronic headache in lupus patients. and in moh patients, the age, disease duration, monthly headache days, and periventricular white matter hyperintensity scores in patients with cognitive impairment were greater than those in patients with normal cognition. and in moh patients, cognitive function was negatively related to wml burden, and disease duration and monthly headache days were potential predictors of cognitive impairment. research studies have shown patients with migraine often had cognitive impairment, but few studies have focused on the cognition in patients with ctth. 
Healthy volunteers exhibit rapid and transient increase of cellular ATP after being bolus-injected with fructose. [SEP] the maximum increase in the phosphomonoester peak (pmemax) after an intravenous bolus of fructose was significantly reduced in both the oj and dr3 groups, and was accompanied by a decrease in hepatic fructokinase activity. at 60 min, rats were injected intravenously with fructose (n = 5) or glucose (n = 4) at 0.8 g/kg to initiate acute response. laboratory analysis of liver atp stores monitored by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy before and after transient hepatic atp depletion was induced by fructose injection. level of atp 1 hour after fructose infusion in patients vs controls. in the three healthy controls after fructose (200 mg/kg, 20% solution, 2.5 min), the fructokinase-mediated increase of f-1-p was rapid, reaching 4.9 mmol/l within 3 min, whereas the uncorrected atp decreased from 2.7 to 1.8 mmol/l and the pi from 1.4 to 0.3 mmol/l. in conclusion, protection by fructose against toxicity of cyanide, oligomycin, and cccp was mediated by glycolytic atp formation rather than by preservation of the mitochondrial membrane potential. during the first 5 min following bolus injection of 250 mg fructose/kg body weight the concentration of sugar phosphates increased sevenfold whereas pi and atp decreased by three- to fourfold. fructose induces transient hepatic atp depletion in humans and rodents due to the liver-specific fructose metabolism via fructokinase, while other cells e.g. primary mouse, rat and human hepatocytes depleted of atp by fructose were fully protected against tnf-induced cytotoxicity. inhibition of hexokinases restored fructose-induced atp depletion in hepg2 cells. 
Helicobacter pylori-induced aberrant NF-kB-dependent expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase contributes to the mutagenesis of host DNA. [SEP] here we show that infection of gastric epithelial cells with 'cag' pathogenicity island (cagpai)-positive h. pylori induced aberrant expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid), a member of the cytidine-deaminase family that acts as a dna- and rna-editing enzyme, via the ikappab kinase-dependent nuclear factor-kappab activation pathway. how bacteria act as mutagens by altering host genomes, what are the different strategies they develop and what consequences do they have on infection-associated pathogenesis are the main questions addressed in this review, which focuses in particular on helicobacter pylori infection. furthermore, h. pylori affects genome integrity by increasing activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid), a dna/rna editing cytidine deaminase linking mutagenesis and tumorigenesis. the dna/rna editing enzyme activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid) is mutagenic and has been implicated in human tumorigenesis. helicobacter pylori infection of gastric epithelial cells leads to aberrant expression of aid and somatic gene mutations. the host defense properties of cytidine deamination require two distinct but homologous cytidine deaminases-activation-induced cytidine deaminase and apolipoprotein b-editing cytidine deaminase, subunit 3g. how cytidine deaminases target a given nucleic acid substrate at specific sequences is not understood, and what protects cells from uncontrolled mutagenesis is not known. in this paper, i shall review the functions and regulation of activation-induced cytidine deaminase and apolipoprotein b-editing cytidine deaminase, subunit 3g, and speculate about the basis for site specificity vis-à-vis generalized mutagenesis. activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid) is involved in somatic dna alterations of the immunoglobulin gene for amplification of immune diversity. we recently demonstrated that pathogenic bacterial or viral factors and the subsequent inflammatory reactions lead to the aberrant expression of a dna mutator enzyme, activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid), in various epithelial cells via nf-κb activation, which causes the accumulation of genetic alterations in tumor-related genes. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of coinfections by microbial pathogens 16. [SEP] helminth infections are ubiquitous worldwide and can trigger potent immune responses that differ from and potentially antagonize host protective responses to microbial pathogens. in this review we focus on the three main killers in infectious disease-aids, tuberculosis and malaria-and critically assesses whether helminths adversely influence host control of these diseases. finally, we present evidence advocating for more efforts to determine how and to what extent helminths interfere with the successful control of specific concurrent coinfections. the large size of multicellular helminths and their limited replicative capacity in the host necessarily elicits different host protective mechanisms than the immune response evoked by microbial pathogens such as bacteria, viruses and intracellular parasites. helminth infections inhibit host immunity against microbial pathogens, which has largely been attributed to the induction of regulatory or type 2 (th2) immune responses. to dissect the mechanisms by which helminths modulate the host's response to enteric bacteria and bacteria-mediated intestinal inflammation, we have recently established a coinfection model and shown that coinfection with the helminth heligmosomoides polygyrus exacerbates colitis induced by infection with the gram-negative bacterial pathogen citrobacter rodentium. these results demonstrate that helminth infection can impair host protection against concurrent enteric bacterial infection and promote bacteria-induced intestinal injury through a mechanism that involves the induction of alternatively activated macrophages. helminths induce potent immunomodulatory effects, but whether these effects are mediated by direct regulation of host immunity or indirectly through eliciting changes in the microbiota is unknown. helminth coinfection resulted in impaired antiviral immunity and was associated with changes in the microbiota and stat6-dependent helminth-induced alternative activation of macrophages. to test the hypothesis that helminth infection may negatively regulate host mucosal innate immunity against bacterial enteropathogens, a murine coinfection model was established by using the intestinal nematode heligmosomoides polygyrus and s. typhimurium. 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rates above 90%. [SEP] with the stem sep method, recovery of hematopoietic progenitors was 35 % (with 80 % purity). macs allowed the isolation of cd34+, cd34+, and thy-1+ human skscs, hscs, and spscs with minimum 98% purity. roughly 50% of cd34+ cells, with 20-90% purity, are recovered from clinical samples using these methods. the final sc purities reached 99% as confirmed by three independent analyses sc purity and the cell yields were above 10(6) cells after two rounds of purification. the purity of dr- cells increased from between 0.5% and 4.3% in the immuno-adsorbed fraction up to 99% in the dr- sorted fraction. as shown in a single experiment, the purity of cd34+, dr- cells immediately after thawing increased from 0.01% to 94.3% while losing 99% of those early progenitor cells during the multistep purification procedure. nucleic acid removal reached above 99.8% for hfn and modified hfns. however, hfn purity reached above 95% and recovery yield (overall) above 90%, compared with modified hfns purity above 82% and recovery yield (overall) above 58%. this method reproducibly generated cms with purities above 95% in several human pluripotent stem cell lines. using on-line flow cytometry, efficient separation of the cell mixture was observed in less than 12 min, and cd34+ stem cell fractions with a purity >99.2% were obtained. 
High levels of CRP lead to a higher risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] serum pct and crp levels were significantly higher in the pneumonia group compared to the copd group (p<0.001). the level of crp during copd exacerbation can be an independent predictor of the disease severity and paraclinical findings. the hs-crp levels increased in accordance with the severity of the copd (p < 0.0001). high crp levels were considered as a prognostic parameter and indicator of severity of ae-copd. increased mortality risk was found to be associated with high crp values. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is associated with evidence of systemic oxidative stress, activation of circulating inflammatory cells and increased plasma level of proinflamatory cytokines which include c-reactive protein (crp). crp is one biomarker of extrapulmonary or systemic consequences of copd that can be detected. the aim of this research is to determine whether the level of crp statistically significantly correlates with the level of bronchial obstruction and the accompanying co-morbidities in patients with copd. in 52 (65%) of the patients with exacerbation of copd we detected an increase of the mean value of crp. in 52 (65%) of the patients with exacerbation of copd, were detected an increase of the mean value of crp. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are negatively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] we demonstrate here that metabolism by intestinal microbiota of dietary l-carnitine, a trimethylamine abundant in red meat, also produces tmao and accelerates atherosclerosis in mice. plasma l-carnitine levels in subjects undergoing cardiac evaluation (n = 2,595) predicted increased risks for both prevalent cardiovascular disease (cvd) and incident major adverse cardiac events (myocardial infarction, stroke or death), but only among subjects with concurrently high tmao levels. although trimethylamine and trimethylamine n-oxide under daily dietary consumption or carnitine treatment are generally regarded as nontoxic, they have been, and remain, of toxicological and clinical interest because of their potential association with atherosclerosis. this study provides important information to help simulate human plasma levels of trimethylamine and trimethylamine n-oxide in trimethylamine loading tests and during treatment with prescribed medicinal l-carnitine, showing the similar range as that resulting from daily dietary foodstuff consumption along with little toxicological impacts. in addition, plasma l-carnitine levels in patients with high tmao concentrations predicted an increased risk for cardiovascular disease and incident major adverse cardiac events. increased plasma trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) levels have been associated with cardiovascular diseases (cvd). l-carnitine induces tmao elevation in human blood, and thus, it has been suggested as developing atherosclerosis. the correlations between dietary choline and carnitine on chronic plasma tmao levels and risk for cvd requires further investigation. in apoe(-/-)mice expressing hcetp, high doses of l-carnitine resulted in a significant increase in plasma tmao levels. the extent of accumulation of the metabolites trimethylamine and trimethylamine-n-oxide when l-carnitine is administered orally has not been investigated previously in this population. 
Higher plasma levels of I-carnitine, when associated with trimethylamine N-oxide, are positively correlated with cardiovascular events in humans. [SEP] we demonstrate here that metabolism by intestinal microbiota of dietary l-carnitine, a trimethylamine abundant in red meat, also produces tmao and accelerates atherosclerosis in mice. plasma l-carnitine levels in subjects undergoing cardiac evaluation (n = 2,595) predicted increased risks for both prevalent cardiovascular disease (cvd) and incident major adverse cardiac events (myocardial infarction, stroke or death), but only among subjects with concurrently high tmao levels. chronic dietary l-carnitine supplementation in mice altered cecal microbial composition, markedly enhanced synthesis of tma and tmao, and increased atherosclerosis, but this did not occur if intestinal microbiota was concurrently suppressed. the model can also simulate human plasma levels of trimethylamine and trimethylamine n-oxide during treatment with the prescription medicine l-carnitine and in trimethylamine loading tests. although trimethylamine and trimethylamine n-oxide under daily dietary consumption or carnitine treatment are generally regarded as nontoxic, they have been, and remain, of toxicological and clinical interest because of their potential association with atherosclerosis. this study provides important information to help simulate human plasma levels of trimethylamine and trimethylamine n-oxide in trimethylamine loading tests and during treatment with prescribed medicinal l-carnitine, showing the similar range as that resulting from daily dietary foodstuff consumption along with little toxicological impacts. the correlations between dietary choline and carnitine on chronic plasma tmao levels and risk for cvd requires further investigation. in addition, plasma l-carnitine levels in patients with high tmao concentrations predicted an increased risk for cardiovascular disease and incident major adverse cardiac events. increased plasma trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao) levels have been associated with cardiovascular diseases (cvd). l-carnitine induces tmao elevation in human blood, and thus, it has been suggested as developing atherosclerosis. 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) induces oxidative stress. [SEP] to compare osterix and nestin-cre/loxp system in studying the biological functions of murine osteoblastic cells including primary osteoblasts (obs) and osteolineage mesenchymal progenitor cells (mpcs). we isolated primary osteoblasts (obs) from neonatal nestin-cre-r26-loxp-yfp (nes-obs) and osterix-cre-r26-loxp-yfp (osx-obs) mice and bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells (bmmscs) from the adults (termed as nes-bmmscs and osx-bmmscs). examining gene expression altered in osteoprogenitors as a result of dicer1 deletion showed reduced expression of sbds, the gene mutated in schwachman-bodian-diamond syndrome-a human bone marrow failure and leukaemia pre-disposition condition. deletion of sbds in mouse osteoprogenitors induced bone marrow dysfunction with myelodysplasia. immuno-selected stro-1+ mesenchymal progenitor stem cells (mpcs) were prepared from human bone marrow aspirates and established in culture. here, we describe a new mesodermal progenitor population [mesodermal progenitors cells (mpcs)] able to differentiate into mesenchymal cells upon appropriate culture conditions. background recent findings suggest that a specific deletion of dicer1 in mesenchymal stromal cell-derived osteoprogenitors triggers several features of myelodysplastic syndrome in a murine model. our aim was to analyze dicer1 and drosha gene and protein expression in mesenchymal stromal cells (the osteoblastic progenitors) obtained from bone marrow of myelodysplastic syndrome patients, in addition to microrna expression profile and other target genes such as sbds, a dicer1-related gene that promotes bone marrow dysfunction and myelodysplasia when repressed in a murine model. in addition, mesenchymal stromal cells from myelodysplastic syndrome patients showed significant lower sbds (0.63±0.06 vs. 1.15±0.28; p=0.021) gene expression levels than mesenchymal stromal cells from healthy controls. in the current study, we confirmed that dnmt3b ablation in mesenchymal progenitor cells (mpcs) resulted in impaired endochondral ossification, delayed fracture repair, and reduced mechanical strength of the newly formed bone in prx1-cre;dnmt3bf/f (dnmt3bprx1) mice. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] when injected into embryos, es cells can contribute to tissues derived from all three germ layers and to the germline. blastoderm-derived embryonic stem cells (escs) have the capacity for in vitro differentiation into embryoid bodies and derivatives of the three primary germ layers. pluripotent stem cells are undifferentiated cells that are capable of differentiating to all three embryonic germ layers and their differentiated derivatives. embryonic stem cells are uniquely endowed with the capacity of self-renewal and the potential to give rise to all possible cell types, including germ cells. recent reports have provided insights into the specific differentiation of embryonic stem cells to different cell types of the embryo. conversely, in vivo pgcs give rise to embryonal carcinoma (ec) cells, the pluripotent stem cells of teratomas, benign tumors containing derivatives of the three primary germ layers. we describe the derivation of pluripotent embryonic stem (es) cells from human blastocysts. when grafted into scid mice, both lines give rise to teratomas containing derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers. embryonic stem cells provide a model to study early human embryology, an investigational tool for discovery of novel growth factors and medicines, and a potential source of cells for use in transplantation therapy. pluripotency is defined as the potential of a cell to differentiate into cells of the three germ layers: endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm. 
Human embryonic stem cells give rise to cell types from the outer embryonic germ layer, but not the other two layers. [SEP] when injected into embryos, es cells can contribute to tissues derived from all three germ layers and to the germline. primordial germ cells of the mouse cultured on feeder layers with leukemia inhibitory factor, steel factor and basic fibroblast growth factor give rise to cells that resemble undifferentiated blastocyst-derived embryonic stem cells. pluripotent embryonic stem cells are undifferentiated cells capable of proliferation and self-renewal and have the capacity to differentiate into all somatic cell types and the germ line. blastoderm-derived embryonic stem cells (escs) have the capacity for in vitro differentiation into embryoid bodies and derivatives of the three primary germ layers. possible clues to the early differentiation of embryonic stem cells (esc) in vitro were obtained, since these events are more or less mimicked in cultures of esc derived from the inner cell mass of human blastocysts. pluripotent stem cells are undifferentiated cells that are capable of differentiating to all three embryonic germ layers and their differentiated derivatives. in an environment that induces differentiation, they form derivatives of the three embryonic germ layers: mesoderm, ectoderm, and endoderm. plating cells in the absence of a feeder layer, either in attachment or suspension culture, resulted in the formation of embryoid bodies and their differentiation to multiple cell types. stem cells of the mouse testicular teratocarcinoma are capable of giving rise in vivo and in vitro to a wide variety of cell and tissue types representative of each embryonic germ layer. however, multipotential stem cells cannot be distinguished from stem cells that are restricted in their development to a single pathway. 
Human embryonic stem cells have the capacity to give rise to differentiated progeny representative of all three embryonic germ layers. [SEP] pluripotent embryonic stem cells are undifferentiated cells capable of proliferation and self-renewal and have the capacity to differentiate into all somatic cell types and the germ line. blastoderm-derived embryonic stem cells (escs) have the capacity for in vitro differentiation into embryoid bodies and derivatives of the three primary germ layers. however, they display eye cell differentiation potential in culture and they are also multipotential and can give rise to cells representative of all three embryonic layers. stem cells can be divided, depending on their origin, into embryonic or adult. embryonic stem cells derive from early stage embryos and can give rise to cells from all three germ layers. embryonic stem cells are uniquely endowed with the capacity of self-renewal and the potential to give rise to all possible cell types, including germ cells. the recent isolation of human embryonic stem cells has raised a lot of interest for the potential of transposing our knowledge of lineage-specific differentiation of embryonic stem cells to cell-based therapy of human disease. recent reports have provided insights into the specific differentiation of embryonic stem cells to different cell types of the embryo. in an environment that induces differentiation, they form derivatives of the three embryonic germ layers: mesoderm, ectoderm, and endoderm. pluripotent stem cells are able to differentiate into the cells of all three germ layers, and because of this property they represent a promising therapeutic tool in the treatment of diseases such as parkinson's disease and diabetes, or in the healing of lesions after heart attack. 
Hypocretin neurones suppress panicprone state in rats. [SEP] hypocretin (hcrt) neurons are located only in the perifornical region of the posterior hypothalamus and heavily innervate pontine brainstem neurons, such as the locus coeruleus (lc), which have traditionally been implicated in promoting arousal. in the lesioned rats microinjection of hypocretin-1 (0.0625, 0.125 or 0.25 nmol in 250 nl) to the basal forebrain increased waking and suppressed sleep (both non-rem and rem) in a concentration-dependent manner and to the same extent as in nonlesioned rats. these results suggest that, in the absence of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, the basal forebrain noncholinergic neurons are able to convey hypocretin's arousal signal unabated. here we show that the mch but not the hypocretin neurons are strongly active during ps, evidenced through combined hypocretin, mch, and fos immunostainings in three groups of rats (ps control, ps deprived and ps recovery rats). the hypocretins have been detected immunohistochemically in secretory vesicles at synapses of fibers that project to areas within the posterior hypothalamus that are implicated in feeding behaviors and hormone secretion and diverse targets in other brain regions and in the spinal cord, including several areas implicated in cardiovascular function and sleep-wake regulation. one aspect of hypocretin activity is the direct excitation of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus to prevent entry into rem sleep. our results suggest that the general activation of the immune system modulates the functions of hypocretin neurons. increased hypocretin mediates stress responses in addition to the maintenance of wakefulness. interestingly, hypocretin neuron-ablated rats have significantly lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure during all sleep stages (non-rapid eye movement, rapid eye movement) and while awake (quiet, active). these results indicate that hypocretin neurons obtained from rat pups can be grafted into a host brain, and efforts should be made to increase survival of these neurons. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is unrelated to energy balance. [SEP] here, we show that anorexia nervosa (an) patients, contrary to normal weight and constitutionally lean individuals, respond with a paradoxical reduction in hypothalamic levels of glutamate/glutamine (glx) upon feeding. energy metabolism supports both inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmission processes. indeed, in glutamatergic and gabaergic neurons, the primary energetic costs are associated with neurotransmission. the physiologic importance of gabaergic neurotransmission in hypothalamic neurocircuits is unknown. in contrast to the prevailing belief that hypothalamic neurons use peptides, neuromodulators, or other slow-acting agents as their principal neuroactive substances, we present data indicating that the primary excitatory transmitter released by medial hypothalamic neurons is glutamate. this surprising new evidence is based on three converging approaches: immunogold cytochemistry revealed that some hypothalamic neurons and their processes in vitro contained high amounts of immunoreactive glutamate. the role of gaba and glutamate in regulating energy balance has received less attention in comparison to neuropeptides. total rna was extracted to determine the effects of leptin deficiency in the expression of representative genes coding for regulatory enzymes of hypothalamic energy pathways and glutamatergic neurotransmission. hypothalamic expression of the genes coding for glucokinase, phosphofructokinase, pyruvate dehydrogenase, and glutamine synthase was not significantly altered while pyruvate kinase expression was slightly upregulated. notably, 3 areas of the brain-the medial preoptic area, the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus, and the habenular nucleus-are activated by intragastric l-glutamate but not by glucose or sodium chloride. 
IFI16 impedes STING phosphorylation and translocation, resulting in reduced activation of STING. [SEP] ifi16 is also required for the cgamp-induced activation of sting, and interacts with sting to promote sting phosphorylation and translocation. we have previously reported that sting-mediated ifi16 degradation negatively regulates type i ifn production. acetylated ifi16 also interacted with cytoplasmic sting and induced ifn-β. however, the identity of ifi16 associated nuclear proteins involved in sting activation and the mechanism is not known. therefore, we investigated whether the ifi16 or p202 protein could regulate the expression of sting and activation of the tbk1/irf3 axis. we found that constitutive knockdown of ifi16 or p202 expression in cells increased steady-state levels of sting. here, we show that ifi16 functions in the cgas-sting pathway on two distinct levels. furthermore, ifi16 is vital for the downstream signalling stimulated by cgamp, facilitating recruitment and activation of tank-binding kinase 1 in sting complex. here, we find that sting directly interacts with ifi16 and facilitates ifi16 degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway by recruiting the e3 ligase trim21. sting-mediated negative feedback regulation of ifi16 restricts ifn-i overproduction during antiviral immunity to avoid autoimmune diseases. 
IFIT1 speeds viral replication by allowing for the proliferation of mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] the presence of ifit1 imposes a requirement on viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm to maintain mechanisms to avoid its restrictive effects. ifit1 is well-characterised to inhibit viral translation by sequestration of eukaryotic initiation factors or by directly binding to the 5' terminus of foreign rna, particularly those with non-self cap structures. nevertheless, knockout of ifit1 promoted viral replication in murine norovirus infected cells. we then demonstrate that ifit1 promoted interferon-beta expression following transfection of synthetic double-stranded rna but had little effect on toll-like receptor 3 and 4 signalling. instead, ifit1 stimulates the antiviral state following cytoplasmic rna sensing, contributing to restriction of norovirus replication. ifit1 (ifn-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats-1) is an effector of the host innate immune antiviral response that prevents propagation of virus infection by selectively inhibiting translation of viral mrna. our structural and biochemical analysis sheds new light on the molecular basis for ifit1 translational inhibition of capped viral rna. our understanding of the antiviral actions of ifit1, one of the most strongly induced interferon stimulated genes (isgs), has advanced remarkably within the last few years. ifit1 can detect viral rna lacking 2'-o methylation on their cap structures or displaying a 5'-triphosphate moiety and inhibit their translation or sequester them from active replication. because of these inhibitory actions, many viruses have evolved unique mechanisms to evade ifit1 to facilitate replication, spread of infection, and disease pathogenesis. 
IL-10 production by monocytes inhibits CD4 + T cell response. [SEP] il-10, an immunoregulatory cytokine produced by t cells and monocytes, inhibits the expression of inflammatory and hemopoietic cytokines as well as its own expression. to evaluate the regulation of il-10 production by t cells and monocytes, we measured il-10 levels by elisa in supernatants of pha-stimulated pbmc following depletion of either t cells or monocytes. il-10 production was significantly down-regulated in both t cell- and monocyte-depleted pbmc compared with undepleted pbmc, and il-10 production could be restored by the addition of monocyte-conditioned medium (supernatant of pha-stimulated, t cell-depleted pbmc), suggesting that il-10 production by t cells is regulated by a monokine(s) produced by activated monocytes. to further clarify the monokine(s) responsible for il-10 induction, we stimulated monocyte-depleted pbmc, purified cd4+, and cd8+ t cells with pha and measured il-10 production by elisa and semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-pcr following monokine(s) addition. taken together, these findings suggest that il-10 production by human t cells and monocytes is differentially regulated. since il-10 inhibits the production of il-6, il-12, and tnf-alpha, these results may indicate a potential mechanism of negative feedback regulation of the immune response. il-10 inhibited gammadelta and cd4(+) t cells directly and inhibited monocyte antigen-presenting cell (apc) function for cd4(+) t cells and, to a lesser extent, for gammadelta t cells. in hiv-infected patients, increased levels of il-10, mainly produced by virally infected monocytes, were reported to be associated with impaired cell-mediated immune responses. tnfα expression by stimulated monocytes was reduced in patients compared with controls while il-10 production was increased. parameters reflecting altered monocyte (increased il-10 production, decreased hla-dr expression and decreased tnfα synthesis) and cd4+ t lymphocyte (increased il-10 production, decreased circulating number) responses were correlated. 
IL-6 signaling plays a major role in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. [SEP] it is believed that inflammation plays a major role in atherosclerotic formation and progression. inflammation plays a major role in the onset of cardiovascular disease (cvd). interleukine-6 (il-6) is a multifunctional cytokine involved both in the beneficial acute inflammatory response and in the detrimental chronic low-grade systemic inflammation. large genetic human studies, using mendelian randomization approaches, have clearly showed that il-6 pathway is causally involved in the onset of myocardial infarction. this raises the issue of whether or not il-6 per se may contribute to increased mortality from malnutrition and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in uremic patients. the causes of elevated il-6 levels in the uremic circulation are not fully understood, although a number of factors prevalent in uremic patients, such as hypertension, adiposity, infections, and chronic heart failure may all contribute. among the markers of inflammation, a cytokine, interleukin (il)-6, promotes the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (icam-1), c-reactive protein (crp) synthesis, and leads to a series of procoagulant actions with potential major implications on the progression of atherosclerosis. to analyse in a population-based study, the relationship between il-6 and atherosclerotic lesions and the role of serum icam-1 and crp on this relationship. il-6 levels are associated with subclinical atherosclerotic lesions independently of traditional risk factors; the influence of il-6 on icam-1 secretion may play a role in this association. these results argue the interest of il-6 in the stratification of cardiovascular risk. 
ITAM phosphorylation allows for the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] recruitment of signaling molecules to the cytoplasmic domains of the cd3 subunits of the t-cell receptor (tcr) is crucial for early t-cell activation. this indicates that nck performs an important regulatory function in t lymphocytes by inhibiting itam phosphorylation and/or removing cell surface tcr via cd3epsilon interaction. (a) the itam and proline-rich sequence exposure model, in which the tcr's cytoplasmic tails shield each other and ligand binding exposes them for phosphorylation. conventional models posit that tcr signaling is initiated by the phosphorylation of receptor-associated immune receptor activation motifs (itams). the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase zap70 binds to phosphorylated itams, is subsequently activated, and then propagates downstream signaling. signal transduction by the t-cell antigen receptor (tcr) is initiated by phosphorylation of conserved motifs (itams) contained within the cytoplasmic domains of the invariant subunits. to study signaling by a restricted set of itams, we expressed in transgenic mice a chimeric construct containing the ias class ii mhc extracellular and transmembrane domains linked to the cytoplasmic domain of the tcr zeta-chain. the first 10 residues within the src homology domain (sh)-4 domain of the src family kinase fyn are required for binding to the immune receptor tyrosine-based activation motif (itam) of t cell receptor (tcr) subunits. these results indicate that tyrosine-phosphorylated itam is the target for the action of this dominant-negative mutant, suggesting that the assembly of a functional receptor signaling complex on itams is a critical proximal tcr signaling event leading to downstream activation. the role of cytosolic phosphotyrosine phosphatases (ptpase) in t cell receptor (tcr)-mediated signaling was investigated. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 are scarce in the duodenal mucosa of celiac disease patients when the disease is active. [SEP] high serum levels of anti-tissue-transglutaminase-2 iga antibodies (anti-tg2), which are produced and deposited in the intestine, characterize celiac disease. to assess the diagnostic value of intestinal deposits of anti-tg2 iga for celiac disease in a paediatric population. in this group, mucosal anti-transglutaminase-2 iga deposits were found in 24/25 (96%) bulb samples and 22/25 (88%) distal duodenal samples. in the control group one (0.5%) individual was positive for anti-tissue transglutaminase iga antibodies, but had normal duodenal histology. anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies were sensitive and specific markers of celiac disease in this diabetic group, while these antibodies were of limited value for celiac disease screening in patients with crohn´s disease. the present report focuses on the diagnosis of celiac disease and its pathogenesis, which depends on a genetic predisposition (hla dq2 or dq8 haplotypes), gluten ingestion and t cell activation, type ii transglutaminase (tg2), the autoantigen recognized by the antiendomysial antibody playing a key role. iga class antibody anti-environmental (gliadin) and endogenous (tg2) antigens are present in the sera of patients with celiac disease. our aim in the present study was to investigate tissue transglutaminase expression by immunohistochemistry in duodenal mucosa of patients with celiac disease. immunohistochemical staining pattern of duodenal biopsy specimen performed using anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies was similar in celiac patients and control subjects. tissue transglutaminase expression by immunohistochemical methods in untreated celiac mucosa is not suitable for diagnosis of celiac disease. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of nuclear DNA. [SEP] although nuclear molecules have important structural and genetic regulatory roles inside the cell nucleus, when released into the extracellular space during cell death, these molecules can acquire immune activity and serve as alarmins or damps. although apoptosis is generally considered the source of extracellular nuclear material, other cell death pathways such as necroptosis, netosis, and pyroptosis can contribute to the release of nuclear molecules. the communication of cell injury and death is a critical element in host defense and involves the repurposing of nuclear molecules as immune triggers. as shown in in vivo and in vitro studies, dna can exit cells during apoptotic as well as necrotic cell death in a process that may depend on the presence of macrophages. infections can instigate pro-inflammatory cell death programs including pyroptosis and netosis, induce extracellular release of host nuclear autoantigens, and promote their recognition in an immunogenic context by activating the innate and adaptive immune systems. cell death is a major source of these molecules, releasing dna in a process that can be modeled in mice by the administration of cells killed ex vivo. together, these findings suggest that cell death is an important event in lupus pathogenesis and can provide a supply of blood dna essential for immune complex formation. this release can be influenced by the presence of inflammatory cells such as macrophages that can interact with dead and dying cells to modulate the translocation of dna from the inside to the outside of cells. together, these findings indicate that the generation of extracellular dna in sle can result from cell death and that steps in this process represent potential targets for new therapies. the extracellular release of nuclear molecules occurs prominently during cell death and can determine the immune properties of dead and dying cells. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to sequestration of oxidized mitochondrial DNA. [SEP] oxidative stress caused by excess reactive oxygen species (ros) accelerates telomere erosion and mitochondrial injury, leading to impaired cellular functions and cell death. whether oxidative stress-mediated telomere erosion induces mitochondrial injury, or vice versa, in human t cells-the major effectors of host adaptive immunity against infection and malignancy-is poorly understood due to the pleiotropic effects of ros. we found that targeted 1 o2 production at telomeres triggered not only telomeric dna damage but also mitochondrial dysfunction, resulting in t cell apoptotic death. we hypothesized that circulating mitochondrial nucleic acid could serve as a biomarker for hiv-associated cell death and drive innate immune activation in infected individuals. mitochondrial oxidation-induced cell death, a physiological process triggered by various cancer therapeutics to induce oxidative stress on tumours, has been challenging to investigate owing to the difficulties in generating mitochondria-specific oxidative stress and monitoring mitochondrial responses simultaneously. we suggest a potential mechanism from mitochondrial oxidative stress to cell death based on proteomic analyses and phenomenological observations. the resulting mitochondrial oxidant stress and peroxynitrite formation, in part through amplification by c-jun-n-terminal kinase activation, leads to mitochondrial dna damage and opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. the mitochondrial dysfunction and nuclear dna damage ultimately cause oncotic necrotic cell death with release of damage-associated molecular patterns that trigger a sterile inflammatory response. oxidative base lesions, such as 8-oxoguanine (8-oxog), accumulate in nuclear and mitochondrial dnas under oxidative stress, resulting in cell death. dysfunction of mitochondrial complex i leads to degeneration of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, as seen in parkinson's disease, through activation of mitochondria-dependent programmed cell death pathways. 
Immune responses in immune cells are geographically segregated. [SEP] we found no significant genetic differentiation between species, but a significant positive correlation between genetic differentiation and geographical distance among populations. species status seems to contribute less for the molecular differentiation in gnbpb2 than geographical region in the african continent (west and east). the igg response pattern of tb patients differs from that of healthy individuals, with the molecular complexity of the antigens influencing the strength of recognition. individual m. tuberculosis peptide targets were defined, segregating patients with tb from africa versus those from south america. these data reveal the heterogeneity of epitope-dependent humoral immune responses in tb patients, partly due to geographical setting. in this regard, human leukocyte antigen (hla) studies and the pattern of immune responsiveness seem to show a clear segregation of one from the other. these barriers, which are ingeniously modulated by gut microbiota and host immune cells, spatially segregate gut microbiota and the host immunity to avoid unnecessary immune responses to gut commensal microbes. mucosal barriers, including physical barriers and chemical barriers, spatially segregate gut microbiota and the host immune system to avoid unnecessary immune responses to gut microbes, leading to the intestinal inflammation. the time interval since the last immunization and the age of donors both had a slight influence, and data were correspondingly adjusted for segregation and linkage analyses, which showed no evidence of genetic control of the antibody responses or of linkage to hla. no other differences in immune response among line unh105 genotypes were detected. 
Improvements in OER catalysts show stable activity over several hundred hours. [SEP] this review aims to provide the current progress on understanding of oer mechanisms in acid, analyze the promising strategies to enhance both activity and stability, and summarize the state-of-the-art catalysts for oer in acid. first, the prevailing oer mechanisms are reviewed to establish the physicochemical structure-activity relationships for guiding the design of highly efficient oer electrocatalysts in acid with stable performance. various noble-metal-based oer catalysts and the current progress of non-noble-metal-based catalysts are reviewed. finally, the challenges and perspectives for the development of active and robust oer catalysts in acid are discussed. high performance catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (oer) are in demand to improve the re-chargeability of zn-air batteries. they are highly active and stable during the oer, showing an overpotential of 0.35 v, a tafel slope of 40 mv dec-1, and remarkable stability during 16 h of a chronopotentiometry test. the catalyst shows no evident deactivation or decomposition after 30-hour operation in acidic environment. in agreement with the computed pourbaix diagrams, the materials were found to be moderately stable under oer conditions. seeking active, stable, and cost-effective oer catalysts in acidic media is therefore of great significance. interestingly, these oxide nps showed higher stability under oer conditions than commercial ru/c and ir/c catalysts. 
In British Men, haplogroup I decreases risk of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] carriers of haplogroup i had about a 50% higher age-adjusted risk of coronary artery disease than did men with other y chromosome lineages in bhf-fhs (odds ratio 1·75, 95% ci 1·20-2·54, p=0·004), woscops (1·45, 1·08-1·95, p=0·012), and joint analysis of both populations (1·56, 1·24-1·97, p=0·0002). the association between haplogroup i and increased risk of coronary artery disease was independent of traditional cardiovascular and socioeconomic risk factors. haplogroup i, a common european paternal lineage of the y chromosome, is associated with increased risk of coronary artery disease in british men. haplogroup i of male-specific region of the human y chromosome is associated with 50% increased risk of coronary artery disease. our results provided evidence that the r1b haplogroup may have a potential protective cardiovascular effect for its carriers. amongst middle-aged men, haplogroup i is associated with ≈ 50% higher risk of coronary artery disease than other paternal lineages of y chromosome. we hypothesised that carriers of haplogroup i had higher levels of aggression and estrogens and/or lower levels of androgens early in life and thus might be more prone to cardiovascular disease than men with other lineages of y chromosome. these results also suggest that the previously identified association between haplogroup i and coronary artery disease is not likely mediated by unfavourable profile of sex steroids or heightened aggression early in life. among 10 haplogroups with frequencies >0.04, haplogroups a and m7a were significantly associated with coronary atherosclerosis, with odds ratios (95% confidence intervals) of 1.80 (1.09-2.97; p=0.023) and 1.92 (1.23-3.01; p=0.004), respectively. conclusions in contrast to a study on coronary artery disease, our results do not show a clear predisposing effect of y haplogroups on first and recurrent vt risk in men. 
In British Men, haplogroup I increases risk of cardiovascular disease by 50%. [SEP] carriers of haplogroup i had about a 50% higher age-adjusted risk of coronary artery disease than did men with other y chromosome lineages in bhf-fhs (odds ratio 1·75, 95% ci 1·20-2·54, p=0·004), woscops (1·45, 1·08-1·95, p=0·012), and joint analysis of both populations (1·56, 1·24-1·97, p=0·0002). the association between haplogroup i and increased risk of coronary artery disease was independent of traditional cardiovascular and socioeconomic risk factors. the human y chromosome is associated with risk of coronary artery disease in men of european ancestry, possibly through interactions of immunity and inflammation. haplogroup i, a common european paternal lineage of the y chromosome, is associated with increased risk of coronary artery disease in british men. haplogroup i of male-specific region of the human y chromosome is associated with 50% increased risk of coronary artery disease. amongst middle-aged men, haplogroup i is associated with ≈ 50% higher risk of coronary artery disease than other paternal lineages of y chromosome. we hypothesised that carriers of haplogroup i had higher levels of aggression and estrogens and/or lower levels of androgens early in life and thus might be more prone to cardiovascular disease than men with other lineages of y chromosome. systolic blood pressure, cigarette smoking, and left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiography in men with pre-existing ischaemic heart disease were found to be the major risk factors for stroke in middle aged british men. haplogroup d4a, which was previously reported to be associated with extreme longevity in a japanese population, was associated with pathological myocardial infarction in men with an odds ratio of 2.05 (1.01-4.14; p=0.046). the mitochondrial haplogroup may contribute some genetic risk for coronary heart disease. 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways causes sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] tight regulation of the expression of mrnas encoding iron uptake proteins is essential to control iron homeostasis and avoid intracellular iron toxicity. we show that many mrnas encoding iron uptake or iron mobilization proteins are expressed in iron-replete conditions in the absence of the s. cerevisiae rnase iii ortholog rnt1p or of the nuclear exosome component rrp6p. rnase iii-deficient cells are hypersensitive to high iron concentrations, suggesting that rnt1p-mediated rna surveillance is required to prevent iron toxicity. these results show that rna surveillance through multiple ribonucleolytic pathways plays a role in iron homeostasis in yeast to avoid the potentially toxic effects of the expression of the iron starvation response in iron-replete conditions. yeast cells are hypersensitive to peroxides in growth conditions where only the high-affinity reductive pathway is functional for iron assimilation. iron deprivation induces transcription of genes required for iron uptake, and transcription factor aft1 and aft2 mediate this by regulating transcriptional program in saccharomyces cerevisiae. we investigated the activity of the oxygen-dependent high-affinity iron uptake system of saccharomyces cerevisiae under conditions of heme depletion. despite the inability to induce transcription under low iron conditions, chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrated that aft1p binds to the fet3 promoter in the absence of heme. finally, we provide evidence that under heme-depleted conditions, yeast are able to regulate mitochondrial iron uptake and do not accumulate pathologic iron concentrations, as is seen when iron-sulfur cluster synthesis is disrupted. we have examined the effects of heme or vacuole deficiency on the kinetics of induction of cell surface ferrireductase activity and expression of the fre1 gene encoding a component of ferrireductase, in response to iron or copper deprivation in s. cerevisiae. 
In S. cerevisiae, the absence of RNA surveillance pathways reduces sensitivity to high iron conditions. [SEP] tight regulation of the expression of mrnas encoding iron uptake proteins is essential to control iron homeostasis and avoid intracellular iron toxicity. we show that many mrnas encoding iron uptake or iron mobilization proteins are expressed in iron-replete conditions in the absence of the s. cerevisiae rnase iii ortholog rnt1p or of the nuclear exosome component rrp6p. rnase iii-deficient cells are hypersensitive to high iron concentrations, suggesting that rnt1p-mediated rna surveillance is required to prevent iron toxicity. these results show that rna surveillance through multiple ribonucleolytic pathways plays a role in iron homeostasis in yeast to avoid the potentially toxic effects of the expression of the iron starvation response in iron-replete conditions. yeast cells are hypersensitive to peroxides in growth conditions where only the high-affinity reductive pathway is functional for iron assimilation. iron deprivation induces transcription of genes required for iron uptake, and transcription factor aft1 and aft2 mediate this by regulating transcriptional program in saccharomyces cerevisiae. we investigated the activity of the oxygen-dependent high-affinity iron uptake system of saccharomyces cerevisiae under conditions of heme depletion. finally, we provide evidence that under heme-depleted conditions, yeast are able to regulate mitochondrial iron uptake and do not accumulate pathologic iron concentrations, as is seen when iron-sulfur cluster synthesis is disrupted. in this report, we explore the genetic diversity of 123 wild and domestic strains of s. cerevisiae isolated from different geographical origins and sources to characterize how yeast cells respond to elevated iron concentrations in the environment. an initial gene expression analysis suggested that alterations in iron homeostasis genes could contribute to the different responses of distant iron-sensitive and iron-resistant yeast strains to elevated environmental iron levels. 
In a naive state, blocking Wingless-Int-1 secretion from mouse embryonic stem cells inhibits self-renewal of the mouse embryonic stem cells. [SEP] here, we report that naive pluripotent stem cell was established from the icm, but maintained its self-renewal by treatment with fgf2 and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs) when they were exposed fgf2 during establishment. our present results could provide novel insights into understanding the growth factor environment and icm plasticity, and mechanisms which orchestrate the pluripotency of embryonic stem cells and the capacity for chimeric contributions. increased intracellular α-ketoglutarate (αkg) was shown to favor self-renewal in naive mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs). this reveals an important innate program for stem cell self-renewal with broad implications in understanding the molecular regulation of stem cell fate across species. new evidence has revealed interesting aspects of how the wnt-β-catenin pathway controls self-renewal and lineage differentiation of pluripotent embryonic stem cells. although wnt-β-catenin signaling is dispensable for the self-renewal of naive mouse embryonic stem cells, it facilitates their expansion and resistance to differentiation through an unconventional dual mechanism involving the transcriptional repressor t cell factor (tcf) 3 and the transcriptional activator tcf1. mouse epiblast stem cells (mepiscs) and human embryonic stem cells (hescs) are primed pluripotent stem cells whose self-renewal can be maintained through cytoplasmic stabilization and retention of β-catenin. activation of stat3 by leukemia inhibitory factor is required to maintain "stemness" in mouse embryonic stem cells, but not in hescs, suggesting the existence of alternate signaling pathways for self-renewal and pluripotency in human cells. in mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs), wnt proteins stimulate mesc self-renewal and support the naïve state. in human embryonic stem cells (hescs), wnt/β-catenin signaling is active in naïve-state hescs and is reduced or absent in primed-state hescs. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells promotes the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) to invasive carcinoma is a poorly understood key event in breast tumor progression. here, we analyzed the role of myoepithelial cells and fibroblasts in the progression of in situ carcinomas using a model of human dcis and primary breast tumors. however, in recent years with advances in genomics, cell biology, and research in breast cancer microenvironment, more emphasis has been placed on better understanding of the role that myoepithelial cells play in breast cancer progression. as the result, it has been recognized that the presence or absence of myoepithelial cells play a critical role in the assessment of tumor invasion in diagnostic breast pathology. in the present review, we discuss the characteristics of myoepithelial cells, their genomic markers and their role in the accurate diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ with microinvasion. although the tumor growth pattern generally enabled distinction of ductal carcinoma in situ from lymphovascular invasion, d2-40 myoepithelial expression in small ducts completely filled by solid-pattern ductal carcinoma in situ mimicked the pattern expected for lymphovascular invasion. the single case in which both pure myoepithelial carcinoma and invasive ductal carcinoma was present showed 2 alterations in the myoepithelial tumor (losses at 17p and 17q), whereas the invasive ductal component showed 15 alterations (5 gains and 9 losses), including loss at 17p. the relatively few genetic alterations in otherwise aggressive neoplasms suggests that myoepithelial tumors may be a good model for the delineation of genes important in breast tumorigenesis. we describe a preclinical model that investigates progression of early-stage ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) and report that compromised myoepithelial cell differentiation occurs before transition to invasive disease. tumor cells were incorporated into the normal mammary epithelium, developed ductal intraepithelial neoplasia and dcis, and progressed to invasive carcinoma, suggesting the model provides a rigorous approach to study early stages of breast cancer progression. 
In breast cancer, the loss of myoepithelial cells slows the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma. [SEP] the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) to invasive carcinoma is a poorly understood key event in breast tumor progression. here, we analyzed the role of myoepithelial cells and fibroblasts in the progression of in situ carcinomas using a model of human dcis and primary breast tumors. mammary myoepithelial cells have been under-recognized for many years since they were considered less important in breast cancer tumorigenesis compared to luminal epithelial cells. however, in recent years with advances in genomics, cell biology, and research in breast cancer microenvironment, more emphasis has been placed on better understanding of the role that myoepithelial cells play in breast cancer progression. as the result, it has been recognized that the presence or absence of myoepithelial cells play a critical role in the assessment of tumor invasion in diagnostic breast pathology. in the present review, we discuss the characteristics of myoepithelial cells, their genomic markers and their role in the accurate diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ with microinvasion. the single case in which both pure myoepithelial carcinoma and invasive ductal carcinoma was present showed 2 alterations in the myoepithelial tumor (losses at 17p and 17q), whereas the invasive ductal component showed 15 alterations (5 gains and 9 losses), including loss at 17p. the relatively few genetic alterations in otherwise aggressive neoplasms suggests that myoepithelial tumors may be a good model for the delineation of genes important in breast tumorigenesis. we describe a preclinical model that investigates progression of early-stage ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) and report that compromised myoepithelial cell differentiation occurs before transition to invasive disease. tumor cells were incorporated into the normal mammary epithelium, developed ductal intraepithelial neoplasia and dcis, and progressed to invasive carcinoma, suggesting the model provides a rigorous approach to study early stages of breast cancer progression. 
In chronic viral infections or tumors, peptides that selectively inhibit PTPRS can be utilized to boost insufficient activity of pDCs. [SEP] surface ptprs was rapidly downregulated after pdc activation, and only ptprs(-) pdcs produced ifn-α. antibody-mediated ptprs crosslinking inhibited pdc activation, whereas ptprs knockdown enhanced ifn response in a pdc cell line. thus, ptprs represents an evolutionarily conserved pdc-specific inhibitory receptor, and is required to prevent spontaneous ifn production and immune-mediated intestinal inflammation. however, chronic infections and cancer inhibit pdc-derived ifn-i. recent work has identified many processes that contribute to suppression of pdc-derived ifn-i during chronic infections and cancer, including sustained stimulation through toll like receptors (tlrs), inhibitory microenvironments, inhibitory receptor ligation, and reduced development from bone marrow progenitors and apoptosis. emerging success leveraging pdcs in treatment of disease through tlr activation illustrates the therapeutic potential of targeting pdcs. understanding the role of activated pdcs in breast cancer may help to develop new strategies for manipulating the function of pdcs and induce anti-tumor immunity in breast cancer. therefore, pdc may serve as an attractive target for therapeutic manipulations of the immune system to treat viral infectious diseases and autoimmune diseases. the blockade of cd81 by soluble anti-cd81 antibody restores pdcs response to cpg-odn. we show here that virus-activated pdcs differentiate into antigen-presenting cells able to induce effector/memory cd8(+) t-cell responses in vivo against both epitopic peptides and endogenous antigen, whereas pdcs activated by synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides containing unmethylated cytosine-guanine motifs (cpg) acquire only the ability to recall antigen-experienced t-cell responses. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy is very common. [SEP] frequent loss of heterozygosity involved diverse, strain-specific chromosomal translocations, which differed from those observed in domesticated, aneuploid s. pastorianus brewing strains. in contrast to the extensive aneuploidy of domesticated s. pastorianus strains, the evolved isolates only showed limited (segmental) aneuploidy. this study indicates that fast acquisition of extensive aneuploidy is not required for genetic adaptation of s. cerevisiae × s. eubayanus hybrids to brewing environments. although domesticated isolates exhibit high variation in ploidy, aneuploidy and genome content, genome evolution in wild isolates is mainly driven by the accumulation of single nucleotide polymorphisms. segmental aneuploidy can play an important role in environmental adaptation. here, we describe a pcr-mediated chromosome duplication (pcdup) technology that enables the generation of segmental aneuploidy at any desired chromosomal region in saccharomyces cerevisiae. we show that these variants are distributed across the phylogenetic spectrum of domesticated lineages of s. cerevisiae, with emphasis on the most relevant technological groups, but absent in wild lineages. recent studies on population genomics of saccharomyces cerevisiae have substantially improved our understanding of the genetic diversity and domestication history of the yeast. we have shown that it induces aneuploidy in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae at very low concentrations. in the absence of induced dna damage, these yeast strains had very high frequencies of aneuploidy (both trisomy and monosomy) in addition to elevated rates of chromosome rearrangements. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segmental aneuploidy occurs infrequently. [SEP] frequent loss of heterozygosity involved diverse, strain-specific chromosomal translocations, which differed from those observed in domesticated, aneuploid s. pastorianus brewing strains. in contrast to the extensive aneuploidy of domesticated s. pastorianus strains, the evolved isolates only showed limited (segmental) aneuploidy. this study indicates that fast acquisition of extensive aneuploidy is not required for genetic adaptation of s. cerevisiae × s. eubayanus hybrids to brewing environments. segmental aneuploidy can play an important role in environmental adaptation. here, we describe a pcr-mediated chromosome duplication (pcdup) technology that enables the generation of segmental aneuploidy at any desired chromosomal region in saccharomyces cerevisiae. we show that these variants are distributed across the phylogenetic spectrum of domesticated lineages of s. cerevisiae, with emphasis on the most relevant technological groups, but absent in wild lineages. recent studies on population genomics of saccharomyces cerevisiae have substantially improved our understanding of the genetic diversity and domestication history of the yeast. the result supports the previous observations that the wild and domesticated populations of s. cerevisiae are clearly separated and that the domesticated population diverges into two distinct groups associated with solid- and liquid-state fermentations from a single ancestor. our results suggest that greatly diverged populations of wild s. cerevisiae exist independently of and predate domesticated isolates. to date, numerous studies showed that some saccharomyces species form genetically diverged populations that are structured by geography, ecology or domestication activity and that the yeast species can also hybridize readily both in natural and domesticated environments. 
In melanoma, anti-CTLA-4 treatment reinvigorates exhausted PD-1+Eomes+CD8 T cells. [SEP] when anti-ctla-4 was used in combination with anti-pd-1, an additional increase in cd8+ til proliferation was observed in patients with low percentages of eomeshit-betlo cd8+ tils, who responded well to anti-pd-1 in ex vivo assays, but not in patients with high percentages of eomeshit-betlo cd8+ tils, who did not respond to anti-pd-1. treatment with anti-ctla-4 plus anti-pd-1 compared with monotherapy resulted in durable antitumor responses, enhanced effector function of act, utilizing pmel-1 transgenic (tg+) cd8+ t cells, and improved survival. our study provides a foundation of testing combinatorial therapy of act of cd8 t cells and dual blocking of ctla-4 and pd-1 in patients with melanoma. blockade of programmed death-1 (pd-1) reinvigorates exhausted cd8+ t cells, resulting in tumor regression in cancer patients. anti-pd-1 predominantly induces the expansion of specific tumor-infiltrating exhausted-like cd8 t cell subsets. in contrast, anti-ctla-4 induces the expansion of an icos+ th1-like cd4 effector population in addition to engaging specific subsets of exhausted-like cd8 t cells. immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting programmed cell death protein 1 (pd-1) and cytotoxic t lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (ctla-4) have revolutionized the treatment of melanoma patients. we show that both the frequency and the breadth of the circulating melanoma-reactive cd8 t cell response was unaltered upon pd-1 blockade. in contrast, a broadening of the circulating melanoma-reactive cd8 t cell response was observed upon ctla-4 blockade, in concordance with our prior data. inhibition of immune checkpoints programmed death 1 (pd-1) and cytotoxic t lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (ctla-4) on t cells results in durable antitumor activity in melanoma patients. 
In patients with congenital heart defects, β-blockers significantly improve clinical heart failure outcomes. [SEP] as new treatments continue to improve clinical outcomes in coronary artery disease (cad) and heart failure, it is necessary to characterize the appropriate use of β-adrenergic receptor blockers (β-blockers) in the contemporary management of these conditions. this review examines the current evidence supporting β-blocker use in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (hfpef), heart failure with midrange ejection fraction (hfmef), and heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (hfref), following acute coronary syndrome and in stable cad. there is overwhelming evidence that β-blockers reduce cardiovascular hospitalizations and mortality in patients with heart failure and a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction provide they are in sinus rhythm. review and critical analysis of recent publications and meta-analyses on the use of β-blockers and other heart rate-slowing medicines in heart failure. it is widely known that β-blockers exert beneficial effects on non-ischemic and ischemic systolic heart failure (shf) in nonstructural hearts. however, whether β-blockers exert similar effects on shf associated with congenital heart disease (chd), particularly in an anatomical right ventricle, remains under debate.here we report the case of an adult man with repaired tetralogy of fallot suffering from biventricular heart failure. clinical trials have shown the benefits of β-blockers therapy in patients with heart failure reduced ejection fraction. in multiple clinical trials, beta-blockers have been shown to significantly improve morbidity and mortality in adults with chronic congestive heart failure, but there is little reported experience with their use in children. consequently, beta-blockers have evolved to become an important part of comprehensive medical therapy for congestive heart failure in adults. the most recent and important breakthrough in the pharmacologic treatment of heart failure has been the particular role of β-blocker therapy. 
In pediatric tissue, most T cells are naive T cell emigrants from the thymus. [SEP] the generation of naive t cells is dependent on thymic output, but in adults, the naive t cell pool is primarily maintained by peripheral proliferation. naive t cells have long been regarded as relatively quiescent cells; however, it was recently shown that il-8 production is a signatory effector function of naive t cells, at least in newborns. using a cohort of children and adolescents who underwent neonatal thymectomy, we demonstrate that the naive cd4+ t cell compartment in healthy humans is functionally heterogeneous and that this functional diversity is lost after neonatal thymectomy. a diverse repertoire among peripheral t cells is established in early life by thymic export when the naive t cell pool is first formed. the data demonstrate that naive t cells constantly enter the peripheral t cell pool at the same rate throughout fetal, neonatal and adult life, and that one in every 50 t cells in the peripheral lymphoid tissues of aged sheep had emigrated from the thymus in the previous 24 h. the data suggest that restoration by the thymus of a normal peripheral t cell repertoire in chronic t cell-depleting conditions should be possible in adult patients, provided the thymus is not damaged by disease or therapy. during foetal life a large pool of recirculating t cells develops and migration pathways of naive t cells to skin and peripheral tissues as well as ln are established. at present our data suggest that the thymic export in the fetus creates a pool of long-lived naive t cells of wide diversity. the supply of naive t cells by the thymus normally requires precursor t cell proliferation within the thymus and would be particularly important in the setting of hiv infection when both naive and memory t cells are progressively depleted. over 90% of phenotypically naive t cells in middle age are not of direct thymic origin. the phenotype of recent emigrants in peripheral tissues is similar to that of mature t cells. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of emtricitabine are ineffective at protecting against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] we investigated whether the combination of taf and emtricitabine (ftc) could prevent simian/human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) infection in macaques to determine the potential use of taf for pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) to prevent human immunodeficiency virus infection. the objectives of this study were to determine whether novel recombinant mamu mhc constructs would elicit protection against rectal challenge with heterologous simian-human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) strain sf162.p4 in rhesus macaques. the vaccine was administered to two groups, each consisting of nine macaques, either subcutaneously (sc), or rectally and boosted by sc immunization. various simian immunodeficiency virus (siv)sm/mac and simian/human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) strains are used in different macaque species to study aids pathogenesis, as well as to evaluate candidate vaccine and anti-retroviral drugs efficacy. given the mucosal transmission of hiv-1, we compared whether a mucosal vaccine could induce mucosal cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) and protect rhesus macaques against mucosal infection with simian/human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) more effectively than the same vaccine given subcutaneously. here we show that mucosal ctls specific for simian immunodeficiency virus can be induced by intrarectal immunization of macaques with a synthetic-peptide vaccine incorporating the lt(r192g) adjuvant. to test this concept, we investigated whether intravaginal dosing with emtricitabine (ftc)/tenofovir (tfv) gel, which fully protected macaques against repeated vaginal exposures to simian human immunodeficiency virus (shiv), protects against rectal shiv exposures. a previous report demonstrated the targeted immunization of the iliac lymph nodes with simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) subunits protects rhesus macaques from rectal challenge with siv. we sought to determine whether this immunization strategy could protect rhesus macaques from vaginal challenge with siv. in this series of studies, reliable protection from vaginal transmission of siv was not achieved by the tiln immunization procedure. 
In rhesus macaques, daily subcutaneous injections of tenofovir protects against rectally transmitted simian-human immunodeficiency virus. [SEP] seven rt-shiv-infected macaques were treated with a combination of efavirenz (200 mg orally once daily), lamivudine (8 mg/kg subcutaneously once daily), and tenofovir (30 mg/kg subcutaneously once daily). we investigated in macaques whether ftc/tdf prevents transmission of a tenofovir-resistant simian/human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) containing the k65r mutation. we investigated whether the combination of taf and emtricitabine (ftc) could prevent simian/human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) infection in macaques to determine the potential use of taf for pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) to prevent human immunodeficiency virus infection. we evaluated daily and intermittent prep regimens of increasing antiviral activity in a macaque model that closely resembles human transmission. we examined the efficacy of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tdf) in blocking simian human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) infection in chinese rhesus macaques. given the mucosal transmission of hiv-1, we compared whether a mucosal vaccine could induce mucosal cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) and protect rhesus macaques against mucosal infection with simian/human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) more effectively than the same vaccine given subcutaneously. here we show that mucosal ctls specific for simian immunodeficiency virus can be induced by intrarectal immunization of macaques with a synthetic-peptide vaccine incorporating the lt(r192g) adjuvant. tenofovir gel (1%) is being developed as a microbicide for the prevention of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection and has been shown to reduce transmission to women by 39%. we have determined the pharmacokinetics of tenofovir in macaques following intravaginal and intrarectal administration of 0.2, 1, and 5% gels. these data suggest that a tenofovir-based microbicide may have the potential to protect when exposure is via vaginal or anal intercourse, regardless of whether the microbicide is applied vaginally or rectally. 
In the UK, drowning affects boys and girls equally. [SEP] drowning is a significant cause of childhood mortality in the developed world. males and preschool-aged children are overrepresented in most series of pediatric drowning. most boys drowned in open water (53%), whereas most girls drowned in pools (50%). the present study highlights differences in the pattern of drowning according to age and sex and may aid in developing targeted educational and preventative campaigns. since then, boys' risk for suicide has clearly decreased and was 1.6 times higher than the corresponding risk in girls in 2013. cms was equally prevalent in girls and boys. girls were affected more frequently than boys; this difference persisted across the age range. nationally, children under the age of 4 years and male adolescents represent the pediatric groups with the highest rates of drowning. in wisconsin, 1998-2002, preteen children were involved in drowning or near-drowning events more often than teens, with boys being involved more than 2 times as often as girls for all childhood ages assessed. the drowning gender disparity is even greater among adults. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, more than 50 percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] enhanced green florescent protein (egfp)-expressing donor cells were used for the nuclear transfer. all (100%) iscnt embryos expressed the egfp gene, as evidenced by the green florescence under ultraviolet (uv) illumination. the green florescence proteins (gfp) gene of aquorea victoria, proved to be a vital marker to identify transformed cells in mixed populations. also, freshly isolated morulas were aggregated with es cells that were positive for the green florescent protein (gfp). after overnight culture, the blastocysts that exhibited gfp florescence were transferred to the pseudo-pregnant mothers to obtain chimeric animals. we have generated transgenic mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) under the control of the endogenous locus-regulatory regions of the sox2 gene to prospectively identify neural stem/progenitor cells in vivo and in vitro. fluorescent cells coexpress sox2 protein, and egfp fluorescence is detected in proliferating neural progenitor cells of the entire anterior-posterior axis of the cns from neural plate stages to adulthood. we developed a transgenic mouse line in which the surrogate markers secreted alkaline phosphatase (seap) and enhanced green florescent protein (egfp) can be used to monitor neurogenin-3 expression, and thus islet cell genesis. transgenic mice with enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) expression controlled by the sox2 gene were used in the study. in the present study, we have constructed a new minicircle dna vector that carries an enhanced green florescent protein (egfp) reporter gene using phage φc31 integrase-mediated recombination and homing endonuclease iscei-mediated purification in e. coli. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] to examine whether current use of medications prescribed primarily to treat adhd is associated with increased risk of serious cardiovascular events in young and middle-aged adults. among young and middle-aged adults, current or new use of adhd medications, compared with nonuse or remote use, was not associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events. adverse-event reports from north america have raised concern that the use of drugs for attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (adhd) increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events. current users of adhd drugs were not at increased risk for serious cardiovascular events (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.75; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.31 to 1.85). this large study showed no evidence that current use of an adhd drug was associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events, although the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval indicated that a doubling of the risk could not be ruled out. the impact of these medications on serious cardiovascular events in healthy children is unknown, but serious cardiovascular events related to adhd medications are considered rare. identifying and managing underlying cardiovascular pathology may not eliminate the risk of serious cardiovascular events but may increase the safety of using medication frequently required for effective management of adhd. despite the well established efficacy and the good safety and tolerability profile, there is concern about the potential for rare but serious cardiovascular adverse events, as well as sudden cardiac death, with pharmacotherapies used for treating adhd in children, adolescents and adults. the present paper aims to comprehensively and critically review the published evidence on the controversial association between medications approved for treating patients with adhd and the risk of serious cardiovascular problems, specifically the risk of corrected qt interval (qtc) prolongation, and the risk of sudden cardiac death. however, great caution is advised when considering stimulant and non-stimulant medications for patients of any age with a diagnosis of adhd and a personal or family history or other known risk factors for cardiovascular disease. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is higher than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] incidence for 10/66 dementia varied between 18·2 and 30·4 per 1000 person-years, and were 1·4-2·7 times higher than were those for dsm-iv dementia (9·9-15·7 per 1000 person-years). the incidence rate of dsm iv dementia was 9.0 per 1000 person-years (95% ci 7.2-11.3) and of 10/66 dementia was 20.5 per 1000 person-years (95% ci, 17.6-23.5). the validity of 10/66 dementia was higher (sensitivity = 95.6%, specificity = 81.8%) than that of dsm-iv dementia (sensitivity = 75.6%, specificity = 88.6%) when compared against the clinical gold standard. the study found that the prevalence of 10/66 dementia was 10% in the older adult population while the prevalence of dsm-iv dementia was 4.6%. those with a 10/66 dementia diagnosis who did not meet the dsm-iv criterion were less cognitively and functionally impaired compared with the dsmiv confirmed cases, but still grossly impaired compared with those free of dementia. the 10/66 dementia diagnosis defines a broader category that may be more sensitive, identifying genuine cases beyond those defined by our dsm-iv algorithm, with relevance to the estimation of the population burden of this disorder. 10/66 dementia prevalence is generally double that of dsm-iv dementia. the age-standardised prevalence of clinical dsm-iv dementia was 6.4% (95% confidence interval [ci] 4.9-7.9%) and of '10/66 dementia' was 21.6% (95% ci 17.5-25.7%). 10/66 dementia prevalence was higher than that of dsm-iv dementia, and more consistent across sites, varying between 5.6% (95% ci 4.2-7.0) in rural china and 11.7% (10.3-13.1) in the dominican republic. the 10/66 dementia research group's cross-culturally validated diagnosis returns a considerably higher prevalence. 
Incidence of 10/66 dementia is lower than the incidence of DSM-IV dementia. [SEP] incidence for 10/66 dementia varied between 18·2 and 30·4 per 1000 person-years, and were 1·4-2·7 times higher than were those for dsm-iv dementia (9·9-15·7 per 1000 person-years). the incidence rate of dsm iv dementia was 9.0 per 1000 person-years (95% ci 7.2-11.3) and of 10/66 dementia was 20.5 per 1000 person-years (95% ci, 17.6-23.5). the clinician diagnoses agreed better with 10/66 dementia diagnosis than with the more conservative computerized dsm-iv algorithm. those with a 10/66 dementia diagnosis who did not meet the dsm-iv criterion were less cognitively and functionally impaired compared with the dsmiv confirmed cases, but still grossly impaired compared with those free of dementia. the age-standardised prevalence of clinical dsm-iv dementia was 6.4% (95% confidence interval [ci] 4.9-7.9%) and of '10/66 dementia' was 21.6% (95% ci 17.5-25.7%). studies have suggested that the prevalence of dementia is lower in developing than in developed regions. as compared with the 10/66 dementia algorithm, the dsm-iv dementia criterion might underestimate dementia prevalence, especially in regions with low awareness of this emerging public-health problem. the validity of 10/66 dementia was higher (sensitivity = 95.6%, specificity = 81.8%) than that of dsm-iv dementia (sensitivity = 75.6%, specificity = 88.6%) when compared against the clinical gold standard. the study found that the prevalence of 10/66 dementia was 10% in the older adult population while the prevalence of dsm-iv dementia was 4.6%. the prevalence of dementia according to dsm-iv criteria tends to be very low in less developed settings. 
Incidence of heart failure increased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] the 30-day incidence of heart failure after mi rose from 10% in 1970 to 1979 to 23.1% in 1990 to 1999 (p for trend 0.003), whereas 30-day mortality after mi declined from 12.2% (1970 to 1979) to 4.1% (1990 to 1999). in multivariable analyses, compared with the period 1970 to 1979, we observed higher 30-day (risk ratio 2.05, 95% confidence interval 1.25 to 3.36) and 5-year (risk ratio 1.74, 95% confidence interval 1.07 to 2.84) risks of heart failure in the decade 1990 to 1999. in the present community-based sample, we observed an increase in the incidence of heart failure in recent decades that paralleled the decrease in mortality after mi. the incidence of heart failure was higher among men (378/100 000 persons; 95% confidence interval [ci], 361-395 for men; 289/100 000 persons; 95% ci, 277-300 for women) and did not change over time among men or women. in this community-based cohort, the incidence of heart failure has not declined during 2 decades, but survival after onset of heart failure has increased overall, with less improvement among women and elderly persons. heart failure is a major public health problem. heart failure occurred in 1075 subjects (51 percent of whom were women). in 1979, 28.5% of male and 40.4% of female deaths attributed to coronary heart disease (coded as the underlying cause of death) also had a coding for heart failure. furthermore, one third or more of deaths currently attributed to coronary heart disease may be related to heart failure and this proportion appears to be increasing. from the curve, we can find dramatic increases of congestive heart failure and cerebrovascular disease incidences at roughly 3 years and 10 years since the diagnosis of eclampsia/preeclampsia. 
Incidence of sepsis has fallen substantially from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] estimates from claims-based analyses suggest that the incidence of sepsis is increasing and mortality rates from sepsis are decreasing. sepsis incidence, outcomes, and trends from 2009-2014 were calculated using regression models and compared with claims-based estimates using international classification of diseases, ninth revision, clinical modification codes for severe sepsis or septic shock. from 2009-2014, sepsis incidence using clinical criteria was stable (+0.6% relative change/y [95% ci, -2.3% to 3.5%], p = .67) whereas incidence per claims increased (+10.3%/y [95% ci, 7.2% to 13.3%], p < .001). in clinical data from 409 hospitals, sepsis was present in 6% of adult hospitalizations, and in contrast to claims-based analyses, neither the incidence of sepsis nor the combined outcome of death or discharge to hospice changed significantly between 2009-2014. the case fatality rate (cfr) or proportion of patients with sepsis who died decreased from 19.1% (2000-2004) to 18.4% (2005-2009) to 17.9% (2010-2013) (p < 0.001). sepsis has caused an increasing burden in terms of hospital admission, deaths, and costs in the spanish public health system during the twenty-first century, but the incidence and mortality seemed to stabilize in 2010-2013. moreover, there was a significant decrease in lohs in 2010-2013 and a decline in hospital costs after 2011. when unspecified sepsis was added, the decrease was 39%, from 171 to 104/100 000 person-years. this study examines sepsis-causing microorganisms from 2006 to 2014 in the united states using data from the nationwide inpatient sample database. the rate of sepsis incidence has increased for all four major categories of pathogens, while the mortality rate decreased. 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams does not alter the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] therefore, it is proposed that having a pharmacist available when patients are evaluated during the rounding process may reduce the likelihood of preventable adverse drug events (ades). the objectives of this study were to evaluate the impact of having a pharmacist participate with a physician rounding team on preventable ades in general medicine units and to document pharmacist interventions made during the rounding process. a single-blind, standard care-controlled study design was used to compare patients receiving care from a rounding team including a pharmacist with patients receiving standard care (no pharmacist on rounding team). pharmacist participation with the medical rounding team on a general medicine unit contributes to a significant reduction in preventable ades. published studies have shown that pharmacists on medical rounds reduce the incidence of preventable adverse drug events (ades). studies have indicated the clinical pharmacist plays a key role in reducing preventable adverse drug events (ade), as well as decreasing costs and length of stay. however, whether pharmacist participation in the icu at the time of drug prescribing reduces adverse events has not been studied. the presence of a pharmacist on rounds as a full member of the patient care team in a medical icu was associated with a substantially lower rate of ades caused by prescribing errors. clinical pharmacists as part of the medical care team can improve the identification of ades which may ultimately translate into improved quality of care. in this randomized clinical trial, there was not an observed lower rate of adverse drug-related incidents or clinically important medication errors during the posthospitalization period that was associated with a clinical pharmacist intervention. 
Including pharmacists in rounding teams reduces the incidence of adverse drug events (ADEs). [SEP] therefore, it is proposed that having a pharmacist available when patients are evaluated during the rounding process may reduce the likelihood of preventable adverse drug events (ades). the objectives of this study were to evaluate the impact of having a pharmacist participate with a physician rounding team on preventable ades in general medicine units and to document pharmacist interventions made during the rounding process. pharmacist participation with the medical rounding team on a general medicine unit contributes to a significant reduction in preventable ades. published studies have shown that pharmacists on medical rounds reduce the incidence of preventable adverse drug events (ades). studies have indicated the clinical pharmacist plays a key role in reducing preventable adverse drug events (ade), as well as decreasing costs and length of stay. the presence of a pharmacist on rounds as a full member of the patient care team in a medical icu was associated with a substantially lower rate of ades caused by prescribing errors. multidisciplinary asps that included clinical pharmacists reduced the risk of antimicrobial-related ades by 38% (adjusted odds ratio 0.62; 95% confidence interval 0.50-0.77). our results suggest that the active involvement of clinical pharmacists in multidisciplinary asps may contribute to reduce the incidence of antimicrobial-related ades in hospitalized patients. there is evidence to indicate that the inclusion of pharmacists in the health care team at toc points reduces ades and drps and improves patient outcomes. ambulatory care pharmacists have a unique opportunity to identify and prevent adverse drug events (ades) throughout a patient's treatment course. 
Increase of p62 in prostate tumor stroma results in defective autophagy. [SEP] importantly, sustained p62 expression resulting from autophagy defects was sufficient to alter nf-kappab regulation and gene expression and to promote tumorigenesis. thus, defective autophagy is a mechanism for p62 upregulation commonly observed in human tumors that contributes directly to tumorigenesis likely by perturbing the signal transduction adaptor function of p62-controlling pathways critical for oncogenesis. activation of cellular autophagy in huh-7.5 cells efficiently cleared p62 and glypican-3 expression and inhibition of autophagy induced the expression of p62 and glypican-3. the autophagy adaptor protein, p62/sqstm1/sequestosome-1, is up-regulated in tumors, but down-regulated in cafs in the early stages of lung adenocarcinoma. we investigated whether p62-induced autophagy might control caf activation. thus, targeting the p62-nrf2 autophagy signaling pathway might be a novel, stroma-focused, cancer prevention and/or treatment strategy. here we show that p62 levels were reduced in the stroma of several tumors and that its loss in the tumor microenvironment or stromal fibroblasts resulted in increased tumorigenesis of epithelial prostate cancer cells. consequently, high levels of p62 caused a promotion of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in addition to an impairment of autophagy flux, and further led to an enhancement of proliferation, migration, and invasion of prostate cancer cells. p62 promotes metastasis of pca by sustaining the level of hdac6 to inhibit autophagy and promote epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. suppression of autophagy is always accompanied by marked accumulation of p62, a selective autophagy substrate. 
Increased LDL receptors plays a role in the reduction of plasma Lp(a). [SEP] the increase in apo(a) fcr during alirocumab treatment suggests that increased ldl receptors may also play a role in the reduction of plasma lp(a). lp(a) lipoprotein purified from human plasma bound with high affinity to isolated bovine ldl receptors on nitrocellulose blots and in a solid-phase assay. an ldl-receptor-independent uptake of lp(a) into fibroblasts must therefore be postulated. thus the ldl receptor may play an indirect role in lp(a) catabolism. lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)] is a plasma lipoprotein, consisting of apolipoprotein(a), linked by a covalent bond with the ldl particle. increased lp(a) levels are associated with an increased incidence of diseases based on atherosclerosis, namely the ischemic heart disease. the number of ldl molecules associated with each lp(a) molecule (ldl index) in plasma samples increased steadily with lp(a) size (correlation coefficient r = 0.834). results suggest that phenotype-dependence of the physiological and pathological functions of lp(a) may operate through differential ldl-carrier activity. in some studies, a pvuii restriction fragment length polymorphism (rflp) in the ldl receptor gene seems to affect concentrations of ldl in plasma, and other studies have indicated that lp(a) catabolism could be mediated by the ldl receptor. there was, however, evidence to suggest that ldl receptors could play a part in the ultimate clearance of lp(a) by mediating the degradation of its lipid and apob components after the removal of apo(a) in the circulation. 
Increased conversion of PGE 2 to PPARy ligand 15-ket-PGE 2 causes accumulation of PGE. [SEP] embryonic fibroblasts derived from cpges/p23 knockout mice generated higher amounts of pge(2) in culture supernatants than wild-type-derived cells. in order to elucidate this apparent conflict that absence of pge(2) synthetic enzyme caused facilitation of pge(2) biosynthesis, we examined expression of the pge(2) degrading enzyme in embryonic fibroblasts. we report here that embryonic fibroblasts deficient in cpges/p23 decreased the expression of the pge(2) degrading enzyme, 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh), which catalyzes the inactivating conversion of the pge(2) 15-oh to a 15-keto group, compared with that of wild-type. these results suggest that the pge(2)-inactivating pathway is controlled by the pge(2) biosynthetic enzyme, cpges/p23. pge(2) caused a 15.0% inhibition of jurkat cell proliferation compared with control (p<0.05). pge-2 increases testicular weight possibly by preventing degeneration of spermatids, 2) pge-2 acting directly on the testis, reduces testicular ascorbic acid content, stimulates the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone but depresses the conversion of the latter to testosterone. however, pge(2) rapidly induced phosphorylation of eralpha at serine residues 118, 167, and 305, suggesting that pge(2) activates eralpha in a ligand-independent manner. pge(2) also increased phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (erk), akt, and protein kinase a (pka). additional enhancement of il-1beta production was observed in the combination of pge(1) and 15d-pgj(2). preincubation of m&phi; with pge(2) (0.5 h) followed by washing significantly shifts the subsequent pge(2) concentration-effect curve to the right. 
Increased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm. [SEP] measured systolic and diastolic blood pressures were significantly higher in the aneurysm patients. the relative risk of having an abdominal aortic aneurysm increased 3.4-fold (95% ci 1.06-10.89) for those with a diastolic blood pressure of >90mmhg, p=0.035 and 4.1-fold (95% ci 1.27-13.16) for those with a mean arterial pressure > or = 100mmhg, p=0.009. in smokers, the risk of developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm increases with increasing mean arterial and diastolic blood pressure and two aspects of current smoking habit: the number of cigarettes currently smoked and the depth of inhalation. the factors increasing expansion rate of thoracic aortic aneurysms were initial size of aneurysms, diastolic blood pressure, and presence of renal failure by univariate analysis. multivariate analysis concerning the entire aortic aneurysms also revealed that the large size of the aneurysm and the presence of the aortic aneurysm in the abdomen increased expansion rate of aneurysms. our conclusion is that larger diameter and higher diastolic blood pressure are important risk factors for expansion of abdominal aortic aneurysms. the aim of this study was to determine the association between atherosclerosis and aortic aneurysm in the general population and the extent to which cardiovascular risk factors might increase the risk of aneurysm independently of an effect on atherosclerotic disease. objectives the purpose of this study was to investigate whether there are differences among clinical conditions and traditional atherosclerotic risk factors between patients with large abdominal aortic aneurysm and those with occlusive non-coronary arterial disease. results in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm, we identified a clear predominance of males ( p < 0.001), more alcohol consumers ( p < 0.05), higher values of diastolic blood pressure ( p < 0.05), higher values of serum creatinine ( p < 0.005), more hyperuricemic patients ( p < 0.005) and less diabetics ( p < 0.001). conclusions patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm were mostly males with diastolic hypertension, impaired renal function and less diabetics, while patients with occlusive arteriopathy were more smokers, hypertensives and more hypertriglyceridemics. 
Increased flux of microbial products provokes immune responses. [SEP] toll-like receptors (tlrs) are sensors of foreign microbial products, which initiate host defense responses in all multicellular organisms examined to date. innate immunity recognizes invading micro-organisms and triggers a host defence response. each tlr distinguishes between specific patterns of microbial components to provoke innate immune responses. the activation of innate immunity then leads to the development of antigen-specific adaptive immunity. in higher organisms a variety of host defense mechanisms control the resident microflora and, in most cases, effectively prevent invasive microbial disease. however, it appears that microbial organisms have coevolved with their hosts to overcome protective host barriers and, in selected cases, actually take advantage of innate host responses. many microbial pathogens avoid host recognition or dampen the subsequent immune activation through sophisticated interactions with host responses, but some pathogens benefit from the stimulation of inflammatory reactions. this review will describe the spectrum of strategies used by microbes to avoid or provoke activation of the host's immune response as well as our current understanding of the role this immunomodulatory interference plays during microbial pathogenesis. this review addresses the ability of microorganisms to activate mcs provoking inflammation. we describe some mc-specific biological activities related to infections and discuss the evidence of mc mechanisms involved in the microbial activation which cause cytokine/chemokine generation-mediated inflammation, and provide a description of novel functions of mast cells during microbial infection. 
Increased flux of microbial products suppresses immune responses. [SEP] although numerous factors may contribute, microbial products have recently emerged as potential drivers of this immune activation. the increased prevalence of allergies in developed societies has been associated with decreased microbial load during childhood. viral, bacterial and parasite-derived molecules have been identified that can inhibit inflammatory responses. however, in addition to the plethora of microbial factors that suppress immune responses, the most potent immune activators are also of microbial origin. the tradeoff also works the opposite way, where active growth and developmental processes suppress sa production and immune responses. under physiological conditions, regulatory processes can suppress the immune response after elimination of a pathogen and restore homeostasis through the destruction and suppression of obsolete effector cells of the immune system. this results in the suppression of inflammation and of adaptive immune responses against pathogens, optimizing the conditions for the survival of bacteria and viruses. microbial induction of the toll pathway blocked the suppressive effect of cd4+cd25+ tr cells, allowing activation of pathogen-specific adaptive immune responses. this block of suppressor activity was dependent in part on interleukin-6, which was induced by tlrs upon recognition of microbial products. this is because of reduced production of il-12 and ifns by cells of the natural immunity stimulated by bacterial products through their toll-like receptors (missing immune deviation). 
Increased lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] our results are the very first to demonstrate an epinephrine-mediated regulation of pdk4 mrna levels in white adipose tissue and suggest that p38 mapk and pparγ could be involved in this pathway. therefore the aim of the present study was to investigate 1) fasting-induced regulation of lipolysis and glyceroneogenesis in human adipose tissue as well as 2) the impact of training state on basal oxidative capacity and fasting-induced metabolic regulation in human adipose tissue. in fat cells of obese humans, basal lipolysis is increased but catecholamine-stimulated lipolysis is blunted. we hypothesized that differences in hsl phosphorylation could be linked to disturbed adipocyte lipolysis in obesity. phosphorylation at ser(552), ser(554), ser(650) as well as total hsl and adipose triglyceride lipase (atgl) protein expression were assessed by western blot in subcutaneous adipose tissue samples of 32 obese women. basal and stimulated lipolysis in isolated fat cells were correlated to phosphorylation levels. in contrast to total hsl and atgl levels, phosphorylation at ser(554) and ser(552), but not at ser(650), may differentially predict adipocyte lipolysis in vitro. posttranslational modifications of hsl may therefore constitute an important regulator of adipocyte lipolysis, at least in adipose tissue of obese women. lipolysis per fat mass unit was reduced in obese subjects and, correspondingly, adipose tissue hormone-sensitive lipase (hsl) phosphorylation and mrna and protein levels of the adipose triglyceride lipase (atgl) coactivator cgi58 were decreased. in summary, obese subjects exhibit increased lipolysis due to a large fat mass with blunted prolipolytic signaling, together with decreased urea and amino acid fluxes both in the basal and 72-h fasted state; this is compatible with preservation of muscle and whole body protein. 
Increased microtubule acetylation exacerbates LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. disease-causing familial mutations cluster within the roc-cor tandem and kinase domains of lrrk2, where they act to either impair gtpase activity or enhance kinase activity. lrrk2 selectively interacts with three β-tubulin isoforms: tubb, tubb4, and tubb6, one of which (tubb4) is mutated in the movement disorder dystonia type 4 (dyt4). consistent with this finding, endogenous lrrk2 displays a preferential localization to dynamic microtubules within growth cones, rather than adjacent axonal microtubule bundles. this interaction is functionally relevant to microtubule dynamics, as mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from lrrk2 knock-out mice display increased microtubule acetylation. taken together, our data shed light on the nature of the lrrk2-tubulin interaction, and indicate that alterations in microtubule stability caused by changes in lrrk2 might contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson disease. ectopic expression of wt or mutant lrrk2 in dopaminergic neurons caused their significant loss accompanied by complex age-dependent changes in locomotor activity. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. lrrk2 selectively interacts with three β-tubulin isoforms: tubb, tubb4, and tubb6, one of which (tubb4) is mutated in the movement disorder dystonia type 4 (dyt4). consistent with this finding, endogenous lrrk2 displays a preferential localization to dynamic microtubules within growth cones, rather than adjacent axonal microtubule bundles. this interaction is functionally relevant to microtubule dynamics, as mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from lrrk2 knock-out mice display increased microtubule acetylation. taken together, our data shed light on the nature of the lrrk2-tubulin interaction, and indicate that alterations in microtubule stability caused by changes in lrrk2 might contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson disease. the lrrk2 roc-cor tandem domain exhibits gtpase activity controlling lrrk2 kinase activity via an intramolecular process. disease-causing familial mutations cluster within the roc-cor tandem and kinase domains of lrrk2, where they act to either impair gtpase activity or enhance kinase activity. 
Increased microtubule acetylation worsens interference of axonal transport caused by LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutations. [SEP] lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. lrrk2 selectively interacts with three β-tubulin isoforms: tubb, tubb4, and tubb6, one of which (tubb4) is mutated in the movement disorder dystonia type 4 (dyt4). consistent with this finding, endogenous lrrk2 displays a preferential localization to dynamic microtubules within growth cones, rather than adjacent axonal microtubule bundles. this interaction is functionally relevant to microtubule dynamics, as mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from lrrk2 knock-out mice display increased microtubule acetylation. taken together, our data shed light on the nature of the lrrk2-tubulin interaction, and indicate that alterations in microtubule stability caused by changes in lrrk2 might contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson disease. the lrrk2 roc-cor tandem domain exhibits gtpase activity controlling lrrk2 kinase activity via an intramolecular process. disease-causing familial mutations cluster within the roc-cor tandem and kinase domains of lrrk2, where they act to either impair gtpase activity or enhance kinase activity. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons does not lead to mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] line-1 (l1) retrotransposons are a source of insertional mutagenesis in tumor cells. by mutating genes and playing a role in epigenetic dysregulation, l1 transposons may contribute to tumorigenesis. here, we consider evidence that l1 retrotransposons may sometimes drive human tumorigenesis. retrotransposons are mobile dna elements present throughout eukaryotic genomes that can cause mutations and genome rearrangements when they replicate through reverse transcription. lifespan extension was not strongly correlated with ty1 mobility or mutation rates for a representative gene. retrotransposons play a central role in plant evolution and could be a powerful endogenous source of genetic and epigenetic variability for crop breeding. to ensure genome integrity several silencing mechanisms have evolved to repress retrotransposon mobility. both rates were within the range previously found for retrotransposons that insert outside the rdna loci in d. melanogaster. here we show that mir-128 represses new retrotransposition events in human cancer cells and ipscs by binding directly to l1 rna. thus, we have identified and characterized a new function of micrornas: mediating genomic stability by suppressing the mobility of endogenous retrotransposons. 
Increased mobility of retrotransposons is assosciated with mutation and higher tumorigenesis rates. [SEP] line-1 (l1) retrotransposons are a source of insertional mutagenesis in tumor cells. by mutating genes and playing a role in epigenetic dysregulation, l1 transposons may contribute to tumorigenesis. here, we consider evidence that l1 retrotransposons may sometimes drive human tumorigenesis. retrotransposons are mobile dna elements present throughout eukaryotic genomes that can cause mutations and genome rearrangements when they replicate through reverse transcription. increased expression and/or mobility of retrotransposons has been correlated with aging in yeast, caenorhabditis elegans, drosophila melanogaster, and mammals. in addition, i consider the question of the interaction between retrotransposons and their hosts, and the causes of the abundance of transposable elements in the genomes that they occupy. retrotransposons containing long terminal repeats (ltrs) form a substantial fraction of eukaryotic genomes. retrotransposons are ubiquitous mobile genetic elements constituting a major part of eukaryotic genomes. also exciting are recent studies of somatic retrotransposition in human tissues and reports of tumor-specific insertions, suggesting roles in tissue heterogeneity and tumorigenesis. uncontrolled propagation of retrotransposons is potentially detrimental to host genome integrity. 
Increased purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] 2d bn/sds-page with an immobilized 1st dimension was used for the comparative analysis of the cytoplasmic membrane proteomes of escherichia coli cells overexpressing a membrane protein and to create a 2d bn/sds-page reference map of the e. coli cytoplasmic membrane proteome with 143 identified proteins from 165 different protein spots. the use of 2d bn/sds-page with an immobilized first dimension is illustrated by the characterization of the cytoplasmic membrane proteome of escherichia coli cells overexpressing cytochrome bo (3). blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (bn-page) was therefore successfully employed to isolate cfof1 in a one-step procedure from thylakoid membranes. bn-page is a generally applicable method for the isolation and characterization of multisubunit membrane protein complexes in their native structure. finally, new ways of identifying protein spots in blue native gels using mass spectrometry are briefly discussed. blue native page (bn-page) can be used for one-step isolation of protein complexes from biological membranes and total cell and tissue homogenates. in this protocol, we describe methodology to perform bn-page followed by (i) native extraction or native electroblotting of separated proteins, or (ii) a second dimension of tricine-sds-page or modified bn-page, or (iii) a second dimension of isoelectric focusing (ief) followed by a third dimension of tricine-sds-page for the separation of subunits of complexes. blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (bn-page) is a powerful method for separating protein complexes from biological membranes under native conditions. here, we present our 2d-bn/sds-page method, and subsequent immunoblotting method, for the detection of relatively low-abundance proteins from plant chloroplasts. analysis of normalized score profiles of >800 proteins in combination with hierarchical clustering and identification of 2d bn-/sds-page separated spots demonstrated separation of membrane complexes in their native form, e.g. 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis improves the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] using two orthotopic mammary tumor models we demonstrate that pirfenidone reduces collagen and hyaluronan levels and, as a result, significantly increases blood vessel functionality and perfusion and improves the anti-tumor efficacy of doxorubicin. the vascular network was remodeled in favor of smaller vessels (microvascularization), which represented 54% of the vasculature in n-3 lcpufa tumors but only 26% in control tumors after 2 weeks of chemotherapy. the density of smaller vessels quantified before chemotherapy was correlated with improved tumor size reduction by docetaxel treatment. to assess the effects of sunitinib on tumor vasculature and hemodynamics, we analyzed total and functional vessel densities, microvascular diameter, and microvascular blood flow rate. interestingly, in these surviving blood vessels sunitinib treatment resulted in an increased microvascular blood flow rate resulting in an improved delivery of chemotherapy via these blood vessels. besides its potent antiangiogenic and antivascular efficacy, sunitinib treatment results in improved microhemodynamics and blood flow in tumor blood vessels that escape therapy leading to an improved vascular delivery of chemotherapy. we describe a mechanism by which a specific, cytotoxic antivascular agent causes vascular remodeling and improved chemotherapy results. immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence studies showed that the vasculature of 225ac-e4g10-treated tumors was substantially depleted; the remaining vessels appeared more mature morphologically and displayed increased pericyte density and coverage. these results show that 225ac-e4g10 treatment leads to ablation and improvement of the tumor vascular architecture, and also show that the resulting vascular remodeling can increase tumor delivery of small molecules, thus providing a process for the improved outcomes observed after combining antivascular therapy and chemotherapy. moreover, targeting the vessel for killing provides an alternative mode of improving chemotherapy delivery and efficacy, potentially avoiding some of the drawbacks of targeting a highly redundant angiogenic pathway. 
Individuals with Alzheimers who participate in six months of physical activity improve cognitive function for up to 18 months. [SEP] to determine whether physical activity reduces the rate of cognitive decline among older adults at risk. in this study of adults with subjective memory impairment, a 6-month program of physical activity provided a modest improvement in cognition over an 18-month follow-up period. observational studies have documented a potential protective effect of physical exercise in older adults who are at risk for developing alzheimer's disease. further, if successful, physical activity in combination with usual care has the potential to alleviate the symptoms of alzheimer's disease and improve its management and the quality of life of patients and their carers. this study aimed to investigate the effect of 6-month physical exercise with a multicomponent cognitive program (mcp) on the cognitive function of older adults with moderate to severe alzheimer's disease (ad). this study indicates that it is possible to improve cognitive function in older adults with moderate to severe ad through 6-month physical exercise with a multicomponent cognitive intervention. physical exercise is an effective measure for preventing the onset of cognitive decline and has a direct influence on the aging process. physical exercise programs can lead to an improvement in both cognitive functions and telomere length. in addition our study will address the potential of increasing physical activity to prevent age-associated cognitive decline. previous studies have demonstrated that physical activity (pa) interventions can improve physical and cognitive outcomes in older adults, but most have been relatively short in duration (<1 year) with a few having specifically targeting individuals at risk of developing alzheimer's disease. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have decreased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] vitamin d is known to have immunomodulatory properties and its deficiency is identified as an environmental risk factor for the development of autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis. the aim of this study was to assess whether low-dose vitamin d supplementation could normalize the 25(oh)d serum levels in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (rrms) and vitamin d deficiency (serum 25(oh)d < 75 nmol/l), and whether it may impact serum levels of selected cytokines. there is increasing evidence that vitamin d can be protective against the development of multiple sclerosis (ms), but it may also be beneficial for the clinical course of the disease. our finding that higher vitamin d levels are associated with decreased exacerbation risk in relapsing-remitting ms suggests a beneficial effect of vitamin d on disease course in ms. recent epidemiologic and experimental evidence supports a role of low environmental supplies of vitamin d in mediating an increased susceptibility to ms. we review available evidence suggesting that vitamin d status may influence ms risk and even modulate clinical disease activity. epidemiological and experimental evidence suggests that high levels of vitamin d, a potent immunomodulator, may decrease the risk of multiple sclerosis. to examine whether levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d are associated with risk of multiple sclerosis. among whites (148 cases, 296 controls), the risk of multiple sclerosis significantly decreased with increasing levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d (odds ratio [or] for a 50-nmol/l increase in 25-hydroxyvitamin d, 0.59; 95% confidence interval, 0.36-0.97). among blacks and hispanics (109 cases, 218 controls), who had lower 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels than whites, no significant associations between vitamin d and multiple sclerosis risk were found. the results of our study suggest that high circulating levels of vitamin d are associated with a lower risk of multiple sclerosis. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into cholangiocytic cells. [SEP] cholangiocytes are differentiated from fetal hepatic progenitor cells (hepatoblasts) and are important for transport of bile acids that are synthesized by mature hepatocytes in the liver. recent studies found that human hepatic cholangiocytic cells can be differentiated from human embryonic stem and ips cells in a suitable culture condition. in this study we investigated the potential of human embryonic stem cells (hescs) to differentiate into cholangiocytes and we report a new approach, which drives differentiation of hescs toward the cholangiocytic lineage using feeder-free and defined culture conditions. these conditions also allowed us to generate cholangiocytes from heparg-derived hepatoblasts. in addition, we showed that cholangiocyte-like cells could also be generated from human induced pluripotent stem cells, demonstrating the efficacy of our approach with stem/progenitor cells of diverse origins. we have developed a robust and efficient method for differentiating pluripotent stem cells into cholangiocyte-like cells, which display structural and functional similarities to bile duct cells in normal liver. thus, our differentiation culture system provides mature functional hepatocytes, cholangiocytes, and their progenitors with proliferative potential from a wide variety of human pluripotent stem cells. since hepatic stem cells (hepscs) possess self-renewal and bipotency with the capacity to differentiate into both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes, they have therapeutic potential for treating liver disease. induced hepatic stem cells (ihepscs) have great potential as donors for liver cell therapy due to their self-renewal and bipotential differentiation properties. notably, prolonged in vitro culture of hnf1α- and foxa3-derived ihepscs induces a notch signaling-mediated secondary conversion into cholangiocyte progenitor-like cells that display dramatically enhanced differentiation capacity into mature cholangiocytes. 
Induced hepatic stem cells possess the potential to differentiate into hepatocytic cells. [SEP] the advent of human-induced pluripotent stem cells holds great promise for producing ample individualized hepatocytes. hepatocytes derived from embryonic stem cells (escs) are a potential cell source for regenerative medicine. since stem cells can differentiate into hepatocyte, stem cell-based therapy becomes a potential alternative treatment for terminal liver diseases. herein we determine if bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (bmscs) isolated from rats in acute hepatic failure (ahf) possess hepatic characteristics and have differentiation potential. to date, several hepatic differentiation strategies and various extracellular matrix (ecm) components have been employed to produce hepatocytes or hepatic-like cells (hlcs) in vitro. human embryonic stem cells (hescs) have the potential to be a promising source of liver cells, hepatocytes, for regenerative medicine given their unlimited proliferative and pluripotent differentiative capacity. the derivation of hepatocytes from human embryonic stem (hes) cells is of value both in the study of early human liver organogenesis and in the creation of an unlimited source of donor cells for hepatocyte transplantation therapy. here, we report the generation of hepatocyte-like cells derived from hes cells. we report the generation of proliferative hepatocyte-like cells from hes cells. these hes cell derived hepatic cells can effectively be used as in vitro model for studying the mechanisms of hepatic stem/progenitor cell origin, self-renewal and differentiation. 
Induction of urokinase receptor signaling in podocytes causes foot process effacement and proteinuria. [SEP] podocyte dysfunction, represented by foot process effacement and proteinuria, is often the starting point for progressive kidney disease. here we show that induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein loss via a mechanism that includes lipid-dependent activation of alphavbeta3 integrin. induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein loss via promoting podocytes' motility and kidney permeability in the glomerulus. renal biopsies of patients with proteinuria and kidney disease most often are associated with podocyte foot process effacement. for several decades, nephrologists have wondered whether proteinuria is a result of podocyte foot process effacement or the cause of it. to understand better the mechanisms by which podocyte foot process effacement leads to proteinuria and kidney failure, we studied the function of fak in podocytes. in murine models, glomerular injury led to activation of podocyte fak, followed by proteinuria and foot process effacement. however, induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein. we conducted a morphologic study on the relationship between podocyte foot process effacement and proteinuria. the effacement of podocyte foot processes is a well-known phenomenon occurring in many glomerulonephritides with proteinuria. 
Inhibiting HDAC6 increases survival of mice with ARID1A mutated tumors. [SEP] here, we show that hdac6 activity is essential in arid1a-mutated ovarian cancers. inhibition of hdac6 activity using a clinically applicable small-molecule inhibitor significantly improved the survival of mice bearing arid1a-mutated tumours. the dependence on hdac6 activity in arid1a-mutated cells correlated with a direct transcriptional repression of hdac6 by arid1a. hdac6 inhibition selectively promoted apoptosis of arid1a-mutated cells. together, these results indicate that pharmacological inhibition of hdac6 is a therapeutic strategy for arid1a-mutated cancers. inhibition of histone deacetylase 6 (hdac6) suppresses the growth of arid1a-mutated tumors and modulates tumor immune microenvironment. together, these findings indicate that combined hdac6 inhibition and immune checkpoint blockade represents a potential treatment strategy for arid1a-mutated cancers. a study now shows that hdac6 activity is required for survival of ovarian cancer cells bearing arid1a mutations. hdac6 inhibition selectively promotes apoptosis of arid1a-inactivated cells, supporting the use of hdac6 inhibition in the treatment of clear cell ovarian cancer. in occc, hdac6 involvement in prognosis depended on arid1a status. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation enables cells to convert mechanical strain into eventual scarring. [SEP] one key component of wound repair that is often overlooked is mechanical force, which regulates cell-matrix interactions through intracellular focal adhesion components, including focal adhesion kinase (fak). small-molecule inhibition of fak blocks these effects in human cells and reduces scar formation in vivo through attenuated mcp-1 signaling and inflammatory cell recruitment. these findings collectively indicate that physical force regulates fibrosis through inflammatory fak-erk-mcp-1 pathways and that molecular strategies targeting fak can effectively uncouple mechanical force from pathologic scar formation. significance: excessive scarring is major clinical and financial burden in the united states. recent advances: advances in our understanding of mechanical forces in the wound environment enable us to target mechanical forces to minimize scar formation. critical issues: increased mechanical stresses in the wound environment induce hypertrophic scarring via activation of mechanotransduction pathways. mechanotransduction pathways are potential targets to reduce excessive scar formation, and thus, continued studies on therapies that utilize mechanical offloading and mechanomodulation are needed. historically, great efforts have been made to elucidate the biochemical pathways that direct the complex process of wound healing; however only recently has there been recognition of the importance that mechanical signals play in the process of tissue repair and scar formation. the body's physiologic response to injury involves a dynamic interplay between mechanical forces and biochemical cues which directs a cascade of signals leading ultimately to the formation of fibrotic scar. as a direct result of scar formation, the ability of the tendon tissues to function is impaired and often results in further damage that has been afflicted to the tendon architecture. 
Inhibiting focal adhesion formation increases the rate at which cells convert mechanical strain into inflammation and fibrosis. [SEP] one key component of wound repair that is often overlooked is mechanical force, which regulates cell-matrix interactions through intracellular focal adhesion components, including focal adhesion kinase (fak). these findings collectively indicate that physical force regulates fibrosis through inflammatory fak-erk-mcp-1 pathways and that molecular strategies targeting fak can effectively uncouple mechanical force from pathologic scar formation. focal adhesion assembly and disassembly are essential for cell migration and cancer invasion, but the detailed molecular mechanisms regulating these processes remain to be elucidated. focal adhesion assembly was accompanied by reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, with the appearance of prominent stress fibers. expression of y12f blocked pressure-mediated adhesion and inhibited the pressure-induced association of alpha-actinin-1 with fak and src, as well as fak activation. adherence of cells to the extracellular matrix via focal adhesions is known to modulate many cellular functions. smg significantly reduces formation of focal adhesions and activation of focal adhesion kinase (fak) and rho family proteins (rhoa, rac1 and cdc42) and of mtorc1 kinase, but activates ampk and ulk1 kinases. the formation of focal adhesions that mediate alterations of cell shape and movement is controlled by a mechanochemical mechanism in which cytoskeletal tensional forces drive changes in molecular assembly; however, little is known about the molecular biophysical basis of this response. using this method, we show that decreasing cellular traction forces on focal adhesions by three different techniques--chemical inhibition of cytoskeletal tension generation, laser incision of an associated actin stress fiber, or use of compliant extracellular matrices--increases the k(off) of the focal adhesion protein zyxin. these findings demonstrate that the molecular binding kinetics of some, but not all, focal adhesion proteins are sensitive to mechanical force, and suggest that force-dependent changes in this biophysical parameter may govern the supramolecular events that underlie focal adhesion remodeling in living cells. 
Inhibiting glucose-6-phospate dehydrogenase improves lipogenesis by deactivating LKB1-AMPK signaling. [SEP] 6pgd-mediated production of ribulose-5-phosphate (ru-5-p) inhibits ampk activation by disrupting the active lkb1 complex, thereby activating acetyl-coa carboxylase 1 and lipogenesis. ru-5-p and nadph are thought to be precursors in rna biosynthesis and lipogenesis, respectively; thus, our findings provide an additional link between the oxidative ppp and lipogenesis through ru-5-p-dependent inhibition of lkb1-ampk signalling. the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (oxippp) contributes to cell metabolism through not only the production of metabolic intermediates and reductive nadph but also inhibition of lkb1-ampk signaling by ribulose-5-phosphate (ru-5-p), the product of the third oxippp enzyme 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6pgd). after treatment with lps, high glucose or both lps and high glucose, phosphor-ampk expression was decreased, and moreover, ampk activation by metformin treatment alleviated the decrease in phosphor-ampk expression in huvecs and macrophages as well as in lung tissue. furthermore, both lps and high glucose co-treatment decreased lkb1 and phosphor-ampk expression via enhanced oxidative stress response, and importantly, lkb1 overexpression mediated by adenovirus inhibited the decrease in phosphor-ampk expression in macrophages and huvecs. these results indicate that cdcq prevented lipid accumulation by blocking the expression of srebp-1c and fas through lkb1/sirt1 and ampk activation in hepg2 cells, suggesting that cdcq plays a potential role in the prevention of lipogenesis by ampk activation. here, we investigated the signaling pathways that mediate the effects of adiponectin by studying mice with inducible hepatic deletion of lkb1, an upstream regulator of ampk. sirtuin1 (sirt1) and amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) are key metabolic regulators that reduce lipogenesis and increase fatty acid oxidation. administration of cell metabolism agonists may enhance lkb1 tumor suppression, inhibit cell growth, and reduce tumor cell viability via the activation of lkb1-ampk signaling. recently the lkb1/amp-activated protein kinase (lkb1/ampk) pathway was proposed to mediate the action of metformin on hepatic gluconeogenesis. 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] many barriers exist for homeless people with mental health problems in accessing treatment yet little research has been done on service provision and quality of care for this group. the aim of this paper is to assess current service provision and identify barriers to care for homeless people with mental health problems in 14 european capital cities. input from professionally qualified mental health staff was reported as low, as were levels of active outreach and case finding. homelessness and mental illness together confer significant morbidity and mortality because of physical health problems. there are few data on homeless people's perceptions of services for mental health problems. strategies for ending homelessness largely include resource-intensive, publicly supported housing and comprehensive physical and mental health services. people who are homeless, or at risk of homelessness, have substantially poorer health. while homelessness among youth is a serious problem, there is little information about evidence-based interventions for homeless youth. evidence shows that homeless adults suffered from a range of physical and mental health problems, and underutilisation of health care services. however, there is lack of information on the complex interrelationship between homelessness and health, as well as differences in prevalence of health problems among the various sub-groups of homeless. 
Inside the body, falciparum parasites reproduce asexually. [SEP] the disease symptoms are associated with repeated cycles of invasion and asexual multiplication inside red blood cells of the parasite. plasmodium falciparum, the parasite responsible for the most severe form of malaria, undergoes an asexual multiplication in man and a sexual one in mosquito. our data suggest that individual pfapiats are partially redundant during asexual in vitro proliferation and fully redundant during gametocytogenesis of p. falciparum parasites. importance malaria parasites live and multiply inside cells. the malaria parasite plasmodium falciparum infects human erythrocytes and reproduces asexually through an intraerythrocytic developmental cycle. the level of fluorescence of gfp-expressing parasites increased throughout the course of asexual development. the ability to culture plasmodium falciparum continuously in vitro has enabled stable access to asexual and sexual parasites for malaria research. a recent study reveals that the intraerythrocytic asexual reproduction cycle of plasmodium falciparum ends with the ruptured erythrocyte membrane curling outwards, buckling, everting and vesiculating. during the asexual stage of infection, the human malaria parasite plasmodium falciparum grows inside red blood cells, and p. falciparum calcium-dependent protein kinase 5 (pfcdpk5) is required for egress from the host cell. the p. falciparum parasite proliferates inside red blood cells during the blood stage of infection, and egress from the red blood cell is critical for parasite survival. 
Insulin decreases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] the metabolic mayhem of severe acute illness has many parallels with those induced by kidney failure itself, and patients with kidney failure are at increased risk from many of the complications potentially improved by insulin therapy. we reviewed the potential benefits of intensive insulin therapy and examined the published trials for data directly applicable to patients with kidney failure. we hypothesize that intensive insulin therapy has a role outside the intensive care setting and, in particular, a role for patients with severe acute illness and kidney failure, whether acute or chronic. we used the isolated perfused rat kidney to test the hypothesis that acute renal failure (arf) decreases renal insulin clearance. patients with advanced renal failure suffer from almost constant insulin resistance (ir) which is a major risk factor of atherosclerosis and very probably also of glomerulosclerosis. additionally, the risk for developing incident kidney disease and for rapid decline of kidney function is higher in patients with insulin resistance. insulin resistance is associated with subclinical vascular injury in the general population and patients with diabetes and kidney failure, being a strong cardiovascular risk factor in these population groups. diabetes mellitus is the commonest cause of end-stage kidney failure worldwide and is a proven and significant risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. renal impairment has a significant impact on the physiology of glucose homeostasis as it reduces tissue sensitivity to insulin and reduces insulin clearance. diabetes treatment in patients with diabetic kidney disease is challenging, in part because of progression of renal failure-related changes in insulin signaling, glucose transport and metabolism, favoring both hyperglycemic peaks and hypoglycemia. 
Insulin effects appetite via ventral tegmental neurons. [SEP] an autoshaping procedure, in which presentation of a retractable lever signalled food delivery, was used to assess the effects of ventral tegmental area lesions on appetitive classically conditioned responses in 28 rats. while past research suggests that ghrelin stimulates appetite through an action on hypothalamic signaling, recent evidence indicates that the peptide acts via mesotelencephalic dopamine neurons to alter appetitive motivation. our findings demonstrate that ghrelin induces food-reinforced behavior in the mesotelencephalic reward pathway and that this effect is dependent on intact dopaminergic signaling. we conclude that the metabolic peptide ghrelin interacts with dopamine, within reward circuitry, to modulate appetitive behavior. responses to cues predicting food rewards in vtada→ba axons and ba neurons in hungry mice were strongly attenuated following satiation, while responses to cues predicting unavoidable punishments persisted or increased. a major component of opiate reward is derived from a drug action in the ventral tegmental area: (a) rats quickly learn to self-administer morphine directly into the ventral tegmentum, (b) intracranial self-administration into other brain sites is not quickly learned, and (c) narcotic antagonist microinjections into the ventral tegmentum attenuate reward from intravenous heroin infusions. therefore, the hypothalamic projection to the ventral tegmental area provides a substrate whereby cocaine-and-amphetamine-regulated-transcript peptides could mediate the rewarding aspects of feeding and psychomotor stimulant-like behaviors. lesions restricted to the histaminergic neurons in rats reduced their motivation to get food even after 24 h of food deprivation, compared with intact or sham lesioned rats. in the next experiment, we combined dual retrograde tracing from the vta and the gustatory ventral posteromedial thalamus (vpmpc) with taste-evoked fos protein expression, which labels activated neurons. these results indicate that information about both appetitive and aversive tastes is delivered to a key midbrain reward interface via direct projections from the pbn. 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) increases levels of homocysteine. [SEP] elevated fasting plasma homocysteine concentrations can be reduced by vitamin supplementation with folic acid, vitamin b6 and vitamin b12, but the effect of nutritive amounts of single vitamins on homocysteine plasma levels within the normal range is not known. this study was performed to investigate the effect of folic acid supplementation (400 micrograms/d) on fasting plasma homocysteine levels in healthy young women, in comparison to vitamin b6 (2 mg/d) or a combination of both vitamins. healthy young women with normal homocysteine levels were supplemented for four weeks either with folic acid, vitamin b6 or the combination. the combination of folic acid and vitamin b6 reduced plasma homocysteine by 17%. supplementation with folic acid reduced plasma homocysteine levels by 11.5%. results show that homocysteine levels within the normal range are lowered by low-dose vitamin supplementation including folic acid. this nutrition regime should indicate an increased homocysteine level under vitamin b6 deficiency. vitamin b6 treatment resulted in a 22.1% reduction in geometric-mean post-methionine-loading increases in plasma total homocysteine levels (p = 0.042), and folic acid plus vitamin b12 treatment caused a 26.2% reduction in geometric-mean fasting plasma total homocysteine levels (p = 0.027). vitamin b6 should be added to the combination of folic acid and vitamin b12 for effective reduction of both post-methionine-loading and fasting plasma total homocysteine levels in renal transplant recipients. plasma homocysteine levels are controlled by genetic and nutritional factors, notably folate, vitamin b12 and vitamin b6 intakes. 
Intake of folic acid (FA) and vitamin B6 (VB6) reduces levels of homocysteine. [SEP] elevated fasting plasma homocysteine concentrations can be reduced by vitamin supplementation with folic acid, vitamin b6 and vitamin b12, but the effect of nutritive amounts of single vitamins on homocysteine plasma levels within the normal range is not known. this study was performed to investigate the effect of folic acid supplementation (400 micrograms/d) on fasting plasma homocysteine levels in healthy young women, in comparison to vitamin b6 (2 mg/d) or a combination of both vitamins. the combination of folic acid and vitamin b6 reduced plasma homocysteine by 17%. results show that homocysteine levels within the normal range are lowered by low-dose vitamin supplementation including folic acid. the vitamin supplements; a, 0.3 mg folic acid; b, 120 mg vitamin b6; c, combination of 0.3 mg folic acid and 120 mg vitamin b6 or d, 0.6 mg folic acid reduced the concentrations of plasma total homocysteine 20, 17, 32 and 24%, respectively. our data show that plasma total homocysteine concentrations are reduced with low to medium divided doses of folic acid alone or in combination with vitamin b6. the administration of folic acid and vitamin b reduce homocysteine level among ckd patients. vitamin supplementation with 1 mg of folic acid, did not significantly decrease homocysteine levels (p = 0.2). after standardization for a pretreatment homocysteine concentration of 12 micromol/l and folate concentration of 12 nmol/l (approximate average concentrations for western populations), dietary folic acid reduced homocysteine levels by 25% (95% confidence interval [ci]: 23 to 28%) with similar effects in a daily dosage range of 0.5 to 5 mg. vitamin b12 (mean 0.5 mg) produced an additional reduction in blood homocysteine of 7%, whereas vitamin b6 (mean 16.5 mg) did not have any significant effect. hence, in typical populations, daily supplementation with both 0.5 to 5 mg folic acid and about 0.5 mg vitamin b12 would be expected to reduce homocysteine levels by one quarter to one third (from about 12 micromol/l to about 8 to 9 micromol/l). 
Integrated care is ineffective at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] some scholars advocate for health care organizations designed around the principles of volume and focus, while others suggest that the complexity of patient care renders this approach to organizing care inefficient (and ineffective). because both approaches tackle different problems, both have different limitations. a transition of the focus to palliative care rather than mortality reduction should occur over time, when clinical status deteriorates and advanced therapeutic options become inappropriate or ineffective. patients with multiple medical conditions (comorbidity) pose major challenges to clinical decision support systems, since the different clinical practice guidelines (cpg) often involve adverse interactions, such as drug-drug or drug-disease interactions. univariate and multiple cox regression were used to examine effect of care model, comorbidity, and complication event.one-year mortality in integrated and non-integrated patients was 4.7% and 14.0% respectively. our study found the effect of patients treated by integrated care models, compared with usual model, significantly reduced 1-year mortality rate. traditional disease-specific approaches typically fail to recognise common features and potential synergies in integration of care, management, and control of non-communicable and communicable diseases. in resource-limited countries, the need to tackle a broader range of overlapping comorbid diseases is growing. the dutch healthcare system is effective for patients with acute, uncomplicated health problems but ineffective for patients with complex, chronic health problems such as multiple sclerosis (ms). practicing within the paradigm of compartmentalized specially treatment without a collaborative practice is ineffective for the chemical dependency and dual diagnosis population. 
Integrated care is successful at tackling multiple comorbidities. [SEP] they are called to play a primary role in promoting a new, integrated, and comprehensive approach to the care of elderly people, which should incorporate age-related issues into routine clinical practice and decisions. one, a unifying approach, tackles the comorbidity problem by assuming that a single general psychopathology factor underlies multiple disorders. patients with multiple medical conditions (comorbidity) pose major challenges to clinical decision support systems, since the different clinical practice guidelines (cpg) often involve adverse interactions, such as drug-drug or drug-disease interactions. these challenges have been taken up in the state of the art, with many approaches focusing on the static integration of comorbid cig. the integration of psychiatric care in primary care is becoming a reality. the purposes of this study was first to examine the effect of integrated care on 1-year mortality in surgical patients and secondly to explore magnitude of comorbidity and complication on mortality.this retrospective cohort study included 313 patients received surgery for hip fragility fracture. univariate and multiple cox regression were used to examine effect of care model, comorbidity, and complication event.one-year mortality in integrated and non-integrated patients was 4.7% and 14.0% respectively. our study found the effect of patients treated by integrated care models, compared with usual model, significantly reduced 1-year mortality rate. results: patients received integrated care for almost 7 months on average. substance abuse treatment programs offering integrated medical and psychiatric care for these comorbidities improve outcomes, with stepped care approaches offering the best treatment by tailoring the level of care to the individual patient's needs. 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning offers the best class performance. [SEP] taken together, findings suggest that integrating interdependence-based tasks may foster collaborative engagement at both small-group and whole-classroom levels, but by itself may not be enough to promote increased student achievement. by combining traditional classroom instruction with web-based educational technologies, distance education has been a reality for many years. web-based learning tools are increasingly available for use and have been described in the pedagogical literature. herein, we describe a web-based curriculum hosted on the collaborative radiopaedia.org website. students who completed the web-based module had higher mean knowledge scores (74%) compared with those who were provided the traditional learning material (68%) (p = .06). of particular importance is research into novel integrative applications, to serve as the "glue" to bind the different forms of web-based collaborationware synergistically in order to provide a coherent wholesome learning experience. web-based instruction can impact student learning if the instructional strategies ensure coherence with all other instructional components, match the learning outcomes, facilitate self-directed and collaborative learning, and allow for practice and feedback. using class time for active learning provides greater opportunity for mentoring and peer to peer collaboration. students gave high favourability ratings to both courses, and expressed that the integration of social media into coursework augmented learning and collaboration. integrating social media tools into class activities appeared to offer manifold benefits over traditional classroom methods, including real-time communication outside of the classroom, connecting with medical experts, collaborative opportunities and enhanced creativity. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 encourage West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] by transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (isgs; ifi27, irg1 and rsad2 (also known as viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. using a combination of ectopic expression and gene silencing approaches in cell culture, we previously identified ifi27l2a as a candidate antiviral isg within neuronal subsets of the central nervous system (cns) that restricts infection by west nile virus (wnv), an encephalitic flavivirus of global concern. within neurons of the cerebellum and brain stem, in the context of wnv infection, a deficiency of ifi27l2a was associated with less cell death, which likely contributed to sustained viral replication and higher titers in these regions. the interferon-stimulated ifi27l2a gene is expressed differentially within the central nervous system upon interferon stimulation or viral infection. prior studies in cell culture suggested an antiviral role for ifi27l2a during infection by west nile virus (wnv). type i interferon (ifn) signaling coordinates an early antiviral program in infected and uninfected cells by inducing ifn-stimulated genes (isgs) that modulate viral entry, replication, and assembly. here, we examined the contribution of the isg viperin to the control of west nile virus (wnv) in genetically deficient cells and mice. ifns elicit the concerted action of numerous interferon-stimulated genes (isgs) to restrict both virus infection and replication. the effects of ifn pretreatment were tested in vitro in primary neural cultures from different brain regions in response to infection with tick-borne encephalitis virus (tbev), west nile virus (wnv), and zika virus (zikv). interferon-induced viperin was also very important in primary cortical neurons to control tbev, wnv, and zikv. 
Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) Irf1, Irg1, Ifi27, and Rsad2 inhibit West Nile virus replication in cortical neurons. [SEP] by transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (isgs; ifi27, irg1 and rsad2 (also known as viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. the cellular factors that mediate this defence are the products of interferon-stimulated genes (isgs). interferons (ifns) can inhibit most, if not all, viral infections by eliciting the transcription of hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (isgs). the results showed that interferon regulatory factor 1 (irf1) can significantly inhibit the replication of fcv, whereas the other isgs tested in this study failed. irf1 can trigger the production of endogenous interferon and the expression of isgs, suggesting that irf1 can positively regulate ifn signalling. interferons (ifns) are the key molecules in the innate immune response that restrict several kinds of viral infections via the induction of hundreds of ifn-stimulated genes (isgs). using a combination of ectopic expression and gene silencing approaches in cell culture, we previously identified ifi27l2a as a candidate antiviral isg within neuronal subsets of the central nervous system (cns) that restricts infection by west nile virus (wnv), an encephalitic flavivirus of global concern. within neurons of the cerebellum and brain stem, in the context of wnv infection, a deficiency of ifi27l2a was associated with less cell death, which likely contributed to sustained viral replication and higher titers in these regions. the interferon-stimulated ifi27l2a gene is expressed differentially within the central nervous system upon interferon stimulation or viral infection. prior studies in cell culture suggested an antiviral role for ifi27l2a during infection by west nile virus (wnv). 
Interleukin-18 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. [SEP] there is growing evidence on the role of innate and adaptive immunity in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. interleukin-18 is one of the novel proinflammatory cytokines involved in the atherogenesis, atherosclerotic plaque instability and plaque rupture. in this review, we overview the findings of the preclinical and clinical studies about the role and mechanism of action of il-18 in the pathogenesis of as, which could offer novel prognostic and therapeutic approaches. the recent identification of the family interleukin (il)-1-related cytokine il-18 now contributes to our understanding of the fine-tuning of cellular immunity. recent work identified an il-18 association with the pathogenesis of asthma, wherein increased il-18 expression was found in the serum of patients. furthermore, il-18 polymorphisms with susceptibility to asthma were reported, suggesting that il-18 may be therapeutically relevant to asthma. in this review, we discuss the role of il-18 in the pathogenesis of asthma and its therapeutic potential based on current research. excessive inflammatory responses of vascular cells are considered a pivotal pathogenesis mechanism underlying atherosclerosis development. here, we observed that pias3 levels are reduced in atherosclerotic lesions and that pias3 expression decreases in conjunction with increases in interleukin-6 expression and atherosclerosis severity. the purpose of this article is to consider the inflammatory factors implicated in atherosclerosis and their role in the development and progression of this vascular disease. 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers increases expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] after cerebroventricular injection (i.c.v) of aβ1-42 oligomers into the mice, bdnf was also found to be decreased, which demonstrated the critical roles of the aβ1-42 oligomers in regulating the expression of bdnf. in neuronal culture, peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α (pgc-1α) and fibronectin type iii domain-containing 5 (fndc5) were found to be downregulated by treatment with the aβ1-42 oligomers. we also examined the effect of intra-hippocampal infused aβ oligomers on cognitive performance of abca1ko mice, compared to control infusion of scrambled aβ peptide. here we show that amyloid-β oligomers bind to the fibronectin repeats domain of ephb2 and trigger ephb2 degradation in the proteasome. our previous report showed that membrane-associated p75ntr protein expression was significantly increased in the hippocampi of two different strains of transgenic ad mice and was associated with the age-dependent elevation of aβ1-42 levels. an in vivo microinjection study demonstrated that microinjected addls increased the p75ntr protein expression by 1.4-fold in the ipsilateral hippocampus compared to the contralateral hippocampus. these findings indicate that aβ1-42 oligomers stimulate the p75ntr protein expression in the hippocampus through igf-1r signaling. thus, aβ1-42 oligomers-mediated igf-1r activation may trigger an increase in p75ntr protein expression in the hippocampus of ad brain during the early stages of disease development. because soluble amyloid-β oligomers are the key mediators of synaptic and cognitive dysfunction in alzheimer's disease and impair long-term memory in rodents, the first aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that amyloid-β oligomers would directly impair sleep in mice. aβ oligomers have been found to bind to the fibronectin (fn) type iii repeat domain of ephb2 to trigger ephb2 degradation, thereby impairing the normal functioning of nmda receptors and resulting in cognitive deficits. 
Intra-cerebroventricular infusion of amyloid-β oligomers reduces expression of fibronectin type-III domain-containing protein 5 mRNA in mice hippocampi. [SEP] after cerebroventricular injection (i.c.v) of aβ1-42 oligomers into the mice, bdnf was also found to be decreased, which demonstrated the critical roles of the aβ1-42 oligomers in regulating the expression of bdnf. in neuronal culture, peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α (pgc-1α) and fibronectin type iii domain-containing 5 (fndc5) were found to be downregulated by treatment with the aβ1-42 oligomers. we also examined the effect of intra-hippocampal infused aβ oligomers on cognitive performance of abca1ko mice, compared to control infusion of scrambled aβ peptide. here we show that amyloid-β oligomers bind to the fibronectin repeats domain of ephb2 and trigger ephb2 degradation in the proteasome. these findings indicate that aβ1-42 oligomers stimulate the p75ntr protein expression in the hippocampus through igf-1r signaling. thus, aβ1-42 oligomers-mediated igf-1r activation may trigger an increase in p75ntr protein expression in the hippocampus of ad brain during the early stages of disease development. the behavioral changes were likely induced by repression of amyloid-β 42 protein levels, through the upregulation of a disintegrase and metalloprotease domain 17 mrna and downregulation of β-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 mrna, and a concomitant increase in superoxide dismutase activity and decrease in malondialdehyde content, in rat hippocampi. because soluble amyloid-β oligomers are the key mediators of synaptic and cognitive dysfunction in alzheimer's disease and impair long-term memory in rodents, the first aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that amyloid-β oligomers would directly impair sleep in mice. to address these aims, wild-type and cellular prion protein-deficient mice were given acute intracerebroventricular injections (on different days, at lights on) of vehicle and synthetic amyloid-β oligomers. aβ oligomers have been found to bind to the fibronectin (fn) type iii repeat domain of ephb2 to trigger ephb2 degradation, thereby impairing the normal functioning of nmda receptors and resulting in cognitive deficits. 
Intramembrane cleavage by signal peptide peptidase aids in the degradation of proteins with a complex membrane orientation. [SEP] spp cuts type ii membrane proteins, illustrating that ps-like proteases play a key role in intramembrane proteolysis of single-pass membrane proteins oriented in either direction. we have recently reported that some liberated signal peptides are further processed by the intramembrane-cleaving aspartic protease signal peptide peptidase. cleavage in the membrane-spanning portion of the signal peptide promotes the release of signal peptide fragments from the lipid bilayer. to determine whether intramembrane proteolysis, specifically cleavage by the intramembrane-cleaving aspartyl protease signal peptide peptidase (spp), is involved in this pathway, we generated an spp-specific somatic cell knockout. our study identifies tail-anchored proteins as novel spp substrates and a specific requirement for spp-mediated intramembrane cleavage in protein turnover. the founding member, signal peptide peptidase, catalyzes intramembrane cleavage of distinct signal peptides in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane of animals. signal peptide peptidase and presenilin share identical active site motifs and both catalyze intramembrane proteolysis. in this issue of the biochemical journal, schrul and colleagues investigate the interaction of the endoplasmic reticulum-resident intramembrane cleaving spp (signal peptide peptidase) with different type ii oriented transmembrane proteins. signal peptide peptidase (spp) catalyzes intramembrane proteolysis of signal peptides at the endoplasmic reticulum (er), but has also been suggested to play a role in er-associated degradation (erad). signal peptide peptidase (spp) is an intramembrane-cleaving protease identified by its cleavage of several type ii membrane signal peptides after signal peptidase cleavage. 
It is not proven that moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) specifically. [SEP] this study suggests that candy consumption did not adversely affect health risk markers in children and adolescents. frequency of candy consumption was not associated with the risk of obesity, overweight/obesity, elevated waist circumference, elevated skinfold thickness, blood pressure, low density lipoprotein (ldl) or high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol, triglycerides, or insulin resistance. increased frequency of candy consumption among adults in the united states was not associated with objective measures of adiposity or select cardiovascular risk factors, despite associated dietary differences. given the cross-sectional study design, however, it cannot be concluded that candy consumption does not cause obesity or untoward levels of cardiovascular risk markers. candy consumers had a 14% decreased risk of elevated diastolic blood pressure (p = .0466); chocolate consumers had a 19% decreased risk of lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p = .0364) and a 15% reduced risk of mets (p = .0453). studies investigating the impact of chocolate consumption on cardiovascular disease (cvd) have reached inconsistent conclusions. chocolate consumption may be associated with reduced risk of cvd at <100 g/week consumption. the results of the meta-analysis showed a potential protective effect of moderate consumption of chocolate on cardiovascular risk, especially for women, and against mi for both sexes. consumption of non-chocolate candy was associated with a 49% higher prevalence of chd comparing 5+/week vs. 0/week [or = 1.49 (0.96-2.32)]. these data suggest that consumption of chocolate is inversely related with prevalent chd in a general united states population. 
JMJD6 catalyzes the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine and supresses transcriptional activity. [SEP] jumonji domain-containing protein 6 (jmjd6) is indispensable for embryonic development and has both histone arginine demethylase and lysyl-hydroxylase activities. using an in vitro enzymatic assay, we further demonstrate that jmjd6 can hydroxylate its n-terminus but not its c-terminus. in summary, we did not detect arginine demethylase activity for jmjd6, but we did confirm that it could catalyze the lysyl-hydroxylation of histone peptides. we demonstrated that jmjd6 acts as an α-ketoglutarate- and fe(ii)-dependent lysyl hydroxylase to catalyze p53 hydroxylation. jmjd6 is reported to catalyze hydroxylation of lysine residue(s) of histones, the tumor-suppressor protein p53, and splicing regulatory proteins, including u2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein auxiliary factor 65-kda subunit (u2af65). here, we report ms- and nmr-based kinetic assays employing purified jmjd6 and multiple substrate fragment sequences, the results of which support the assignment of purified jmjd6 as a lysyl hydroxylase. jmjc domain containing proteins catalyze the oxidative removal of methyl groups on histone lysine residues. here, we report studies to test the involvement of jumonji domain-containing protein 6 (jmjd6) in histone lysine demethylation. the jumonji domain-containing protein 6 (jmjd6) is a fe(ii)- and 2-oxoglutarate (2og)-dependent oxygenase that catalyses lysine hydroxylation and arginine demethylation of histone and non-histone peptides. jmjd6 does catalyse 2og-dependent c-5 hydroxylation of lysine residues in mrna splicing-regulatory proteins and histones; there is also accumulating evidence that jmjd6 plays a role in splicing (potentially in an iron- and oxygen-dependent manner) as well as in other processes regulating gene expression, including transcriptional pause release. 
JMJD6 slows the hydroxylation of C-terminal lysine [SEP] in this study, we examined the enzymatic activity of jmjd6 and uncovered the mechanism underlying its homo-oligomerization. a mutational analysis reveals that the homo-oligomerization of jmjd6 requires its enzymatic activity and the n- and c-termini. using an in vitro enzymatic assay, we further demonstrate that jmjd6 can hydroxylate its n-terminus but not its c-terminus. in summary, we did not detect arginine demethylase activity for jmjd6, but we did confirm that it could catalyze the lysyl-hydroxylation of histone peptides. in addition, we demonstrated that the homo-oligomerization of jmjd6 requires its own enzymatic activity and the n- and c-termini. the jumonji domain-containing protein 6 (jmjd6) is a fe(ii)- and 2-oxoglutarate (2og)-dependent oxygenase that catalyses lysine hydroxylation and arginine demethylation of histone and non-histone peptides. we demonstrated that jmjd6 acts as an α-ketoglutarate- and fe(ii)-dependent lysyl hydroxylase to catalyze p53 hydroxylation. jmjd6 assays employed nmr to monitor inhibitor binding and use of mass spectrometry to monitor jmjd6-catalysed lysine hydroxylation. jmjc domain containing proteins catalyze the oxidative removal of methyl groups on histone lysine residues. jmjd6 does catalyse 2og-dependent c-5 hydroxylation of lysine residues in mrna splicing-regulatory proteins and histones; there is also accumulating evidence that jmjd6 plays a role in splicing (potentially in an iron- and oxygen-dependent manner) as well as in other processes regulating gene expression, including transcriptional pause release. 
KLF4 is necessary for VSMCs to gain genetic characteristics of other cell types within atherosclerotic lesions. [SEP] vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) play a critical role in atherosclerosis. our results provide the first direct evidence that fam172a has a protective role in advanced atherosclerosis by increasing atherosclerotic plaque stability and inhibiting transition of vsmcs from contractile to synthetic phenotype, which may be through klf4-dependent pathway. therefore, our results showed that dj-1 deletion caused phenotype switching of vsmcs and exacerbated atherosclerotic plaque instability in a klf4-dependent manner. krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4), a key suppressor of vsmc proliferation, was increased in lesions and aortic vsmcs from chop(fl/fl)sm22α-creki(+)apoe(-/-) mice, and silencing klf4 in chop-deficient vsmcs restored proliferation. chop deficiency in aortic vsmcs increased klf4 through 2 mechanisms mediated by the endoplasmic reticulum stress effector activating transcription factor 4: transcriptional induction of klf4 mrna and decreased proteasomal degradation of klf4 protein. in this paper, we demonstrate that mir-146a targets the krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) 3'-untranslated region and has an important role in promoting vsmc proliferation in vitro and vascular neointimal hyperplasia in vivo. silencing of mir-146a in vsmcs increases klf4 expression, whereas overexpression of mir-146a decreases klf4 levels. overexpression of klf4 in vsmcs decreases mir-146a transcription levels. our findings indicate that the contribution of smcs to atherosclerotic plaques has been greatly underestimated, and that klf4-dependent transitions in smc phenotype are critical in lesion pathogenesis. the phenotypic switch of vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) is a major initiating factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. 
KRT17 modulates the expression of the transcriptional regulator AIRE in diseased epithelia. [SEP] expression of krt17 has been described in multi-layered epithelia as well as in tumors derived from these cells. in cancers arising from krt17 negative single layered epithelia neo-expression of krt17 has been associated with tumor progression. expression of the intermediate filament protein keratin 17 (k17) is robustly upregulated in inflammatory skin diseases and in many tumors originating in stratified and pseudostratified epithelia. the induction of aire mrna in keratinocytes depends on a functional interaction between k17 and the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein hnrnp k. further, k17 colocalizes with aire protein in the nucleus of tumor-prone keratinocytes, and each factor is bound to a specific promoter region featuring an nf-κb consensus sequence in a relevant subset of k17- and aire-dependent proinflammatory genes. these findings provide radically new insight into keratin intermediate filament and aire function, along with a molecular basis for the k17-dependent amplification of inflammatory and immune responses in diseased epithelia. krt17 expression and its correlations with clinicopathological factors were examined in lung cancer tissues by immunohistochemistry. overexpression of krt17 enhanced, while krt17 knockdown inhibited, the proliferation and invasiveness of lung cancer cells. we therefore review the current understanding of the k17 regulatory mechanism and its pathogenic role in diseases from dermatoses to cancer. krt17 (keratin 17) is induced in the regenerative epithelium and acts on diverse signaling pathways. results both the rna and protein levels of krt17 were up-regulated in lac tissues compared to normal lung tissues. 
Kir7.1 modulates channel activity by the G protein-coupled melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. [SEP] here we show that, in mice, regulation of firing activity of neurons from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (pvn) by α-msh and agrp can be mediated independently of gαs signalling by ligand-induced coupling of mc4r to closure of inwardly rectifying potassium channel, kir7.1. coupling of mc4r to kir7.1 may explain unusual aspects of the control of energy homeostasis by melanocortin signalling, including the gene dosage effect of mc4r and the sustained effects of agrp on food intake. however, previous data from hypothalamic slice preparations indicated that activation of the mc4r depolarised neurones via g protein-independent regulation of the ion channel kir7.1. in the present study, we show that deletion of kcnj13 (ie, the gene encoding kir7.1) specifically from mc4r neurones produced resistance to melanocortin peptide-induced depolarisation of mc4r paraventricular nucleus neurones in brain slices, resistance to the sustained anorexic effect of exogenously administered melanocortin peptides, late onset obesity, increased linear growth and glucose intolerance. thus, a subset of the consequences of mc4r signalling in vivo appears to be dependent on expression of the kir7.1 channel in mc4r cells. kir7.1 is an inwardly rectifying potassium channel with important roles in the regulation of the membrane potential in retinal pigment epithelium, uterine smooth muscle, and hypothalamic neurons. the melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r), a gpcr previously reported to induce ligand-regulated activity of this channel, is the only gpcr tested that does not have this effect on kir7.1. we have recently demonstrated that the melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r), a gαs-coupled gpcr, regulates kir7.1 activity through a mechanism independent of gαs and camp. the melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r) belongs to the g protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) family and plays an essential role in the control of energy homeostasis. this action of lcn2 occurs through its binding to the melanocortin 4 receptor (mc4r) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (pvn) and ventromedial neurons of the hypothalamus. 
Klf2 is important for proper myeloid cell function. [SEP] this study represents the first description of a significant role of myeloid klf2 in neuroinflammation, identifying klf2 as a potential target for further investigation in patients with ms. this study documents a role for myeloid klf2 expression in modulating atherosclerosis. these findings identify myeloid klf2 as a key regulator of myeloid cell functions in adult skeletal muscle regeneration. more importantly, klf2 attenuated gram-positive endotoxins induced cellular motility and proinflammatory gene expression in myeloid cells. herein, we identify the kruppel-like transcription factor 2 (klf2) as a potent regulator of myeloid cell activation in vivo. myeloid klf2 was found to be a potent inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappab (nf-κb)-dependent hif-1α transcription and, consequently, a critical determinant of outcome in models of polymicrobial infection and endotoxemia. collectively, these observations identify klf2 as a tonic repressor of myeloid cell activation in vivo and an essential regulator of the innate immune system. kruppel-like factor 2 (klf2) is a potent regulator of myeloid cell proinflammatory activation. together, these data establish myeloid klf2 as a nodal regulator of central and peripheral metabolic inflammation in homeostasis and disease. these findings define the critical regulatory role of myeloid klf2 in ra pathogenesis. 
Klf4 is important for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] we demonstrate decreased klf4 expression in aml patient samples with various cytogenetic aberrations, confirm that klf4 overexpression promotes myeloid differentiation and inhibits cell proliferation in aml cell lines, and identify new targets of klf4. to clarify the molecular basis of klf4-mediated monocytic differentiation, we performed detailed genetic studies in acute myeloid leukemia (aml) cells. these findings suggest that klf4 plays an important role in regulating cellular proliferation, which underlies the morphogenetic changes that shape the developing embryo. thus, our in vivo loss-of-function studies demonstrate that klf4, previously shown to mediate proinflammatory signaling in human macrophages in vitro, is essential for differentiation of mouse inflammatory monocytes, and is involved in the differentiation of resident monocytes. in addition, inducible expression of klf4 in the hl60 human acute myeloid leukemia cell line stimulated monocytic differentiation and enhanced 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate induced macrophage differentiation, but blocked all-trans-retinoic acid induced granulocytic differentiation of hl60 cells. the inflammation-selective effects of loss-of-klf4 and the gain-of-klf4-induced monocytic differentiation in hl60 cells identify klf4 as a key regulator of monocytic differentiation and a potential target for translational immune modulation. knockout studies revealed a critical function for klf4 in the terminal differentiation of many epithelial cells. here we show that klf4/gklf is expressed in a monocyte-restricted and stage-specific pattern during myelopoiesis and functions to promote monocyte differentiation. forced expression of klf4 in primary common myeloid progenitors (cmps) or hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) induced exclusive monocyte differentiation in clonogenic assays, whereas klf4 deficiency inhibited monocyte but increased granulocyte differentiation. thus, klf4 is a critical regulator in the transcriptional network controlling monocyte differentiation. 
Klf4 is not required for proper myeloid cell differentiation. [SEP] we demonstrate decreased klf4 expression in aml patient samples with various cytogenetic aberrations, confirm that klf4 overexpression promotes myeloid differentiation and inhibits cell proliferation in aml cell lines, and identify new targets of klf4. although the biological importance of krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) transcription factor in the terminal differentiation of hematopoietic cells to the monocytes has been well established, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. to clarify the molecular basis of klf4-mediated monocytic differentiation, we performed detailed genetic studies in acute myeloid leukemia (aml) cells. here we show that klf4/gklf is expressed in a monocyte-restricted and stage-specific pattern during myelopoiesis and functions to promote monocyte differentiation. conversely, klf4 knockdown blocked phorbol ester-induced monocyte differentiation. forced expression of klf4 in primary common myeloid progenitors (cmps) or hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) induced exclusive monocyte differentiation in clonogenic assays, whereas klf4 deficiency inhibited monocyte but increased granulocyte differentiation. thus, our in vivo loss-of-function studies demonstrate that klf4, previously shown to mediate proinflammatory signaling in human macrophages in vitro, is essential for differentiation of mouse inflammatory monocytes, and is involved in the differentiation of resident monocytes. in addition, inducible expression of klf4 in the hl60 human acute myeloid leukemia cell line stimulated monocytic differentiation and enhanced 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate induced macrophage differentiation, but blocked all-trans-retinoic acid induced granulocytic differentiation of hl60 cells. the inflammation-selective effects of loss-of-klf4 and the gain-of-klf4-induced monocytic differentiation in hl60 cells identify klf4 as a key regulator of monocytic differentiation and a potential target for translational immune modulation. gene ablation experiments suggest that klf4 plays a role in keratinocyte differentiation, since mice lacking klf4 fail to establish proper barrier function and, as a consequence, die postnatally due to dehydration. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes epithelial damage. [SEP] we found that bmp type i receptor alk3 is expressed predominantly in airway epithelial cells during development. therefore, our data suggest that deficiency of appropriate bmp signaling in lung epithelial cells results in prenatal lung malformation, neonatal atelectasis, and respiratory failure. here we show that the bmp receptor activin-like kinase 3 (alk3) is elevated early in diseased kidneys after injury. we also found that its deletion in the tubular epithelium leads to enhanced tgf-β1-smad family member 3 (smad3) signaling, epithelial damage and fibrosis, suggesting a protective role for alk3-mediated signaling in the kidney. thr-123 acts specifically through alk3 signaling, as mice with a targeted deletion for alk3 in their tubular epithelium did not respond to therapy with thr-123. alk3 is one of two bmp type i receptors that transduces bmp signal from the cell surface into cell. abrogation of alk3-mediated bmp signaling in this mouse resulted in severe defect of secondary ventral body wall formation, replicating the omphalocele phenotype in human. our finding suggests that alk3 plays an essential role in the formation of embryonic ventral abdominal wall, and abrogation of bmp signaling activity due to gene mutations in its signaling components could be one of the underlying causes of omphalocele at birth. the loss of bmp7 activity per se is profibrogenic in tubular cells. targeted deletion of the genes encoding one of the bmp receptors, alk3 (bmp receptor-1a), showed that signaling through this receptor is essential for normal lens development. 
Knockout proximal tubule-specific deletion of the BMP receptor Alk3 causes fibrosis. [SEP] we also found that its deletion in the tubular epithelium leads to enhanced tgf-β1-smad family member 3 (smad3) signaling, epithelial damage and fibrosis, suggesting a protective role for alk3-mediated signaling in the kidney. our studies show that bmp signaling agonists constitute a new line of therapeutic agents with potential utility in the clinic to induce regeneration, repair and reverse established fibrosis. alk3 is one of two bmp type i receptors that transduces bmp signal from the cell surface into cell. abrogation of alk3-mediated bmp signaling in this mouse resulted in severe defect of secondary ventral body wall formation, replicating the omphalocele phenotype in human. our finding suggests that alk3 plays an essential role in the formation of embryonic ventral abdominal wall, and abrogation of bmp signaling activity due to gene mutations in its signaling components could be one of the underlying causes of omphalocele at birth. we found that bmp type i receptor alk3 is expressed predominantly in airway epithelial cells during development. therefore, our data suggest that deficiency of appropriate bmp signaling in lung epithelial cells results in prenatal lung malformation, neonatal atelectasis, and respiratory failure. the iron overload phenotype was more marked in alk3- than in alk2-deficient mice, and alk3 deficiency was associated with a nearly complete ablation of basal bmp signaling and hepcidin expression. sustained activation of egf receptor (egfr) in proximal tubule cells is a hallmark of progressive kidney fibrosis after aki and in ckd. moreover, the finding that proximal tubule cell-specific amphiregulin knockout mice were protected from fibrosis after ischemia-reperfusion injury or unilateral ureteral obstruction demonstrates that amphiregulin was necessary for the development of fibrosis. 
L3MBTL2 binds to H2AK119Ub marked chromatin to form a PRC1 complex. [SEP] lethal(3) malignant brain tumour like 2 (l3mbtl2) is an integral component of the polycomb repressive complex 1.6 (prc1.6) and has been implicated in transcriptional repression and chromatin compaction. we now report that the first and second mbt repeats of l3mbtl2 are important structural and functional features that are necessary and sufficient for l3mbtl2-mediated recruitment of prc1.6 complex to target promoters. our findings suggest that the recruitment of noncanonical prc1.6 complex in escs might be the result of l3mbtl2's interaction with multiple components of the complex. l3mbtl2 has been implicated in transcriptional repression and chromatin compaction but its biological function has not been defined. l3mbtl2 regulates genes by recruiting a polycomb repressive complex1 (prc1)-related complex, resembling the previously described e2f6-complex, and including g9a, hdac1, and ring1b. the presence of l3mbtl2 at target genes is associated with h3k9 dimethylation, low histone acetylation, and h2ak119 ubiquitination, but the latter is neither dependent on l3mbtl2 nor sufficient for repression. genome-wide studies revealed that the l3mbtl2-dependent complex predominantly regulates genes not bound by canonical prc1 and prc2. we have identified human mbt domain-containing protein l3mbtl2 as an integral component of a protein complex that we termed polycomb repressive complex 1 (prc1)-like 4 (prc1l4), given the copresence of pcg proteins ring1, ring2, and pcgf6/mblr. prc1l4-mediated repression necessitated l3mbtl2 that compacted chromatin in a histone modification-independent manner. we identified l3mbtl2 and additional members of the non-canonical polycomb repressive prc1.6 complex in dna-bound rbpj associated complexes and demonstrate that l3mbtl2 directly interacts with rbpj. 
LDL cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] elevated levels of low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol have been unequivocally demonstrated to play a causal role in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. (i) contemporary data highlighting the atherogenicity of ldl cholesterol and cardiovascular benefits of current lipid lowering therapies. (ii) importance of statin intolerance and inability to achieve ldl cholesterol goals in driving ongoing cardiovascular risk. effective lowering of ldl cholesterol plays a critical role in approaches to the prevention of cardiovascular disease. low-density lipoproteins (ldl) play a causal role in the development of atherosclerosis, and reduction of ldl cholesterol with a statin is a cornerstone in prevention of cardiovascular disease. an elevated concentration of ldl-c plays a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. recent epidemiologic studies have shown that ldl-cholesterol (ldl-c) and non-hdl-cholesterol levels in early adults are associated with accelerated subclinical atherosclerosis and an excess of atherosclerotic cardiovascular events later in life. epidemiologic data support a strong relationship of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) with both elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c), and reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c). to summarize the recent studies directly comparing ldl and lipoprotein(a) as causal factors for cardiovascular disease and mortality. the "cholesterol hypothesis" assumes that plasma (ldl) cholesterol is an important causal factor for atherosclerosis.however, data of at least seven placebo controlled randomized prospective trials with various cholesterol lowering drugs show that plasma cholesterol lowering does not necessarily lead to protection against cardiovascular disease. 
LRBA prevents CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] ctla-4 rapidly internalizes via a clathrin-dependent pathway followed by poorly characterized recycling and degradation fates. in jurkat cells, lrba deficiency was associated with markedly impaired ctla-4 recycling and increased degradation that could not be corrected by expressing ca rab11. moreover lrba deficiency reduced ctla-4 colocalization with rab11, suggesting that lrba is upstream of rab11. these results show that lrba is required for effective ctla-4 recycling by delivering ctla-4 to rab11 recycling compartments, and in its absence, ctla-4 fails to recycle and undergoes degradation. disrupting ctla-4 recycling results in robust ctla-4 downregulation by all anti-ctla-4 antibodies and confers toxicity to a non-irae-prone anti-ctla-4 mab. abnormal ctla-4 trafficking is also observed in patients with lrba deficiency, a syndrome caused by biallelic mutations in lrba that abolishes the lrba protein expression. these mice revealed that lrba has a critical, cell-autonomous role in promoting cytotoxic t-lymphocyte antigen-4 (ctla-4) accumulation within cd4 effector t cells and foxp3+ t-regulatory cells (tregs). ctla-4 is a crucial negative regulator of immune responses. lrba was identified as a novel regulator of steady-state ctla-4 protein levels in tregs and activated t cells. ctla-4 induction following stimulation, and the use of lysosomal-blocking compounds, distinguished ctla-4 from lrba mutations. 
LRBA promotes CTLA - 4 recycling. [SEP] ctla-4 rapidly internalizes via a clathrin-dependent pathway followed by poorly characterized recycling and degradation fates. we also observed that constitutively active (ca) rab11 increased, whereas dn rab11 decreased ctla-4 surface expression via an impact on ctla-4 recycling, indicating ctla-4 shares similarities with other recycling receptors such as egfr. in jurkat cells, lrba deficiency was associated with markedly impaired ctla-4 recycling and increased degradation that could not be corrected by expressing ca rab11. these results show that lrba is required for effective ctla-4 recycling by delivering ctla-4 to rab11 recycling compartments, and in its absence, ctla-4 fails to recycle and undergoes degradation. lrba was identified as a novel regulator of steady-state ctla-4 protein levels in tregs and activated t cells. these mice revealed that lrba has a critical, cell-autonomous role in promoting cytotoxic t-lymphocyte antigen-4 (ctla-4) accumulation within cd4 effector t cells and foxp3+ t-regulatory cells (tregs). there was a positive correlation between the expressions of lrba and ctla-4 in both groups of patients (p < .05). here we report that while irae-prone ipilimumab and tremeigg1 rapidly direct cell surface ctla-4 for lysosomal degradation, the non-irae-prone antibodies we generated, hl12 or hl32, dissociate from ctla-4 after endocytosis and allow ctla-4 recycling to cell surface by the lrba-dependent mechanism. disrupting ctla-4 recycling results in robust ctla-4 downregulation by all anti-ctla-4 antibodies and confers toxicity to a non-irae-prone anti-ctla-4 mab. abnormal ctla-4 trafficking is also observed in patients with lrba deficiency, a syndrome caused by biallelic mutations in lrba that abolishes the lrba protein expression. 
LSD1-positive promoters are associated with RNA polymerase II [SEP] simultaneous occupancy of histone genes by sfmbt1, lsd1, and corest is regulated during the cell cycle and correlates with the loss of rna polymerase ii at these promoters during g2, m, and g1. depletion of lsd1 in myoblasts precludes the removal of h3k9 methylation and the recruitment of rna polymerase ii on the core enhancer, thereby preventing transcription of the non-coding enhancer rna required for myod expression (ceerna). our results demonstrate that lsd1 is required for the timely expression of myod in limb buds and identify a new biological function for lsd1 by showing that it can activate rna polymerase ii-dependent transcription of enhancers. lsd1 catalyzes demethylation of histone h3k9 associated with herpes simplex virus 1 (hsv-1) immediate early (ie) promoters and is necessary for ie gene expression, viral dna replication, and reactivation from latency. these data support a potential new role for lsd1 in the regulation of viral dna replication and successive steps in the virus life cycle, and further highlight the promising potential to utilize lsd1 inhibition as an antiviral approach. here, we identify that, contrary to its role in enhancing dna virus replication, lsd1 limits rna virus replication by demethylating and activating ifitm3 which is a host restriction factor for many rna viruses. mechanistic analyses at the endogenous ervw1, cga, and cgb loci revealed a regulatory axis in which lsd1 induces demethylation of repressive histone h3 lysine 9 dimethylation (h3k9me2) and interacts with transcription factor gata2 to promote rna polymerase ii (rna-pol-ii) recruitment and activate gene transcription. taken together, our findings demonstrate that lsd1 is a positive regulator of signaling pathway triggered by rna-virus through mediating rig-i polyubiquitination. combining rna and chip-sequencing results revealed that, within this set of genes, spp1, c3ar1, itga10 and serpine1 also exhibited increased h3k4me2 levels at their promoter regions in lsd1 knockdown compared to control cells. indeed, lsd1 chip experiments confirmed enrichment of lsd1 at their promoter regions, suggesting a direct transcriptional regulation by lsd1. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice increases life expectancy. [SEP] to elucidate the physiological roles of fgf21, we generated fgf21 knockout (ko) mice by targeted disruption. fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) is a key metabolic regulator. to test the hypothesis that fgf21 is a physiological regulator that plays a role in lipid oxidation, we generated mice with targeted disruption of the fgf21 locus (fgf21 knockout). mice lacking fgf21 had mild weight gain and slightly impaired glucose homeostasis, indicating a role in long-term energy homeostasis. these data reinforce the role of fgf21 is a critical regulator of long-term energy balance and metabolism. pharmacological doses of fgf21 improve glucose tolerance, lower serum free fatty acids, and lead to weight loss in obese mice. to test the hypothesis that obesity is a state of fgf21 resistance, we evaluated the response of obese mice to exogenous fgf21 administration. these data demonstrate that dio mice have increased endogenous levels of fgf21 and respond poorly to exogenous fgf21. our data indicate that a lack of fgf21 enhances the susceptibility of mice to the development of obesity-related cardiomyopathy. we found that mice lacking the fgf21 gene are more prone to develop nash. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] the roles of fgf21 in atherosclerosis were investigated by evaluating the impact of fgf21 deficiency and replenishment with recombinant fgf21 in apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice. fgf21 deficiency causes a marked exacerbation of atherosclerotic plaque formation and premature death in apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice, which is accompanied by hypoadiponectinemia and severe hypercholesterolemia. administration of fgf21 showed anti-atherosclerotic effects in atherosclerosis-prone mice and exerted beneficial effects on critical atherosclerosis pathways. here, the role of fgf21 in lipoprotein metabolism in relation to atherosclerosis development was investigated by pharmacological administration of a half-life extended recombinant fgf21 protein to hypercholesterolemic apoe*3-leiden.cetp mice, a well-established model mimicking atherosclerosis initiation and development in humans. here, we demonstrate that pharmacological treatment with recombinant fgf21 potently protects against atherosclerosis in apoe*3-leiden.cetp mice. fibroblast growth factor (fgf) 21, as an important regulator for systemic glucose and lipid metabolism, has recently been demonstrated to be associated with atherosclerosis, but the relationship between serum fgf21 and characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques remains unclear. the aims of the current study were to evaluate the association between serum fgf21 and morphological characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques in vivo. serum fgf21 is positively correlated with atherosclerotic plaque burden, and interestingly, the high level of serum fgf21 may represent a positive response to atherosclerosis. in apolipoprotein e-deficient mice, formation of atherosclerotic plaques is exacerbated by genetic depletion of fgf21, but is attenuated upon replenishment with recombinant fgf21. fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) acts as an anti-atherosclerotic agent. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice leads to reduced lifespan. [SEP] here we show that transgenic overexpression of fgf21 markedly extends lifespan in mice without reducing food intake or affecting markers of nad+ metabolism or amp kinase and mtor signaling. these findings raise the possibility that fgf21 can be used to extend lifespan in other species.doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/elife.00065.001. fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21), a novel endocrine-like member of the fgf superfamily, is highly expressed in the liver, and fgf21-transgenic mice have extended lifespans. thus, we hypothesized that fgf21 may play a role in the dec1-mediated aging process. in this study, dec1 knockout (ko) mice were used to characterize the mechanism by which fgf21 protects mice from aging. the expression of fgf21 decreased with aging in wild-type (wt) mice, whereas atf4, phospho-erk and phospho-p38 expression was maintained and was accompanied by a compensatory rise of fgf21 mrna and protein expression in dec1 ko mice. in conclusion, all the evidence discussed in this review indicates that fgf21 may be an important negative regulator of mammalian growth. recently, it has been reported that fgf21-transgenic mice can extend their lifespan compared with wild type counterparts. thus, we hypothesize that fgf21 may play some roles in aging of organisms. mice lacking fgf21 had mild weight gain and slightly impaired glucose homeostasis, indicating a role in long-term energy homeostasis. 
Lack of FGF21 in mice slows the rate of atherosclerotic plaque formation. [SEP] the roles of fgf21 in atherosclerosis were investigated by evaluating the impact of fgf21 deficiency and replenishment with recombinant fgf21 in apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice. fgf21 deficiency causes a marked exacerbation of atherosclerotic plaque formation and premature death in apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice, which is accompanied by hypoadiponectinemia and severe hypercholesterolemia. administration of fgf21 showed anti-atherosclerotic effects in atherosclerosis-prone mice and exerted beneficial effects on critical atherosclerosis pathways. here, the role of fgf21 in lipoprotein metabolism in relation to atherosclerosis development was investigated by pharmacological administration of a half-life extended recombinant fgf21 protein to hypercholesterolemic apoe*3-leiden.cetp mice, a well-established model mimicking atherosclerosis initiation and development in humans. here, we demonstrate that pharmacological treatment with recombinant fgf21 potently protects against atherosclerosis in apoe*3-leiden.cetp mice. fibroblast growth factor (fgf) 21, as an important regulator for systemic glucose and lipid metabolism, has recently been demonstrated to be associated with atherosclerosis, but the relationship between serum fgf21 and characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques remains unclear. the aims of the current study were to evaluate the association between serum fgf21 and morphological characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques in vivo. serum fgf21 is positively correlated with atherosclerotic plaque burden, and interestingly, the high level of serum fgf21 may represent a positive response to atherosclerosis. in apolipoprotein e-deficient mice, formation of atherosclerotic plaques is exacerbated by genetic depletion of fgf21, but is attenuated upon replenishment with recombinant fgf21. fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) acts as an anti-atherosclerotic agent. 
Lamins are associated with nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] nuclear lamins form a fibrous nucleoskeletal network of intermediate-sized filaments that underlies the inner nuclear membrane. it associates with this membrane through interactions with specific integral nuclear membrane proteins, while within this flattened lamin lattice the nuclear pore complexes are embedded. the lamins are the evolutionary progenitors of the cytoplasmic intermediate filament proteins and have profound influences on nuclear structure and function. lamins, underlying the inner nuclear membrane (inm), play a crucial role in maintaining nuclear homeostasis. nuclear lamins comprise the nuclear lamina, a scaffold-like structure that lines the inner nuclear membrane. nuclear lamins are major architectural elements of the mammalian cell nucleus, and they have been implicated in the functional organization of the nuclear interior, possibly by providing structural support for nuclear compartments. lamins in the nuclear interior associate with at least one soluble (non-membrane-bound) lap2 isoform named lap2alpha. the internal lamins, together with tpr-based filaments that connect to nuclear pore complexes, are proposed to be major structural elements of the internal nuclear matrix. lamins are the major components of the nuclear lamina, a two-dimensional filamentous network at the periphery of the nucleus in higher eukaryotes, directly underlying the inner nuclear membrane. several integral proteins of the inner nuclear membrane bind to lamins and may link the nuclear membrane to the core lamina network. 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the mitochondrial membrane of all cells. [SEP] lamin a/c was localized mainly in the peripheral nucleoplasm within 60 nm from the inner nuclear membrane, which corresponded to the nuclear lamina. nuclear lamins are the most abundant components of the nuclear lamina, a 10-50-nm-thick fibrous layer underlying the inner nuclear envelope membrane. preferential localization of lamin a to the inner part of the nucleus was also demonstrated by the presence of the majority of lamin a in the solubilized inner nuclear network subfraction. the intermediate filament proteins lamin a, lamin b, and lamin c form a network underlying the inner nuclear membrane. positioned within the inner nuclear membrane are more than 150 inner nuclear membrane proteins, many of which interact directly with lamins and require lamins for their inner nuclear membrane localization. inner nuclear membrane proteins and the nuclear lamins define the nuclear lamina. loss or mutations in lamins and inner nuclear membrane proteins cause a wide spectrum of diseases. in situ analysis by immunoelectron microscopy and examination of digitonin-permeabilized cells by indirect immunofluorescence show that p18, unlike lbr and other lamin-binding proteins, is equally distributed between the inner and outer nuclear membrane. lamins are the major components of the nuclear lamina, a filamentous layer underlying the inner nuclear membrane and attached to the peripheral chromatin. lamins containing a cxxm motif in their primary sequence (lamins a, b2, dm0) induced the formation of lobulated nuclei with multi-membrane-layered, highly folded nuclear membranes and intranuclear membrane assemblies, as observed by electron microscopy. 
Lamins are found within the inner layer of the nuclear membrane of all cells. [SEP] lamin a/c was localized mainly in the peripheral nucleoplasm within 60 nm from the inner nuclear membrane, which corresponded to the nuclear lamina. positioned within the inner nuclear membrane are more than 150 inner nuclear membrane proteins, many of which interact directly with lamins and require lamins for their inner nuclear membrane localization. inner nuclear membrane proteins and the nuclear lamins define the nuclear lamina. nuclear lamins are the most abundant components of the nuclear lamina, a 10-50-nm-thick fibrous layer underlying the inner nuclear envelope membrane. nevertheless, a number of recent investigations performed on epithelial and fibroblast cells have suggested that nuclear lamins are also present within the nucleoplasm and could be important constituents of the nucleoskeleton. preferential localization of lamin a to the inner part of the nucleus was also demonstrated by the presence of the majority of lamin a in the solubilized inner nuclear network subfraction. lamins are the major components of the nuclear lamina, a filamentous layer underlying the inner nuclear membrane and attached to the peripheral chromatin. many lamin-binding proteins are integral proteins of the inner nuclear membrane. lamins and inner nuclear membrane proteins are important for a variety of cell functions, including nuclear assembly, replication, transcription, and nuclear integrity. the p58/lamin b receptor of vertebrates is localized in the inner nuclear membrane. 
Lamins have no effect on nuclear membrane structure maintenance. [SEP] nuclear lamins comprise the nuclear lamina, a scaffold-like structure that lines the inner nuclear membrane. our results identify the absence of a-type lamin expression as a novel marker for undifferentiated es cells and further support a role for nuclear lamins in cell maintenance and differentiation. nuclear lamins are major architectural elements of the mammalian cell nucleus, and they have been implicated in the functional organization of the nuclear interior, possibly by providing structural support for nuclear compartments. genetic loss of lamins a/c has no effect on the cellular distribution of several pre-mrna splicing factors and does not affect the compartment morphology as examined by light and electron microscopy. we found that the structural perturbations had minimal dominant effects on nuclear stiffness, suggesting that the muscle pathology was not accompanied by major structural disruption of the peripheral nuclear lamina. lamins are intermediate filament proteins of the inner nuclear membrane required for the maintenance of nuclear structure and function. this review discusses the nature of these mutations and the possible effects of lamin mutations on nuclear function. nuclear lamins form a fibrous nucleoskeletal network of intermediate-sized filaments that underlies the inner nuclear membrane. the lamins are the evolutionary progenitors of the cytoplasmic intermediate filament proteins and have profound influences on nuclear structure and function. lamins, underlying the inner nuclear membrane (inm), play a crucial role in maintaining nuclear homeostasis. 
Less than 10% of patients exposed to radiation have activated markers of mesenchymal stem cells. [SEP] the transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells was followed by a decrease in the mortality rate of mice with radiation-induced lung injury. little is known about how human stem cells, which are known to contribute to tumorigenesis, respond to prolonged radiation exposures. mesenchymal stromal cells (mscs) have been shown to reverse radiation damage to marrow stem cells. both murine and human msc-evs reverse radiation damage to murine marrow cells and stimulate normal murine marrow stem cell/progenitors to proliferate. relevant results of preclinical and clinical studies suggest that this regenerative therapy will become an attractive tool in managing radiation enteropathy, because mesenchymal stem cells exhibit their pro-regenerative potentials for healing the injuries in both epithelium and endothelium, minimizing inflammation and protecting irradiated intestine against fibrogenesis through activating intrinsic repair actions. on this basis, we will discuss the advances in anticancer therapy by using mesenchymal stem cells in this review after analyzing the pathogenesis of radiation enteropathy, introducing the advances in managing radiation enteropathy using regenerative therapy and exploring the putative actions by which mesenchymal stem cells repair intestinal injuries. at last, insights gained from the potential risks of mesenchymal stem cell-based therapy for radiation enteropathy patients may provide clinicians with an improved awareness in carrying out their studies. isolated mesenchymal stem cells (triplicate studies) were exposed to a dose of 12 gy of ionizing radiation as a single dose, in two doses of 6 gy, or in six doses of 2 gy. delivery of radiation in multiple doses confers significant radioprotection to mesenchymal stem cell proliferation and potential for differentiation. the authors have demonstrated that even minor alterations in fractionation of radiation dose can result in significant effects on the potential of mesenchymal stem cells to differentiate. 
Lice attenuated SIV vaccines induce a stronger antigen-specific T cell response in lymph node cells. [SEP] six months after shiv infection, antiviral t-cell responses were rare in the cervix; however, polyfunctional, cytokine-secreting, and degranulating siv gag-specific cd4(+) t cells were consistently found in the vagina of the immunized macaques. thus, an attenuated shiv vaccine induces persistent antiviral t cells in tissues, including the vagina, where these effector t-cell responses may mediate the consistent protection from vaginal siv challenge observed in this model. we observed that both siv and rhcmv immunizations stimulated transient antigen-specific t cell responses in draining lymph nodes. here we show that the degree of lav-mediated protection against intravenous wild-type sivmac239 challenge strongly correlates with the magnitude and function of siv-specific, effector-differentiated t cells in the lymph node but not with the responses of such t cells in the blood or with other cellular, humoral and innate immune parameters. thus, effective lavs maintain lymphoid tissue-based, effector-differentiated, siv-specific t cells that intercept and suppress early wild-type siv amplification and, if present in sufficient frequencies, can completely control and perhaps clear infection, an observation that provides a rationale for the development of safe, persistent vectors that can elicit and maintain such responses. gag-specific cd4+ t cells in wild-type siv-infected animals were 5-10-fold lower in frequency and inversely correlated with the level of plasma viremia. siv-specific cd4+ t cells in attenuated siv-infected animals were increased in frequency in bronchioalveolar lavage and decreased in lymph nodes, consistent with an effector-memory t cell population. the ability of sivdeltanef to induce a high frequency virus-specific cd4+ t cell response with direct effector function may play a key role in protective immunity produced by vaccination with attenuated siv strains. cellular immune responses against siv gag were further enhanced by a booster with a recombinant vaccinia virus expressing siv gag in both the spleen and local lymph node tissues, resulting in the induction of robust gag-specific cd8+ t cell responses at both systemic and mucosal levels. priming with recombinant bcg expressing siv antigens increased the frequency of these siv-specific cd8(+) t-cell responses after recombinant yf17d boosting. 
Lipopolysaccharides have an inflammation independent effect on kidney barrier function. [SEP] lipopolysaccharide, a product of bacteriolysis, activates macrophages and causes release of inflammatory cytokines. in this study, we used a cell culture-based in vitro model and animal-based in vivo model, combined with immunohistochemistry and a vascular leakage assay, to investigate lipopolysaccharide effects on the integrity of the mouse intra-strial fluid-blood barrier. our results show lipopolysaccharide-induced local infection significantly affects intra-strial fluid-blood barrier component cells. consistent with the findings from the in vivo animal model, the permeability of the endothelial cell monolayer to fitc-albumin was significantly higher in the lipopolysaccharide-treated monolayer than in an untreated endothelial cell monolayer. further study has shown the lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation to have a major effect on the expression of tight junctions in the blood barrier. the results showed that compared with the nc group, the levels of fasting blood glucose, renal function-related indices, and serum pro-inflammatory mediators including lipopolysaccharide (lps), interleukin (il)-1β, and il-18 were elevated; the renal morphopathological alterations, oxidative stress, and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor protein 3 inflammasome-mediated inflammation and renal fibrosis were aggravated; the intestinal microbiota dysbiosis and colonic inflammation and barrier dysfunction were deteriorated in the dc group. in this study, we show that (1) during initial exposure to lipopolysaccharide, the blood-brain barrier is compromised as expected, with increased diffusion and reduced presence of tight junctions, but that over time, the barrier is capable of at least partial recovery; (2) a cytokine cocktail also contributes to a loss of barrier function; (3) from this time-dependent cytokine activation, metabolic signature profiles can be obtained for both the brain and vascular sides of the blood-brain barrier model; and (4) collectively, we can use metabolite analysis to identify critical pathways in inflammatory response. dysbiosis, bacterial translocation and systemic inflammation have been found to be associated with human and experimental forms of chronic kidney disease (ckd), but the functional contribution of the intestinal microbiota to ckd-related intestinal barrier dysfunction and ckd progression is unknown, especially in ckd secondary to hyperoxaluria and nephrocalcinosis. eradication of the microbiota with a combination of antibiotics improved intestinal barrier function but had no effect on renal function, nephrocalcinosis, kidney remodelling and atrophy compared with control mice not receiving antibiotics. together, in chronic oxalate nephropathy, the intestinal microbiota contributes to the ckd-related dysfunction of the intestinal barrier but not to the progression of nephrocalcinosis itself, as well to its related kidney atrophy and excretory dysfunction. 
Lmna knock-in models are appropriate for testing therapeutic approaches against Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS). [SEP] hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a rare premature aging disorder that belongs to a group of conditions called laminopathies which affect nuclear lamins. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) also known as progeria of childhood or progeria is a rare, rapid, autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by premature aging which occurs shortly after birth. the goal of the present review article is to provide information about hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) and the use of crispr/cas technology as a promising treatment approach in the treatment of the disease. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a point mutation in the lmna gene that activates a cryptic donor splice site and yields a truncated form of prelamin a called progerin. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by a mutant prelamin a, progerin, that terminates with a farnesylcysteine. hgps knock-in mice (lmna(hg/+)) develop severe progeria-like disease phenotypes. subsequent studies showed that mice expressing non-farnesylated progerin (lmna(nhg/+) mice, in which progerin's carboxyl-terminal -csim motif was changed to -ssim) also develop severe progeria, raising doubts about whether any treatment targeting protein prenylation would be particularly effective. mouse models, such as lmna knockout, zmpste24 knockout, and lmna l530p knockin will help the study of progeria. hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a progeroid syndrome characterized by multiple aging-like disease phenotypes. the most recently discovered diseases associated with lmna mutations are the premature aging disorders hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) and atypical werner's syndrome. 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis requires VPS9a [SEP] here, we show that myrosin cell development requires the endocytosis-mediated polar localization of the auxin-efflux carrier pin1 in leaf primordia. asymmetric localization of pin1 develops from a random distribution in arabidopsis early embryogenesis. the vacuolar protein sorting- associated protein 9 (vps9a) encodes the single guanine nucleotide exchange factor (gef) that activates all three known rab5 proteins in arabidopsis thaliana. here we show an additional role of vps9a in plant response to salt stress via maintenance of k+ status of the cell rather than na+ homeostasis. furthermore, vps9a-2 mutant displays reduced expression of auxin reporter, direct repeat-5 (dr5), and alterations in polarity and abundance of auxin efflux carrier pin- formed2 (pin2). in conclusion, our findings indicate that akt1 is required for an arabidopsis response to changes in external k+ , and subsequent regulation of k+ -dependent root growth by modulating pin1 degradation and auxin redistribution in the root. the oligomerization of vps9a was mediated by a distinctive region consisting of 36 amino acids in the ctr that was conserved in plant rab5 gefs. the trh1, pin2, axr2 and aux1 mutants, and transgenic plants overexpressing pin1, all showing impaired gravity response and root hair development, revealed ectopic pin1 localization. as a consequence of auxin imbalance in arabidopsis root apex, ectopic pin1 mislocalization could be a risk aversion mechanism to trigger root developmental responses ensuring root growth plasticity. our data suggest that fkd1 influences pin1 localization in an auxin-dependent manner, and we propose that it represents a key component of the auxin canalization pathway. 
Long - range chromatin interactions regulate transcription. [SEP] although distal binding sites have been shown to regulate transcription by long-range chromatin interactions at a few loci, chromatin interactions and their impact on transcription regulation have not been investigated in a genome-wide manner. we found that most high-confidence remote er-alpha-binding sites are anchored at gene promoters through long-range chromatin interactions, suggesting that er-alpha functions by extensive chromatin looping to bring genes together for coordinated transcriptional regulation. we propose that chromatin interactions constitute a primary mechanism for regulating transcription in mammalian genomes. here, we group long ncrnas using epigenetic marks, expression and strength of chromosomal interactions; we find that long ncrnas transcribed from loci engaged in strong long-range chromosomal interactions are less abundant at chromatin, suggesting the release from chromatin as a crucial functional aspect of long ncrnas in transcription regulation of their target genes. therefore, our data suggest an active role of signal-dependent transcription factors in chromatin and long-range interaction remodeling. here, we review recent data revealing a global role of insulator proteins in the regulation of transcription through the formation of clusters of long-range interactions that impact different levels of chromatin organization. using genome-wide chromatin interaction analysis with paired-end-tag sequencing (chia-pet), we mapped long-range chromatin interactions associated with rna polymerase ii in human cells and uncovered widespread promoter-centered intragenic, extragenic, and intergenic interactions. overall, our study provides insights into transcription regulation by three-dimensional chromatin interactions for both housekeeping and cell-specific genes in human cells. long-range interactions between transcription regulatory elements play an important role in gene activation, epigenetic silencing, and chromatin organization. recent advances in studying long-range chromatin interactions have shifted focus from the transcriptional regulation by nearby regulatory elements to recognition of the role of higher-order chromatin organization within the nucleus. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation has no significant effects on wheezing or asthma at 3 and 6 years. [SEP] the childhood asthma prevention study was a randomized controlled trial conducted in children with a family history of asthma in whom omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and restriction of dietary omega-6 fatty acids did not prevent asthma, eczema, or atopy at age 5 years. plasma levels of omega-3 or omega-6 fatty acids were not associated with wheeze, eczema, or atopy at age 5 years (p = .11-.96). intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids, n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids and linoleic acid (18:2 n-6) was independently associated with an increased prevalence of wheeze--the multivariate odds ratios for the highest quintile were 1.19 (95% confidence interval [ci], 1.05-1.35), 1.17 (95% ci, 1.03-1.34), 1.19 (95% ci, 1.04-1.35), and 1.20 (95% ci, 1.06-1.37), respectively. the findings suggest that consumption of both n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids, especially linoleic acid, may be associated with an increased prevalence of wheeze. for the early phase and milder forms of allergic asthma, dietary supplementation with long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa), predominantly fish oil-associated eicosapentaenoic (c20:5 ω-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (c22:6 ω-3), and distinct crop oil-derived fatty acids might provide a sustainable treatment strategy, as discussed in several studies. we performed this systematic review and meta-analysis of rcts to assess the effect of intake of polyunsaturated fatty acid (pufa) in infancy and/or childhood on incidence of asthma or wheezing episodes. reduced intake of n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufas) may be a contributing factor to the increasing prevalence of wheezing disorders. in children of mothers with allergy, breast milk n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids and the ratio between n-3 and n-6 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids were inversely associated with asthma and with persistent symptoms (eczema at age 1 year and eczema at age 4 years and/or asthma at age 4 years), but no associations between breast milk fatty acids and sensitization were observed. in susceptible infants, the risk to develop allergic symptoms, but not the risk of sensitization, was modified by intake of n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids through breast milk. recent data indicate that supplementation of infant formula with omega-3 and omega-6 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids might offer developmental benefits for full term infants. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation is associated with lower rates of atopic eczema at 1 year. [SEP] the current cross-sectional study examined the association between intake of fatty acids and foods high in fatty acids and the prevalence of atopic eczema. docosahexaenoic acid intake was statistically significantly related to a decreased prevalence of atopic eczema after age 18 and current atopic eczema. intake of total fat, saturated fatty acids, monounsaturated fatty acids, n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids, cholesterol, meat, eggs, or dairy products was not related to either of the outcomes for atopic eczema. this study shows that the influence of prenatal exposure to fatty acids on the risk of eczema in the child is limited to the first year of life. an increased ratio of n-6: n-3 fatty acids in both 6 wk and 6 month milk samples was associated with non-atopic eczema (p < 0.005) but not atopy alone or atopic eczema. we found milk fatty acids were a significant modulator of non-atopic eczema but not atopy or atopic eczema in infants at 6 months. we evaluated the role of perinatal supply of fatty acids in the early development of atopic eczema and allergic sensitisation. in children of mothers with allergy, breast milk n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids and the ratio between n-3 and n-6 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids were inversely associated with asthma and with persistent symptoms (eczema at age 1 year and eczema at age 4 years and/or asthma at age 4 years), but no associations between breast milk fatty acids and sensitization were observed. the present prospective study examined the association of maternal intake of selected foods high in fatty acids and specific types of fatty acids during pregnancy with the risk of suspected atopic eczema among japanese infants aged 3-4 months. infants at risk of atopic dermatitis have lower than normal levels of long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. 
Long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supplementation reduces wheezing and asthma. [SEP] although wheeze at this age may not be a good indicator of asthma in later childhood, it is encouraging that some symptoms have been reduced in children with high omega-3 fatty acid concentrations in plasma. for the early phase and milder forms of allergic asthma, dietary supplementation with long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufa), predominantly fish oil-associated eicosapentaenoic (c20:5 ω-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (c22:6 ω-3), and distinct crop oil-derived fatty acids might provide a sustainable treatment strategy, as discussed in several studies. reduced intake of n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (lcpufas) may be a contributing factor to the increasing prevalence of wheezing disorders. it has been hypothesized that increased consumption of n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids and decreased consumption of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have contributed to the recent increased prevalence of asthma. the present cross-sectional study examined the association of intake of specific types of fatty acids with the prevalence of asthma symptoms using data from the ryukyus child health study. intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids, n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids and linoleic acid (18:2 n-6) was independently associated with an increased prevalence of wheeze--the multivariate odds ratios for the highest quintile were 1.19 (95% confidence interval [ci], 1.05-1.35), 1.17 (95% ci, 1.03-1.34), 1.19 (95% ci, 1.04-1.35), and 1.20 (95% ci, 1.06-1.37), respectively. the findings suggest that consumption of both n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids, especially linoleic acid, may be associated with an increased prevalence of wheeze. we performed this systematic review and meta-analysis of rcts to assess the effect of intake of polyunsaturated fatty acid (pufa) in infancy and/or childhood on incidence of asthma or wheezing episodes. objective: to evaluate the effects of omega-3 fatty acids during pregnancy on the incidence of wheeze and asthma of children.methods: a search was conducted in pubmed, embase and central until september 2017. subgroup analyses indicated that the risk of childhood wheeze/asthma was significantly decreased (1) in studies located in europe (rr 0.67 95% ci 0.51- 0.88), (2) in children whose first-degree relatives were diagnosed with allergic disease (rr 0.65 95% ci 0.49-0.85), (3) when a dose of omega -3 fatty acids ≥2000 mg/d was applied (rr 0.61 95% ci 0.45-0.81), (4) in wheeze/asthma without sensitivity (rr 0.71 95% ci 0.54-0.94).conclusion: the available low-quality evidence indicated that omega-3 fatty acids supplementation during pregnancy may reduce the incidence of wheeze/asthma of children, but incidence of asthma was not reduced after omega-3 fatty acids supplementation during pregnancy. 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] micrornas (mirnas) exert their functions by repressing the expression of their target genes, but most mirna target genes are unknown, and the degree to which a mirna differentially inhibits the expression of its targets is underappreciated. we selected human mir-1, mir-122, and mir-124 as representatives to investigate the reliability of mirna target predictions and examine how mirnas suppress their targets. our studies systematically investigated hundreds of mirna target genes, shed light on factors influencing mirna functions, and suggested a new mechanism by which differential target repression by mirnas regulates endogenous gene expression. micrornas (mirnas) play vital roles in several biological processes, including apoptosis, by negatively regulating the expression of target genes. interestingly, using the reporter assays, excess mir-149 introduced by transfection to simulated its preponderance in the in vivo condition, could not overcome the repressive function of mir-149* on the target genes. this implies that the pro-apoptotic function of mir-149* may not be dampened by its predominant cognate, mir-149, in vivo. we found that target genes exhibit differential sensitivity to mirna suppression and that only a small fraction of target genes are actually suppressed by a given concentration of mirna under physiological conditions. transgenic expression and deletion of the same mirna gene regulate largely distinct sets of target genes. mir-17~92 controls target gene expression mainly through translational repression and 5'utr plays an important role in regulating target gene sensitivity to mirna suppression. these findings provide molecular insights into a model in which mirnas exert their specific functions through a small number of key target genes. 
Low expression of miR7a does not repress target genes or exert a biological function in testis. [SEP] micrornas (mirnas) act as regulators of gene expression by binding to the 3' untranslated region (utr) of target genes. among many mirnas, mir-21-3p is known to serve vital functions in development and apoptosis in olive flounder. the ppil2 gene showed high expression levels in testis tissue of the olive flounder, whereas mir-21-3p showed rather ubiquitous expression patterns except in testis tissue, indicating that mir-21-3p seems to control the ppil2 gene expression in a complementary repression manner in various tissues of olive flounder. unlike aly, loss of wuc results in only relatively mild defects in testis-specific gene expression. we propose that wuc represses testis-specific gene expression, that this repression is counteracted by aly, and that aly and a testis-specific tf(ii)d complex work together to promote high transcriptional activity of spermiogenic genes specifically in primary spermatocytes. cklfsf2b is also known to be highly expressed in the testis. the extent of steroidogenesis diminution was much less in the adrenal than in the testis (approximately 45% decrease in the adrenal versus 87% decrease in the testis) and expression of genes required for steroidogenesis in the adrenal was unaffected by dbp. transcription of the h1t gene is repressed in every tissue except testis. within the testis, transcription is repressed during development before the spermatocyte stage and in later stages of germinal cell maturation. sry and sox9 bind to the promoters of many common targets involved in testis differentiation and regulate their expression in sertoli cells. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with high methylation levels across species. [SEP] the results demonstrated that increasing methylated cpg density is correlated with nucleosome occupancy in the total genome and within nearly all subgenomic regions. thus, the relationship between dna methylation and nucleosome occupancy is influenced by the density of methylated cpg dinucleotides and by other epigenomic components in chromatin. previously, nucleosome depleted regions were observed upstream of transcription start sites and nucleosome occupancy was reported to correlate both with cpg density and the level of cpg methylation. we find the observed correlation between nucleosome occupancy and cpg density, respectively cpg methylation, to be specific to promoter regions. rather, our results suggest that for organisms with cytosine methylation nucleosome occupancy might be primarily linked to gene expression, with no strong impact on methylation. nucleosomal modifications have been implicated in fundamental epigenetic regulation, but the roles of nucleosome occupancy in shaping changes through evolution remain to be addressed. genome-wide comparison reveals conserved nucleosome occupancy profiles across both different species and tissue types. the nucleosome occupancy and methylome sequencing (nome-seq) assay allows us to directly measure the relationship between dna methylation and nucleosome occupancy by taking advantage of the methyltransferase m.cvipi, which methylates unprotected gpc dinucleotides to create a footprint of chromatin accessibility. throughout the genome, nucleosome occupancy was correlated with certain histone methylation or acetylation modifications. here, we established two orthogonal and thereby cross-validating approaches to measure absolute nucleosome occupancy across the saccharomyces cerevisiae genome via restriction enzymes and dna methyltransferases. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil polarization by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. in this study, we showed that ly49q regulates tlr9 signaling by affecting endosome/lysosome behavior. thus, ly49q has unique features different from other known ly49 family members and appears to be involved in regulation of cytoskeletal architecture of macrophages through itim-mediated signaling. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a higher inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] in a model of murine hindlimb ischaemia, both ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) monocyte circulating levels were increased after femoral artery ligation. ccl2/ccr2 activation enhanced blood ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) monocyte counts, although the opposite effect was seen in mice with ccl2 or ccr2 deficiency. cx3cl1/cx3cr1 strongly impacted ly6c(lo) monocyte levels, whereas ccl5/ccr5 had no role. moreover, adoptive transfer of ly6c(hi)-but not ly6c(lo)-monocytes enhanced vessel growth and blood flow recovery. altogether, our data demonstrate that regulation of proangiogenic ly6c(hi) monocytes systemic levels by ccl2/ccr2 controls post-ischaemic vessel growth, whereas ly6c(lo) monocytes have no major role in this setting. in contrast, ly6c(hi) monocytes differentiated normally into ly6c(lo) cells in ifn-i receptor-deficient mice. this demonstrates that ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) bm-derived monocytes have different fates in vivo and suggests that bm may be a reservoir of preinflammatory monocytes for rapid deployment as inflammatory dc during virus infection. a population of monocytes, known as ly6c(lo) monocytes, patrol blood vessels by crawling along the vascular endothelium. circulating monocytes were the precursors of inflammatory ly6c(hi) wound monocytes. data also demonstrated that ly6c(hi) wound cells were precursors of ly6c(low) macrophages, although monocytes did not undergo rapid maturation but rather persisted in the wound as ly6c(hi)mertk(-) cells. 
Lysine histone demethylase inhibitor JIB 04 is inactive against KDM5A. [SEP] synthetic inhibitors of kdm5a (jib 04 and cpi-455) efficiently block the proliferation of native and tmz-resistant cells and the kdm6b inhibitor gsk j4 improves survival in a model of dipg. in contrast, jib-04 (a pan-inhibitor of the jumonji demethylase superfamily) had the opposite effect and was ~8-fold more potent against kdm5b than against kdm5c. interestingly, the relative selectivity of jib-04 toward kdm5b over kdm5c in vitro translates to a ~10-50-fold greater growth-inhibitory activity against breast cancer cell lines. jib-04 is a small molecule that pan-selectively inhibits kdms, showing maximal inhibitory activity against kdm5a, and as secondary targets, kdm4d/4b/4a/6b/4c. here, we show that jib-04 and other established inhibitors of mammalian jmjc histone demethylases kill asexual blood stage parasites and are even more potent at blocking gametocyte development and gamete formation. in late stage parasites, jib-04 increased levels of trimethylated lysine residues on histones, suggesting the inhibition of p. falciparum jumonji demethylase activity. in this review, we summarize the roles of kdm5a in human cancers, survey the field of kdm5a inhibitors including their anticancer activity and modes of action, and the current challenges and potential opportunities of this field. here, using an innovative cell-based screen, we identify a structurally unique small molecule (named jib-04) that specifically inhibits the activity of the jumonji family of histone demethylases in vitro, in cancer cells, and in tumours in vivo. pharmacological inhibition of kdm5a has been reported to significantly attenuate tumor progression in vitro and in vivo in a range of solid tumors and acute myeloid leukemia. this review will present the structural aspects of kdm5a, its role in carcinogenesis, a comparison of currently available approaches for screening kdm5a inhibitors, a classification of kdm5a inhibitors, and its potential as a drug target in cancer therapy. 
M. stadtmanae does not induce ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] asc speck-forming cells release the highly proinflammatory cytokine il-1β in addition to asc specks into the extracellular space during pyroptotic cell death. there asc specks can propagate inflammation to other nonactivated cells or tissues. intracellular staining for asc was employed to detect asc speck⁺ cells within pbmcs by flow cytometry, and elisa to detect free asc in the plasma. asc-speck formation was found to be increased in leukocytes from sepsis patients compared to healthy donor controls. here, we provide two detailed protocols for imaging asc specks: by (1) live-cell imaging of monocyte/macrophage cell lines expressing a fluorescently tagged version of asc and (2) immunofluorescence of endogenous asc in cell lines and human immune cells. monocytes from healthy individuals were used as positive controls for asc speck formation (n = 3). here, we demonstrate that uvb-induced inflammasome activation leads to the formation of asc specks. our findings show that uvb provokes asc speck formation in human primary keratinocytes prior to cell death, and that specks are, opposed to the perinuclear cytosolic localization in myeloid cells, formed in the nucleus. although asc aggregation is generally involved with both inflammatory processes and apoptosis, the detailed dynamics of speck formation have not been characterized. in this report, speck formation in hela cells transfected with asc is examined by time-lapse live-imaging by confocal laser scanning microscopy. 
M. stadtmanae induces ASC speck formation in BlaER1 monocytes. [SEP] asc speck-forming cells release the highly proinflammatory cytokine il-1β in addition to asc specks into the extracellular space during pyroptotic cell death. there asc specks can propagate inflammation to other nonactivated cells or tissues. asc-speck formation was found to be increased in leukocytes from sepsis patients compared to healthy donor controls. following inflammasome activation, asc polymerizes to form a large singular structure termed the asc "speck," which is crucial for recruitment of caspase-1 and its inflammatory activity. here, we provide two detailed protocols for imaging asc specks: by (1) live-cell imaging of monocyte/macrophage cell lines expressing a fluorescently tagged version of asc and (2) immunofluorescence of endogenous asc in cell lines and human immune cells. monocytes from healthy individuals were used as positive controls for asc speck formation (n = 3). here, we demonstrate that uvb-induced inflammasome activation leads to the formation of asc specks. our findings show that uvb provokes asc speck formation in human primary keratinocytes prior to cell death, and that specks are, opposed to the perinuclear cytosolic localization in myeloid cells, formed in the nucleus. although asc aggregation is generally involved with both inflammatory processes and apoptosis, the detailed dynamics of speck formation have not been characterized. in this report, speck formation in hela cells transfected with asc is examined by time-lapse live-imaging by confocal laser scanning microscopy. 
MEK inhibitors are effective treatments in RAS-driven mouse models of cancer. [SEP] dual mek inhibitor plus erk inhibitor therapy shows anti-tumor efficacy in an hrasg12v-driven autochthonous sarcoma model but features of drug resistance in vivo were also evident. mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) kinase (mek) is an integral component of the ras pathway and a therapeutic target in ras-driven cancers. although tumor responses to mek inhibition are rarely durable, mek inhibitors have shown substantial activity and durable tumor regressions when combined with systemic immunotherapies in preclinical models of ras-driven tumors. tumor regression was also seen in mice treated with a specific mek inhibitor, but not with an akt inhibitor. oncogenic alterations in the ras/raf/mek/erk pathway drive the growth of a wide spectrum of cancers. furthermore, we investigated the therapeutic potential of mek inhibitors in vitro and in vivo using human cca cell lines and k-ras/nicd mice, respectively. altogether, our study demonstrates that k-ras/nicd mice represent a novel and useful preclinical model to study k-ras-driven icca development and the effectiveness of mek inhibitors in counteracting this process. fedele and colleagues demonstrate that shp2 inhibitors prevent adaptive mek inhibitor resistance; therefore, combining mek and shp2 inhibitors represents an exciting new therapeutic approach for the treatment of ras-driven cancers. the abl inhibitor nilotinib acts as a weak raf inhibitor that induces raf dimerization and subsequent activation of mek/erk in other cancer cell lines with activated ras, leading to an unexpected dependence on mek/erk for cell survival. in the mouse model, treatment with mek162 alone or combined with nilotinib led to tumor growth inhibition. 
MFGE8 regulates fat absorption by binding to av-Beta3 and av-Beta5 integrins. [SEP] expression of the integrin ligand mfge8 is increased in human obesity and in mice on a high-fat diet, but its role in obesity is unknown. we show here that mfge8 promotes the absorption of dietary triglycerides and the cellular uptake of fatty acid and that mfge8-deficient (mfge8(-/-)) mice are protected from diet-induced obesity, steatohepatitis and insulin resistance. mechanistically, we found that mfge8 coordinates fatty acid uptake through αvβ3 integrin- and αvβ5 integrin-dependent phosphorylation of akt by phosphatidylinositide-3 kinase and mtor complex 2, leading to translocation of cd36 and fatp1 from cytoplasmic vesicles to the cell surface. collectively, our results imply a role for mfge8 in regulating the absorption and storage of dietary fats, as well as in the development of obesity and its complications. many integrin adhesion receptors bind ligands containing the arg-gly-asp (rgd) peptide motif. in this study we identify the domain of the integrin beta subunit involved in determining ligand binding specificity. this small domain is highly divergent among the integrin beta subunits, suggesting that it may play a role in determining ligand selection by all integrins. integrins play an important role in vascular smooth muscle cell (vsmc) migration, a crucial event in the development of restenosis and atherosclerosis. the present study demonstrates that pparalpha activators inhibit tgf-beta-induced beta5 integrin transcription in vsmcs through a novel indirect interaction between ligand-activated pparalpha and the tgf-beta-regulated smad4 transcription factors. integrins are emerging as alternative receptors capable of mediating several biological functions, such as cell-matrix and cell-cell adhesion, cell migration, signal transduction, and angiogenesis. 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics in many cell types. [SEP] we have identified a family of unusual actin regulators, the micals, which are flavoprotein monooxygenase/hydroxylase enzymes that associate with flavin adenine dinucleotide (fad) and use the co-enzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) in redox reactions. furthermore, this mical-catalyzed reaction is reversed by another family of redox enzymes (selr/msrb enzymes)-thereby revealing a reversible redox signaling process and biochemical mechanism regulating actin dynamics. we also found that mical utilizes its redox activity to alter f-actin dynamics in vivo and in vitro, indicating a previously unknown role for specific redox signalling events in actin cytoskeletal regulation. we have recently identified a new family of multidomain oxidoreductase (redox) enzymes, the micals, that directly regulate the actin cytoskeletal elements necessary for the morphology, motility, and trajectory of cells. our genetic assays reveal that mical is both necessary and sufficient for actin organization and cellular effects in vivo and our biochemical assays with purified mical protein reveal that mical utilizes its redox activity to directly disassemble actin filaments. these results identify mical proteins as novel actin disassembly factors and uncover a redox signaling mechanism that directly regulates the actin cytoskeleton. our results indicate that mical triggers sema/plexin-mediated reorganization of the f-actin cytoskeleton and suggest a role for specific redox signaling events in regulating actin dynamics. using the drosophila model, we have recently identified an unusual actin regulatory enzyme, mical, which is directly activated by f-actin to selectively post-translationally oxidize and destabilize filaments - regulating numerous cellular behaviors. mical redox enzymes have recently emerged as direct regulators of cell shape and motility - working through specific reversible post-translational oxidation of actin to disassemble and remodel the cytoskeleton. we also focus on two of the best characterized enzymatic sources of these redox intermediates-the nadph oxidase nox and the flavoprotein monooxygenase mical-and detail how they have both been identified as altering actin, but share little similarity and employ different means to regulate actin dynamics. 
MICAL redox enzymes regulate actin dynamics. [SEP] we have identified a family of unusual actin regulators, the micals, which are flavoprotein monooxygenase/hydroxylase enzymes that associate with flavin adenine dinucleotide (fad) and use the co-enzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) in redox reactions. furthermore, this mical-catalyzed reaction is reversed by another family of redox enzymes (selr/msrb enzymes)-thereby revealing a reversible redox signaling process and biochemical mechanism regulating actin dynamics. we have recently identified a new family of multidomain oxidoreductase (redox) enzymes, the micals, that directly regulate the actin cytoskeletal elements necessary for the morphology, motility, and trajectory of cells. our genetic assays reveal that mical is both necessary and sufficient for actin organization and cellular effects in vivo and our biochemical assays with purified mical protein reveal that mical utilizes its redox activity to directly disassemble actin filaments. these results identify mical proteins as novel actin disassembly factors and uncover a redox signaling mechanism that directly regulates the actin cytoskeleton. we also found that mical utilizes its redox activity to alter f-actin dynamics in vivo and in vitro, indicating a previously unknown role for specific redox signalling events in actin cytoskeletal regulation. using the drosophila model, we have recently identified an unusual actin regulatory enzyme, mical, which is directly activated by f-actin to selectively post-translationally oxidize and destabilize filaments - regulating numerous cellular behaviors. mical redox enzymes have recently emerged as direct regulators of cell shape and motility - working through specific reversible post-translational oxidation of actin to disassemble and remodel the cytoskeleton. our results indicate that mical triggers sema/plexin-mediated reorganization of the f-actin cytoskeleton and suggest a role for specific redox signaling events in regulating actin dynamics. we also focus on two of the best characterized enzymatic sources of these redox intermediates-the nadph oxidase nox and the flavoprotein monooxygenase mical-and detail how they have both been identified as altering actin, but share little similarity and employ different means to regulate actin dynamics. 
MT binding domain drives amyloid structure formation. [SEP] although tau-mtbr is the principal component of pronase-treated alzheimer paired helical filaments, both tau and map2 form filaments in vitro from disulfide-linked homodimers. to understand the mechanism of acidic ph-induced amyloid fibril formation, conformational changes of the v(l) domain were studied by one-dimensional nmr, differential scanning calorimetry, analytical ultracentrifugation, hydrophobic dye binding, far-uv circular dichroism, and tryptophan fluorescence. the hallmark pathologies of the alzheimer's disease (ad) brain are amyloid beta (aβ)-containing senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles formed from the microtubule (mt)-binding tau protein. tau becomes hyperphosphorylated and disengages from mts in ad, with evidence of resulting mt structure/function defects. mt dysfunction is also observed in dystrophic axons adjacent to aβ plaques, resulting in accumulation of amyloid precursor protein (app) and bace1 with the potential for enhanced localized aβ generation. these data suggest a vicious cycle whereby initial aβ plaque formation causes mt disruption in nearby axons, resulting in the local accumulation of app and bace1 that facilitates additional aβ generation and plaque deposition. proteins form amyloid fibrils when they partly or fully unfold and expose segments capable of stacking into β-sheets that pair and thereby form a tight, dehydrated interface. here, using a combination of computational (with zipperdb and boston university albase), mutational, biochemical, and protein structural analyses, we identified segments within the variable domains of ig light chains that drive the assembly of amyloid fibrils in al. we demonstrate that there are at least two such segments and that each one can drive amyloid fibril assembly independently of the other. in addition to elucidating the molecular pathogenesis of al, these findings also provide an experimental approach for identifying segments that drive fibril formation in other amyloid diseases. 
MUC1-C activates the NF-κB p65 signaling pathway by interacting with IκB kinase ß. [SEP] mucin 1 (muc1) is overexpressed in various human malignant tumors and its expression is correlated with a poor prognosis. muc1 engages in signal transduction by interacting with receptors for growth and differentiation factors, which contributes to the growth and survival of cancer cells. the muc1 c-terminal domain (muc1-cd) was associated with nuclear factor-κb (nf-κb) p65 in muc1-expressing cells. chromatin immunoprecipitation (chip) assays demonstrated that muc1-cd existed with nf-κb p65 on the upa promoter. these results indicate that formation of the muc1-cd and nf-κb p65 complex enhanced nuclear translocation of nf-κb p65 and subsequent occupancy of nf-κb binding region on the upa promoter, leading to elevated transcription of upa. thus, a muc1 co-operating nf-κb signaling pathway plays a critical role in cancer cell invasion in muc1-expressing cells. the current study comprehensively determined the involvement of mapks/ap-1 and ikks/iκb/nf-κb in epidermal growth factor (egf)-induced a549 cells, and sought to ascertain the signaling pathways of naringin imparted in suppression of egf-induced muc5ac secretion. and as compared to mg132, the inhibitor κb (iκb) phosphorylation inhibitor of sn50 was more effective in reducing egf-induced muc5ac secretion because of suppression of nucleus ap-1. these results indicated that naringin attenuates egf-induced muc5ac secretion in a549 cells by suppressing the cooperative activities of mapks/ap-1 and ikks/iκb/nf-κb signaling pathways. this review begins with an overview of p65-mediated signaling followed by discussion of strategies that directly target nf-κb p65 in the context of chronic inflammation. 
MafA phosphorylation decreases its ubiquitination. [SEP] we also demonstrate that gsk-3 triggers mafa sequential phosphorylation on residues s61, t57, t53, and s49, inducing its ubiquitination and degradation. paradoxically, this phosphorylation increases mafa-transcriptional activity through the recruitment of the coactivator p/caf. we further demonstrate that p/caf protects mafa from ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting that, upon the release of the coactivator complex, mafa becomes polyubiquitinated and degraded to allow the response to terminate. mafa protein is highly phosphorylated in β-cells, and phosphorylation at multiple sites within its amino-terminal region is critical for its dna-binding and transactivating abilities, as well as for regulation of its degradation. here, we investigated whether phosphorylation of mafa affects its interaction with beta2. in situ pla suggested that phosphorylation induces conformational or configurational changes in mafa, thereby regulating the interaction with beta2. phosphorylation of mafa plays a critical role in β-cell function by regulating multiple functionalities, including binding to dna, interaction with beta2, and transactivation. we show that under oxidative and nonoxidative conditions p38 mapk directly binds to mafa and triggers mafa degradation via ubiquitin proteasomal pathway. mafa undergoes extensive posttranslational modification by phosphorylation, ubiquitination and sumoylation, and these modifications regulate the turnover, dna binding and transactivation function of the protein. in the present study, we provide the first evidence that mafa is phosphorylated and that its biological properties strongly rely upon phosphorylation of serines 14 and 65, two residues located in the transcriptional activating domain within a consensus for phosphorylation by mitogen-activated protein kinases and which are conserved among maf proteins. 
MafA phosphorylation enhances its ubiquitination. [SEP] we also demonstrate that gsk-3 triggers mafa sequential phosphorylation on residues s61, t57, t53, and s49, inducing its ubiquitination and degradation. paradoxically, this phosphorylation increases mafa-transcriptional activity through the recruitment of the coactivator p/caf. we further demonstrate that p/caf protects mafa from ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting that, upon the release of the coactivator complex, mafa becomes polyubiquitinated and degraded to allow the response to terminate. it has been shown that mafa protein stability is regulated by phosphorylations at multiple serine and threonine residues. mafa protein is highly phosphorylated in β-cells, and phosphorylation at multiple sites within its amino-terminal region is critical for its dna-binding and transactivating abilities, as well as for regulation of its degradation. here, we investigated whether phosphorylation of mafa affects its interaction with beta2. in situ pla suggested that phosphorylation induces conformational or configurational changes in mafa, thereby regulating the interaction with beta2. phosphorylation of mafa plays a critical role in β-cell function by regulating multiple functionalities, including binding to dna, interaction with beta2, and transactivation. we show that under oxidative and nonoxidative conditions p38 mapk directly binds to mafa and triggers mafa degradation via ubiquitin proteasomal pathway. mafa undergoes extensive posttranslational modification by phosphorylation, ubiquitination and sumoylation, and these modifications regulate the turnover, dna binding and transactivation function of the protein. 
MafA ubiquitination decreases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] we also demonstrate that gsk-3 triggers mafa sequential phosphorylation on residues s61, t57, t53, and s49, inducing its ubiquitination and degradation. paradoxically, this phosphorylation increases mafa-transcriptional activity through the recruitment of the coactivator p/caf. we further demonstrate that p/caf protects mafa from ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting that, upon the release of the coactivator complex, mafa becomes polyubiquitinated and degraded to allow the response to terminate. here, we show that mafa is post-translationally modified by the small ubiquitin-related modifiers sumo-1 and -2. forced sumoylation of mafa results in reduced transcriptional activity toward the ins gene promoter and increased suppression of the chop-10 gene promoter. sumoylation of mafa has no apparent effect on either its nuclear localization in beta cells or its ubiquitin-dependent degradation. mafa undergoes extensive posttranslational modification by phosphorylation, ubiquitination and sumoylation, and these modifications regulate the turnover, dna binding and transactivation function of the protein. regulation of mafa expression is equally complex. we show that under oxidative and nonoxidative conditions p38 mapk directly binds to mafa and triggers mafa degradation via ubiquitin proteasomal pathway. here, we report that maf proteins are also post-translationally modified by small ubiquitin-like modifier (sumo) proteins at a conserved lysine residue in the amino-terminal transactivator domain. 
MafA ubiquitination increases the recruitment of coavtivator P/CAF by MafA. [SEP] we also demonstrate that gsk-3 triggers mafa sequential phosphorylation on residues s61, t57, t53, and s49, inducing its ubiquitination and degradation. paradoxically, this phosphorylation increases mafa-transcriptional activity through the recruitment of the coactivator p/caf. we further demonstrate that p/caf protects mafa from ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting that, upon the release of the coactivator complex, mafa becomes polyubiquitinated and degraded to allow the response to terminate. here, we show that mafa is post-translationally modified by the small ubiquitin-related modifiers sumo-1 and -2. forced sumoylation of mafa results in reduced transcriptional activity toward the ins gene promoter and increased suppression of the chop-10 gene promoter. mafa undergoes extensive posttranslational modification by phosphorylation, ubiquitination and sumoylation, and these modifications regulate the turnover, dna binding and transactivation function of the protein. regulation of mafa expression is equally complex. we show that under oxidative and nonoxidative conditions p38 mapk directly binds to mafa and triggers mafa degradation via ubiquitin proteasomal pathway. it has been shown that mafa protein stability is regulated by phosphorylations at multiple serine and threonine residues. here, we report that maf proteins are also post-translationally modified by small ubiquitin-like modifier (sumo) proteins at a conserved lysine residue in the amino-terminal transactivator domain. 
Major antigen-induced signals from the T cell receptor and secondary signals from costimulatory receptors are required for T cell activation. [SEP] rather, to be fully activated t cells require both a tcr-generated signal and a "costimulatory" signal. it is well established that full activation of t cells that recognize antigens requires additional signals. these second signals are generated by the interaction of costimulatory ligands expressed on antigen presenting cells with their receptors on t cells. in addition to well-defined costimulatory pathways, where both receptors and ligands are known, there are many t cell surface molecules that have been described to generate a second signal under certain experimental conditions, f.i. however, accumulating evidence suggests that, in addition to t-cell receptor occupancy, other costimulatory signals are required to induce t-cell activation. optimal t cell responses occur when t cells receive both antigen-specific signals through the t cell receptor and non-antigen-specific costimulatory signals through accessory cell surface molecules. t cell activation is contingent upon the antigenic signal and an additional (costimulatory) signal provided by the antigen presenting cell (apcs). the requirement for a second or 'costimulatory' signal, in addition to the antigenic signal, provides a key element for the exquisite control of t cell activation. in addition to signal 1, the binding of positive and negative costimulatory receptors to their ligands modulates t cell activation. in the periphery activation requires t cell receptor signaling (signal one) in combination with costimulatory signals (signal two), usually provided through the cognate interaction of cd28 and b7 molecules. 
Major vault protein (MVP) leads to more aggressive tumors by regulating the sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into extracellular vesicles (EVs). [SEP] mir-193a interacts with major vault protein (mvp). knockout of mvp leads to mir-193a accumulation in the exosomal donor cells instead of exosomes, inhibiting tumour progression. human colon cancer patients with more advanced disease show higher levels of circulating exosomal mir-193a. in summary, our data demonstrate that mvp-mediated selective sorting of tumour suppressor mirna into exosomes promotes tumour progression. previously, abnormal extracellular vesicle (ev) sorting of mir-193a was identified in colorectal cancer (crc) progression. extracellular vesicles (evs) released by tumor cells play important roles on the remodeling of the tumor-stromal environment and on promoting tumor metastasis. in this study, we found that mir-122-5p was selectively sorted and secreted into lung cancer evs through binding to rna-binding protein hnrnpa2b1. importantly, our findings revealed the molecular mechanism that rna-binding protein controls the selective sorting of tumor-derived ev mir-122-5p, which potentially promotes lung cancer progression. high expression of mvp in these tumor cells is of particular interest since they are more likely to disseminate to give rise to chemoresistant metastases. the aim of the present study was to assess the relation of major vault protein expression and tumor hypoxia in clinical cervical tumors. 
Major vault protein regulates sorting of tumor suppressive miR-193a into EVs. [SEP] previously, abnormal extracellular vesicle (ev) sorting of mir-193a was identified in colorectal cancer (crc) progression. mir-193a interacts with major vault protein (mvp). upregulation of ev mir-193a was observed to impede proliferation, migration and invasion of colon cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, accompanied by decreased pcna, mmp-2, and mmp-9 expression. ectopic expression of mir-193a inhibited cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion in a549 and h1299 cells. emerging evidence indicates that microrna (mir)-193a-3p is involved in the tumor progression of various cancers. accordingly, this study focused on the tumor suppressor role and molecular mechanisms of mir-193a-3p in glioma cells. mir-193a-3p was downregulated in glioma tissues and cell lines. mir-193a-3p acts as an oncogene or tumor suppressor in different cancers. microrna-193a-5p (mir-193a-5p) have been demonstrated previously as a functional suppressor in the development and progression of various cancers. the expression of mir-193a-5p was significantly downregulated in gbm tissues and cell lines. 
Malaria has a high vectorial capacity. [SEP] we coupled a detailed mechanistic hydrology and entomology model with climate projections from general circulation models (gcms) to predict changes in vectorial capacity, an indication of the risk of human malaria infections, resulting from changes in the availability of mosquito breeding sites and temperature-dependent development rates. in human malaria, transmission intensity is highly dependent on the vectorial capacity and competence of local mosquitoes. here, we review key factors of vectorial capacity and competence in anopheles, with a particular focus on the most important malaria vector anopheles gambiae. we aim to point out selection pressures exerted by plasmodium on anopheles to improve its own transmission and discuss how the parasite might shape the vector to its benefit. to estimate the vectorial capacity of anopheles dirus, the main vector of forest malaria in the northeastern region of india, in order to gain an understanding of entomological factors related to malaria transmission in forest-fringe areas of assam, india, an isolated village in the tropical rain forest-fringed area in the district of dibrugarh, assam, under the influence of an. malaria prevalence was also studied during the same period in the study village and correlated with the estimated vectorial capacity of an. the ability of the mosquitoes to transmit plasmodium spp. in this study, the vectorial capacity model (vcap) was expanded to include the influence of rainfall and temperature variables on malaria transmission potential. since 2017, increased malaria has been reported across the amazon. few field studies focus on the primary malaria vector in high to moderate endemic areas, nyssorhynchus darlingi, as the key entomological component of malaria risk, and on the metrics of plasmodium vivax propagation in amazonian rural communities. 
Many cytokines that are produced by cancer cells also contribute to carcinogenesis. [SEP] many inflammatory mediators are involved in the process of carcinogenesis and cancer progression. during this event, proinflammatory cytokines are produced by numerous types of cells, such as fibroblasts, endothelial cells, macrophages, and tumor cells, and are able to promote the initiation, progression, and metastasis of different types of cancer. in this review, we aim to highlight the dual role of inflammasomes and proinflammatory cytokines during carcinogenesis paired with the distinguished effects of mirnas upon inflammation cascades during tumor growth and progression. its products, including superoxides, participate in the dna damage followed by initiation, and the inflammation-derived cytokines and growth factors contribute to the promotion of gastric carcinogenesis. during carcinoma formation, cancer cells release various cytokines and growth factors into their surroundings and recruit and reprogram many other types of cells in order to establish a tumor microenvironment. the cytokines produced by these cells have been posited as key factors in modulating immune response either against or in favor of tumorigenesis in the microenvironment. in this review, we address the essential pro- and anti-tumorigenic roles of cytokines in the tumor microenvironment. as the interaction of cytokines, growth factors, and cancer cells forms a comprehensive network at the tumor site that is then responsible for the overall progression or rejection of the tumor, the current review links the microenvironment-derived cytokines and growth factors to a number of different kinds of human carcinogenesis models. during carcinogenesis, angiogenesis is favored by local conditions of hypoxia, cell-to-cell interactions, and by expression of paracrine growth factors and inflammatory cytokines. in the oral region specifically, genetic association studies have revealed that constitutively high gene expression of certain inflammatory cytokines plays a major role in carcinogenesis. 
Many transmembrane receptors transmit signals by long-range conformational changes in the association of alpha-helices across the plasma membrane. [SEP] experiments have also shown that integrins transmit bidirectional signals across the plasma membrane by coupling extracellular conformational change with an unclasping and separation of the alpha and beta transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains. recent structural studies of integrin transmembrane (tm) and cytoplasmic domains have shed light on their conformational changes during integrin activation. these conformational changes are critical for integrin activation and signaling across the plasma membrane. a large superfamily of receptors containing seven transmembrane (tm) helices transmits hormonal and sensory signals across the plasma membrane to heterotrimeric g proteins at the cytoplasmic face of the membrane. to investigate how g-protein-coupled receptors work at the molecular level, we have engineered metal-ion-binding sites between tm helices to restrain activation-induced conformational change in specific locations. conformational communication across the plasma membrane between the extracellular and intracellular domains of integrins is beginning to be defined by structural work on both domains. this interface is lost rather than rearranged upon activation of the receptor by cytoplasmic mutations of the alpha subunit that mimic physiologic inside-out activation, demonstrating a link between activation of the extracellular domain and lateral separation of transmembrane helices. all gpcrs share a common architecture comprising seven transmembrane-spanning alpha-helices, which accommodates signal propagation from a diverse repertoire of external stimuli across biological membranes to a heterotrimeric g protein. signal propagation through the transmembrane helices likely involves mechanistic features common to all gpcrs. we hypothesize that local alterations of the rotamer configurations of these ser and thr residues may result in significant conformational changes across transmembrane helices, and thus participate in the molecular mechanisms underlying transmembrane signaling. 
Marmosets have a brain region homologous to Broca's area. [SEP] broca's area, conventionally located in left (categorical) hemisphere of brain, is responsible for integrating linguistic and non-linguistic processing however, functionality of its right homolog remains partly understood and explored. humans appear to have these mirror neurons in broca's area as well. taking neurons and portions of the brain as discrete computational segments in the sense of constituting specific turing machines, this evidence points to a predictive motor and conceptual function for broca's area in primates, especially for social concepts. seed-region analyses of the superior colliculus (sc) showed homolog areas in macaques and marmosets. the marmoset sc displayed the strongest frontal functional connectivity with area 8ad at the border to area 6dr. furthermore, areas 8ad, 8av, pg,tpo, te2, and te3 were identified as major hubs based on region-wise evaluation of betweeness centrality, suggesting that these cortical regions make up the functional core of the marmoset brain. the results support an evolutionarily preserved frontoparietal system and provide a starting point for invasive neurophysiological studies in the marmoset saccade and visual systems. results also indicate inconsistencies between the area originally identified by broca and what is now called broca's area, a finding with significant ramifications for both lesion and functional neuroimaging studies of this well-known brain area. broca's area, a cerebral cortical area located in the inferior frontal gyrus (ifg) of the human brain, has been identified as one of several critical regions associated with the motor planning and execution of language. anatomically, broca's area is most often larger in the left hemisphere, and functional imaging studies in humans indicate significant left-lateralized patterns of activation during language-related tasks. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have only a modest impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] a mathematical model fitted to the trial results was used to assess the effects of the various components of these interventions, design optimal elimination strategies, and explore their interactions with artemisinin resistance, which has recently been discovered in western cambodia. the modelling indicated that most of the initial reduction of p. falciparum malaria resulted from mda with artemisinin-piperaquine. mda with artemisinin combination therapy (act) increased the proportion of artemisinin resistant infections, although much less than treatment of symptomatic cases with act, and this increase was slowed by adding primaquine. using epidemiological and clinical data on the efficacy of al and dp, we developed and parameterized a mathematical transmission model that we used to compare the population-level impact of al and dp for reducing p. falciparum malaria transmission in sub-saharan africa. artemisinin-based combination therapies provide high cure rates and substantially reduce gametocyte carriage. artemisinin resistance in p falciparum lessens overall gametocytocidal activity, which provides a selective pressure to the spread of these resistant parasites. in addition to being effective, fast-acting, and well tolerated, artemisinin-based combination therapies (acts) are able to kill certain transmission stages of the malaria parasite. we observe a significant negative association between artemisinin use and malaria incidence, with a 10% absolute increase in the purchase proportion of artemisinin-containing regimens being associated with a 29.1% (95% confidence interval: 14.8-41.0%) reduction in slide-confirmed malaria incidence, after accounting for changes in urbanization, itn/irs coverage, and two indicators of health system capacity. our findings suggest that including an artemisinin component in malaria drug regimens was strongly associated with reduced malaria incidence in southern vietnam, whereas changes in urbanization and coverage with itn or irs were not. this study estimates the potential impact of artemisinin and partner drug resistance on disease burden in africa if it were to emerge. 
MeCP2 influences the synaptic maturation of neurons. [SEP] on the basis of molecular structure, ontogeny, and subcellular and regional distribution, mecp2 appears to be a link between synaptic activity and neuronal transcription. we postulate that mecp2 dysfunction leads to abnormal brain development through maladjustment of neuronal gene expression to synaptic and other extra-cellular signals, mainly during the critical period of synaptic maturation. our data suggest a crucial role for mecp2 in post-transcriptional regulation of critical synaptic proteins involved in maintaining mature neuronal networks during late stages of postnatal brain development. it remains unclear how mecp2 expression is regulated during circuit formation and maturation, especially in excitatory and inhibitory populations of neurons. studies in mouse models of mecp2 deficiency have demonstrated that this protein is important for neuronal maturation, neurite complexity, synaptogenesis, and synaptic plasticity. we hypothesize that mecp2 plays a role during the formation and activity-driven maturation of neural circuits at early postnatal stages. we conclude that the regulation of mecp2 abundance is related to human brain development, being expressed in neurons when they appear mature. in the developing brain, synaptic activity and plasticity could be necessary to maintain mecp2 in selected neuronal populations. the timing of mecp2 activation correlates with the maturation of the central nervous system, and recent reports suggest that mecp2 may be involved in the formation of synaptic contacts and may function in activity-dependent neuronal gene expression. selective mutation of mecp2 in postnatal neurons leads to a similar, although delayed, phenotype, suggesting that mecp2 plays a role in postmitotic neurons. 
Measuring routine outcomes is more beneficial to clinical practice than assessing treatment adherence. [SEP] the purposes of this review were to catalogue adherence measurement methods and assess existing evidence for the valid and reliable use of the scores that they generate and the feasibility of their use in routine care settings. that some methods were used in routine care settings suggests the feasibility of their use in practice; however, information about the operational details of measurement, scoring, and reporting is sorely needed to inform and evaluate strategies to embed fidelity measurement in implementation support and monitoring systems. nonadherence to treatment is a major challenge in all fields of medicine, and it has been claimed that increasing the effectiveness of adherence interventions may have far greater impact on the health of the population than any improvement in specific medical treatments. the results are mixed, but interventions specifically designed to improve adherence with a more intensive and focused approach and interventions combining elements from different approaches such as cognitive-behavioral therapy, family-based, and community-based approaches have shown better outcomes. strategies to measure and improve adherence in clinical practice are based more on personal experience than on research evidence. the initial level of adherence predicted treatment outcomes at the end of treatment but not at 18 months posttreatment. although poor medication adherence may contribute to inadequate diabetes control, ways to feasibly measure adherence in routine clinical practice have yet to be established. the present study was conducted to determine whether pharmacy claims-based measures of medication adherence are associated with clinical outcomes in patients with diabetes. claims-based measures of medication adherence are associated with clinical outcomes in patients with diabetes and may therefore prove to be useful in clinical practice. more research is needed on methods to introduce claims-based adherence measurements into routine clinical practice and how to use these measurements to effectively improve adherence and health outcomes in chronic care management. 
Medications to treat obesity are highly effective. [SEP] as binge eating and psychotropic-induced weight gain are common correlates of obese patients with mood disorders, we also provide brief overviews of the pharmacotherapy of these conditions. caprio also summarizes the current use of medications and surgery in treating child obesity and argues, that for severe forms of obesity, the future lies in developing new and more effective drugs. caprio argues that obesity should be recognized as a disease and receive coverage for its treatment just as other diseases do. current therapeutic treatment for obesity is mostly focused on preventive measures involving dietary control and physical exercises in combination with anti-obesity medications. all physicians can help their obese patients by being aware of the costs, risks, and benefits of modern medically-supervised weight management programs. obesity is a major health problem in the united states and many other countries because of its high prevalence and causal relationship with serious medical comorbidities. the therapeutic options currently available to help obese patients lose weight are: (1) therapeutic lifestyle change (behavioral, dietary, and physical activity modification); (2) pharmacotherapy; and (3) bariatric surgery. there is increasing interest, therefore, in the use of pharmacotherapy and surgery to treat obesity. although there are a number of antiobesity medications available, the only medications approved in the united states for long-term treatment of obesity are sibutramine and orlistat. pediatric obesity is a serious medical condition associated with significant comorbidities during childhood and adulthood. 
Medications to treat obesity do not have side effects. [SEP] only two drugs, orlistat and sibutramine, have been approved by the us food and drug administration (fda) to treat obesity long term, and both medications have undesirable side effects, leaving an enormous unmet need for efficacious and safe therapy for obesity. other medications with weight-loss effects have been approved by the fda for short-term treatment of obesity or for disorders other than obesity, but these also have potential adverse effects. when used in combination with lifestyle modifications, pharmacotherapy has a vital role in treating obesity and improves short-term and long-term outcomes. this review provides a practical guide to the use of anti-obesity medications across various obesity-related comorbidities. there are still no low-cost, safe, effective treatments for obesity and its complications. therefore, the development of pharmacotherapies to address the pathology underlying the dysregulation of energy homeostasis is critical.areas covered: this review examines selected clinical trial evidence for the pharmacologic treatment of obesity and provides an expert opinion on anti-obesity drug development. using similar terms, a search was also conducted on clinicaltrials.gov.expert opinion: the goal of anti-obesity therapy is finding compounds that are effective and have minimal side effects. the aim of this article is to discuss the role of pharmacotherapy in obesity management. the efficacy, side effects and contraindications of available weight-loss medications are reviewed. long-term pharmacotherapy options, which can be effective in providing moderate weight loss, are available to treat obesity. 
Medications to treat obesity have unwanted side effects. [SEP] obesity is the most prevalent disease in the world which poses a serious risk for various chronic diseases. however, currently there are not any therapeutic agents that reduce body weight without causing serious side effects. the association of fenfluramine and certain other anorexic agents with serious side effects, such as cardiac valvulopathy and primary pulmonary hypertension (pph), limits the clinical utility of these drugs. such medications could have therapeutic application in the management of obesity, drug dependence, depression, and other disorders. in view of the fairly common occurrence of these unwanted effects, and their potential contribution to noncompliance, careful selection of antidepressant medications is necessary. in addition, medicines used to treat other diseases, as well as foods and other ingested materials, can result in unwanted tinnitus. however, clinical trials with sr141716a (rimonabant, a selective cb1r antagonist/inverse agonist) for the treatment of obesity and smoking cessation failed due to unwanted side effects, such as depression, anxiety, and suicidal tendencies. all of these medications have associated side effects that may adversely affect the recovery of patients. the clinically significant weight loss, and low incidence of unwanted effects, suggest that dexfenfluramine has a role in the treatment of refractory obesity. clinicians are concerned about efficacy, tolerance, addiction, and unwanted side effects. 
Men are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to women. [SEP] the increased risk of death and bacterial pneumonia for women compared with men was primarily evident among those with a history of injection drug use (rr, 1.68 for death, 95% ci, 1.20 to 2.35, p = .003; rr, 1.53 for bacterial pneumonia, 95% ci, 1.03 to 2.29, p = .04). among patients without a history of disease progression at entry, death was the first event reported for more women than men (27.5% vs 12.2%). compared with men, hiv-infected women in the cpcra were at increased risk of death but not disease progression. risks of most incident opportunistic diseases were similar for women and men; however, women were at an increased risk of bacterial pneumonia. mortality and hospitalization rates for pneumonia were higher among men than women, and higher among those ages 65 and older than among those 55-64 of both sexes. risk of death from pneumonia was 3.6 times higher among women in the lowest quartile of serum albumin levels compared with women in the highest quartile. for both sexes and at all ages, mortality was higher in hip fracture patients across the observation period with men losing most life years (p < 0.001). cvd and pneumonia were predominant causes of death in men and women with an associated higher risk in all age groups. pneumonia caused excess mortality in men over the entire observation period. inability to walk a half mile, climb stairs, or perform heavy housework was significantly associated with increased risk of pneumonia mortality for women but not for men in the same multivariate models. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in similar efficacy and better quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] the combination of a fluoropyrimidine [5-fluorouracil (5-fu), capecitabine, or s-1] with a platinum analog (cisplatin or oxaliplatin) is the most widely accepted first-line chemotherapy regimen for metastatic or recurrent advanced gastric cancer (agc), based on the results of clinical trials. because a substantial number of patients are still being treated with "chemo-only" first-line therapies without targeted agents, we compared overall survival (os) of patients treated in routine practice with oxaliplatin-fluoropyrimidine and irinotecan-fluoropyrimidine. using the database of the tumor registry colorectal cancer, we identified 605 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who received first-line fluoropyrimidine combination chemotherapy with either oxaliplatin (n=430) or irinotecan (n=175). in clinical routine practice, first-line treatment with oxaliplatin-fluoropyrimidine combination chemotherapy compared to irinotecan-fluoropyrimidine combination is associated with improved survival in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, independent of all examined potentially confounding factors. combinations of fluoropyrimidines with oxaliplatin or irinotecan plus a biologic agent are standard treatments for metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc). the addition of oxaliplatin to fluoropyrimidine-based neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy holds the potential of positively affecting survival in this context since it has been proven effective in the palliative and adjuvant setting of colorectal cancer. thus, the objective of this systematic review is to assess the efficacy, safety, and quality of life resulting from adding a platinum derivative to neoadjuvant single-agent fluoropyrimidine-based chemoradiotherapy in patients with union for international cancer control stage ii and iii rectal cancer. over the last 2 decades, the standard fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy backbone for metastatic colorectal cancer has been complemented by the addition of novel biological agents, achieving impressive increases in 5-year survival rates. fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy plus the anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) antibody bevacizumab is standard first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer. in the phase iii raise clinical trial, the addition of ramucirumab to folfiri-based chemotherapy resulted in an improvement of overall survival in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who had been previously treated with bevacizumab, oxaliplatin and a fluoropyrimidine. 
Mice are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] while several known chikv mutations influence disease severity in vertebrates and transmission by mosquitoes, the role of intrahost diversity in chikungunya arthritic disease has not been studied. serum antibody developed against both high- and low-fidelity chikv exhibited reduced neutralization of wt chikv. we have developed a live chikv vaccine (chikv/ires) that is highly attenuated yet immunogenic in mouse models, and is incapable of replicating in mosquito cells. chikungunya fever is a vector-borne viral disease transmitted to humans by chikungunya virus (chikv)-infected mosquitoes. in this study, we show the efficacy of the antibody combination in nonhuman primates and also evaluate the significance of possible neutralization escape mutations in mosquito and mammalian cells, mice, and aedes albopictus vector mosquitoes. mice were vaccinated with mva-chikv-sab+ and/or the recombinant protein sab+ and were subsequently challenged with wild-type chikv. immunization of mice susceptible to measles virus induced high titers of chikv antibodies that neutralized several primary isolates. a recombinant mv-chikv virus could make a safe and effective vaccine against chikungunya that deserves to be further tested in human trials. icr mice (5 to 6 weeks of age) were injected subcutaneously with 25 micrograms of vaccine construct, and elisa measured the titer of chikv specific igg antibodies. they also generated robust neutralizing antibody and cellular immune responses to chikv in mice after a single dose and protected mice against chikv infection. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] the study of rare human syndromes characterized by radiosensitivity has been instrumental in identifying novel proteins and pathways involved in dna damage responses to ionizing radiation. cells from polq(-/-) mice are hypersensitive to radiation and peripheral blood cells display increased spontaneous and ionizing radiation-induced levels of micronuclei (a hallmark of gross chromosomal aberrations), though mice apparently develop normally. loss of polq in human and mouse cells causes sensitivity to ionizing radiation and other double strand breaking agents and increased dna damage signaling. the survival of biological activity in irradiated transforming deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) has been assayed in the wild type and a radiation-sensitive mutant of micrococcus radiodurans. polq(-/-) mice had more spontaneous and radiation-induced micronucleated reticulocytes than polq+/+ and (+/-) mice. the sensitivity of polq-defective bone marrow stromal cells to ionizing radiation and bleomycin and the increase in micronuclei in red blood cells support a role for this dna polymerase in cellular tolerance of dna damage that can lead to double-strand dna breaks. we observed that cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation (ir) was increased when either polmu or polmud was over-expressed. in this study, we investigated whether dna polymerase lambda played a significant role in determining ionizing radiation sensitivity. despite increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide, lambda-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts displayed equal survival after exposure to ionizing radiation compared to their wild-type counterparts. these results do not reveal a major role for dna polymerase lambda in determining radiosensitivity in vivo. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) fail to reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] the study of rare human syndromes characterized by radiosensitivity has been instrumental in identifying novel proteins and pathways involved in dna damage responses to ionizing radiation. cells from polq(-/-) mice are hypersensitive to radiation and peripheral blood cells display increased spontaneous and ionizing radiation-induced levels of micronuclei (a hallmark of gross chromosomal aberrations), though mice apparently develop normally. loss of polq in human and mouse cells causes sensitivity to ionizing radiation and other double strand breaking agents and increased dna damage signaling. polq(-/-) mice had more spontaneous and radiation-induced micronucleated reticulocytes than polq+/+ and (+/-) mice. the sensitivity of polq-defective bone marrow stromal cells to ionizing radiation and bleomycin and the increase in micronuclei in red blood cells support a role for this dna polymerase in cellular tolerance of dna damage that can lead to double-strand dna breaks. we observed that cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation (ir) was increased when either polmu or polmud was over-expressed. ionizing radiation induces a diverse spectrum of dna lesions, including strand breaks and oxidized bases. in this study, we investigated whether dna polymerase lambda played a significant role in determining ionizing radiation sensitivity. despite increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide, lambda-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts displayed equal survival after exposure to ionizing radiation compared to their wild-type counterparts. these results do not reveal a major role for dna polymerase lambda in determining radiosensitivity in vivo. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase m (polm) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] the study of rare human syndromes characterized by radiosensitivity has been instrumental in identifying novel proteins and pathways involved in dna damage responses to ionizing radiation. cells from polq(-/-) mice are hypersensitive to radiation and peripheral blood cells display increased spontaneous and ionizing radiation-induced levels of micronuclei (a hallmark of gross chromosomal aberrations), though mice apparently develop normally. loss of polq in human and mouse cells causes sensitivity to ionizing radiation and other double strand breaking agents and increased dna damage signaling. polq(-/-) mice had more spontaneous and radiation-induced micronucleated reticulocytes than polq+/+ and (+/-) mice. the sensitivity of polq-defective bone marrow stromal cells to ionizing radiation and bleomycin and the increase in micronuclei in red blood cells support a role for this dna polymerase in cellular tolerance of dna damage that can lead to double-strand dna breaks. we observed that cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation (ir) was increased when either polmu or polmud was over-expressed. ionizing radiation induces a diverse spectrum of dna lesions, including strand breaks and oxidized bases. in this study, we investigated whether dna polymerase lambda played a significant role in determining ionizing radiation sensitivity. despite increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide, lambda-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts displayed equal survival after exposure to ionizing radiation compared to their wild-type counterparts. the balb/c mouse strain is unusually sensitive to ir-induced tissue damage and cancer development in a range of organs, suggestive of a partial defect in dna damage response. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons are immune to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] here, we show that mice lacking sirt1 in steroidogenic factor 1 (sf1) neurons are hypersensitive to dietary obesity owing to maladaptive energy expenditure. conversely, mice overexpressing sirt1 in sf1 neurons are more resistant to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance due to increased energy expenditure and enhanced skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity. our results unveil important protective roles of sirt1 in sf1 neurons against dietary metabolic imbalance. this study investigated the role of sirt1 loss-of-function in diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance and the mechanism involved in adipose tissue thermogenesis. diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance are associated with bat degeneration in sirt1-deficient mice, which further underlined the beneficial role of sirt1 in obesity-associated metabolic disorders. we therefore examined the involvement of sirt1 in leucine supplementation-prevented obesity and insulin resistance. overexpression of insulin-resistant constitutively-nuclear foxo1 (cn-foxo1) in pomc neurons leads to obesity, whereas sirt1 overexpression in pomc neurons leads to leanness. whether overexpression of sirt1 in pomc neurons could rescue the obesity caused by insulin-resistant cn-foxo1 was tested here. sirt1 rescues the obesity induced by insulin-resistant cn-foxo1 in pomc neurons of male mice by decreasing foxo1 protein through deacetylation. sirt1 ameliorates obesity caused by a genetic model of central insulin resistance. 
Mice lacking Sirt1 in Sf1-expressing neurons have increased susceptibility to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. [SEP] here, we show that mice lacking sirt1 in steroidogenic factor 1 (sf1) neurons are hypersensitive to dietary obesity owing to maladaptive energy expenditure. conversely, mice overexpressing sirt1 in sf1 neurons are more resistant to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance due to increased energy expenditure and enhanced skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity. our results unveil important protective roles of sirt1 in sf1 neurons against dietary metabolic imbalance. this study investigated the role of sirt1 loss-of-function in diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance and the mechanism involved in adipose tissue thermogenesis. diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance are associated with bat degeneration in sirt1-deficient mice, which further underlined the beneficial role of sirt1 in obesity-associated metabolic disorders. myeloid sirtuin1 (sirt1) deficiency aggravates high-fat diet (hfd)-induced insulin resistance. overexpression of insulin-resistant constitutively-nuclear foxo1 (cn-foxo1) in pomc neurons leads to obesity, whereas sirt1 overexpression in pomc neurons leads to leanness. whether overexpression of sirt1 in pomc neurons could rescue the obesity caused by insulin-resistant cn-foxo1 was tested here. sirt1 rescues the obesity induced by insulin-resistant cn-foxo1 in pomc neurons of male mice by decreasing foxo1 protein through deacetylation. sirt1 ameliorates obesity caused by a genetic model of central insulin resistance. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] experimental autoimmune myocarditis was induced in balb/c mice by immunization with α-myosin heavy chain peptide and complete freund's adjuvant. control mice with myocarditis displayed an increase in infiltrating cd4(+) t cells and in expression of ifn-γ, which is the major driver of nonhematopoietic mhcii expression. these findings reveal a previously overlooked contribution of ifn-γ to induce endothelial mhcii expression in the heart and to progress cardiac pathology during myocarditis. despite the absence of autoimmune heart disease, tnf-rp55-/- mice produced cardiac myosin-specific igg autoantibodies, indicating that activation of autoaggressive t and b lymphocytes had occurred. cardiac myosin-induced myocarditis is dependent on autoaggressive t cells and on autoantigen presentation in association with mhc class ii molecules within the heart. myocarditis was induced after intraperitoneal inoculation of coxsackievirus b3 into c57bl/6 irak4-deficient mice and their littermate controls. innate immunity signal transducer irak4 exacerbates viral myocarditis through inhibition of interferon production and reduced mobilization of protective ccr5(+) monocytes/macrophages to the heart. cardiac myosin-induced experimental autoimmune myocarditis in interferon (ifn)-gamma-knockout (ko) mice results in increased cardiac inflammation and development of severe grossly detectable pericarditis. using in vivo pressure-volume studies, we found that the acute phase of experimental autoimmune myocarditis in ifn-gamma-ko mice was characterized by reduced left ventricular (lv) volumes compared with wild-type mice. autoimmune heart disease in ifn-gamma-ko mice results in increased pericardial inflammation and fibrosis, leading to constrictive phenotype during the acute phase of disease. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are highly susceptible to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] interferon (ifn)-γ, typically produced by th1 cells, reduces eam severity in myosin heavy-chain-(myhc)-α peptide/complete freund adjuvant-immunized mice. mice vaccinated with myhc-α-loaded flt3l-induced splenic cd8α(+) dc were protected from eam. in balb/c wild-type mice, eam is a self-limiting disease, peaking 21 days after alpha-myosin h chain peptide (myhc-alpha)/cfa immunization and largely resolving thereafter. in ifn-gammar(-/-) mice, however, eam is exacerbated and shows a chronic progressive disease course. finally, coinjection of myhc-alpha-specific, but not ova-transgenic, ifn-gamma-releasing cd4(+) th1 t cell lines, together with myhc-alpha-specific th17 t cells protected rag2(-/-) mice from eam. eam was induced in susceptible mice lacking inducible expression of mhcii molecules on all nonhematopoietic cells (piv-/- k14 class ii transactivator (ciita) transgenic (tg) mice) by immunization with α-myosin heavy chain peptide in cfa. lack of inducible nonhematopoietic mhcii expression in piv-/- k14 ciita tg mice conferred eam resistance. control mice with myocarditis displayed an increase in infiltrating cd4(+) t cells and in expression of ifn-γ, which is the major driver of nonhematopoietic mhcii expression. accordingly, ppc from interferon-gamma receptor-deficient mice failed to protect myhc-alpha/cfa-immunized mice from eam. mice deficient in ifn-γ (ifn-γ knockout [ko] mice) develop a systemic inflammatory syndrome in response to cfa, in contrast to cfa-challenged wild-type (wt) mice who only develop a mild inflammation. 
Microcin J25 encourages nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] the antibacterial peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). biochemical results indicate that inhibition of transcription occurs at the level of ntp uptake or ntp binding by rnap. microcin j25, an antimicrobial lasso-structure peptide, induces the opening of mitochondrial permeability transition pores and the subsequent loss of cytochrome c. the microcin j25 effect is mediated by the stimulation of superoxide anion overproduction. both peptides bind within the rnap secondary channel, through which ntp substrates enter the rnap active site, and sterically block trigger-loop folding, which is essential for efficient catalysis by the rnap. mccj25 binds deep within the secondary channel in a manner expected to interfere with ntp substrate binding, explaining the partial competitive mechanism of inhibition with respect to ntps found previously [mukhopadhyay j, sineva e, knight j, levy rm, ebright rh (2004) mol cell 14:739-751]. microcin j25 is a ribosomal synthesized and post-translationally modified peptide (ripp) characterized by a mechanically interlocked topology called the lasso fold. this structure provides microcin j25 a potent antimicrobial activity resulting from internalization via the siderophore receptor fhua and further inhibition of the rna polymerase. the relevance of this study to the potential use of microcin j25 as an anti-tumoral agent is discussed. microcin j25 has two targets in sensitive bacteria, the rna polymerase, and the respiratory chain through inhibition of cellular respiration. here we report the in vitro maturation of the microcin precursor peptide into active microcin j25 for the first time. 
Microcin J25 inhibits nucleoside triphosphate (NTP) binding. [SEP] the antibacterial peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). biochemical results indicate that inhibition of transcription occurs at the level of ntp uptake or ntp binding by rnap. mccj25 binds deep within the secondary channel in a manner expected to interfere with ntp substrate binding, explaining the partial competitive mechanism of inhibition with respect to ntps found previously [mukhopadhyay j, sineva e, knight j, levy rm, ebright rh (2004) mol cell 14:739-751]. the relevance of this study to the potential use of microcin j25 as an anti-tumoral agent is discussed. microcin j25 inhibited all isolates, with minimal inhibitory concentration values ranging from 0.06 μg/ml (28.4 nm) to 400 μg/ml (189 μm). microcin j25 is a ribosomal synthesized and post-translationally modified peptide (ripp) characterized by a mechanically interlocked topology called the lasso fold. this structure provides microcin j25 a potent antimicrobial activity resulting from internalization via the siderophore receptor fhua and further inhibition of the rna polymerase. microcin j25 has two targets in sensitive bacteria, the rna polymerase, and the respiratory chain through inhibition of cellular respiration. microcin j25, an antimicrobial lasso-structure peptide, induces the opening of mitochondrial permeability transition pores and the subsequent loss of cytochrome c. the microcin j25 effect is mediated by the stimulation of superoxide anion overproduction. 21 amino acid peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the central nervous system. [SEP] microglia are the resident innate immune cells in the cns; they play an important role in the processes of demyelination and remyelination in ms. microglia can function as antigen-presenting cells and phagocytes. in the past, microglia were considered to be the same cell type as macrophages, and researchers have different opinions about the role of microglia in ms. this review focuses on the original classification of microglia and their role in the pathogenesis of ms. microglia cells express an extensive repertoire of pattern-recognition receptors and act as sentinels surveilling the cns for possible damage or infection. under various pathological conditions, the central nervous system (cns) mounts a well-organized innate immune response, in which glial cells, in particular microglia, are activated. accompanying neuronal and glial damage is an inflammatory response consisting of activated macrophages and microglia, innate immune cells demonstrated to be both beneficial and detrimental in neurological repair. innate immunity is the front line defender of the immune system and is composed of various cell types, including microglia, macrophages and neutrophils. due to the status as an immune 'privileged' tissue, microglia serve as endogenous regulators of inflammation in the central nervous system, but maintain communication with peripheral immune system to enable recruitment of peripheral immune cells in case of injury or infection. while microglia retain the functional capacity for a full range of inflammatory functions - microglia express a range of pattern-recognition receptors and function as innate immune cells, carry out phagocytosis of pathogens, and act as antigen presenting cells - in the healthy central nervous system (cns) these functions are rarely engaged. recent studies have found that microglia, the innate immune cells of the central nervous system, are a key cell type involved in neurodegenerative diseases. 
Microglia are an innate immune cell type of the peripheral nervous system. [SEP] due to the status as an immune 'privileged' tissue, microglia serve as endogenous regulators of inflammation in the central nervous system, but maintain communication with peripheral immune system to enable recruitment of peripheral immune cells in case of injury or infection. under various pathological conditions, the central nervous system (cns) mounts a well-organized innate immune response, in which glial cells, in particular microglia, are activated. microglia are innate immune cells of myeloid origin that take up residence in the central nervous system (cns) during embryogenesis. while classically regarded as macrophage-like cells, it is becoming increasingly clear that reactive microglia play more diverse roles in the cns. a crucial function of microglia is the ability to generate significant innate and adaptive immune responses. microglia are involved in first line innate immunity of the cns. microglia also have a large regulatory role in cns immunity. when activated, microglia can be potent immune effector cells, able to perform a broad range of functions, and they mediate both innate and adaptive responses during cns injury and disease while remaining quiescent in the steady state. brain resident innate immune cells - microglia - have the capacity to sculpt neural circuitry and coordinate copious and diverse neurodevelopmental processes. this review discusses the essential roles of microglia and innate immune signalling in the assembly and maintenance of a properly functioning nervous system. 
Migraine with aura is associated with ischemic stroke. [SEP] we analysed the associations between migraine without aura and migraine with aura and the causes of ischemic stroke in patients aged 18-54 years treated consecutively in a university hospital stroke center. first, ischemic stroke can develop as a complication of an attack of migraine with aura (so called migraineous infarction). second, epidemiological studies suggest that migraine with aura is a risk factor for ischemic stroke. migraine with aura has been consistently associated with increased risk of ischemic stroke in several epidemiologic studies. migraine with aura is associated with a more unfavourable cardiovascular risk profile and recent data suggest that the association between migraine with aura and stroke may extend to overall cardiovascular disease. there is increasing evidence that migraine with aura is not only a risk factor for ischemic stroke but also for myocardial infarction and other ischemic vascular events. a large body of literature supports an association between migraine and ischemic stroke, which is apparent mostly in young women with migraine with aura. when compared to nonheadache participants, there was a significant association between migraine with visual aura and ischemic stroke (hazard ratio [hr] 1.7, 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.2-2.6, p = 0.008). among the 3 subtypes of ischemic stroke evaluated, migraine with visual aura was significantly associated only with cardioembolic stroke (hr 3.7, 95% ci 1.6-8.7, p = 0.003). evidence suggests that the association with ischemic stroke is driven by migraine with aura. 
Misunderstandings between doctors and patients can lead to non-adherence. [SEP] to identify and describe misunderstandings between patients and doctors associated with prescribing decisions in general practice. misunderstandings between patients and doctors that have potential or actual adverse consequences for taking medicine. 14 categories of misunderstanding were identified relating to patient information unknown to the doctor, doctor information unknown to the patient, conflicting information, disagreement about attribution of side effects, failure of communication about doctor's decision, and relationship factors. all the misunderstandings were associated with lack of patients' participation in the consultation in terms of the voicing of expectations and preferences or the voicing of responses to doctors' decisions and actions. in particular doctors seemed unaware of the relevance of patients' ideas about medicines for successful prescribing. the doctor and his team should discuss the various ways in which patients may indicate misunderstandings about the dental practice's clinical or business policies. fifty-four percent of these patients either forgot to mention all their medical problems to the physician or they confused or forgot certain instructions concerning their diagnosis or treatment. this misunderstanding is bad for both doctors and managers, and also leads to waste of time and resources, and poorer services to patients. patient-provider misunderstandings arising from disparate medical and cultural concepts can impede health care among immigrant populations. various economical and social issues lead to non adherence but good patient education and counseling by doctor could promote adherence in this study group. 
Mitochondria play a major role in apoptosis. [SEP] mitochondria, known to play a central role in regulating cellular metabolism, was found to be critical for regulating apoptosis induced under both physiological and pathological conditions. mitochondria are a major source of reactive oxygen species (ros) but they can also serve as its target during the apoptosis process. mitochondria play a major role in apoptosis triggered by many stimuli. the important role of mitochondria in promoting caspase activation has therefore been a major focus of apoptosis research; however, it is also clear that mitochondria contribute to cell death by caspase-independent mechanisms. mitochondria have been shown to play an important role in cell death in mammalian cells. many proteins involved in the regulation of apoptosis in mammals act at mitochondria or are released from mitochondria, resulting in caspase activation. this review highlights similarities and differences in the roles of mitochondria and mitochondrial factors in apoptosis between drosophila and mammals. however, mitochondria also play an important role in the regulation of apoptosis. mitochondria can perform multiple cellular functions including energy production, cell proliferation and apoptosis. this is partly due to the fact that mitochondria represent the major site for the generation of cellular oxidative stress and play a key role in mediating programmed cell death (apoptosis). 
Mitochondria play a major role in energy production. [SEP] mitochondria play a central role in many facets of cellular function including energy production, control of cell death and immune signaling. mitochondria play a very important role in cellular function, not only through key metabolic reactions and energy generation, but also by being a major site for production of reactive oxygen species and a key player in cell death. mitochondria are autonomous cellular organelles that oversee a variety of functions such as metabolism, energy production, calcium buffering and cell fate determination. mitochondria are subcellular organelles that provide energy for the cell. mitochondria play important roles in multiple cellular processes including energy metabolism, cell death, and aging. mitochondria are eukaryotic organelles known best for their roles in energy production and metabolism. while mitochondria are major players in human diseases, significant questions remain regarding their precise mechanistic role. mitochondria can perform multiple cellular functions including energy production, cell proliferation and apoptosis. mitochondria are the energy center of the cell. the role of mitochondria in these biological processes makes these organelle good targets for the development of therapeutic strategies. 
Mitochondria play a trivial role in calcium homeostasis. [SEP] calcium ions cycle between the endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria at the conjugation of these two organelles known as the mitochondria-associated endoplasmic reticulum membrane, maintaining calcium homeostasis. in neurons, the mitochondrion is an essential organelle for metabolism and calcium homeostasis. calcium ion (ca2+) plays a critical role in the cardiac mitochondria function. mitochondria maintain ca2+ homeostasis in normal cardiomyocytes through a comprehensive regulatory mechanism by controlling the uptake and release of ca2+ in response to the cellular demand. in this review, we summarized the latest findings in the studies on the cardiac mitochondrial ca2+ homeostasis, focusing on the regulation of mitochondrial calcium uptake, which acts as a double-edged sword in the cardiac function. on one hand, intracellular calcium plays the central role in executing key functions of lung epithelia, and on the other hand maintenance of intracellular calcium needs the buffering role of mitochondria. thus, the regulation of mitochondrial calcium in lung epithelia seems to be critical in lung homeostasis and could be decisive in the pathogenesis of various lung diseases. mitochondria play a central role in cellular metabolism, calcium homeostasis, redox signaling and cell fates. the mitochondria, besides their role in atp production in the cell, participate in calcium homeostasis, acting as a buffering organelle. in this review, we will address the available evidence that positions the mitochondria as an essential organelle in the control of calcium-mediated toxicity, highlighting its role from the perspective of specific nmdar signalling microdomains at the level of the central synapse. 
Moderate consumption of candy and chocolate reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of total, chocolate, or sugar candy consumption on intakes of total energy, fat, and added sugars; diet quality; weight/adiposity parameters; and risk factors for cardiovascular disease in children 2-13 years of age (n=7,049) and adolescents 14-18 years (n=4,132) participating in the 1999-2004 national health and nutrition examination survey. the purpose of this study was to investigate associations between typical frequency of candy consumption and body weight status and select cardiovascular risk factors among adults in the united states. candy consumers had a 14% decreased risk of elevated diastolic blood pressure (p = .0466); chocolate consumers had a 19% decreased risk of lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p = .0364) and a 15% reduced risk of mets (p = .0453). chocolate consumption may be associated with reduced risk of cvd at <100 g/week consumption. epidemiologic studies evaluating the risk for cardiovascular diseases (cvds; i.e., stroke, acute myocardial infarction [mi], heart failure, coronary heart disease) were included according to different rates of chocolate intake. the results of the meta-analysis showed a potential protective effect of moderate consumption of chocolate on cardiovascular risk, especially for women, and against mi for both sexes. we sought to examine the association between chocolate consumption and prevalent chd. consumption of non-chocolate candy was associated with a 49% higher prevalence of chd comparing 5+/week vs. 0/week [or = 1.49 (0.96-2.32)]. these data suggest that consumption of chocolate is inversely related with prevalent chd in a general united states population. accumulating evidence suggests potential preventive effects of chocolate/cocoa on the risk of cardio vascular disease (cvd). 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages castration resistance. [SEP] ectopic expression of n-cadherin in nonmetastatic, androgen-dependent prostate cancer models caused castration resistance, invasion and metastasis. monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of n-cadherin reduced proliferation, adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. n-cadherin-specific antibodies markedly delayed the time to emergence of castration resistance, markedly affected tumor histology and angiogenesis, and reduced both akt serine-threonine kinase activity and serum interleukin-8 (il-8) secretion. these data indicate that n-cadherin is a major cause of both prostate cancer metastasis and castration resistance. we investigated whether an antibody targeting n-cadherin facilitates the adhesion and spreading of n-cadherin-positive tumour cells under static conditions. the adhesion and spread of n-cadherin-positive tumour cells can be facilitated by the presence of an immobilized antibody to n-cadherin. a hybrid epithelial-mesenchymal phenotype, with co-expression of e-cadherin and n-cadherin, was found in the majority of skeletal metastases and in a substantial proportion of castration resistant tumours. n-cadherin is a calcium-dependent adhesion molecule with a potential role in a variety of morphogenetic events. moreover, n-cadherin was increased in castration-resistant tumors in patients with established metastases. it is known that n-cadherin becomes upregulated following adt and can directly induce pca transformation to the castration-resistant stage (crpc). 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin encourages metastasis. [SEP] ectopic expression of n-cadherin in nonmetastatic, androgen-dependent prostate cancer models caused castration resistance, invasion and metastasis. monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of n-cadherin reduced proliferation, adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. high expression of n-cadherin was significantly positively correlated with tumor sizes (p < 0.00), advanced clinical stage (p < 0.00), and nodal metastasis (p < 0.008). this study demonstrated that loss of e-cadherin and gain of n-cadherin promotes invasion, migration, and metastasis in invasive ductal carcinoma cells. because in recent years there have been reports of cadherin involvement in tumor metastasis, we conducted an immunostain for e-cadherin and n-cadherin monoclonal antibodies in paraffin-embedded surgical specimens of primary and recurrent lesions in 13 cases of glioblastoma and nine cases of anaplastic astrocytoma. we investigated whether an antibody targeting n-cadherin facilitates the adhesion and spreading of n-cadherin-positive tumour cells under static conditions. the adhesion and spread of n-cadherin-positive tumour cells can be facilitated by the presence of an immobilized antibody to n-cadherin. calcium-dependent intercellular adhesion of n-cadherin-expressing breast cancer and stromal cells was specifically inhibited by an anti n-cadherin monoclonal antibody. the combined results suggest a functional role for n-cadherin in cohesion of breast tumor cells which, in addition promotes their interaction with the surrounding stromal cells, thereby facilitating invasion and metastasis. expression of some rgd cadherins is associated with aggressive forms of cancer during the late stages of metastasis, and cdh17 and ve-cadherin have emerged as critical actors in cancer metastasis. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits castration resistance. [SEP] ectopic expression of n-cadherin in nonmetastatic, androgen-dependent prostate cancer models caused castration resistance, invasion and metastasis. monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of n-cadherin reduced proliferation, adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. n-cadherin-specific antibodies markedly delayed the time to emergence of castration resistance, markedly affected tumor histology and angiogenesis, and reduced both akt serine-threonine kinase activity and serum interleukin-8 (il-8) secretion. these data indicate that n-cadherin is a major cause of both prostate cancer metastasis and castration resistance. the objective of this study was to utilize this monoclonal anti-e-cadherin antibody to map the extracellular domains of e- and n-cadherin. we investigated the potential of n-cadherin inhibition as a therapeutic strategy. effects of a blocking antibody or sirna against n-cadherin on proliferation, migration, and invasion were investigated. downregulation of n-cadherin in vitro leads to a significant inhibition of proliferation, migration, and invasion. n-cadherin-downregulation results in a significant decrease of proliferation, migration, and invasion and stimulates apoptosis in cisplatin-naive and resistant gct cell lines. it is known that n-cadherin becomes upregulated following adt and can directly induce pca transformation to the castration-resistant stage (crpc). 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits growth. [SEP] monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of n-cadherin reduced proliferation, adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. n-cadherin-specific antibodies markedly delayed the time to emergence of castration resistance, markedly affected tumor histology and angiogenesis, and reduced both akt serine-threonine kinase activity and serum interleukin-8 (il-8) secretion. we have studied 3 monoclonal antibodies (mabs) against murine ve-cadherin that inhibit angiogenesis and tumor growth. the potential role of n-cadherin in invasion was assessed by matrigel assays with and without the n-cadherin blocking monoclonal antibody gc-4. anti-e-cadherin monoclonal antibody can bind to e-cadherin (uvomorulin) and inhibit cell-cell adhesion through the inhibition of cadherin-cadherin interactions. the objective of this study was to utilize this monoclonal anti-e-cadherin antibody to map the extracellular domains of e- and n-cadherin. we investigated whether an antibody targeting n-cadherin facilitates the adhesion and spreading of n-cadherin-positive tumour cells under static conditions. the adhesion and spread of n-cadherin-positive tumour cells can be facilitated by the presence of an immobilized antibody to n-cadherin. we have shown previously that a monoclonal antibody (bv13) to ve-cadherin not only inhibits the formation of vascular tubes during tumor angiogenesis but also disrupts adherens junctions of normal vasculature with a concomitant increase in vascular permeability. inhibition of ve-cadherin by the blocking monoclonal antibody (mab) bv13 inhibited angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo. 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are dictated by initiation patterns. [SEP] the opposite strand polarity of duplex dna necessitates that the leading strand is replicated continuously whereas the lagging strand is replicated in discrete segments known as okazaki fragments. we have modeled repeated cycles of okazaki fragment initiation using a collision with a completed okazaki fragment or primer-primase complexes as the recycling mechanism. the results reproduce experimental data, providing insights into events related to okazaki fragment initiation and the overall functioning of dna replisomes. lagging strands consist of multiple okazaki fragments, with an average length of 3000 nucleotides, suggesting that the replication loop dictates the frequency of initiation of okazaki fragments. the synthesis of each okazaki fragment is initiated by the synthesis of an rna primer by the gene 4 primase at specific recognition sites. finally, only one-fourth of the replication forks contained an okazaki fragment, and the distribution of their initiation sites between the two arms revealed that okazaki fragments were initiated exclusively (99%) on retrograde dna templates. although the leading strand is synthesized continuously, the lagging strand is synthesized in small segments designated okazaki fragments. we examined events controlling okazaki fragment initiation using the bacteriophage t7 replication system. we present a model describing okazaki fragment initiation, the regulation of fragment length, and their implications for coordinated leading- and lagging-strand dna synthesis. in this study, we employed a circular replication substrate with a low priming site frequency (1 site/1.1 kb) to quantitatively examine the size distribution and formation pattern of okazaki fragments. 
Mouse models can be generated using "artificial spermatids." [SEP] semi-cloning technology mediated by "artificial spermatids" (androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells, also termed sperm-like stem cells) is developed by chinese scientists in 2012. in combination with crispr/cas9, semi-cloning technology enables one-step generation of gene-modified mice through injection of "artificial spermatids" with specific gene modifications into oocytes. the tagged cells could be further used as a sperm replacement to produce tagged mice in one step upon injection into oocytes. in the mouse, round spermatids from surgically induced cryptorchid and prepubertal testes can fertilize normally and develop into normal offspring. nuclei of mouse primary spermatocyte have been injected into oocytes and found to undergo meiosis, form an embryo and produce live young. furthermore, we generate mouse psc-derived functional spermatids in rats, which provides a proof-of-principle for the generation of xenogenic gametes in vivo. it has been shown that mature oocytes injected with nuclei from round spermatids collected from mouse testis can generate normal offspring and that round spermatids can develop in vitro. herein, we report the production of normal and fertile offspring by nuclear injection using haploid spermatid donors derived from mouse primary spermatocyte precursors cocultured with sertoli cells. we also show that breeding of male and female mouse offspring generated by spermatid nuclear injection produced fertile offspring. the differentiation of mouse spermatids is one critical process for the production of a functional male gamete with an intact genome to be transmitted to the next generation. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have severely reduced ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] mutant mice lacking the plasma membrane ascorbic acid transporter (svct2) have severely reduced tissue levels of ascorbic acid and die after birth. mutant mice lacking the plasma membrane ascorbic acid transporter (svct2) have severely reduced tissue levels of ascorbic acid and die soon after birth. in this study, we used sodium-dependent vitamin c transporter 2-heterozygous (svct2(+/-)) mice to elucidate the functions of svct2 and ascorbic acid in the murine peripheral nervous system. svct2 and ascorbic acid levels were reduced in svct2(+/-) peripheral nerves. brain ascorbic acid was decreased in app/psen1 mice by crossing them with sodium vitamin c transporter 2 (svct2) heterozygous knockout mice. these mice have an approximately 30% decrease in brain ascorbic acid due to lower levels of svct2 that supplies the brain with asc. svct2+/-app/psen1 mice had decreased ascorbic acid and increased oxidative stress in brain, increased mortality, faster seizure onset latency following treatment with kainic acid (10 mg/kg i.p. we concluded that svct2 is a major determinant of ascorbate accumulation in tissues lacking svct1. additionally, we observed altered ascorbic acid-induced calcium signaling that explains the reduced svct2 translocation to the plasma membrane in the presence of extracellular ascorbic acid (active conditions) described in our previous results. svct2 expression was inversely proportional to cell density, was enhanced by culture at low physiologic plasma ascorbate concentrations, was inhibited by ascorbate concentrations expected in the brain interstitium, and was stimulated by cobalt ions. 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB1 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] activating mutations in genes encoding g protein α (gα) subunits occur in 4-5% of all human cancers, but oncogenic alterations in gβ subunits have not been defined. multiple mutations in gnb1 affect the protein interface that binds gα subunits as well as downstream effectors and disrupt gα interactions with the gβγ dimer. different mutations in gβ proteins clustered partly on the basis of lineage; for example, all 11 gnb1 k57 mutations were in myeloid neoplasms, and seven of eight gnb1 i80 mutations were in b cell neoplasms. in several human tumors, mutations in the gene encoding gnb1 co-occurred with oncogenic kinase alterations, including the bcr-abl fusion protein, the v617f substitution in jak2 and the v600k substitution in braf. thus, gnb1 and gnb2 alterations confer transformed and resistance phenotypes across a range of human tumors and may be targetable with inhibitors of g protein signaling. mutations in the gnb1 gene, encoding the gβ1 subunit of heterotrimeric g proteins, cause gnb1 encephalopathy. strikingly, 8 of the 13 individuals recruited here for a neurodevelopmental disorder have a germline de novo gnb1 mutation that overlaps a set of five recurrent somatic tumor mutations for which recent functional studies demonstrated a gain-of-function effect due to constitutive activation of g protein downstream signaling cascades for some of the affected residues. mutation of these key residues disrupts the interaction and impairs akt enhancement, actin remodeling, and cell migration in cancer cells. mechanistically, we demonstrate that the gef motif is capable of activating as well as sequestering the g alpha-subunit, thereby enhancing akt signaling via the g betagamma-pi3k pathway. recently, giv has been implicated in cancer metastasis by virtue of its ability to enhance akt activity and remodel the actin cytoskeleton during cancer invasion. 
Mutations in RIM1 decrease levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] we also isolated recessive mutations in 12 other genes, which we designate rim (regulator of ime2) genes. our analysis indicates that the defects in rim1, rim8, rim9 and rim13 mutants are a consequence of diminished ime1 expression and can be suppressed by expression of ime1 from the heterologous act1 promoter. these rim mutations also reduced expression of an ime1-his3 fusion, in which the his3 gene is expressed from the ime1 promoter, and caused reduced levels of ime1 rna. we suggest that rim1, rim8, rim9 and rim13 encode functionally related products that act in parallel to mck1 to stimulate ime1 expression. rim1 mutations cause reduced expression of ime1, which is required for expression of many meiotic genes, and thus lead to a partial defect in meiosis and spore formation. this analysis of rim1 suggests that the protein may function as a transcriptional activator. these findings suggest that rim1 acts independently of mck1 and ime4 to stimulate ime1 expression. it is known that ime1 expression is positively regulated by mck1, rim1, ime4 and the swi-snf complex but other factors may also be involved. expression of a rim1p c-terminal deletion derivative suppresses rim8, 9, and 13 mutations. we describe a new gene, ime4, whose activity is essential for ime1 transcript accumulation and sporulation. 
Mutations in RIM1 raise levels of IME1 RNA. [SEP] we also isolated recessive mutations in 12 other genes, which we designate rim (regulator of ime2) genes. our analysis indicates that the defects in rim1, rim8, rim9 and rim13 mutants are a consequence of diminished ime1 expression and can be suppressed by expression of ime1 from the heterologous act1 promoter. these rim mutations also reduced expression of an ime1-his3 fusion, in which the his3 gene is expressed from the ime1 promoter, and caused reduced levels of ime1 rna. we suggest that rim1, rim8, rim9 and rim13 encode functionally related products that act in parallel to mck1 to stimulate ime1 expression. rim1 mutations cause reduced expression of ime1, which is required for expression of many meiotic genes, and thus lead to a partial defect in meiosis and spore formation. this analysis of rim1 suggests that the protein may function as a transcriptional activator. in addition to rim1, maximum ime1 expression requires the mck1 and ime4 gene products. these findings suggest that rim1 acts independently of mck1 and ime4 to stimulate ime1 expression. it is known that ime1 expression is positively regulated by mck1, rim1, ime4 and the swi-snf complex but other factors may also be involved. we describe a new gene, ime4, whose activity is essential for ime1 transcript accumulation and sporulation. 
Myelin sheaths are lipid-rich cellular structures. [SEP] profiles of collapsed myelin sheaths, myelin bodies, and lipid droplets were frequently seen in the cytoplasm of microglial cells. the findings suggest that microglial cells take up collapsed myelin sheaths and within these cells the sheaths become transformed into myelin bodies and subsequently into lipid droplets. since, lipoprotein lipase (lpl) provides the lipid for myelin sheath by hydrolysing the triglyceride rich lipoproteins, and also helps in the uptake of lipids by the schwann cells (scs) for its utilization, lpl is considered as the important factor in the regeneration of myelin sheath during diabetic neuropathy. rapid conduction of nerve impulses requires coating of axons by myelin sheaths, which are lipid-rich and multilamellar membrane stacks. the lipid composition of myelin varies significantly from other biological membranes. here, we summarize how lipids function in myelin biogenesis, axon-glia communication and in supporting long-term maintenance of myelin. in this study, we examined focal myelin lipid alterations and the disruption of the myelin sheath associated with amyloid plaques in a widely used familial alzheimer's disease (ad) mouse model; 5xfad. to act as an electric insulator, the myelin sheath is formed as a multilamellar membrane structure by the spiral wrapping and subsequent compaction of the oligodendroglial plasma membrane around central nervous system (cns) axons. current evidence indicates that the myelin sheath is more than an inert insulating membrane structure. these findings delineate the distinct functional roles of dominant constituents in cytoplasmic myelin sheaths, and shed new light on mechanisms disrupting lipid-protein complexes in the diseased state. 
Myelin sheaths play a role in action potential propagation. [SEP] oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (cns) produce myelin sheaths that insulate axons to ensure fast propagation of action potentials. the myelin sheath, and hence the myelin-forming cells (i.e. the major function of myelin is to increase the velocity of propagation of nerve impulses. this was achieved by introducing the myelin sheath, which leads action potentials to propagate at speeds of 50-100m/s without increasing the diameter of their axons. we have used modeling approaches to simulate a role for proton hopping in the space between the plasma membrane and myelin sheath as the mechanism of nerve action-potential flow. in vertebrates, the myelin sheath is essential for efficient propagation of action potentials along the axon shaft. two concepts have long dominated vertebrate nerve electrophysiology: (a) schwann cell-formed myelin sheaths separated by minute non-myelinated nodal gaps and spiraling around axons of peripheral motor nerves reduce current leakage during propagation of trains of axon action potentials; (b) "jumping" by action potentials between successive nodes greatly increases signal conduction velocity. axonal myelination by oligodendrocytes increases the speed and reliability of action potential propagation, and so plays a pivotal role in cortical information processing. we explore the consequences of myelination for action potential propagation, for patterns of neuronal connectivity and for the expression of behavioral plasticity. cytosolic calcium (ca2+) changes in the myelin sheath have been implicated in myelin synthesis, but the source of this ca2+ and the role of neuronal activity is not well understood. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] n348i has been associated with resistance to the non-nucleoside rt inhibitor (nnrti), nevirapine; however, a possible mechanism that links changes in rnase h activity to changes in nnrti susceptibility remains to be established. these findings provide strong evidence to suggest that n348i can thwart the inhibitory effects of nevirapine during initiation of (+)-strand dna synthesis, which provides a novel mechanism for resistance. n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. all n348 mutant rts exhibited decreased nevirapine susceptibility, although the n348i and n348l mutations conferred higher fold resistance values compared to n348a and n348q. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. we identified clinical isolates with phenotypic resistance to nevirapine (nvp) in the absence of known nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nnrti) mutations. we previously demonstrated that n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers zidovudine and nevirapine resistance. n348i confers resistance to both the nrti zidovudine (zdv) and the nnrti nevirapine (nvp) and was also found to be associated with m184v and to compensate for deficits associated with the latter mutation. the enhancing effects of nevirapine and efavirenz were reduced in rts carrying mutation n348i, and specially n348i/t369i. connection sub-domain mutation, n348i and the m184v active site mutation decreases hiv-1 rt susceptibility to nnrti, nevirapine (nvp), whereas concurrence of both mutations improves enzyme susceptibility to nvp. 
N348I mutations reduce resistance to nevirapine. [SEP] n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. all n348 mutant rts exhibited decreased nevirapine susceptibility, although the n348i and n348l mutations conferred higher fold resistance values compared to n348a and n348q. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. n348i has been associated with resistance to the non-nucleoside rt inhibitor (nnrti), nevirapine; however, a possible mechanism that links changes in rnase h activity to changes in nnrti susceptibility remains to be established. these findings provide strong evidence to suggest that n348i can thwart the inhibitory effects of nevirapine during initiation of (+)-strand dna synthesis, which provides a novel mechanism for resistance. the enhancing effects of nevirapine and efavirenz were reduced in rts carrying mutation n348i, and specially n348i/t369i. we previously demonstrated that n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers zidovudine and nevirapine resistance. n348i confers resistance to both the nrti zidovudine (zdv) and the nnrti nevirapine (nvp) and was also found to be associated with m184v and to compensate for deficits associated with the latter mutation. we identified clinical isolates with phenotypic resistance to nevirapine (nvp) in the absence of known nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nnrti) mutations. connection sub-domain mutation, n348i and the m184v active site mutation decreases hiv-1 rt susceptibility to nnrti, nevirapine (nvp), whereas concurrence of both mutations improves enzyme susceptibility to nvp. 
NAC destabilizes NO to increase the effect of contrast agents on renal functions. [SEP] in summary, given 5 days previously, nac was found to be more effective than hyperhydration alone in the prevention of contrast-induced acute renal failure. recent studies suggest that high-dose nac provides better protection from contrast-induced nephropathy, and the antioxidant properties of nac may also provide cardiac protection. nac-enhanced contrast medium reduces mi size and protects renal function in a pig model of ischemia and reperfusion. the results of this study confirm the effectiveness of nac in prevention of contrast agent-induced renal impairment. in addition, we demonstrated the beneficial effects of nac on renal function in patients who were not exposed to contrast agent. prevention of contrast agent-induced nephropathy is of crucial importance for a number of diagnostic studies. before renoprotective effects of nac against contrast agent-induced nephropathy are considered, the direct effects of nac on creatinine levels, urea levels, and egfr should be assessed. high doses of nac may provide protection from contrast induced nephropathy (cin). renal perfusion is not affected by nac application in a model of experimental contrast nephropathy in rats. prophylactic administration of n-acetylcysteine (nac) (600mg orally twice daily), along with hydration, prevents contrast agent-associated nephrotoxicity (can) induced by a low dose of non-ionic, low-osmolality contrast dye. 
NAC inhibits the generation of angiotensin-converting enzyme. [SEP] the sulfhydryl compound n-acetylcysteine (nac) has been shown to attenuate and partly counteract tolerance to nitrates, and this effect has been attributed to a nitrate/sulfhydryl interaction and increased production of vasoactive intermediates. this study examined whether nac modulates the function of the renin/angiotensin system in normal rats and in nitrate-tolerant healthy volunteers. two hours of nac infusion significantly reduced the pressor effect of angiotensin i (ang i) by 39 +/- 14% (mean +/- sem) and reduced angiotensin converting enzyme activity by 31% in plasma (n-acetylserine: 74 +/- 9 nmol/min/mg, nac: 51 +/- 7) and 43% in kidney (n-acetylserine: 0.9 +/- 0.3, nac: 0.5 +/- 0.1 nmol/min/mg protein) (p < .05). this nonapeptide was found to inhibit rabbit lung angiotensin-converting enzyme (peptidyl-dipeptide hydrolase, ec 3.4.15.1) with a ki of 3.1 x 10(-7) m. the mechanism of inhibition was competitive. inhibition of human serum angiotensin-converting enzyme by des-leu10-angiotensin i was comparable in magnitude to inhibition by bradykinin and angiotensin iii. these results suggest that limited proteolysis of angiotensin i by cells resident in vascular tissue may result in the generation of an endogenous inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme. the increased ros production induced by adma was markedly inhibited by the angiotensin ii receptor-blocker telmisartan, the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor benazepril, the reduced form of nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) oxidase inhibitor diphenyliodonium (dpi), or the antioxidant and free-radical scavenger n-acetyl-l-cysteine (nac). in this review, local renin-angiotensin systems in the heart and vascular walls are described and the contribution of a local inhibition of converting enzymes to the cardiovascular actions of converting enzyme inhibitors is discussed. during converting enzyme inhibition, in the 20 normotensive subjects plasma angiotensin ii was 6.3 +/- 2.3 pg/ml (mean +/- s.d.) also analyzed was the effect of vitamin c and nac on plasma glutathione thiol and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (tbars), plasma angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) activity, and angiotensin-ii and dcs morbidity during in vivo diving simulation. 
NR5A2 does not play a role in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] from these data, we concluded that nr5a2 is pivotal for the decidualization of decidual tissues and cultured human endometrial stromal cells. zygotic loss of nr5a2 in a targeted genetic null mutant disrupted the development of the exocrine pancreas and liver, while leaving the endocrine pancreas intact. the orphan nuclear receptor nr5a2 is necessary for the stem-like properties of the epiblast of the pre-gastrulation embryo and for cellular and physiological homeostasis of endoderm-derived organs postnatally. using conditional gene inactivation, we show that nr5a2 also plays crucial regulatory roles during organogenesis. at the final stage of acinar cell development, the absence of nr5a2 affects the expression of ptf1a and its acinar specific partner rbpjl, so that the few acinar cells that form do not complete differentiation. nr5a2 was also shown to be expressed during early mouse embryogenesis. moreover, although the visceral endoderm does not show major morphological abnormalities in nr5a2-/- embryos, a decrease in the expression level of hnf4 and gata4 was observed. in the nr5a2cyp19-/- ovaries, nr5a2 was depleted in mural granulosa, but not cumulus cells. our results indicate that although nr5a2+/- mice display normal follicular development, ovulation, and estrogen production, they exhibit altered luteal function. this study therefore provides the first in vivo evidence for a role of nr5a2 in reproductive function and steroidogenesis. 
NR5A2 is important in reverse cholesterol transport in humans. [SEP] nr5a2 shows involvement in diverse biological processes like reverse cholesterol transport, embryonic stem cell pluripotency, steroidogenesis, development and differentiation of embryo, and adult homeostasis. nr5a2 activity is regulated by intracellular phospholipids, transcriptional coregulators and post-translational modifications. this review will focus on the nr5a2 structure, regulation of its activity, and role in biological processes and diseases. progesterone synthesis is affected by depletion of nr5a2 due to, among others, defects in the transport of cholesterol, evidenced by down-regulation of scarb1, ldlr, and star. nr5a2 gene encodes for the liver receptor homolog-1 protein, which plays a critical role in regulation of cholesterol metabolism, steroidogenesis, and progesterone synthesis. nr5a2 is an orphan nuclear receptor involved in cholesterol metabolism and embryogenesis. the orphan nuclear receptor nr5a2 participates in a wide variety of processes, including cholesterol and glucose metabolism in the liver, resolution of endoplasmic reticulum stress, intestinal glucocorticoid production, pancreatic development and acinar differentiation. recently, human genome-wide association studies have identified nr5a2, a key regulator of acinar function, as a susceptibility locus for human pda. nr5a2 is a key regulator of acinar plasticity. nr5a2, also known as liver receptor homologue 1 (lrh-1) and fetoprotein transcription factor (ftf), is an orphan nuclear receptor involved in the regulation of cholesterol metabolism and steroidogenesis in the adult. 
Natriuretic peptides increase susceptibility to diabetes. [SEP] population-based studies indicate that circulating natriuretic peptides are lowered in obesity and predict type 2 diabetes. recent work also directly link natriuretic peptides with type 2 diabetes through a gut-heart axis. natriuretic peptides exhibit a wide range of biological actions to control metabolic homeostasis. natriuretic peptides deficiency in obesity may trigger metabolic dysfunction and lead to type 2 diabetes. increasing circulating natriuretic peptides level and tissue signaling may help to fight against metabolic complications of obesity. there is increasing evidence of the involvement of natriuretic peptides (np) in the pathophysiology of metabolic diseases. nevertheless, targeting the natriuretic peptide pathway may improve metabolic health in obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. this review will focus on current literature regarding the metabolic roles of natriuretic peptides with emphasis on lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity. based on the suggested involvement of increased endogenous natriuretic peptides, the aim of this study was to investigate their role in the development and progression of diabetic nephropathy. chronic excess of bnp prevents glomerular injury in the setting of diabetes, suggesting that renoprotective effects of natriuretic peptides may be therapeutically applicable in preventing the progression of diabetic nephropathy. 
Natriuretic peptides protect against diabetes. [SEP] natriuretic peptides are cardiac-derived hormones with a range of protective functions, including natriuresis, diuresis, vasodilation, lusitropy, lipolysis, weight loss, and improved insulin sensitivity. this review will summarize current understanding and highlight novel aspects of natriuretic peptide biology. population-based studies indicate that circulating natriuretic peptides are lowered in obesity and predict type 2 diabetes. recent work also directly link natriuretic peptides with type 2 diabetes through a gut-heart axis. natriuretic peptides exhibit a wide range of biological actions to control metabolic homeostasis. increasing circulating natriuretic peptides level and tissue signaling may help to fight against metabolic complications of obesity. nevertheless, targeting the natriuretic peptide pathway may improve metabolic health in obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. this review will focus on current literature regarding the metabolic roles of natriuretic peptides with emphasis on lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity. however, targeting the natriuretic peptide pathway may improve metabolic health in obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. this review will focus on the current literature on the metabolic functions of natriuretic peptides with emphasis on lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity. 
Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) antigens may contain the targeted autoantigens PR3 and MPO. [SEP] here we show that chromatin fibers, so-called neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), are released by anca-stimulated neutrophils and contain the targeted autoantigens proteinase-3 (pr3) and myeloperoxidase (mpo). neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are chromatin filaments decorated with enzymes from neutrophil cytoplasmic granules. the present study was conducted to demonstrate that neutrophil extracellular dna traps (nets), cytotoxic molecules released from neutrophils, are a key player in the stimulation of airway epithelial cells (aecs) to produce autoantigens. traditionally, it has been assumed that these neutrophils die by necrosis, but neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) have recently been visualized at the sites of vasculitic lesions. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are auto-antigenic strands of extracellular dna covered with myeloperoxidase (mpo) and proteinase3 (pr3) that can be a source for the formation of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ancas). the autoantibodies are typically directed toward neutrophil mpo or pr3. antigen-specific stimulation induced by these autoantigens was studied by using processed pr3 and mpo in the lymphocyte stimulation test (lst). extraleukocyte mpo was prominent in neutrophil extracellular traps in the majority of patients; most of which had traps in half or more glomeruli. these traps were associated with more neutrophils and more mpo within glomeruli. glomerular mpo-containing macrophages generated extracellular trap-like structures. 
Neutrophils produce IL-1β in response to large particles. [SEP] we also showed that titanium particles trigger the recruitment of neutrophils and that this acute inflammatory response depends on the expression of the il-1 receptor and il-1α/β. inflammasome-activated il-1β plays a major role in lung neutrophilic inflammation induced by inhaled silica. neutralization or deletion of il-1α reduced il-1β production and neutrophil accumulation after silica in mice. in monocyte/macrophage cell populations, release of mature il-1β occurs via toll-like receptor ligand-induced activation of the inflammasome. using eosinophils from circulating blood and from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid after an airway allergen challenge, the present study demonstrates that cytokine-activated eosinophils express and release a bioactive form of il-1β with an apparent size less than the typical 17 kda mature form produced by macrophages. we now identify that neutrophils represent the asc-independent source of il-1β production during the acute phases of infection both in models of acute pneumonia and peritonitis. consequently, depletion of neutrophils in asc(-/-) mice leads to a marked deficit in il-1β production in vivo. these studies therefore identify a noncanonical mechanism of il-1β production by neutrophils independent of asc and demonstrate the first physiological contribution of neutrophils as an important source of il-1β in response to acute p. aeruginosa infection during acute pneumonia and peritonitis. macrophages (mϕ) are well documented to produce il-1β through various signaling pathways in response to small particles such as silica, asbestos and urea crystals, in the presence of lipopolysaccharide (lps). these results suggest that the cells responded differently in their secretion of il-1β depending on particle size, and that there is a range within which neither pathway works. 
Nigerian physicians constitue the largest component of sub-Saharan Africa-trained physicians in the United States. [SEP] background: the objective of this paper is to describe the numbers, characteristics, and trends in the migration to the united states of physicians trained in sub-saharan africa. methods: we used the american medical association 2002 masterfile to identify and describe physicians who received their medical training in sub-saharan africa and are currently practicing in the usa. a total of 5334 physicians from sub-saharan africa are in that group, a number that represents more than 6% of the physicians practicing in sub-saharan africa now. the migration of over 5000 doctors from sub-saharan africa to the usa has had a significantly negative effect on the doctor-to-population ratio of africa. health workforce shortages in sub-saharan africa are widely recognized, particularly of physicians, leading the training and deployment of non-physician clinicians (npcs). nevertheless, the training programs offered by medical institutions in sub-saharan africa need to be periodically reviewed and take into account professional and occupational roles physicians would take in context of evolving health systems in sub-saharan africa. physicians in sub-saharan africa ought to be trained in all of these capacities. sub-saharan african family physicians and postgraduate trainee physicians value good teachers and recognize that clinical training alone does not provide all of the skills needed by educators. investments in training physician specialists through postgraduate medical education (pgme) are critical for sub-saharan africa, given the increasing burden of non-communicable diseases. nigeria, being the most populous black nation in the world, bears its greatest burden in sub-saharan africa. 
Nonhuman primates are incapable of producing neutralizing antibodies in reponse to the Eilat virus (EILV) produced in mosquitos. [SEP] a single dose of eilv/chikv produced in mosquito cells elicited rapid (within 4 d) and long-lasting (>290 d) neutralizing antibodies that provided complete protection in two different mouse models. in nonhuman primates, eilv/chikv elicited rapid and robust immunity that protected against viremia and telemetrically monitored fever. recently, a host-restricted, mosquito-borne alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), was described with an inability to infect vertebrate cells based on defective attachment and/or entry, as well as a lack of genomic rna replication. eilv-based chimeras replicated to high titers in a mosquito cell line yet retained their host range restriction in vertebrates both in vitro and in vivo in addition, the chimeras generated immune responses that were higher than those of other human and/or equine vaccines. here we describe a unique alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), isolated from a pool of anopheles coustani mosquitoes from the negev desert of israel. recently, a new alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), was described, and in contrast to all other mosquito-borne viruses, it is unable to replicate in vertebrate cell lines. investigations into the nature of its host range restriction showed the inability of genomic eilv rna to replicate in vertebrate cells. a chimeric eilat/ chikungunya virus (eilv/chikv) was previously reported to replicate only in mosquito cells but capable of inducing robust adaptive immunity in animals. recently, a unique alphavirus, eilat virus (eilv), was described that readily infects mosquito but not vertebrate cell lines. an exception is eilat virus (eilv), the only described alphavirus with a host range restricted to insects. 
Nonhypertensive people who are 55 years old have a 90% chance of developing hypertension during their lifetime. [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine if very old hypertensives (85 years of age and over) were sicker and in poorer health than very old nonhypertensives. in contrast, very old female hypertensives were healthy or healthier than very old female nonhypertensives. hypertension may be a more serious condition among the very old males than very old females, or treatment may be more efficacious (or prevalent) for very old female hypertensives. community-based prospective cohort study of 1298 participants from the framingham heart study who were aged 55 to 65 years and free of hypertension at baseline (1976-1998). the residual lifetime risks for developing hypertension and stage 1 high blood pressure or higher (greater-than-or-equal to 140/90 mm hg regardless of treatment) were 90% in both 55- and 65-year-old participants. the lifetime probability of receiving antihypertensive medication was 60%. the residual lifetime risk for hypertension for middle-aged and elderly individuals is 90%, indicating a huge public health burden. a stepwise increase in hypertension incidence occurred across the male and older participants: 3.8% of young female individuals, 11.5% of young male, 26.1% of old female, and 58.8% of old male subjects progressed to hypertension over 4 years. the mean levels of systolic and diastolic blood pressure and the prevalence of hypertension increased with age, but no significant differences were found between the sexes when adjusted for body mass index. hypertensive patients had an overall 5-year mortality rate of 58% v 49% among nonhypertensive patients (p < .05). 
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation is not predictive of acute respiratory failure after solid organ transplantation. [SEP] in this review, we examine the literature regarding noninvasive positive pressure ventilation and use the research and development/university of california, los angeles appropriateness methodology to provide strong or weak recommendations for the use of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation in children with pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome. hypoxemic acute respiratory failure may benefit from noninvasive ventilation or continuous positive airway pressure, but undue prolongation should be avoided. the role of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation for acute respiratory failure in patients undergoing cardiac surgery is unknown. this study aimed to assess the safety of implementing noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation in this setting and its impact on lung function and operative outcomes. in a 6-month pilot prospective survey, the study population comprised 43 patients (32 were male with a mean age of 65.73 +/- 9 years; 3 heart transplantations, 18 coronary artery bypass grafts, 5 aortic dissections, and 17 valvular procedures; 34 active smokers, 25 with medically treated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 21 emergency/urgency procedures) who required noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation for acute respiratory failure after initial weaning from a respirator. noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation prevented intubation in 74.4% of the patients, with satisfactory recovery for post-cardiopulmonary bypass lung injury and cardiogenic dysfunction (90.5% and 69.2%, respectively) and poor results (55% reintubated) in those treated for pneumonia. noninvasive positive pressure ventilation has been shown to dramatically improve care of patients with acute respiratory failure. these findings may help direct further studies of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation in children with acute respiratory failure. noninvasive positive pressure ventilation is beneficial for patients with acute respiratory failure. noninvasive positive pressure ventilation is safe for selected patients with acute lung injury. 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are ineffective as cancer treatments. [SEP] nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are widely used drugs with potential adverse hepatic reactions. nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are responsible for an important aliquot of transaminase elevation in the general population. nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs (nsaids) inhibit prostaglandin formation by cyclooxygenases (cox) 1 and 2. pharmacologic therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is usually ineffective. epidemiological data have correlated consumption of nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs with lowered risk for many types of cancer, and some recent studies indicate a reverse correlation with acetaminophen consumption and ovarian malignancy. it did not effect paclitaxel colony growth inhibiting acitivity. all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs act by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis, but the particular agent that will best suit an individual patient's needs cannot be predicted. each drug should be tried for at least three weeks at maximal dosage before it is considered ineffective. when a particular nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent is not effective, one from another class should be tried. levels of drugs metabolized by the liver are altered by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents. 
Nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs show potential anticancer indications. [SEP] nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are widely used drugs with potential adverse hepatic reactions. nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs are responsible for an important aliquot of transaminase elevation in the general population. nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs (nsaids) inhibit prostaglandin formation by cyclooxygenases (cox) 1 and 2. although naproxen is a commonly used nonsteroidal antinflammatory drug and has the capacity of causing systemic photosensitivity, there are very few reports about it in the literature. during the latest decades, the interest on the effectiveness of natural compounds and their impact on human health constantly increased, especially on those demonstrating to be effective on cancer. thanks to these mechanisms, it can exert anticancer effects towards colorectal cancer, melanoma, or gastric carcinoma cell lines. moreover, it possesses antiproliferative activity in many experimental models and enhances the effectiveness of conventional chemotherapic drugs on tumor cells underling its potential future use. although numerous reports conclude that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) have anticancer activity, this common drug class is not recommended for long-term use because of potentially fatal toxicities from cyclooxygenase (cox) inhibition. studies suggest the mechanism responsible for the anticancer activity of the nsaid sulindac is unrelated to cox inhibition but instead involves an off-target, phosphodiesterase (pde). epidemiological data have correlated consumption of nonsteroidal antinflammatory drugs with lowered risk for many types of cancer, and some recent studies indicate a reverse correlation with acetaminophen consumption and ovarian malignancy. 
Normal expression of RUNX1 causes tumorsupressing effects. [SEP] runx1 is a well characterized transcription factor essential for hematopoietic differentiation and runx1 mutations are the cause of leukemias. runx1 is highly expressed in normal epithelium of most glands and recently has been associated with solid tumors. here we demonstrate the consequences of runx1 loss in normal mammary epithelial and breast cancer cells. we first observed that runx1 is decreased in tumorigenic and metastatic breast cancer cells. analyses of breast tumors and patient data revealed that low runx1 expression is associated with poor prognosis and decreased survival. thus these findings have identified a novel function for runx1 in sustaining normal epithelial morphology and preventing emt and suggest runx1 levels could be a prognostic indicator of tumor progression. our data indicated runx1 facilitated proliferation to promote leukemia cell growth. to characterize runx1 expression in colorectal cancer (crc) and elucidate its mechanistic involvement in the tumor biology of this disease. methods: the expression of runx1 in crc and normal tissues was detected by bioinformatics analysis. results: runx1 expression is upregulated in crc tissues. 
Normal granulomas form in the absence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] infection of zebrafish with natural pathogen mycobacterium marinum is a useful surrogate for studying the human granulomatous inflammatory response to infection by mycobacterium tuberculosis. the adaptive immune system of the adult stage zebrafish offers an advance on the commonly used embryo infection model as adult zebrafish form granulomas with striking similarities to human-m. tuberculosis granulomas. here, we present workflows to perform high content analyses of granulomas in adult zebrafish infected with m. marinum by cryosectioning to take advantage of strong endogenous transgenic fluorescence adapted from common zebrafish embryo infection tools. we use these methods to characterize neutrophil recruitment to m. marinum granulomas across time and find an inverse relation to granuloma necrosis suggesting granuloma necrosis is not a marker of immunopathology in the natural infection system of the adult zebrafish-m. marinum pairing. the methods can be easily translated to studying the zebrafish adaptive immune response to other chronic and granuloma-forming pathogens. rag1 mutant zebrafish, which lack lymphocytes, also form noncaseating granulomas with similar kinetics, but these control infection more slowly. our findings establish the zebrafish as a facile, genetically tractable model for leprosy and reveal the interplay between innate and adaptive immune determinants mediating leprosy granuloma formation and function. we have recently developed the zebrafish larva as a model to study macrophage recruitment and granuloma formation in response to schistosoma mansoni eggs. elevated levels of tnf-alpha are found within granuloma tissue, and are required to maintain granuloma formation in animal models. adult zebrafish are naturally susceptible to tuberculosis caused by mycobacterium marinum. 
Normal granulomas form in the presence of TNF in Zebrafish. [SEP] infection of zebrafish with natural pathogen mycobacterium marinum is a useful surrogate for studying the human granulomatous inflammatory response to infection by mycobacterium tuberculosis. the adaptive immune system of the adult stage zebrafish offers an advance on the commonly used embryo infection model as adult zebrafish form granulomas with striking similarities to human-m. tuberculosis granulomas. here, we present workflows to perform high content analyses of granulomas in adult zebrafish infected with m. marinum by cryosectioning to take advantage of strong endogenous transgenic fluorescence adapted from common zebrafish embryo infection tools. we use these methods to characterize neutrophil recruitment to m. marinum granulomas across time and find an inverse relation to granuloma necrosis suggesting granuloma necrosis is not a marker of immunopathology in the natural infection system of the adult zebrafish-m. marinum pairing. the methods can be easily translated to studying the zebrafish adaptive immune response to other chronic and granuloma-forming pathogens. rag1 mutant zebrafish, which lack lymphocytes, also form noncaseating granulomas with similar kinetics, but these control infection more slowly. our findings establish the zebrafish as a facile, genetically tractable model for leprosy and reveal the interplay between innate and adaptive immune determinants mediating leprosy granuloma formation and function. we have recently developed the zebrafish larva as a model to study macrophage recruitment and granuloma formation in response to schistosoma mansoni eggs. elevated levels of tnf-alpha are found within granuloma tissue, and are required to maintain granuloma formation in animal models. the cytokine, tnf, is essential for the formation and maintenance of granulomas, but the mechanisms by which tnf regulates these processes are unclear. 
Notch signaling occurs between tumor cells and stromal cells. [SEP] notch signaling is a well-known key player in the communication between adjacent cells during organ development, when it controls several processes involved in cell differentiation. this may occur because of key cytokines secreted by tumor cells or it may involve the microenvironment through the activation of notch signaling in stromal cells, an event mediated by a direct cell-to-cell contact and resulting in the increased secretion of several pro-tumorigenic cytokines. here, we provide a comprehensive overview on the outcomes of notch-mediated pathological interactions in different tumor settings and on the molecular and cellular mediators involved in this process. jagged1 expressed by tumor cells may activate notch signaling in both adjacent tumor cells and cells in tumor microenvironment. in both health and disease, activation of notch signaling predominantly exerts influence through stromal cell interactions with the tumor or stem cell microenvironments. aberrant notch signaling has also been implicated in tumorigenesis. notch ligands and receptors are expressed on many different cell types present within the tumor, including tumor cells and the stromal compartment. this article highlights in particular the various mechanisms by which notch signaling can mediate tumor angiogenesis. overall, our findings show that stromal cell-mediated notch-1, notch-2 and notch-4 signaling has a role in cll survival and resistance to chemotherapy. this complexity is reflected in the diverse roles of notch in cancers of various types, in which notch may be oncogenic or tumor suppressive and may have a wide spectrum of effects on tumor cells and stromal elements. 
Nuclear transfer from adult human fibroblasts to human oocytes can give rise to blastocysts containing expandable pluripotent cells. [SEP] the transfer of somatic cell nuclei into oocytes can give rise to pluripotent stem cells that are consistently equivalent to embryonic stem cells, holding promise for autologous cell replacement therapy. using this modified nuclear transfer protocol, we derived diploid pluripotent stem-cell lines from somatic cells of a newborn and, for the first time, an adult, a female with type 1 diabetes. differentiated cells can be reprogrammed to an embryonic-like state by transfer of nuclear contents into oocytes or by fusion with embryonic stem (es) cells. these results demonstrated that nucleic of icm cells from expanded bovine blastocysts were pluripotent, if not in fact totipotent, since these nuclei after nuclear transfer to enucleated oocytes could direct embryonic and fetal development resulting in live offspring. this study demonstrates, for the first time, that scnt can produce human blastocyst-stage embryos using nuclei obtained from differentiated adult cells and provides new information on methods that may be needed for a higher level of efficiency for human nuclear transfer. this study demonstrates that nuclei from buffalo fetal cells could be successfully reprogrammed to develop to the blastocyst stage at a rate higher than nuclei from adult cells. we recently demonstrated that somatic cells from adult primates could be reprogrammed into a pluripotent state by somatic cell nuclear transfer. here, we demonstrate nearly threefold higher blastocyst development and embryonic stem (es) cell derivation rates with different nuclear donor cells. the creation of pluripotent stem cells from adult cells by the introduction of reprogramming transcription factors, so-called induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells allowed the derivation of patient-specific pluripotent stem cells without the need of creation of a human blastocyst after cloning by somatic cells nuclear transfer. in vitro matured abattoir-derived oocytes were considered as recipients and a hand-made cloning technique was employed for oocyte enucleation and nuclear transfer (nt) procedures. 
Oat tolerant coeliac patients may have oat specific inflammatory cells in their small bowel mucosa. [SEP] recent studies on coeliac disease have shown that oats can be included in a gluten-free diet without adverse effects on the small bowel. in most children with coeliac disease, long-term consumption of oats is well tolerated, and it does not result in small bowel mucosal deterioration or immune activation. the objective of the present study was to clarify its applicability by analysing local cellular immunological responses after 5 years' consumption of oats by adult coeliac patients. long-term use of oats included in the gluten-free diets of patients with coeliac disease does not stimulate an immunological response locally in the mucosa of the small intestine. oats can be symptomatically tolerated by most patients with coeliac disease; however, the long-term effects of a diet containing oats remain unknown. to assess the safety of long term ingestion of oats in the diet of coeliac patients. the present paper aims to review the literature as to whether oats are safe to eat for people with coeliac disease. recent research has suggested that it may only be in certain strains of oats which could produce a toxic response to people with coeliac disease. the aim of this work is to evaluate if different varieties of oats exert different toxicity in coeliac disease. the results indicate that some varieties of oats may be potentially harmful to individuals with coeliac disease and therefore should be excluded from the gluten-free diet required to maintain good health in coeliac disease. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] obese individuals have decreased quality of life and life expectancy. diabetes, hypertension and obesity decrease patient health-related quality of life while physical activity increases it. the coexistence of obesity and hypertension, in particular, has a more negative effect on health-related quality of life. the incidence of obesity is rising worldwide, leading to a related increase in obesity-associated comorbidities that directly affect longevity and quality of life. the impact of obesity on health and quality of life is then considered. compromised quality of life is also observed at this end of the obesity distribution, and is manifested as decreased psychological well-being, less social integration, and stigmatisation. childhood obesity can lead to comorbidities that cause significant decrease in health-related quality of life and early mortality. obesity increases the risk for many other chronic diseases, including diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and decreases overall quality of life. obesity-related comorbidities reduce both the quality and expectancy of life. numerous studies have demonstrated that obese persons experience significant impairments in quality of life as a result of their obesity, with greater impairments associated with greater degrees of obesity. 
Obesity raises life quality. [SEP] the prevalence of obesity is increasing exponentially worldwide, becoming an international public health issue that affects quality of life, increases the risk of illness and raises healthcare costs in countries in all parts of the world. obesity is a public health problem that has raised concern worldwide. obese people experience health-related quality-of-life (hrql) impairments. being slightly overweight in later life is associated with lower mortality risk, but obesity raises mortality risk, especially for ischemic heart disease. the rise in the number and earlier age of onset of obese persons has raised critical concerns about consequences of obesity; however, recent evidence suggests that the impact of obesity on health outcomes may have changed. overall obesity and severe obesity increased markedly over time yet active life expectancy expanded for all individuals and the increases are greater among the obese and women. increases in total and active life expectancy occurred because of the changing association of obesity with disability and mortality. recent years have witnessed a dramatic rise in the prevalence of obesity worldwide, stimulating interest in the health and quality of life consequences of this phenomenon. numerous studies have demonstrated that obese persons experience significant impairments in quality of life as a result of their obesity, with greater impairments associated with greater degrees of obesity. the quality of life of obese individuals is an important issue that should be included in weight management treatment and research. 
Occipital activation levels are associated with auditory spatial performance in parietal regions of the brain. [SEP] during auditory localization in the blind subjects, rcbf activity in the right posterior parietal cortex was positively correlated with that in the right occipital region, whereas in sighted subjects correlations were generally negative. this indicates that in congenitally blind subjects the right occipital cortex participates in a functional network for auditory localization and that occipital activity is more likely to arise from connections with posterior parietal cortex. processing of spatial sound features elicited a higher activity in a small cluster in the superior parietal lobe than did sound pattern processing, whereas there was no significant activation difference for the opposite contrast. the task-relevant auditory feature could be decoded from multiple brain regions including the auditory cortex, posterior temporal cortex, middle occipital gyrus, and extended parietal and frontal regions. in particular, several studies have demonstrated an extensive activation of occipital brain areas, usually regarded as essentially "visual", when early blind subjects (eb) performed a task that requires spatial processing of sounds. however, little is known about the possible consequences of the activation of occipitals area on the function of the large cortical network known, in sighted subjects, to be involved in the processing of auditory spatial information. in addition to the supratemporal auditory cortices, auditory orienting, and maintenance produced stronger activity than the respective visual tasks in the inferior parietal and prefrontal cortices, whereas only the occipital visual cortex and the superior parietal cortex showed stronger activity during the visual tasks than during the auditory tasks. we found that cued orienting of auditory spatial attention activated a medial-superior distributed fronto-parietal network. this activation of visual areas may highlight the functional flexibility of occipital regions deprived of their dominant inputs or relate to the intrinsic computational role of specific occipital regions. as this area overlaps with regions showing selective tuning to auditory spatial processing and exhibits increased functional connectivity with a dorsal "spatial" network, our results suggest that the recruitment of occipital regions during high-level cognition in the blind actually relates to the intrinsic computational role of the activated regions. 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] moreover, a striking increase in d3-tmao generation was observed in omnivores over vegans/vegetarians (>20-fold; p = 0.001) following oral d3-l-carnitine ingestion, whereas fasting endogenous plasma l-carnitine and γbb levels were similar in vegans/vegetarians (n = 32) versus omnivores (n = 40). fecal metabolic transformation studies, and oral isotope tracer studies before versus after chronic l-carnitine supplementation, revealed that omnivores and vegans/vegetarians alike rapidly converted carnitine to γbb, whereas the second gut microbial transformation, γbb→tma, was diet inducible (l-carnitine, omnivorous). omnivorous human subjects produced more tmao than did vegans or vegetarians following ingestion of l-carnitine through a microbiota-dependent mechanism. specifically, a vegan diet was associated with decreased plasma tmao levels and nearly absent tmao production on carnitine challenge. vegans scored significantly lower than omnivores the eating disorder examination - questionnaire (multivariate p < 0.001), a measure of pathological eating behavior. there were no significant differences between vegans and omnivores on measures of eating styles, body mass index, smoking or exercise behaviors, or problems related to alcohol consumption. taken together, findings suggest that ultimately, vegans do not differ much from omnivores in their eating attitudes and behaviors, and when they do, differences indicate slightly healthier attitudes and behaviors towards food. dietary energy intakes were similar in the vegans and omnivores, but protein intakes tended to be lower in the vegans. metabolism of l-carnitine by the intestinal microbiome is associated with atherosclerosis in omnivores but not in vegetarians, supporting cad benefits of a plant-based diet. the most restricted diet, i.e., the vegan diet, had the lowest total energy intake, better fat intake profile, lowest protein and highest dietary fiber intake in contrast to the omnivorous diet. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegans. [SEP] omnivores and vegans/vegetarians ingested deuterium-labeled l-carnitine (d3-l-carnitine) or γbb (d9-γbb), and both plasma metabolites and fecal polymicrobial transformations were examined at baseline, following oral antibiotics, or following chronic (≥2 months) l-carnitine supplementation. moreover, a striking increase in d3-tmao generation was observed in omnivores over vegans/vegetarians (>20-fold; p = 0.001) following oral d3-l-carnitine ingestion, whereas fasting endogenous plasma l-carnitine and γbb levels were similar in vegans/vegetarians (n = 32) versus omnivores (n = 40). fecal metabolic transformation studies, and oral isotope tracer studies before versus after chronic l-carnitine supplementation, revealed that omnivores and vegans/vegetarians alike rapidly converted carnitine to γbb, whereas the second gut microbial transformation, γbb→tma, was diet inducible (l-carnitine, omnivorous). we demonstrate here that metabolism by intestinal microbiota of dietary l-carnitine, a trimethylamine abundant in red meat, also produces tmao and accelerates atherosclerosis in mice. omnivorous human subjects produced more tmao than did vegans or vegetarians following ingestion of l-carnitine through a microbiota-dependent mechanism. the cutc gene was more abundant in omnivores and carnivores compared with herbivores. metabolism of l-carnitine by the intestinal microbiome is associated with atherosclerosis in omnivores but not in vegetarians, supporting cad benefits of a plant-based diet. this study examined eating and health behaviors in a large community sample of dietary vegans ("vegans"), compared to omnivores. vegans scored significantly lower than omnivores the eating disorder examination - questionnaire (multivariate p < 0.001), a measure of pathological eating behavior. taken together, findings suggest that ultimately, vegans do not differ much from omnivores in their eating attitudes and behaviors, and when they do, differences indicate slightly healthier attitudes and behaviors towards food. 
Omnivores produce more trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] moreover, a striking increase in d3-tmao generation was observed in omnivores over vegans/vegetarians (>20-fold; p = 0.001) following oral d3-l-carnitine ingestion, whereas fasting endogenous plasma l-carnitine and γbb levels were similar in vegans/vegetarians (n = 32) versus omnivores (n = 40). fecal metabolic transformation studies, and oral isotope tracer studies before versus after chronic l-carnitine supplementation, revealed that omnivores and vegans/vegetarians alike rapidly converted carnitine to γbb, whereas the second gut microbial transformation, γbb→tma, was diet inducible (l-carnitine, omnivorous). omnivorous human subjects produced more tmao than did vegans or vegetarians following ingestion of l-carnitine through a microbiota-dependent mechanism. l-carnitine (l-car), l-methionine, and ascorbic acid (aa) were significantly higher in vegetarians than in omnivores. omnivores' body mass index was positively correlated with l-homocysteine (p = 0.033), and age was positively correlated with trimethylamine n-oxide (p < 0.001) and blood glucose (p = 0.007), but not in vegetarians. the omnivores exhibited a 10-fold higher or to be high tmao producer than vegetarians. vegetarians ingest less carnitine and carnitine precursors and have lower plasma carnitine concentrations than omnivores. before carnitine supplementation, vegetarians had a 10% lower plasma carnitine concentration, but maintained skeletal muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. supplementation with l-carnitine significantly increased the total plasma carnitine concentration (24% in omnivores, 31% in vegetarians) and the muscle carnitine content in vegetarians (13%). vegetarians have lower plasma carnitine concentrations, but maintained muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. 
One in five surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] to determine the rate of early discontinuation and non-publication of randomised controlled trials involving patients undergoing surgery. one in five surgical randomised controlled trials are discontinued early, one in three completed trials remain unpublished, and investigators of unpublished studies are frequently not contactable. to investigate the prevalence of discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical versus medical randomized controlled trials (rcts) and to explore risk factors for discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical rcts. surgical trials were discontinued for any reason more often than medical trials [43% vs 27%, risk difference 16% (95% confidence interval [ci]: 5%-26%); p = 0.001] and more often discontinued for slow recruitment [18% vs 11%, risk difference 8% (95% ci: 0.1%-16%); p = 0.020]. discontinuation of surgical trials was a strong risk factor for nonpublication (odds ratio = 4.18, 95% ci: 1.45-12.06; p = 0.008). discontinuation and nonpublication rates were substantial in surgical rcts and trial discontinuation was strongly associated with nonpublication. five randomized controlled trials were included in our final analysis. 36% and 30%, respectively, discontinued the study drug prematurely with or without a prior holiday. one in five patients treated with esomeprazole discontinued trial medication due to unsatisfactory symptom control. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) clinical trials aimed at evaluating treatment effects on exacerbations often suffer from early discontinuations of randomized treatment. 
One in two surgical randomized controlled trials are discontinued early. [SEP] to investigate the prevalence of discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical versus medical randomized controlled trials (rcts) and to explore risk factors for discontinuation and nonpublication of surgical rcts. trial discontinuation has significant scientific, ethical, and economic implications. surgical trials were discontinued for any reason more often than medical trials [43% vs 27%, risk difference 16% (95% confidence interval [ci]: 5%-26%); p = 0.001] and more often discontinued for slow recruitment [18% vs 11%, risk difference 8% (95% ci: 0.1%-16%); p = 0.020]. discontinuation of surgical trials was a strong risk factor for nonpublication (odds ratio = 4.18, 95% ci: 1.45-12.06; p = 0.008). discontinuation and nonpublication rates were substantial in surgical rcts and trial discontinuation was strongly associated with nonpublication. included studies compared an early versus late aed discontinuation. to determine the rate of early discontinuation and non-publication of randomised controlled trials involving patients undergoing surgery. one in five surgical randomised controlled trials are discontinued early, one in three completed trials remain unpublished, and investigators of unpublished studies are frequently not contactable. 36% and 30%, respectively, discontinued the study drug prematurely with or without a prior holiday. patients in a drug trial for stroke prevention are at greatest risk for premature drug discontinuation early after randomization. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is negatively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] our analyses suggest the network centrality of air traffic hubs such as thailand and india contribute to seeding dengue epidemics, whilst china, cambodia, indonesia, and singapore may establish viral diffusion links with multiple countries in asia. although different predictors were identified for different serotypes, our analysis suggests that overall diffusion of denv-1, -2, and -3 in the americas was associated with airline traffic. infection by dengue virus (denv), an important mosquito-borne virus threatening ∼40% of the world's population, can cause mild dengue fever or severe dengue hemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome. dengue virus (denv) is transmitted to humans through the bite of mosquitoes. we evaluate the relative growth of kw strain of denv-1 compared to other dengue viruses to determine whether the underlying genetics of the strain is associated with a replicative advantage, an important consideration since local transmission of denv may result because domestic tourism can spread denvs. the northern india particularly national capital new delhi witnessed major dengue outbreaks with dengue virus type 1 (denv-1) as the dominant serotype since last five years. to assess risk for importation of dengue virus (denv) into queensland, australia, and sources of imported viruses, we sequenced the envelope region of denv isolates from symptomatic patients with a history of travel during 2002-2010. dengue virus (denv) is the most important mosquito transmitted human viral pathogen. denv causes dengue fever, which may progress to severe dengue. denv-2 is associated with severe dengue illness with more serious clinical issues. 
Origin gross domestic product(GDP) is positively related to dengue virus (DENV-1) diffusion in air traffic shipments. [SEP] here we investigate the co-circulation in asia of denv serotypes 1-3 from 1956 to 2015, using a statistical framework that jointly estimates migration history and quantifies potential predictors of viral spatial diffusion, including socio-economic, air transportation and maritime mobility data. we find that the spread of denv-1, -2 and -3 lineages in asia is significantly associated with air traffic. our analyses suggest the network centrality of air traffic hubs such as thailand and india contribute to seeding dengue epidemics, whilst china, cambodia, indonesia, and singapore may establish viral diffusion links with multiple countries in asia. although different predictors were identified for different serotypes, our analysis suggests that overall diffusion of denv-1, -2, and -3 in the americas was associated with airline traffic. we evaluate the relative growth of kw strain of denv-1 compared to other dengue viruses to determine whether the underlying genetics of the strain is associated with a replicative advantage, an important consideration since local transmission of denv may result because domestic tourism can spread denvs. the northern india particularly national capital new delhi witnessed major dengue outbreaks with dengue virus type 1 (denv-1) as the dominant serotype since last five years. dengue virus (denv) rna detection in sera or viral isolates revealed that all 222 autochthonous patients detected and three chinese travelers from laos (imported cases) were positive for denv-3 serotype, while denv-1 and denv-4 were detected in travelers from myanmar and thailand during the outbreak. for 33 suspected dengue cases collected before the outbreak, two imported cases from laos and nine residents living in laos (laotian cases) were positive for denv-3. these results indicated that denv-1 from the dengue epidemic 2017 in northern vietnam originated from the virus that caused the dengue outbreak during the 2007 to 2008 period in vietnam. denv causes dengue fever, which may progress to severe dengue. 
Osteocytes have an essential role in G-CSF induced HSPC mobilization. [SEP] here, we demonstrate that osteocytes, the major cellular component of mature bone, are regulators of hspc egress. granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf), used clinically to mobilize hspcs, induces changes in the morphology and gene expression of the osteocytic network that precedes changes in osteoblasts. mice with targeted ablation of osteocytes or a disrupted osteocyte network have comparable numbers of hspcs in the bm but fail to mobilize hspcs in response to g-csf. since bone marrow (bm) neutrophils play a central role in hspc mobilization, we hypothesized that granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf)-mediated mobilization would be enhanced by further expanding the size of the bm granulocyte pool. here, we employed two non-osteopetrotic mouse models to assess the contribution of osteoclasts to basal and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf)-induced hspc mobilization. basal and g-csf-induced hspc mobilization in osteoprotegerin-fc-treated mice was comparable to that in control mice. g-csf-induced hspc mobilization, osteoblast suppression, and inhibition of cxcl12 expression in the bone marrow of these transgenic mice are intact, demonstrating that g-csfr signals in monocytic cells are sufficient to induce hspc mobilization. together, these data suggest a model in which g-csfr signals in bone marrow monocytic cells inhibit the production of trophic factors required for osteoblast lineage cell maintenance, ultimately leading to hspc mobilization. here, we examined whether t and b lymphocytes modulate the bone niche and influence hspc mobilization. these data provide evidence that bm b and t lymphocytes play a role in g-csf-induced hspc mobilization by regulating bone remodeling. 
Osteoparthritis (OA) is characterized by degeneration of articular cartilage, joint edge, and subchondral bone hyperplasia. [SEP] osteoarthritis (oa) is a prevalent joint disease that affects more than 40 million americans and is characterized by degeneration of the articular cartilage and thickening of the underlying subchondral bone. although subchondral bone thickening has been implicated in articular cartilage degeneration, very little is known about the composition of subchondral bone in oa. osteoarthritis (oa) is a common, disabling condition of synovial joints that can eventually lead to reduced, or lost, mobility. osteoarthritis (oa) is a degenerative joint disease characterized by joint pain and a progressive loss of articular cartilage. more and more evidence suggests that abnormalities in subchondral bone of oa promote joint pain generation and articular cartilage degeneration. osteoarthritis (oa) is a degenerative joint disorder characterized by the destruction of articular cartilage, subchondral bone and other joint tissues. osteoarthritis (oa), the most common chronic joint disease in the elderly population, is characterized by progressive destruction of articular cartilage, resulting in significant disability. osteoarthritis (oa) is one of the most common degenerative disease which causes pain and disability of joint and brings heavy socioeconomic burden in the world. in this article, the development and structural comparison of articular cartilage and growth plate as well as the major pathologic features of oa will be discussed to explain that cartilage degeneration in oa might be a process of enchondral ossification similar to growth plate. osteoarthritis (oa) is a chronic degenerative joint disease and the major cause of joint pain and disability in the elderly. 
Over half of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] in some rare cases, the sebaceous nevus is part of a genetic disorder, the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome comprises a craniofacial nevus sebaceus, seizures, developmental delay, ocular and skeletal abnormalities. we report a second occurrence of discordant monozygotic (mz) twins with severe sfm, supporting the concept of a postzygotic mutation. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims syndrome (sfm), characterized by linear nevus sebaceous and ocular and neurologic abnormalities, is a sporadic condition without known familial cases or etiology. we report the occurrence of sfm in only one of two monozygotic (mz) twins. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome is a rare phakomatosis which comprises a nevus sebaceous of jadassohn, seizures and developmental delay associated with a wide spectrum of extracutaneous abnormalities including neurological, skeletal, ocular, cardiovascular and urogenital defects. schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome is a neurocutaneous disorder that can affect many body systems. we report a case of an 18-year-old boy diagnosed with sfm syndrome associated with lymphatic malformation in the legs and agenesia of the inguinal lymph nodes. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims syndrome (sfm syndrome) is a rare and variable multisystem defect consisting of congenital, extensive linear nevus sebaceus and associated abnormalities in different neuroectodermal organ systems. schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims syndrome is a congenital neurocutaneous disorder, comprising of organoid epidermal nevus with a broad spectrum of multiorgan dysfunction (neurologic, skeletal, cardiovascular, ophthalmic, and urologic) secondary to postzygotic mutation in the early embryonic period. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants exacerbates the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] here, we report that the mis16-mis18 complex is required for centromere localization of scm3(sp), a cnp1-binding protein related to saccharomyces cerevisiae scm3. scm3(sp) is required for centromeric localization of cnp1, while scm3(sp) localizes at centromeres independently of cnp1. whereas s. cerevisiae scm3 is proposed to replace histone h2a/h2b in centromeric nucleosomes, the dynamic behavior of s. pombe scm3 suggests that it acts as a cnp1 assembly/maintenance factor that directly mediates the stable deposition of cnp1 into centromeric chromatin. importantly, scm3(sp) coaffinity purifies with cenp-a(cnp1) and associates with cenp-a(cnp1) in vitro, yet localizes independently of intact cenp-a(cnp1) chromatin and is differentially released from chromatin. n-tail mutants specifically reduced localization of the ccan proteins cnp20/cenp-t and mis6/cenp-i, but not cnp3/cenp-c. overexpression of cnp20/cenp-t suppressed defects in an n-tail mutant, suggesting a link between reduced cenp-t recruitment and the observed centromere inactivation phenotype. specialized loading machinery, including the histone chaperone hjurp/scm3, participates in cenp-a nucleosome assembly. these results highlight an evolutionary variation on centromeric chromatin assembly in the absence of a dedicated cenp-a-specific chaperone/targeting factor of the scm3/hjurp family. evolutionarily conserved scm3p is an essential component of centromeric chromatin and is required for assembly and function of kinetochores in humans, fission yeast, and budding yeast. we overexpressed scm3 and hjurp in saccharomyces cerevisiae and hjurp in human cells and defined domains within scm3p that mediate its chromosome loss phenotype. using mutant alleles of scm3, we identified a domain in the n-terminus of scm3p that mediates its interaction with cen dna and determined that the chromosome loss phenotype of galscm3 is due to centromeric association of scm3p devoid of cse4p/h4. 
Overexpressing Cnp1 N-tail variants rescues the temperature-sensitive growth defect of scm3-139. [SEP] here, we report that the mis16-mis18 complex is required for centromere localization of scm3(sp), a cnp1-binding protein related to saccharomyces cerevisiae scm3. scm3(sp) is required for centromeric localization of cnp1, while scm3(sp) localizes at centromeres independently of cnp1. whereas s. cerevisiae scm3 is proposed to replace histone h2a/h2b in centromeric nucleosomes, the dynamic behavior of s. pombe scm3 suggests that it acts as a cnp1 assembly/maintenance factor that directly mediates the stable deposition of cnp1 into centromeric chromatin. fission yeast sim1 mutants that alleviate kinetochore domain silencing are defective in scm3(sp), the ortholog of budding yeast scm3(sc). importantly, scm3(sp) coaffinity purifies with cenp-a(cnp1) and associates with cenp-a(cnp1) in vitro, yet localizes independently of intact cenp-a(cnp1) chromatin and is differentially released from chromatin. n-tail mutants specifically reduced localization of the ccan proteins cnp20/cenp-t and mis6/cenp-i, but not cnp3/cenp-c. overexpression of cnp20/cenp-t suppressed defects in an n-tail mutant, suggesting a link between reduced cenp-t recruitment and the observed centromere inactivation phenotype. specialized loading machinery, including the histone chaperone hjurp/scm3, participates in cenp-a nucleosome assembly. these results highlight an evolutionary variation on centromeric chromatin assembly in the absence of a dedicated cenp-a-specific chaperone/targeting factor of the scm3/hjurp family. evolutionarily conserved scm3p is an essential component of centromeric chromatin and is required for assembly and function of kinetochores in humans, fission yeast, and budding yeast. using mutant alleles of scm3, we identified a domain in the n-terminus of scm3p that mediates its interaction with cen dna and determined that the chromosome loss phenotype of galscm3 is due to centromeric association of scm3p devoid of cse4p/h4. 
Oxidative DNA damage activates STING signalling. [SEP] we propose that sting acts as a signaling hub that coordinates a transcriptional response depending on its mode of activation. here, we demonstrate that sting signaling facilitates wound repair processes and that analogous to myd88-deficient mice, sting-deficient mice (sko) are prone to cac induced by dna-damaging agents. our data indicate that sting constitutes a critical component of the host early response to intestinal damage and is essential for invigorating tissue repair pathways that may help prevent tumorigenesis. the innate immunoregulator sting stimulates cytokine production in response to the presence of cytosolic dna, which can arise following dna damage. here, we show that sting signaling is recurrently suppressed in melanoma cells, where this event may enable immune escape after dna damage. sting signaling has been shown to be defective in a variety of cancers, such as colon cancer and melanoma, actions that may enable damaged cells to escape the immunosurveillance system. recent evidence has indicated that cytosolic dna and abnormal activation of the cytosolic dna sensing adaptor sting (stimulator of interferon genes) play a critical role in vascular inflammation and destruction. we also examined the direct effects of sting on smc death and macrophage activation in vitro. mechanistically, nuclear and mitochondrial dna damage in smcs and the subsequent leak of dna to the cytosol activated sting signaling, which induced cell death through apoptosis and necroptosis. loss of sting signaling impeded dna damage responses accountable for generating key cytokines that facilitate tissue repair and anti-tumor t cell priming, such as type i interferons (ifns). 
Oxidative DNA damage inhibits STING signalling. [SEP] we propose that sting acts as a signaling hub that coordinates a transcriptional response depending on its mode of activation. the innate immunoregulator sting stimulates cytokine production in response to the presence of cytosolic dna, which can arise following dna damage. here, we show that sting signaling is recurrently suppressed in melanoma cells, where this event may enable immune escape after dna damage. mechanistically, sting signaling was suppressed most frequently by epigenetic silencing of either sting or the cyclic gmp-amp synthase, which generates sting-activating cyclic dinucleotides after binding cytosolic dna species. sting is a universal receptor that recognizes cytosolic dna and triggers innate immune activation. recent evidence has indicated that cytosolic dna and abnormal activation of the cytosolic dna sensing adaptor sting (stimulator of interferon genes) play a critical role in vascular inflammation and destruction. we also examined the direct effects of sting on smc death and macrophage activation in vitro. mechanistically, nuclear and mitochondrial dna damage in smcs and the subsequent leak of dna to the cytosol activated sting signaling, which induced cell death through apoptosis and necroptosis. the influences of sting on the metabolism of the extracellular matrix (ecm), apoptosis, and senescence, were assessed in sting overexpressing and knocking-down chondrocytes. the mechanistic study showed that sting activated nf-κb signaling cascade, whereas the blockage of nf-κb signaling attenuated sting-induced apoptosis and senescence, and ameliorated sting-induced ecm metabolism imbalance. 
Oxidative phosphorylation is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] tumor cells cultured in glucose undergo active aerobic glycolysis, but switch to oxidative phosphorylation for energy production when cultured in galactose. glycometabolism, particularly mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos) and glycolysis, plays a central role in cell life activities. here, we investigated the relationship between glycometabolic reprogramming and initiation of hdpsc differentiation. moreover, mrna and protein levels of key enzymes in glycometabolism were also detected. energy metabolism monitoring was performed to detect changes in aerobic glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation during the process of tgf-β1-induced fibroblast phenotype changes. meanwhile, elevated expressions of key enzymes in glycometabolism and metabolic reprogramming of fibroblasts were observed. the pathways and gene functions of immune, oxidative defense, and glycometabolism were obtained and identified. cancer cells utilize the glycolytic pathway to maintain cell growth even when adequate oxygen is present. research on glycometabolism, as the key point of energy metabolism, has played a unique role. in the 1920s, warburg found that cancer cells prefer to produce adenosine triphosphate (atp) by glycolysis, which is a less efficient pathway compared to oxidative phosphorylation. 
PCSK9 inhibitors decrease plasma Lp(a) levels. [SEP] it has been reported that proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) inhibitors can significantly reduce lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)], and the mechanism for lp(a) reduction remains unclear. recently an interesting clinical research with a small sample showed a positive correlation between plasma pcsk9 and lp(a) levels in diabetes. recently, it has been documented that monoclonal antibody inhibitors of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9) can lower plasma lp(a) levels by 30%. our findings are consistent with the idea that pcsk9 inhibits lp(a) clearance through the ldlr, but do not exclude other effects of pcsk9 such as on lp(a) biosynthesis. the objective of the study was to determine the impact of lipid-lowering treatments on circulating pcsk9 and lp(a). as monotherapy, pcsk9 inhibitor reduced lp(a) concentrations by decreasing the production rate. in statin-treated patients with high lp(a), pcsk9 inhibition lowers plasma lp(a) concentrations by accelerating the catabolism of lp(a) particles. they propose that pcsk9 does not significantly modulate lp(a) catabolism, but rather enhances the secretion of lp(a) from liver cells. because pcsk9 inhibitors have ldl-c lowering effects, we investigated whether there is a positive correlation between serum pcsk9 levels and ldl-c or lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)]. inhibition of pcsk9 also results in reductions of plasma lipoprotein (a) levels. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes enhances IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] here we show that high amounts of microbial products and inflammatory cytokines in the plasma of hiv-infected subjects lead to upregulation of pd-1 expression on monocytes that correlates with high plasma concentrations of il-10. triggering of pd-1 expressed on monocytes by pd-l1 expressed on various cell types induced il-10 production and led to reversible cd4+ t cell dysfunction. we describe a new function for pd-1 whereby microbial products inhibit t cell expansion and function by upregulating pd-1 levels and il-10 production by monocytes after binding of pd-1 by pd-l1. blockade of tim-3 and pd-1 induced the positivity of il-10- and tnf-α-expressing cells in the peripheral monocytes. in this study, we have investigated the effects of cell-cell contact between human peripheral blood-derived activated t cells and monocytes in regulating monocyte il-10 production. fixed prestimulated t cells induced monocytes to secrete both il-10 and tnf-alpha, and in addition, enhanced lps-stimulated monocyte production of il-10 and tnf-alpha in a dose-dependent manner. using neutralizing abs, we show that t cell contact-mediated induction of monocyte il-10 is partially dependent on endogenous tnf-alpha and il-1. endogenous il-10 was shown to down-regulate t cell contact-mediated monocyte tnf-alpha production. monocyte stimulation using ifn-γ or high levels of il-10 could slightly increase pd-1 expression, while lps could markedly increase pd-1 expression. at resting state, pd-1+ monocytes presented comparable mhc-i and il-12 expression and higher mhc-ii, cd86, inos, arginase i, and il-10 expression than pd-1- monocytes. 
PGE 2 suppresss intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] here we show that prostaglandin e(2) (pge(2)) silences certain tumor-suppressor and dna-repair genes through dna methylation to promote tumor growth. these findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for pge(2) in the promotion of tumor progression. it has been shown that expression of nad(+)-linked 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh), a key enzyme responsible for pge(2) inactivation, is suppressed in the majority of cancers, including breast and colon carcinoma. the levels of pge(2) and vegf expression were correlated with pge(2) receptor and cox-2 and flt-1 expression in cancer cells. these results suggest that 15-pgdh-mediated regulation of pge(2) catabolism in the tumor microenvironment represents a novel approach for therapy of human breast and colon cancer. pge(2) promotes epithelial tumor progression via multiple signaling pathways including the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) signaling pathway. our work demonstrates that the pharmacological inhibition of mpges-1 reduces squamous carcinoma growth by suppressing pge(2) mediated-egfr signalling and by impairing tumor associated angiogenesis. pge(2), a downstream product of cox-2, promotes cancer progression by modulating proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis. 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (pgdh) degrades pge(2) and is down-regulated in colorectal cancer, suggesting that pgdh plays a role in regulating pge(2) levels and that pgdh over-expression could attenuate ras-mediated tumorigenesis. based on these data, we conclude that pgdh expression suppresses k-ras(v12)-mediated tumorigenesis in intestinal epithelial cells. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] remarkably, those rats given intra-la infusion of the membrane impermeable no scavenger c-ptio exhibited significant decreases in erk activation and erk-driven ieg expression in the mgm/pin, but not in the la. here, we found that protein kinase g1 (pkg-i) localized presynaptically in nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in the expression of spinal ltp. using the cre-lox p system, we generated nociceptor-specific knockout mice lacking pkg-i specifically in presynaptic terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord, but not in post-synaptic neurons or elsewhere (sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice). inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor 1 and myosin light chain kinase were recruited as key phosphorylation targets of presynaptic pkg-i in nociceptive neurons. finally, behavioural analyses in vivo showed marked defects in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice in several models of activity-induced nociceptive hypersensitivity, and pharmacological studies identified a clear contribution of pkg-i expressed in spinal terminals of nociceptors. our results thus indicate that presynaptic mechanisms involving an increase in release probability from nociceptors are operational in the expression of synaptic ltp on spinal-pag projection neurons and that pkg-i localized in presynaptic nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in this process to regulate pain sensitivity. in contrast, rats given intra-la infusion of the no scavenger c-ptio exhibit a significant decrease in synapsin and synaptophysin expression in the la, but no significant impairment in the expression of glur1. as a test of this hypothesis, we next showed that rats given intra-la infusion of the pkg inhibitor rp-8-br-pet-cgmps or the pkg activator 8-br-cgmp exhibit impaired or enhanced activation, respectively, of erk/mapk in the la after fear conditioning. capsaicin reduced the magnitude of la-ltp in slices derived from wild-type mice as previously described, whereas this capsaicin-induced suppression was absent in glua1-deficient mice. in contrast, neither la-ltd nor the capsaicin-mediated enhancement of la-ltd was changed in glua1 knockout mice. 
PKG-la does not have a large impact on expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] further, we show that pharmacological blockade of nmdar-driven synaptic plasticity, nos activation, or pkg signaling in the la significantly impairs high-frequency stimulation-(hfs-) induced erk activation and ieg expression in both regions, while blockade of extracellular no signaling in the la impairs hfs-induced erk activation and ieg expression exclusively in the mgm/pin. these findings suggest that nmdar-driven synaptic plasticity and no-cgmp-pkg signaling within the la coordinately regulate erk-driven gene expression in both the la and the mgm/pin following ltp induction at thalamo-la synapses, and that synaptic plasticity in the la promotes erk-driven transcription in mgm/pin neurons via no-driven "retrograde signaling". in contrast, neither la-ltd nor the capsaicin-mediated enhancement of la-ltd was changed in glua1 knockout mice. here, we found that protein kinase g1 (pkg-i) localized presynaptically in nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in the expression of spinal ltp. using the cre-lox p system, we generated nociceptor-specific knockout mice lacking pkg-i specifically in presynaptic terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord, but not in post-synaptic neurons or elsewhere (sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice). patch clamp recordings showed that activity-induced ltp at identified synapses between nociceptors and spinal neurons projecting to the periaqueductal grey (pag) was completely abolished in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice, although basal synaptic transmission was not affected. finally, behavioural analyses in vivo showed marked defects in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice in several models of activity-induced nociceptive hypersensitivity, and pharmacological studies identified a clear contribution of pkg-i expressed in spinal terminals of nociceptors. our results thus indicate that presynaptic mechanisms involving an increase in release probability from nociceptors are operational in the expression of synaptic ltp on spinal-pag projection neurons and that pkg-i localized in presynaptic nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in this process to regulate pain sensitivity. in contrast, rats given intra-la infusion of the no scavenger c-ptio exhibit a significant decrease in synapsin and synaptophysin expression in the la, but no significant impairment in the expression of glur1. remarkably, those rats given intra-la infusion of the membrane impermeable no scavenger c-ptio exhibited significant decreases in erk activation and erk-driven ieg expression in the mgm/pin, but not in the la. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of spinal long term potentiation in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] here, we found that protein kinase g1 (pkg-i) localized presynaptically in nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in the expression of spinal ltp. using the cre-lox p system, we generated nociceptor-specific knockout mice lacking pkg-i specifically in presynaptic terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord, but not in post-synaptic neurons or elsewhere (sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice). patch clamp recordings showed that activity-induced ltp at identified synapses between nociceptors and spinal neurons projecting to the periaqueductal grey (pag) was completely abolished in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice, although basal synaptic transmission was not affected. inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor 1 and myosin light chain kinase were recruited as key phosphorylation targets of presynaptic pkg-i in nociceptive neurons. finally, behavioural analyses in vivo showed marked defects in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice in several models of activity-induced nociceptive hypersensitivity, and pharmacological studies identified a clear contribution of pkg-i expressed in spinal terminals of nociceptors. our results thus indicate that presynaptic mechanisms involving an increase in release probability from nociceptors are operational in the expression of synaptic ltp on spinal-pag projection neurons and that pkg-i localized in presynaptic nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in this process to regulate pain sensitivity. further, we show that pharmacological blockade of nmdar-driven synaptic plasticity, nos activation, or pkg signaling in the la significantly impairs high-frequency stimulation-(hfs-) induced erk activation and ieg expression in both regions, while blockade of extracellular no signaling in the la impairs hfs-induced erk activation and ieg expression exclusively in the mgm/pin. these findings suggest that nmdar-driven synaptic plasticity and no-cgmp-pkg signaling within the la coordinately regulate erk-driven gene expression in both the la and the mgm/pin following ltp induction at thalamo-la synapses, and that synaptic plasticity in the la promotes erk-driven transcription in mgm/pin neurons via no-driven "retrograde signaling". we have also determined that pretreatment of neurons with alcar and la leads to the activation of phosphoinositol-3 kinase (pi3k), pkg, and erk1/2 pathways, which play essential roles in neuronal cell survival. thus, this study demonstrates a cross talk among the pi3k, pkg, and erk1/2 pathways in cortical neuronal cultures that contributes to alcar and la-mediated prosurvival signaling mechanisms. 
PRC1-bound plasmids sediment at a slower rate in unbound plasmids than in sucrose gradients. [SEP] when the dna in this extract was sedimented through a sucrose gradient containing 0.15 m nacl, plasmid dna had a sedimentation coefficient of approximately 70. rate-zonal sedimentation on sucrose gradients was used to purify the plasmid. a procedure is described for demonstrating plasmid dna and its molecular weight, based on rate zonal centrifugation of unlabelled dna in neutral sucrose gradients containing a low concentration of ethidium bromide. plasmids exist as closed circular and as relaxed circular molecules, which sediment separately, but during preparation of lysates, closed circular molecules are nicked so that each plasmid forms only a single band of relaxed circles within the gradient. ultracentrifugation studies of extrachromosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) isolated from strain aa0019 revealed the presence of a single species of covalently closed circular (ccc) dna that sedimented more rapidly through neutral and alkaline sucrose gradients than any of its possible plasmid precursors. from neutral sucrose gradients, sedimentation coefficients of 130, 100, and 86s were derived, corresponding to the ccc dna of the large plasmid in strain aa0019, the f'his,gnd element and the cryptic lt2 plasmid, respectively. using cscl density gradient centrifugation, sedimentation in sucrose gradients, and electron microscopy, it has been shown that the fraction of total r factor dna which is in the process of replication is greatly increased when the rate of dna chain elongation is reduced while the initiation of plasmid replication continues at the normal rate. a number of plasmid systems have been examined for the ability of their covalently closed circular deoxyribonucleic acid (ccc dna) forms to cosediment in neutral sucrose gradients with the folded chromosomes of their respective hosts. (ii) stringently controlled plasmids exist predominantly in the bound state, whereas the opposite is true for plasmids that exist in multiple copies or are under relaxed control of replication. the relationship between sedimentation coefficient and molecular weight for dna sedimenting in preformed alkaline and neutral sucrose gradients was determined using absolute molecular weight standards (restriction fragments of plasmid pbr322 and phage lambda dna). 
PTEN is a regulator for the transcriptional activity of SRF [SEP] here we report that the lipid and protein phosphatase, pten, has a novel role in the nucleus by functioning as an indispensible regulator with srf to maintain the differentiated sm phenotype. pten interacts with the n-terminal domain of srf and pten-srf interaction promotes srf binding to essential promoter elements in sm-specific genes. factors inducing phenotypic switching promote loss of nuclear pten through nucleo-cytoplasmic translocation resulting in reduced myogenically active srf, but enhanced srf activity on target genes involved in proliferation. our goal was to determine the effect of srf depletion on pten levels and define mechanisms mediating this effect. in srf-silenced smcs, pten protein levels but not mrna levels were decreased, suggesting posttranscriptional regulation. srf regulates pten expression in smcs through a mir network involving mir-143, targeting fra-1, which regulates mir-21. cross-talk between srf and pten likely represents a critical axis in phenotypic remodeling of smcs. srf k165 methylation was required for the transcriptional activation of srf and for the promoter occupancy of srf-dependent genes. therefore, we propose that srf isoforms regulate expression of the srf gene via two different mechanisms. these results suggest that tax activates srf-responsive transcription by enhancing its binding affinity to multiple different sre sequences. 
Participants who quit smoking reduce lung cancer risk by approximately 50%. [SEP] it is well known that the relative risk (rr) of lung cancer mortality decreases following smoking cessation compared with the risk in persons who continue to smoke. lower lung cancer death risk was observed for those quitting earlier in life, and the risk for all former smokers was significantly lower than that for current smokers. in terms of reduced risk of lung cancer mortality, smoking cessation is beneficial at any age, with much greater benefits accruing to those quitting at younger ages. smokers of all ages should be encouraged to quit because cessation at any age decreases lung cancer risk relative to that of current smokers. relative to current smokers, those who quit smoking subsequent to baseline assessment had a 28% decrease in the risk of lung cancer (adjusted hazard ratio (hr) 0.72; 95% ci (95% confidence interval): 0.53-0.98). reduction in lung cancer incidence with smoking cessation in asian populations is substantial and can be observed within a few years after quitting. offering a smoking cessation intervention in the context of lung cancer screening could lead to an additional 13% of smokers quitting smoking. smoking increases the risk of developing lung cancer. to assess the effects of smoking reduction on lung cancer incidence. among individuals who smoke 15 or more cigarettes per day, smoking reduction by 50% significantly reduces the risk of lung cancer. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a slower progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] to explore the association between a stable partnership and clinical outcome in hiv infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart). in an analysis stratified by previous antiretroviral therapy and clinical stage when starting haart (us centers for disease control and prevention group a, b, or c), the adjusted hazard ratio for progression to aids or death was 0.79 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.98) for participants with a stable partnership compared with those without. a stable partnership is associated with a slower rate of progression to aids or death in hiv infected patients receiving haart. the profile of "rapid" or "slower" progression in the natural history of hiv infection appears to be determined early in the course of hiv infection. compared with men who have sex with men (msm) without stable partnership, msm in a stable partnership appeared less likely to present late (or 0.50, p = 0.034), whereas heterosexual men in a stable partnership had a 2.72-fold increased odds to present late (p = 0.049). in those heterozygous patients who became infected with hiv, disease progression was slower. our results suggest that hiv-1 disease progression is inhibited by concomitant hiv-2 infection and that dual infection is associated with slower disease progression. the slower rate of disease progression was most evident in participants with dual infection in whom hiv-2 infection preceded hiv-1 infection. a positive correlation between virus evolutionary rate and disease progression has been shown for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) infection. to address the hypothesis that viral evolution is correlated with disease progression in hiv-2 infection, we determined faster and slower disease progression based on follow-up data from a prospective cohort of police officers in guinea-bissau. 
Patients in stable partnerships progress from HIV to death at the same rate as patients not in partnerships. [SEP] to explore the association between a stable partnership and clinical outcome in hiv infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart). in an analysis stratified by previous antiretroviral therapy and clinical stage when starting haart (us centers for disease control and prevention group a, b, or c), the adjusted hazard ratio for progression to aids or death was 0.79 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.98) for participants with a stable partnership compared with those without. a stable partnership is associated with a slower rate of progression to aids or death in hiv infected patients receiving haart. the incidence rates of sexual partnership formation were 0.54/1000py with hiv-positive, 1.12/1000py with hiv-negative and 2.65/1000py with unknown serostatus partners. similarly, forming a sexual partnership with an hiv-negative partner was 1.47 (95% ci: 1.01 to 2.14) times higher in hiv-negative individuals in the adjusted model. this article shows that long-duration concurrent partnering can be protective against hiv transmission rather than promoting it. monogamous partnering prevents sexual transmission to anyone outside the partnership and, in an initially concordant-seronegative partnership, prevents sexual acquisition of hiv by either partner. those results are consistent with the hypothesis that long-duration partnering is protective against hiv and inconsistent with the hypothesis that long-term concurrency drives the hiv epidemics in sub-saharan africa. over the follow-up period, the frequency of seroconcordant partnerships increased for hiv-uninfected women but the prevalence of uavi within seroconcordant partnerships remained stable. many hiv-infected patients who received ps were in hiv-serodiscordant partnerships, with characteristics indicating potential for hiv transmission. 
Patients with common epithelial cancers  are more likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] to examine the relation between deprivation and acute emergency admissions for cancers of the colon, rectum, lung, and breast in south east england. residents living in deprived areas were more likely to be admitted as emergencies and has ordinary inpatient admissions and less likely to be admitted as day cases. adjusted odds of ordinary admissions from the most deprived tenth occurring as emergencies (relative to admissions from the most affluent tenth) were 2.29 (95% confidence interval 2.09 to 2.52) for colorectal cancer, 2.20 (1.99 to 2.43) for lung cancer, and 2.41 (2.17 to 2.67) for female breast cancer; adjusted odds of admissions as day cases were 0.70 (0.64 to 0.76), 0.50 (0.44 to 0.56), and 0.56 (0.50 to 0. patients from deprived areas, older people, and women were more likely to be admitted as emergencies. admissions to hospital for problems not related to breast cancer were more common in those living in deprived areas (number admitted once or more: 51 (24%) v 13 (10%), p=0.001). however, women from deprived areas seem to have greater comorbidity, and poorer outcomes from breast cancer among these women is probably due to factors which result in deprived communities having poorer health outcomes rather than to management of their breast cancer. the aim was to investigate whether variations in emergency admission to hospital amongst older people in leicestershire vary with the level of material deprivation of the area in which they live. the increased risk of emergency medical admission to hospital, which is associated with residence in areas characterized as deprived by census-based indicators, suggests there are enduring inequalities in health or health care amongst older people. patients presenting as an emergency were less likely to receive optimal treatment or to have this in a high caseload hospital. higher frequency of hospital admissions, hospital los, and hospital costs were significantly associated with younger age at cancer diagnosis, cancer metastases, and living in remote/disadvantaged socioeconomic areas. 
Patients with common epithelial cancers are less likely to have an emergency event as their first hospital admission if they live in resource-deprived areas. [SEP] to examine the relation between deprivation and acute emergency admissions for cancers of the colon, rectum, lung, and breast in south east england. residents living in deprived areas were more likely to be admitted as emergencies and has ordinary inpatient admissions and less likely to be admitted as day cases. adjusted odds of ordinary admissions from the most deprived tenth occurring as emergencies (relative to admissions from the most affluent tenth) were 2.29 (95% confidence interval 2.09 to 2.52) for colorectal cancer, 2.20 (1.99 to 2.43) for lung cancer, and 2.41 (2.17 to 2.67) for female breast cancer; adjusted odds of admissions as day cases were 0.70 (0.64 to 0.76), 0.50 (0.44 to 0.56), and 0.56 (0.50 to 0. patients from deprived areas with lung or breast cancers were less likely to be recorded as having surgical interventions. admissions for colorectal cancer from the most deprived areas were less likely to be to hospitals admitting 100 or more new patients a year; the opposite held true for breast cancer admissions. patients from deprived areas were less likely to receive preferred procedures for rectal, breast, and lung cancer. area deprivation did not influence access to social supports, daytime primary health-care services or hospital admissions, but people in more deprived areas made less use of secondary outpatient health care [first contacts (p = 0.0007); follow-ups (p = 0.0002)], and more use of accident and emergency care (p = 0.02). admissions to hospital for problems not related to breast cancer were more common in those living in deprived areas (number admitted once or more: 51 (24%) v 13 (10%), p=0.001). however, women from deprived areas seem to have greater comorbidity, and poorer outcomes from breast cancer among these women is probably due to factors which result in deprived communities having poorer health outcomes rather than to management of their breast cancer. a much lower incidence of first-ever cancer diagnoses by emergency admission was found compared with previous studies. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count are more vulnerable to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] anaemia is a major consequence of malaria, caused by the removal of both infected and uninfected red blood cells (rbcs) from the circulation. anaemia causes significant morbidity in children with plasmodium falciparum malaria, but the mechanism(s) are unclear. during malarial infection, increased reactive oxygen species (ros) are generated that may contribute to erythrocyte damage and anaemia. in conclusion, malarial infection may be associated with oxidative damage and reduced alpha-tocopherol reserve in the erythrocyte membrane, suggesting that local antioxidant depletion may contribute to erythrocyte loss in severe malaria. infants aged from one to 11 months had a higher risk of developing severe malarial anaemia. a recent report proposes that the increased count of microcytic and hypochromic erythrocytes in alpha(+)-thalassaemia reduces the haemoglobin decline during acute malaria and, thus, reduces the risk of anaemia. this study shows that malarial patients exhibited important changes in haematological parameters like thrombocytopenia; anaemia and leucopenia are significant predictors of malaria infection. severe malarial anemia caused by p falciparum is responsible for approximately a third of the deaths associated with disease. polymorphisms in cytokines have been associated with susceptibility to severe malarial anemia: these cytokines and malaria "toxins" likely function by perturbing erythropoiesis. anaemia prevalence was significantly higher in malaria parasite positive children and those with fever than their respective counterparts. 
Patients with microcytosis and higher erythrocyte count were more resistant to severe malarial anaemia when infected with Plasmodium falciparum. [SEP] we observed a reduction in median erythrocyte count of approximately 1.5 x 10(12)/l in all children with acute falciparum malaria relative to values in community children (p < 0.001). the increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia may contribute substantially to their protection against sma. a lower concentration of hb per erythrocyte and a larger population of erythrocytes may be a biologically advantageous strategy against the significant reduction in erythrocyte count that occurs during acute infection with the malaria parasite plasmodium falciparum. other host polymorphisms that induce an increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis may confer a similar advantage. crp expression on rbc was lower in malaysian individuals with p. falciparum and p. vivax mild malarial anaemia compared to healthy controls. during malarial infection, increased reactive oxygen species (ros) are generated that may contribute to erythrocyte damage and anaemia. a recent report proposes that the increased count of microcytic and hypochromic erythrocytes in alpha(+)-thalassaemia reduces the haemoglobin decline during acute malaria and, thus, reduces the risk of anaemia. to study the importance of bone marrow inhibition in the pathogenesis of malarial anaemia, haematological and parasitological parameters were followed in patients with acute malaria. polymorphisms in cytokines have been associated with susceptibility to severe malarial anemia: these cytokines and malaria "toxins" likely function by perturbing erythropoiesis. anaemia prevalence was significantly higher in malaria parasite positive children and those with fever than their respective counterparts. 
Patients with panic anxiety show decreased CSF levels of hypocretin. [SEP] five patients showed a markedly decreased csf hypocretin-1 level, whereas the remaining 12 patients showed almost normal levels. some narcoleptic patients without cataplexy have low csf hypocretin-1 levels. csf hypocretin levels decreased from normal/intermediate to undetectable levels in three of the four patients with definite cataplexy and remained stable in the other (>250 pg/ml). csf hypocretin-1 levels were decreased in 2 patients with bpt+rmi and were within normal ranges in 4 patients with bpt-mi. reduced csf hypocretin-1 levels in the chronic phase may possibly predict a poor clinical outcome in patients with percheron artery infarction. six of 34 patients with low csf hypocretin-1, six of 24 subjects with normal csf hypocretin-1, and all controls were unmedicated at the time of csf collection. the reduction of csf histamine levels was more evident in the cases with low csf hypocretin-1, and levels were intermediate in other narcolepsy cases. csf hypocretin levels were positively correlated with csf crh levels in the patient, control and combined subject populations, but the correlation did not reach statistical significance in any population. 23 patients with narcolepsy-cataplexy had low csf hypocretin-1 levels, while one patient had a normal hypocretin level (hla-dqb1*0602 negative) and the other two had intermediate levels (familial forms). low hypocretin-1 levels in the csf have been shown to correlate with hypothalamic hypocretin cell loss in narcolepsy and other forms of hypersomnia; therefore, it has been proposed that degenerative damage to hypocretin neurons (such as in pd) may be detected by low csf hypocretin-1 concentrations, and may also explain the sleep symptoms experienced by some pd patients. 
Pediatric SCD patients with vaso-occlusive crisis show increased morphine use after breathing 80 ppm iNO for 4 hours. [SEP] to explore the efficacy and safety of inhaled nitric oxide (ino) for treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in pediatric patients. intravenous morphine is the treatment of choice for severe pain during vaso- occlusive crisis in sickle cell disease (scd). in this randomized controlled study, the efficacy of intravenous morphine administration with pca was compared with continuous infusion (ci) of morphine in patients with scd during vaso-occlusive crisis. we found that continuous administration of iv morphine accompanied by oral analgesics including nsaids and acetaminophen is the most commonly used practice for treating scd patients presenting with a vaso-occlusive pain crisis. acute vaso-occlusive painful episodes associated with sickle cell disease (scd) are frequently treated with morphine. many scd individuals require relatively higher doses of morphine to achieve optimal analgesia. we studied pharmacokinetics of morphine in scd to explore if altered disposition could be a factor contributing to increased requirement of morphine in this population. this observation suggests that due to increased clearance scd individuals may require higher dose and frequency of morphine to achieve comparable plasma levels. accelerated clearance of morphine likely related to increased hepatic and renal blood flow may be responsible for increased requirement of morphine in scd. however, a non-trivial number of patients used a much higher dose of opioids despite a relatively low average daily opioid dose among scd patients, particularly with vaso-occlusive complications. 
Perigenital skin is not the primary site of HIV acquisition. [SEP] hiv serology was negative. mechanical perigenital stimulation applied by repeated light stroking of the perigenital skin with a cotton swab only induced an excitatory effect on the bladder. whereas neither muscle responded to stimulation of the perigenital skin, both were reflexively activated during mechanical stimulation of the inner walls of the perineal vagina. few data exist on the incidence and risk factors of staphylococcus aureus colonization and skin and soft tissue infections (sstis) among patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). in a separate model, perigenital colonization was associated with recent syphilis infection (hr, 4.63; 95% ci, 1.01-21.42). human immunodeficiency virus-related factors (cd4 count, hiv rna level, and haart) were not associated with colonization or sstis. specific behaviors, but not hiv-related factors, are predictors of colonization and sstis. since an increasing number of mrsa skin and soft tissue infections involve the perigenital areas, some have suggested that these infections may be sexually transmitted. however, deep vagina and cervical stimulation did not modify memg baseline activity even if it was combined with clitoris, perigenital skin and foot stimulation. the most common species isolated from normal perigenital skin was t. cutaneum (29.46%), followed by t. asteroides (20.53%), t. ovoides (15.17%), t. inkin (10.71%), t. mucoides (8.92%), and t. asahii (6.25%). 
Peroxynitrite is required for induction of T cell tolerance. [SEP] treatment of cells with s-nitroso-n-acetyl-penicillamine (snap), an exogenous no donor, in combination with t-bhq may produce peroxynitrite. gsta2 induction by snap + t-bhq was not decreased by pkc depletion, but rather enhanced by pkc activation, showing that the activity of pkc might be required for peroxynitrite formation. because superoxide reacts with no to form peroxynitrite, we investigated the role of peroxynitrite. thus, peroxynitrite, in addition to its well-established deleterious role in ischemic brain injury and neurodegeneration, can also be beneficial by inducing tolerance to excitotoxicity. moreover, direct application of peroxynitrite induces apoptosis both in transformed and nontransformed cells, indicating that peroxynitrite is no selective apoptosis inducer per se, but that selective apoptosis induction in transformed cells by no is achieved through selective peroxynitrite generation. using the new spin-trap 2h-imidazole-1-oxide (tmio), a gtn-induced peroxynitrite formation was detected in smc and in platelets incubated with 0.5 mm gtn for 15 minutes. peroxynitrite is formed during gtn metabolism in vascular cells and may contribute to the development of tolerance. peroxynitrite is a highly reactive chemical species with antibacterial properties that are synthesized in immune cells. all four were required for peroxynitrite stress tolerance in vivo. glyceroltrinitrate-induced tolerance is the result of oxidative stress and can be suppressed by additional antioxidant therapy aimed to prevent glyceroltrinitrate-induced formation and/or actions of peroxynitrite. 
Persister cells provide relapse resistance in cancer patients. [SEP] emerging evidence implicates a key role for non-mutational drug resistance mechanisms underlying the survival of residual cancer 'persister' cells. the persister cell pool constitutes a reservoir from which drug-resistant tumours may emerge. targeting persister cells therefore presents a therapeutic opportunity to impede tumour relapse. here we show that a similar therapy-resistant cell state underlies the behaviour of persister cells derived from a wide range of cancers and drug treatments. it is becoming clear that "persisters," a subpopulation of drug-tolerant cells found in cancer populations, play a critical role in the development of drug resistance. thus, eliminating persister cells will be crucial to improve outcomes for cancer patients. using lung cancer targeted therapies as a primary paradigm, this review will give an overview of the characteristics of drug-tolerant persister cells, mechanisms associated with drug tolerance, and potential therapeutic opportunities to target this persister cell population in tumors. despite the high sensitivity of various cancers to treatment, some residual cancer cells persist and lead to tumor recurrence and treatment failure. therefore, targeting persister cells presents a therapeutic opportunity to prevent drug resistance and impede tumor relapse. we showed that a similar therapy-resistant cell state underlies the behavior of persister cells derived from sorafenib treatments with reversible, nonmutational mechanisms. 
Persistor cells are one reason for incomplete responses to Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy in cancer patients. [SEP] we hypothesized that flt3/internal tandem duplication (itd) leukemia cells exhibit mechanisms of intrinsic signaling adaptation to tki treatment that are associated with an incomplete response. patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) can develop acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) erlotinib and gefitinib. here, we report the successful treatment with alternating chemotherapy and tkis of two cases of advanced nsclc who developed resistance to tki. when tki therapy failed, two cycles of chemotherapy were provided, which were followed by re-challenge with erlotinib or gefitinib. this suggests axl and hsp90 inhibitors may be promising therapeutic drugs to overcome drug-tolerant cancer cell subpopulations in alk-positive nsclc patients for the reason that alk-positive nsclc cells do not live through alk-tki therapy. response to frontline bcr-abl1-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki) therapy is associated with an improved prognosis for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (cml). epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki) retreatment is rarely administered for non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients who did not respond to previous tki treatment. while alk kinase domain mutations contribute to alk tki-refractoriness, they are only present in a fraction of all alk tki-resistant tumors. mutations in the kinase domain of the egfr gene provide sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki) drugs. tki show initial response rates over 75% in mutant egfr-nsclc patients, although most of these patients acquire resistance to egfr inhibitors after therapy. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds increases adverse events in wards. [SEP] pharmacists attending consultant-led ward rounds in addition to undertaking a ward pharmacist visit make significantly more interventions per patient than those made by pharmacists undertaking a ward pharmacist visit alone, rectifying prescribing errors and optimising treatment. pharmacists attending general medical post-admission ward rounds is established good practice. the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact on prescribing when a specialist hf prescribing pharmacist attended inpatient hf ward rounds. pharmacists had positive perception of their participation in ward rounds, some of whom were already involved in the exercise on a low scale. pharmacists should be scheduled to participate actively in ward rounds, peer reviews and other professional activities, for optimum patient care. introduction: there is a lack of good quality economic evidence for the inclusion of pharmacists on hospital ward rounds in addition to, or as an alternative to, traditional ward-based clinical pharmacy services. studies that reported any estimate of the cost or cost-effectiveness were included if pharmacist participation on inpatient hospital ward rounds was the predominant focus of the intervention. pharmacist participation on post-take (post-admission) ward rounds was shown to reduce medication errors and reduced prescribing costs in the usa and in uk teaching hospitals, which can contribute to improved medication management. the presence of a pharmacist on a post-take ward round improved the accuracy of drug history documentation, reduced prescribing costs, and decreased the potential risk to patients in our hospital. the participation of a clinical pharmacist during ward rounds contributes to the optimisation of pharmacotherapy, in terms of choosing the most appropriate drug and/or the suitable dosage and may improve patient care. 
Pharmacist attendance at ward rounds reduces adverse events in wards. [SEP] the on-ward deployment of clinical pharmacists has been shown to reduce preventable ades, and save costs. pharmacists attending consultant-led ward rounds in addition to undertaking a ward pharmacist visit make significantly more interventions per patient than those made by pharmacists undertaking a ward pharmacist visit alone, rectifying prescribing errors and optimising treatment. pharmacists attending general medical post-admission ward rounds is established good practice. the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact on prescribing when a specialist hf prescribing pharmacist attended inpatient hf ward rounds. pharmacist participation on post-take (post-admission) ward rounds was shown to reduce medication errors and reduced prescribing costs in the usa and in uk teaching hospitals, which can contribute to improved medication management. the presence of a pharmacist on a post-take ward round improved the accuracy of drug history documentation, reduced prescribing costs, and decreased the potential risk to patients in our hospital. pharmacists had positive perception of their participation in ward rounds, some of whom were already involved in the exercise on a low scale. pharmacists should be scheduled to participate actively in ward rounds, peer reviews and other professional activities, for optimum patient care. introduction: there is a lack of good quality economic evidence for the inclusion of pharmacists on hospital ward rounds in addition to, or as an alternative to, traditional ward-based clinical pharmacy services. the participation of a clinical pharmacist during ward rounds contributes to the optimisation of pharmacotherapy, in terms of choosing the most appropriate drug and/or the suitable dosage and may improve patient care. 
Phase information is useful for predicting donor-recipient matches in organ transplantation. [SEP] ideally, to maximize the utility of those livers that are offered, donor and recipient characteristics should be matched to ensure the best possible posttransplant survival of the recipient. with additional experience and refinement, virtual transplants may become standard of care for determining suitability of donor organ size for an identified recipient. as selection criteria have become less stringent to accommodate increasing demand, transplant outcomes are more strongly influenced by recipient and donor factors; thus, finding the right organ for the right recipient is more important than ever. the ninth annual american society of transplant surgeons (asts) state-of-the-art winter symposium, entitled "the right organ for the right recipient," addressed the matching of donor organs to appropriate recipients. these included the following: matching by donor and recipient risk characteristics; use of organs with risk for disease transmission; biologic incompatibility; use of organs from donors after cardiac death; the justification for combined organ transplants like liver-kidney and kidney-pancreas; and the role of allocation in facilitating the matching of donors and recipients. we assessed the ability of 5 size match metrics-predicted heart mass (phm), weight, height, body mass index (bmi) and body surface area (bsa)-to predict 1-year mortality after heart transplant and to assess the effect of size match on donor heart turn down for size. phm is the optimal donor-recipient size match metric for prediction of mortality after heart transplant. advances in donor organ selection including predicted heart mass calculations and more sophisticated antibody detection methods for allosensitized patients offer more effective matching of donors and recipients. advances in technology to assess immunologic risk in solid organ transplant offer an opportunity to optimize the approach to pediatric deceased donor kidney transplant in the setting of a new allocation system in the united states. improved long-term outcomes may be anticipated in pediatric kidney transplant recipients by incorporating extended hla mismatch information and updating the clinical approach to donor kidney matching using available technology to identify clinically relevant immunologic risk. 
Physical activity does not improve cognitive function in individuals with Alzheimers. [SEP] physical activity and exercise can improve cognitive function and reduce the risk for dementia. increased physical activity may protect against cognitive decline, the primary symptom of alzheimer disease. our results suggest that cognitively normal older adults who report higher levels of physical activity may have slightly better cognitive performance, but the potential cognitive benefits of higher levels of physical activity over time may be most evident in individuals at genetic risk for alzheimer disease. observational studies have documented a potential protective effect of physical exercise in older adults who are at risk for developing alzheimer's disease. further, if successful, physical activity in combination with usual care has the potential to alleviate the symptoms of alzheimer's disease and improve its management and the quality of life of patients and their carers. the aim of this study was to examine the impact of different aspects of physical performance and cognitive functions on adl in patients suffering from mild-to-moderate alzheimer's disease. no significant association between examined physical performance parameters and adl functions was observed, and consequently does not support an impact of physical function on adl functions in patients with mild-to-moderate alzheimer's disease and relatively well-preserved physical function. we evaluated the specific association between physical activity and cognitive function among a national sample of the broader u.s. adult population with a family history of alzheimer's disease. in this national sample of individuals at risk for alzheimer's disease, meeting physical activity guidelines was associated with higher cognitive function. exercise has been shown to reduce the risk of developing mild cognitive impairment and alzheimer's disease as well as to improve cognition in healthy and cognitively impaired individuals. 
Physical activity level has no association with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) differed between clinically obese black and white children and if a difference existed to determine whether it was related to hematological profiles and/or physical activity/inactivity levels. black adolescents were more physically inactive than their white peers. no differences in body mass status or physical activity level were observed. we examined whether engagement in physical activity attenuates the gap in sleep duration between black and white teenagers. in male and female youths and in adult males, there were no substantial black-white differences in quetelet index; much higher quetelet indices in black adolescent and adult females compared with whites would be consistent with the narrowing of black-white hdl cholesterol and triglyceride differences in females. there were no substantial differences between blacks and whites in frequency of alcoholic beverage intake, and it seems unlikely that differences in hdl cholesterol levels can be attributed to higher alcohol intake in blacks. there were no consistent black-white differences in leisure-time activity, although habitual physical activity was at a higher level in blacks. it seems unlikely, overall, that physical activity could account for black-white differences in hdl cholesterol. the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) differed between two selected groups of black and white children and whether a difference existed to determine whether it was related to hematologic profiles, body composition, and/or physical activity/inactivity level. a statistically significant interaction, however, was observed between race and educational achievement: no association was seen between educational achievement and levels of hdl cholesterol among white men, but there was an inverse association among blacks. 
Physical activity level is associated with the difference in maximal oxygen consumption between black and white youth. [SEP] the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) differed between clinically obese black and white children and if a difference existed to determine whether it was related to hematological profiles and/or physical activity/inactivity levels. black participants had significantly lower vo2max and vo2maxffm values when compared with white adolescents (26.1 +/- 4.2 versus 29.9 +/- 3.1 ml . black adolescents were more physically inactive than their white peers. obese black adolescents had lower vo2max compared with white children and this difference was explained, in part, by the lower [hb] observed in the black participants. both maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) and resting energy expenditure were lower in black children, whereas insulin-like growth factor i was higher. percentage of peak oxygen consumption was compared with %omni10 and %omnimax; two-way anova was conducted to detect the differences between the physiologic and subjective indicators of exercise intensity according to body mass status and physical activity levels of children. we examined whether engagement in physical activity attenuates the gap in sleep duration between black and white teenagers. however, at lower levels of physical activity, an association emerged between race and sleep minutes, illustrating that youth most at risk for shorter sleep were black adolescents with lower physical activity. the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) differed between two selected groups of black and white children and whether a difference existed to determine whether it was related to hematologic profiles, body composition, and/or physical activity/inactivity level. this difference in vo2max could be attributed at least in part to comparatively lower [hb] and more sedentary lifestyle in the black children. 
Physical injury represses transgultaminase activity. [SEP] injury induces demethylation of h3k27 in many genes, such as sonic hedgehog (shh), which is silenced throughout schwann cell development before injury. we also show that some transcription start sites of h3k27me3-repressed injury genes of uninjured nerves are bound with a mark of active promoters h3k4me3, for example, shh and gdnf, and the reduction of h3k27me3 results in increased trimethylation of h3k4. our findings identify reversal of polycomb repression as a key step in gene activation after injury. we found that multiple injury-activated regulatory elements are distributed throughout the enhancer region. this analysis also revealed that cardiac regeneration enhancers are not only activated by injury, but surprisingly, they are also actively repressed in the absence of injury. brain injuries by physical trauma, epileptic seizures, or microbial infection upset the osmotic homeostasis resulting in cell swelling (cerebral edema), inflammation, and apoptosis. hence, p75ntr seems central to the injury response and we wished to determine the signals that regulate its expression. bmp signaling is diminished after epithelial injury in vitro and in vivo, and exogenous bmp4 restores fibroblast repression in injured organoids. in testing the function of h3k27 demethylases after injury, we found early induction of some nerve injury genes was diminished compared with control, but most injury genes were largely unaffected at 1 and 7 days post injury. to further characterize the regulation of nerve injury response genes, we found that injury genes are associated with repressive histone h2ak119 ubiquitination catalyzed by prc1, which declines after injury. 
Piezo1 channels are sensors for cell migration in epithelial cells. [SEP] here, we show through molecular, cellular, and organismal studies that the mechanically activated ion channel piezo1 regulates keratinocyte migration and wound healing. because piezo1 senses both mechanical crowding and stretch, it may act as a homeostatic sensor to control epithelial cell numbers, triggering extrusion and apoptosis in crowded regions and cell division in sparse regions. increasing evidence has shown that the piezo1 channel is involved in mediating cell migration and invasion in some types of cancers. our study highlights a crucial role of piezo1 in regulating migration and invasion of bccs, indicating piezo1 channel might be a new prognostic and therapeutic target in bccs. piezo type mechanosensitive ion channel component 1 (piezo1), which functions as a cell sensor and transducer of mechanical stimuli, may have a crucial role in the development of prostate cancer. in the present study, the expression of the piezo1 channel was demonstrated to be significantly elevated in prostate cancer cell lines and in human prostate malignant tumor tissues. taken together, these findings suggest that piezo1 channels have a crucial role in prostate cancer development and may, therefore, be a novel therapeutic target in the treatment of prostate cancer. the data suggest that piezo1 channels function as pivotal integrators in vascular biology. piezo1 is a mechanosensitive ion channel that has gained recognition for its role in regulating diverse physiological processes. collectively, these results suggest that activation of the piezo1 channel stimulates msc migration via inducing atp release and subsequent activation of the p2 receptor purinergic signaling and downstream pyk2 and mek/erk signaling pathways, thus revealing novel insights into the molecular and signaling mechanisms regulating msc migration. 
Pioglitazone use is not associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] recent studies have shown that pioglitazone use can increase the risk of prostate cancer as well as pancreatic cancer. pioglitazone is likely to be a causal risk factor for prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, so this drug should be used with caution. ever use of pioglitazone was not associated with bladder cancer risk (adjusted hazard ratio [hr], 1.06; 95% ci, 0.89-1.26). in adjusted analyses, there was no association with 8 of the 10 additional cancers; ever use of pioglitazone was associated with increased risk of prostate cancer (hr, 1.13; 95% ci, 1.02-1.26) and pancreatic cancer (hr, 1.41; 95% ci, 1.16-1.71). pioglitazone use was not associated with a statistically significant increased risk of bladder cancer, although an increased risk, as previously observed, could not be excluded. investigate potential association between pioglitazone exposure and risk of prostate cancer. pioglitazone use was not associated with prostate cancer risk; adjusted or 0.759, 95% ci 0.502 to 1.148. in this real-world, nested matched case-control study, exposure to pioglitazone was not associated with increased risk of prostate cancer. we concluded that there was an inverse association between prior pioglitazone usage and prostate cancer in this study. overall, ever use of pioglitazone was not associated with risk of bladder cancer (hr 1.2 [95% ci 0.9-1.5]), with similar results in men and women (test for interaction p = 0.8). 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer. [SEP] recent studies have shown that pioglitazone use can increase the risk of prostate cancer as well as pancreatic cancer. pioglitazone is likely to be a causal risk factor for prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, so this drug should be used with caution. studies suggest pioglitazone use may increase risk of cancers. in adjusted analyses, there was no association with 8 of the 10 additional cancers; ever use of pioglitazone was associated with increased risk of prostate cancer (hr, 1.13; 95% ci, 1.02-1.26) and pancreatic cancer (hr, 1.41; 95% ci, 1.16-1.71). crude incidences of prostate and pancreatic cancer in pioglitazone users vs nonusers were 453.3 vs 449.3 and 81.1 vs 48.4 per 100,000 person-years, respectively. the increased prostate and pancreatic cancer risks associated with ever use of pioglitazone merit further investigation to assess whether they are causal or are due to chance, residual confounding, or reverse causality. pioglitazone was associated with a significantly higher risk of bladder cancer (relative risk [rr] 1.17, 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.03-1.32, p=0.013). current evidence suggests that pioglitazone may increase the risk of bladder cancer, possibly in a dose- and time-dependent manner. in the dose effect analysis, patients who used a higher dose of pioglitazone had an increased risk of bladder cancer. in conclusion, this meta-analysis indicated that pioglitazone is associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer. 
Pioglitazone use is significantly associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] recent studies have shown that pioglitazone use can increase the risk of prostate cancer as well as pancreatic cancer. pioglitazone is likely to be a causal risk factor for prostate cancer and pancreatic cancer, so this drug should be used with caution. studies suggest pioglitazone use may increase risk of cancers. in adjusted analyses, there was no association with 8 of the 10 additional cancers; ever use of pioglitazone was associated with increased risk of prostate cancer (hr, 1.13; 95% ci, 1.02-1.26) and pancreatic cancer (hr, 1.41; 95% ci, 1.16-1.71). investigate potential association between pioglitazone exposure and risk of prostate cancer. ors for association of exposure to pioglitazone to incident prostate cancer, adjusted for potential confounders. this case-control study explored the association between prior pioglitazone usage and prostate cancer using a large, population-based data set. an increased risk for bladder cancer by pioglitazone was suggested by retrospective analyses. emerging studies suggest a possible increased risk of bladder cancer with pioglitazone therapy. pioglitazone was associated with a significantly higher risk of bladder cancer (relative risk [rr] 1.17, 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.03-1.32, p=0.013). 
Pioneer factor OCT3/4 interacts with major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] foxa proteins serve as pioneer factors to open up local chromatin structure and thereby increase accessibility of chromatin to factors regulating transcription. pioneer transcription factors recognise and bind their target sequences in inaccessible chromatin to establish new transcriptional networks throughout development and cellular reprogramming. during this process, pioneer factors establish an accessible chromatin state to facilitate additional transcription factor binding, yet it remains unclear how different pioneer factors achieve this. here, we discover that the pluripotency-associated pioneer factor oct4 binds chromatin to shape accessibility, transcription factor co-binding, and regulatory element function in mouse embryonic stem cells. chromatin accessibility at oct4-bound sites requires the chromatin remodeller brg1, which is recruited to these sites by oct4 to support additional transcription factor binding and expression of the pluripotency-associated transcriptome. together this reveals a distinct requirement for a chromatin remodeller in promoting the activity of the pioneer factor oct4 and regulating the pluripotency network. pioneer transcription factors have prominent roles in this process because of their ability to contact their cognate binding motifs in closed chromatin. specialized pioneer tfs bind nucleosome-wrapped dna to perform this chromatin opening by mechanisms that remain incompletely understood. pioneer factors subsequently enable other transcription factors, nucleosome remodeling complexes, and histone modifiers to engage chromatin, thereby initiating the formation of an activating or repressive regulatory sequence. recent studies with reconstituted nucleosomes in vitro and chromatin binding in vivo reveal that pioneer factors can directly perturb nucleosome structure and chromatin accessibility in different ways. 
Polymeal nutrition increases cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] cardiovascular mortality rates for the 1984-2002 period, calculated based on the central statistical office data and the results of individual evaluation of nutrition patterns in 4 independent pol-monica cross-sectional studies (1984, 1988, 1993 and 2001) were analysed. the favourable changes in the dietary habits of warsaw inhabitants were correlated with the reduction of cardiovascular mortality (r2 within the range of 0.35-0.95), and the strongest relationship between these facts occurred after 7 years. a positive tendency observed with respect to nutrition patterns of right-bank warsaw inhabitants contributed to the reduction of cardiovascular mortality. the geographical association of fat intake and cardiovascular mortality is strengthened by a similar association between trends in fat intake and trends in cardiovascular mortality. a comparison of what occurred in belgium and in other countries with regard to cardiovascular mortality and nutrition underlines the role of nutrition as a key factor in public health. proportional hazards regression was used to assess the relation of dietary factors and physical activity with mortality. these two associations were considerably stronger for cardiovascular mortality. amongst confirmed diabetic persons, increased physical activity is associated with significant reduction of mortality, whereas increased consumption of eggs and saturated fats is associated with significant increase of mortality. recent studies have shown that inflammation might be a key mediator between pem and cardiovascular events. among hospitalized patients with chronic heart failure at high nutritional risk, individualized nutritional support reduced the risk for mortality and major cardiovascular events compared with standard hospital food. 
Post-transcriptional handling of mitochondrial transcripts occurs in mitochondrial RNA granules. [SEP] the rna regulation within mitochondria is organised within specialised, membraneless, compartments of rna-protein complexes, called the mitochondrial rna granules (mrgs). most recently, double-stranded rna (dsrna) species, a hybrid of the two complementary mrna strands, were found to form granules in the matrix of mitochondria. these rna granules are therefore components of the mitochondrial post-transcriptional pathway and as such play an essential role in mitochondrial gene expression. using a proximity-biotinylation assay, we identified a protein module in mitochondrial rna granules, platforms for post-transcriptional rna modification and ribosome assembly, containing several proteins of unknown function including three uncharacterized pseudouridine synthases, trub2, rpusd3, and rpusd4. these data provide insights into the mechanism and control of mitochondrial rna processing within mitochondrial rna granules. immunofluorescence experiments showed that rmnd1 localizes to discrete foci in the mitochondrial network, juxtaposed to rna granules where the primary mitochondrial transcripts are processed. we review here the latest breakthroughs in our understanding of the post-transcriptional processes of mitochondrial gene expression, focusing on advances in analyzing the mitochondrial epitranscriptome, the role of mitochondrial rna granules (mrgs), the benefits of recently obtained structures of the mitochondrial ribosome, and the coordination of mitochondrial and cytosolic translation to orchestrate the biogenesis of oxphos complexes. mitochondrial gene expression in yeast is believed to be regulated predominantly at the post-transcriptional level. we have termed these large ribonucleoprotein structures "mitochondrial rna granules." several steps of mitochondrial rna processing and maturation, including rna post-transcriptional modification, appear to be spatially organized into distinct foci, which we have previously termed mitochondrial rna granules (mrgs). 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are less stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] intron excision from precursor mrnas (pre-mrnas) in eukaryotes requires juxtaposition of reactive functionalities within the substrate at the heart of the spliceosome where the two chemical steps of splicing occur. although a series of interactions between pre-mrnas, pre-spliceosomal and spliceosomal factors is well established, the molecular mechanisms of splicing machinery assembly, as well as the temporal basis for organization of the substrate for splicing, remain poorly understood. these studies indicate an early organization and proximation of conserved pre-mrna sequences during spliceosome assembly/recruitment and suggest a mechanism for the formation of the final active site of the mature spliceosome. the kinetic profiles reveal clear differences in the splicing defects of particular pre-mrna substrates. whereas most rnp enzymes are stable in composition and harbor preformed active sites, the spliceosome, which removes noncoding introns from precursor messenger rnas (pre-mrnas), follows fundamentally different strategies. we have investigated the formation of splicing complexes in vitro on mrna precursors (pre-mrnas) containing two introns. their absence leads to the significant leakage of unspliced pre-mrnas into the cytoplasm. we show here that addition of a recombinant sumo-protease decreases the efficiency of pre-mrna splicing in vitro. a dominant negative mutant form of prp2 protein, which associates stably with spliceosomes, was found to interact directly with pre-mrnas, as demonstrated by uv-crosslinking experiments. the use of various mutant and truncated pre-mrnas revealed that this interaction requires a spliceable pre-mrna and an assembled spliceosome; a 3' splice site is not required. 
Pre-mRNAs associated with spliceosomal components are more stable than unassociated splicing substrates. [SEP] intron excision from precursor mrnas (pre-mrnas) in eukaryotes requires juxtaposition of reactive functionalities within the substrate at the heart of the spliceosome where the two chemical steps of splicing occur. these studies indicate an early organization and proximation of conserved pre-mrna sequences during spliceosome assembly/recruitment and suggest a mechanism for the formation of the final active site of the mature spliceosome. the kinetic profiles reveal clear differences in the splicing defects of particular pre-mrna substrates. whereas most rnp enzymes are stable in composition and harbor preformed active sites, the spliceosome, which removes noncoding introns from precursor messenger rnas (pre-mrnas), follows fundamentally different strategies. in order to provide both accuracy to the recognition of reactive splice sites in the pre-mrna and flexibility to the choice of splice sites during alternative splicing, the spliceosome exhibits exceptional compositional and structural dynamics that are exploited during substrate-dependent complex assembly, catalytic activation, and active site remodeling. we have investigated the formation of splicing complexes in vitro on mrna precursors (pre-mrnas) containing two introns. the spliceosome is a multimegadalton rna-protein machine that removes noncoding sequences from nascent pre-mrnas. we show here that addition of a recombinant sumo-protease decreases the efficiency of pre-mrna splicing in vitro. a dominant negative mutant form of prp2 protein, which associates stably with spliceosomes, was found to interact directly with pre-mrnas, as demonstrated by uv-crosslinking experiments. the use of various mutant and truncated pre-mrnas revealed that this interaction requires a spliceable pre-mrna and an assembled spliceosome; a 3' splice site is not required. 
Prescribed exercise training improves quality of life. [SEP] in the last decades, knowledge about the relevance of physical exercise training in preventing and treating chronic diseases and improving quality of life has grown. the aim of this study was to compare the effects of supervised combined physical training and unsupervised physician-prescribed regular exercise on the functional capacity and quality of life of heart failure patients. exercise training improves peripheral arterial disease symptoms and is recommended as first line therapy for peripheral arterial disease. this review examines the effects of exercise training beyond improvements in walking distance, namely on vascular function, parameters of inflammation, activated hemostasis and oxidative stress, and quality of life. as studies have shown that supervised exercise training improves walking performance, cardiovascular parameters and quality of life in patients with peripheral arterial disease, it should be encouraged and more often prescribed. various modalities of exercise have been demonstrated to improve physical function and quality of life in older adults. congestive heart failure (chf) patients who exercise regularly can increase exercise tolerance, decrease dyspnea and fatigue, reduce the risk of arrhythmias, and improve quality of life. exercise used along with the customarily prescribed chf medications improves symptoms more than either modality alone. regular physical exercise can increase the cardiopulmonary exercise capacity of these individuals. in this context, we believe that that functional training can increase the cardiopulmonary exercise capacity and quality of life of patients with heart failure. 
PrimPol degrades short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] primpol facilitates both mitochondrial and nuclear replication fork progression either acting as a conventional tls polymerase, or repriming downstream of blocking lesions. in vivo assays have shown that primpol is rapidly recruited to sites of dna damage by interaction with the human replication protein a (rpa). together, these observations implicate primpol in promoting restart of dna synthesis downstream of, but closely coupled to, g4 replication impediments. here we demonstrate in vivo and in vitro that primpol can reinitiate stalled mtdna replication and can prime mtdna replication from nonconventional origins. primpol is a primase-polymerase involved in nuclear and mitochondrial dna replication in eukaryotic cells. together, these findings provide the first analysis of the molecular architecture of primpol, describing the activities associated with, and interplay between, its functional domains and defining the requirement for its primase and polymerase activities during nuclear dna replication. electron microscopy and single-molecule dna fiber analyses reveal that primpol rescues fork degradation by reinitiating dna synthesis past dna lesions. primpol is a recently identified polymerase involved in eukaryotic dna damage tolerance, employed in both re-priming and translesion synthesis mechanisms to bypass nuclear and mitochondrial dna lesions. primpol has been recently identified as a dna damage tolerant polymerase that plays an important role in replication stress response. in this study, we identify that the deubiquitinase usp36 interferes with degradation of primpol to regulate the replication stress response. 
PrimPol generates short DNA replication intermediates on the leading strand during DNA replication. [SEP] primpol facilitates both mitochondrial and nuclear replication fork progression either acting as a conventional tls polymerase, or repriming downstream of blocking lesions. in vivo assays have shown that primpol is rapidly recruited to sites of dna damage by interaction with the human replication protein a (rpa). together, these observations implicate primpol in promoting restart of dna synthesis downstream of, but closely coupled to, g4 replication impediments. in this work, we demonstrated that primpol efficiently fills a 5-nt gap and possesses the conditional strand displacement activity stimulated by mn2+ ions and accessory replicative proteins rpa and poldip2. here we demonstrate in vivo and in vitro that primpol can reinitiate stalled mtdna replication and can prime mtdna replication from nonconventional origins. primpol is a primase-polymerase involved in nuclear and mitochondrial dna replication in eukaryotic cells. together, these findings provide the first analysis of the molecular architecture of primpol, describing the activities associated with, and interplay between, its functional domains and defining the requirement for its primase and polymerase activities during nuclear dna replication. primpol is a recently identified polymerase involved in eukaryotic dna damage tolerance, employed in both re-priming and translesion synthesis mechanisms to bypass nuclear and mitochondrial dna lesions. given the error-prone disposition of primpol, we propose a mechanism whereby ssbs greatly restrict the contribution of this enzyme to dna replication at stalled forks, thus reducing the mutagenic potential of primpol during genome replication. here, we discuss the emerging roles of primpol as a leading strand repriming enzyme and describe the mechanisms responsible for recruiting and regulating the enzyme during this process. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has lower longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] hpv test of cure offers an improved sensitivity compared to cytology for women with persistent cervical precancer after treatment. hpv-based cervical cancer screening is more effective than screening with cytology. hpv testing was more sensitive than cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or greater, but strategies that depended on cytology for triage of hpv-positive women decreased this sensitivity. detection of high risk human papillomaviruses (hpv) has a high potential value for secondary prevention of cervical cancer. hpv testing can augment the sensitivity of conventional cytologic screening and can be used for triaging patients with a history of mild cytological abnormalities or low grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin). patients with a high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia usually escape current screening methods.what do the results of this study add? relative sensitivity for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia of grade 2 or more at blindly reviewed histology, with atypical cells of undetermined significance or more severe cytology considered a positive result. in an intention to screen analysis liquid based cytology showed no significant increase in sensitivity for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia of grade 2 or more (relative sensitivity 1.17, 95% confidence interval 0.87 to 1.56) whereas the positive predictive value was reduced (relative positive predictive value v conventional cytology 0.58, 0.44 to 0.77). liquid based cytology showed no statistically significant difference in sensitivity to conventional cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia of grade 2 or more. cervical cytology screening has reduced cervical cancer morbidity and mortality but shows important shortcomings in terms of sensitivity and specificity. 
Primary cervical cytology screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity to detect severe cervical intraepithelial neoplasia than conventional cytology. [SEP] hpv test of cure offers an improved sensitivity compared to cytology for women with persistent cervical precancer after treatment. hpv-based cervical cancer screening is more effective than screening with cytology. detection of high risk human papillomaviruses (hpv) has a high potential value for secondary prevention of cervical cancer. hpv testing can augment the sensitivity of conventional cytologic screening and can be used for triaging patients with a history of mild cytological abnormalities or low grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin). hpv testing was more sensitive than cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or greater, but strategies that depended on cytology for triage of hpv-positive women decreased this sensitivity. we compared the age-specific performance of primary hpv dna screening with that of conventional cytology screening in the setting of an organized population-based cervical cancer screening program in finland. primary hpv dna screening with cytology triage is more sensitive than conventional screening. to evaluate the sensitivity and efficiency of hpv dna testing in comparison with conventional cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) and cancer. depending on the patient's age and the grade of the cervical lesion, hpv dna testing proved to be significantly more sensitive than cytology for the primary detection of cervical abnormalities (p <.001). although testing for human papillomavirus (hpv) has higher sensitivity and lower specificity than cytology alone for detecting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin), studies comparing conventional and liquid-based cytology have had conflicting results. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines suppress secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] esm inhibited the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines via down-regulation of gene and protein expression whereas it increased the anti-inflammatory cytokines. nees could not only strongly reduce production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and mediators via blocking nf-kappab activation but slightly promote release of anti-inflammatory mediator ho-1 and suppress il-10 secretion. the pro-inflammatory cytokines play a critical role in the initiation and propagation of autoimmune arthritis and many other disorders resulting from a dysregulated self-directed immune response. these cytokines influence the interplay among the cellular, immunological and biochemical mediators of inflammation at multiple levels. regulation of the pro-inflammatory activity of these cytokines is generally perceived to be mediated by the anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive cytokines such as il-4, il-10, or tgf-beta. the results of our recent studies have shown that the pro-inflammatory cytokines, tnf-alpha and ifn-gamma, can suppress arthritic inflammation in rats, and also contribute to resistance against arthritis. increasing evidence of pro-inflammatory mediator expression in major depressions indicate that inflammatory changes may play a role. if this is true, the efficacy of antidepressants may be partially attributable to suppression of inflammation. various types of antidepressants can suppress serum and plasma levels of pro-inflammatory mediators in patients with major depression. therefore they can inhibit the production of pro-inflammatory mediators by immune cells. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up regulated during tumor development. [SEP] fat10 expression is highly up-regulated by pro-inflammatory cytokines ifn-γ and tnf-α in all cell types and tissues and it was also found to be up-regulated in many cancer types such as glioma, colorectal, liver or gastric cancer. while pro-inflammatory cytokines within the tumor microenvironment probably contribute to fat10 overexpression, an increasing body of evidence argues that pro-malignant capacities of fat10 itself largely underlie its broad and intense overexpression in tumor tissues. now the tumor microenvironment is commonly considered as an obligatory and significant component of almost all types of cancer, and the cells infiltrating such microenvironment are a source of inflammatory cytokines. such cytokines play a key role in regulating inflammation during both normal immune response and developing cancer. in this review, we explore the role of two inflammatory cytokines interleukin 1 and interleukin 6 in cancer development. these cytokines have pleiotropic effects on various cell types in the tumor microenvironment, particularly being able to regulate pro-oncogenic transcription factors nf-κb and stat3. for this reason, such cytokines influence key parameters of oncogenesis, increasing cell resistance to apoptosis, proliferation of cancer cells, angiogenesis, invasion and malignancy as well as the ability of tumor cells to respond to anticancer therapy. here we summarize novel experimental data regarding mechanisms underlying the interaction between chronic inflammation and malignant neoplasms. tumor-associated macrophages (tams) are a major component of leukocytic infiltrate in tumors, which facilitates tumor progression and promotes inflammation. inflammation is a very important part of innate immunity and is regulated in many steps. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines are up repressed during tumor development. [SEP] the endothelial egfl7 gene (ve-statin) represses endothelial cell activation in tumors, and prior observations suggested that it could also participate in the regulation of endothelial cell activation during inflammation. we show here that egfl7 expression is strongly repressed in mouse lung endothelial cells during lps- and tnfα-induced inflammation in vivo lps have a limited effect on egfl7 expression by endothelial cells in vitro, whereas the pro-inflammatory cytokine tnfα strongly represses egfl7 expression in endothelial cells. although inflammatory reaction may alter bioactivation and toxicity of carcinogenic pahs, little is known about the impact of pro-inflammatory cytokines on toxic effects of the low-molecular-weight pahs. here, we investigated the impact of a pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α), on the effects associated with tumor promotion and with induction of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (ahr)-dependent gene expression in rat liver epithelial cells. adoptive therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (car) redirected t cells recently showed remarkable anti-tumor efficacy in early phase clinical trials; self-repression of the immune response by t-cell secreted cytokines, however, is still an issue raising interest to abrogate the secretion of repressive cytokines while preserving the panel of car induced pro-inflammatory cytokines. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of adding xanthan gum to the diet of rats on the production of cytokines and pro-inflammatory factors and on tumor development in rats inoculated with walker 256 tumor cells. the continuous use of xanthan gum triggered a pro-inflammatory response, promoting an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines in the adipose tissue, but it did not have an effect on the tumor development in the animals inoculated with walker 256 tumor cells. inflammatory cytokines increase the activity of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (ido) and kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (kmo), which competitively reduce serotonin synthesis. here we show that tumor growth increased brain expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and kmo. in conclusion, our data confirm that increased brain expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines is associated with tumor-induced fatigue- and depressive-like behaviors. 
Progerin induces premature aging in stem cells. [SEP] because progerin also accumulates during physiological ageing, our results provide an in vitro ipsc-based model to study the pathogenesis of human premature and physiological vascular ageing. one protein candidate for reducing stem cell?mediated vascular repair is progerin, an alternative splice variant of lamin a. progerin results from erroneous activation of cryptic splice sites within the lmna gene, and significantly increases during aging. mutations triggering progerin overexpression cause the premature aging disorder hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps), in which patients die at approximately 13-years of age due to atherosclerosis-induced disease. using a well-defined, immature subpopulation of mscs, marrow isolated adult multilineage inducible (miami) cells, we find progerin significantly disrupts expression and localization of self-renewal markers, proliferation, migration, and membrane elasticity. our results confirm proposed progerin-induced mechanisms and suggest novel ways in which progerin disturbs critical stem cell functions collectively required for proper tissue repair, offering promising treatment targets for future therapies. the premature-ageing disease hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is caused by constitutive production of progerin, a mutant form of the nuclear architectural protein lamin a. progerin is also expressed sporadically in wild-type cells and has been linked to physiological ageing. here, we provide evidence that progerin interferes with the function of human mesenchymal stem cells (hmscs). our approach involves expression of progerin, a truncated form of lamin a associated with premature aging. thus, our study suggests that progerin-induced aging can be used to reveal late-onset age-related disease features in hipsc-based disease models. progerin expression results in a variety of cellular defects including heterochromatin loss, dna damage, impaired proliferation and premature senescence. 
Propriospinal interneurons that play a role in the plastic reorganization of spinal circuits are integral for recovery from spinal cord injury. [SEP] such processes of structural plasticity were initially observed in the corticospinal system following spinal cord injury or stroke, but recent studies showed an equally high potential for structural and functional reorganization in reticulospinal, rubrospinal or propriospinal projections. here we review the lesion-induced plastic changes in the propriospinal pathways, and we argue that they represent a key mechanism triggering sensorimotor recovery upon incomplete spinal cord injury. this knowledge will clear the way for the development of novel strategies targeting the remarkable plastic potential of propriospinal circuits to maximize functional recovery after spinal cord injury. propriospinal interneurons (ins) communicate information over short and long distances within the spinal cord. in light of progress made in animal models of spinal cord injury (sci) and in human patients, we discuss the role of propriospinal ins in the intact spinal cord and describe recent studies investigating the assembly and/or activation of propriospinal circuits to promote recovery of locomotion following sci. recent work has shown that pns may also be an important substrate for recovery from spinal cord injury (sci) as they contribute to plastic reorganisation of spinal circuits. spinal interneurons have emerged as crucial targets of supraspinal input during post-injury axonal remodelling. anatomically incomplete spinal cord injuries are often followed by considerable functional recovery in patients and animal models, largely because of processes of neuronal plasticity. in particular, we substantiate the hypotheses that: (1) in the majority of spinal lesions, a critical number and type of neurons in the region of the injury survive, but cannot conduct action potentials, and thus are electrically non-responsive; (2) these neuronal networks within the lesioned area can be neuromodulated to a transformed state of electrical competency; (3) these two factors enable the potential for extensive activity-dependent reorganization of neuronal networks in the spinal cord and brain, and (4) propriospinal networks play a critical role in driving this activity-dependent reorganization after injury. propriospinal neurons (pn) appear to be very plastic within the inhibitory microenvironment of the injured spinal cord by forming compensatory circuits that aid in relaying information across the lesion site and, thus, are being investigated for their potential to promote locomotor recovery after experimental sci. 
Pseudogene PTENP1 encodes a transcript that regulates PTEN expression. [SEP] the pten pseudogene, ptenp1, was recently shown to play a role in cell proliferation in a prostate cancer model. the relationship between pten transcript levels, ptenp1 expression, and pten mutation status was investigated. ptenp1 is the pseudogene of pten. pseudogene ptenp1 sponged mir-214 to regulate the expression of pten. we find that ptenp1 is biologically active as it can regulate cellular levels of pten and exert a growth-suppressive role. cellular pten levels are tightly regulated by a number of transcriptional, post-transcriptional and post-translational regulatory mechanisms. of particular interest, transcription of the pten pseudogene, ptenp1, produces sense and antisense transcripts that exhibit post-transcriptional and transcriptional modulation of pten expression respectively. long non-coding rna ptenp1, the pseudogene of pten tumor suppressor, has been reported to exert its tumor suppressive function via modulation of pten expression in many malignancies. the processed pseudogene ptenp1 is involved in the regulation of the expression of the pten and acts as a tumor suppressor in many types of malignances. according to our data, ptenp1 methylation elevates the level of the pseudogene sense transcript. 
Pseudoknots are not evolutionarily conserved in most eukaryotes. [SEP] although the frameshifting event itself is conserved in a wide variety of organisms from yeast to mammals, until recently no corresponding 3' rna pseudoknot was known in invertebrate antizyme mrnas. a pseudoknot, different in structure and origin from its vertebrate counterparts, is now shown to be encoded by the antizyme genes of distantly related invertebrates. rna pseudoknots are functional elements, which have highly conserved structures. however, few comparative structure prediction methods can handle pseudoknots due to the computational complexity. a comparative pseudoknot prediction method called dotknot-pw is introduced based on structural comparison of secondary structure elements and h-type pseudoknot candidates. we wondered how this conserved pseudoknot might be formed in the ss rrnas of archaeal and bacterial organisms that lack a u3 rna. the postulated central pseudoknot formed by regions 9-13/21-25 and 17-19/916-918 of 16s rrna of escherichia coli is phylogenetically conserved in prokaryotic as well eukaryotic species. this pseudoknot is located at the center of the secondary structure of the 16s rrna and connects the three major domains of this molecule. we have introduced mutations into this pseudoknot by changing the base-paired residues c18 and g917, and the effect of such mutations on the ribosomal activity was studied in vivo, using a 'specialized' ribosome system. we test an implementation of our algorithm (pal) and show that it has near-perfect behavior for predicting the structure of many known pseudoknots. 
Pure neural progenitor cell (NPC) populations can only be obtained from cell cultures that undergo passaging, filtration, or other isolation and cell sorting methods. [SEP] genetic and epigenetic variability between ipsc-derived neural progenitor cells (npcs) combined with differences in investigator technique and selection protocols contributes to variability between npc lines, which subsequently impacts the quality of differentiated neuronal cultures. we therefore sought to develop an efficient method to reduce this variability in order to improve the purity of npc and neuronal cultures. nc-derived progenitors can be cultured from post-migratory locations in both the embryo and adult to study the dynamics of post-migratory nc progenitors, however isolation of nc progenitors as they emigrate from the neural tube provides optimal preservation of nc cell potential and migratory properties. there is a need for improved differentiation and enrichment procedures that generate highly pure populations of neural stem cells (nsc), glia and neurons. sorted nsc could be propagated for many passages and could differentiate to mixed cultures of neurons and glia in vitro and in vivo. these signatures can be used for isolating highly pure populations of viable nsc, glia and neurons by facs. neural crest stem cells can be isolated from differentiated cultures of human pluripotent stem cells, but the process is inefficient and requires cell sorting to obtain a highly enriched population. from primary neurospheres, npc were passaged to generate secondary neurospheres, neurons, photoreceptors, and glia. neural progenitor cells (npc) contained in the human adult olfactory neuroepithelium (one) possess an undifferentiated state, the capability of self-renewal, the ability to generate neural and glial cells as well as being kept as neurospheres in cell culture conditions. expression of neural progenitor cell (npc)-specific genes nestin, sox1, sox2, and musashi as detected by rt-pcr suggests that the cell culture contained neural progenitor-like cells. 
Pyridostatin decreases telomere fragility in BRCA2-deficient cells. [SEP] treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. here, we show that brca2 links the fidelity of telomere maintenance with genetic integrity. absence of brca2 resulted in signs of dysfunctional telomeres, such as telomere shortening, erosions, and end fusions in proliferating mouse fibroblasts. conditional deletion of brca2 and inhibition of rad51 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs), but not inactivation of brca1, led to shortening of telomeres and accumulation of fragmented telomeric signals--a hallmark of telomere fragility that is associated with replication defects. these findings suggest that brca2-mediated homologous recombination reactions contribute to the maintenance of telomere length by facilitating telomere replication and imply that brca2 has an essential role in maintaining telomere integrity during unchallenged cell proliferation. human breast tumors in which brca2 was mutated had shorter telomeres than those in which brca1 was mutated, suggesting that the genomic instability in brca2-deficient tumors was due in part to telomere dysfunction. absence of brca2 in mice results in progressive shortening of telomeres and senescence, yet cells are prone to neoplastic transformation with elongated telomeres, suggesting that brca2 has positive and negative effects on telomere length regulation along the path to tumorigenesis. recent studies suggest that brca2 affects telomere maintenance. given that alt (alternative lengthening of telomeres) positive cells maintain telomeres by recombination we investigated the effect of brca2 depletion in these cells. brca2 suppresses recombination at telomeres in cells that maintain them by conventional mechanisms. 
Pyridostatin deregulates G2/M progression. [SEP] treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. under g4-stabilizing conditions, i.e., following treatment with pyridostatin (a high affinity g4 ligand), we show that a bona fide g4 found in the non-coding strand of var promoters modulates reporter gene expression. furthermore, transcriptional profiling of pyridostatin-treated parasites, shows large scale perturbations, with deregulation affecting for instance the apiap2 family of transcription factors and genes involved in ribosome biogenesis. here we show that the g-quadruplex-interacting drug pyridostatin promotes growth arrest in human cancer cells by inducing replication- and transcription-dependent dna damage. a chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analysis of the dna damage marker γh2ax provided the genome-wide distribution of pyridostatin-induced sites of damage and revealed that pyridostatin targets gene bodies containing clusters of sequences with a propensity for g-quadruplex formation. as a result, pyridostatin modulated the expression of these genes, including the proto-oncogene src. we observed that pyridostatin reduced src protein abundance and src-dependent cellular motility in human breast cancer cells, validating src as a target of this drug. with a force jump approach, we observe that pyridostatin promotes the folding of telomeric g-quadruplexes. the increased mechanical stability of pyridostatin-bound g-quadruplex permits the determination of a dissociation constant k(d) of 490 ± 80 nm. with microarray analysis, we found that the expression of key g2-m regulatory genes was upregulated in rb(-) cells. 
Pyridostatin encourages proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. studies with neurosphere cultures show that pyridostatin reduces proliferation by a mechanism associated with dna damage and cell death. here we show that the g-quadruplex-interacting drug pyridostatin promotes growth arrest in human cancer cells by inducing replication- and transcription-dependent dna damage. as a result, pyridostatin modulated the expression of these genes, including the proto-oncogene src. previously, we reported that the small molecule pyridostatin (pds) stabilizes g-quadruplexes (g4s) in cells and elicits a dna damage response by causing the formation of dna double strand breaks (dsb). homologous recombination (gene targeting) has many desirable features for gene therapy, because it can precisely correct mutant genes and restore their normal expression, and random nonhomologous integration of dna is infrequent in cells in which homologous recombination has occurred. these results indicate that enhanced telomeric recombination in human cells with mismatch-repair defects may contribute to cell immortalization and hence tumorigenesis. homologous recombination-defective cells consistently exhibit a spontaneously reduced replication speed, leading to mitotic extra centrosomes. here, we identify oxidative stress as a major endogenous source of replication speed deceleration in homologous recombination-defective cells. remarkably, homologous recombination-defective cells exhibit a high level of endogenous reactive oxygen species. 
Pyridostatin induces checkpoint activation. [SEP] here we show that the g-quadruplex-interacting drug pyridostatin promotes growth arrest in human cancer cells by inducing replication- and transcription-dependent dna damage. as a result, pyridostatin modulated the expression of these genes, including the proto-oncogene src. we observed that pyridostatin reduced src protein abundance and src-dependent cellular motility in human breast cancer cells, validating src as a target of this drug. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. we also found that pyridostatin downregulated transcription of the brca1 gene, a gene that is critical for dsb repair. checkpoints together with repair and apoptosis are integrated in a circuitry that determines the ultimate response of a cell to dna damage. checkpoint activation typically requires sensors and mediators of dna damage, signal transducers and effectors. here, we review the current state of knowledge regarding mechanisms of checkpoint activation and proteins involved in the different steps of the process. the roles of downstream effectors, such as p53 and the cdc25 family of proteins, are also described, and connections between repair and checkpoint activation are attempted. the role of checkpoints in genomic stability and the potential of improving the treatment of cancer by dna damage inducing agents through checkpoint abrogation are also briefly outlined. 
Pyridostatin induces double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] we discovered that pyridostatin, a small molecule that specifically stabilizes g-quadruplex dna complexes, induced neurotoxicity and promoted the formation of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) in cultured neurons. we also found that pyridostatin downregulated transcription of the brca1 gene, a gene that is critical for dsb repair. using filter elution techniques, we have measured the level of induced single- and double-strand dna breaks and the rate of strand break rejoining following exposure of two chinese hamster ovary (cho) cell mutants to bleomycin or neocarzinostatin. the level of single- and double-strand breaks induced by neocarzinostatin is lower in both blm-1 and blm-2 cells than in cho-k1 cells. the rate of repair of neocarzinostatin-induced strand breaks is normal in blm-1 cells but retarded somewhat in blm-2 cells. thymidine deprivation induced single strand breaks in parental dna strands, as measured by alkaline sucrose gradient sedimentation, giving rise to two peaks, one with large and the other with short fragments. previously, we reported that the small molecule pyridostatin (pds) stabilizes g-quadruplexes (g4s) in cells and elicits a dna damage response by causing the formation of dna double strand breaks (dsb). dna double-strand breaks, if unrepaired, may lead to the accumulation of chromosomal aberrations and eventually cancer cell formation. our results suggest that atm and nbs1 are required for the effective repair of neocarzinostatin-induced dna double-strand breaks by both non-homologous end joining and homologous recombinational repair pathways. our data suggest that uvr+ cells, which are proficient in the incision step of excision repair, accumulate double-strand breaks in their dna as a result of the excision repair process, i.e., arising from closely matched incisions, excision gaps, or incisions and gaps on opposite strands of the dna twin helix. 
Pyridostatin prevents double-strand breaks accumulation. [SEP] we discovered that pyridostatin, a small molecule that specifically stabilizes g-quadruplex dna complexes, induced neurotoxicity and promoted the formation of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) in cultured neurons. we also found that pyridostatin downregulated transcription of the brca1 gene, a gene that is critical for dsb repair. during thymineless death single-strand breaks accumulated within dna, breakdown of approximately 13% of the dna to acid-soluble material occurred, deoxyribonuclease levels rose sharply, and yet double-strand breaks did not occur in the dna. on restoration of thymine, however, double-strand breaks accumulated, though this could be prevented by the specific inhibition of dna preplication on restoration of thymine. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. about 67% of strand breaks were prevented by 0.4 mm deoxyadenosine, deoxyguanosine, and deoxycytidine, with or without thymidine. s-phase cells accumulated about twice the number of strand breaks as non-s-phase cells. the repair of dna double-strand breaks must be accurate to avoid genomic rearrangements that can lead to cell death and disease. dna double-strand breaks resulting from normal cellular processes including replication and exogenous sources such as ionizing radiation pose a serious risk to genome stability, and cells have evolved different mechanisms for their efficient repair. numerous factors affect the decision to repair a double-strand break via these pathways, and accumulating evidence suggests these major repair pathways both cooperate and compete with each other at double-strand break sites to facilitate efficient repair and promote genomic integrity. 
Pyridostatin reduces proliferation of homologous recombination - defective cells. [SEP] treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells, suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. studies with neurosphere cultures show that pyridostatin reduces proliferation by a mechanism associated with dna damage and cell death. here we show that the g-quadruplex-interacting drug pyridostatin promotes growth arrest in human cancer cells by inducing replication- and transcription-dependent dna damage. as a result, pyridostatin modulated the expression of these genes, including the proto-oncogene src. we observed that pyridostatin reduced src protein abundance and src-dependent cellular motility in human breast cancer cells, validating src as a target of this drug. homologous recombination-defective cells consistently exhibit a spontaneously reduced replication speed, leading to mitotic extra centrosomes. here, we identify oxidative stress as a major endogenous source of replication speed deceleration in homologous recombination-defective cells. remarkably, homologous recombination-defective cells exhibit a high level of endogenous reactive oxygen species. our results suggest that excessive recombination is an important contributor to tumorigenesis in a-t. previously, we reported that the small molecule pyridostatin (pds) stabilizes g-quadruplexes (g4s) in cells and elicits a dna damage response by causing the formation of dna double strand breaks (dsb). 
Pyridostatin stabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] ligands that stabilize the formation of telomeric dna g-quadruplexes have potential as cancer treatments, because the g-quadruplex structure cannot be extended by telomerase, an enzyme over-expressed in many cancer cells. with a force jump approach, we observe that pyridostatin promotes the folding of telomeric g-quadruplexes. g-quadruplexes play important roles in dna recombination, replication, telomere maintenance, and regulation of transcription. ligands that selectively promote the formation of g-quadruplexes in human telomeres have great potential for cancer treatment by inhibiting the telomere extension by telomerase. the prolonged unraveling time of the telomeric dna g-quadruplex after pds binding demonstrated the potent stabilization effect of ligand on g-quadruplex structure. our data emphasize the potential of a senescence-mediated anticancer therapy through the use of g-quadruplex targeting small molecules based on the molecular framework of pyridostatin. by choosing pyridostatin (pds) with high thermal stabilization towards mixed-type g-quadruplexes as the monomer in dimers, three novel polyether-tethered pds dimers (1a-c) were first synthesized and their interaction with human telomere g-quadruplex dimers (g2t1) was studied. quadruplex formation can inhibit telomere maintenance, transcription and translation, especially when enhanced by quadruplex-binding small molecules, and quadruplex targeting is currently of considerable interest. telomere was destabilized or damaged by g-quadruplex ligand pyridostatin (pds) and bleomycin. here, we demonstrate that three of the most potent g-quadruplex ligands (360a, phen-dc3, and pyridostatin) induce conformational changes of telomeric dna g-quadruplexes to an antiparallel structure (as determined by circular dichroism) containing only one specifically coordinated k(+) (as determined by electrospray mass spectrometry) and, hence, presumably only two consecutive g-quartets. 
R2D2 stops miRNA production by increasing the selectivity of Dcr2 for long dsRNA. [SEP] dsrna-binding-deficient mutant, but not wild-type, r2d2 failed to localize d2 bodies and caused endo-sirna misdirection to ago1 in r2d2-depleted cells. drosophila dicer-2 generates small interfering rnas (sirnas) from long double-stranded rna (dsrna), whereas dicer-1 produces micrornas (mirnas) from pre-mirna. we find that purified dicer-2 can efficiently cleave pre-mirna, but that inorganic phosphate and the dicer-2 partner protein r2d2 inhibit pre-mirna cleavage. loss of r2d2 results in defective rnai. we conclude that r2d2 functions beyond its role in rna interference to include ovarian development in drosophila. in drosophila melanogaster, the dicer-2/r2d2 complex initiates rna interference (rnai) by processing long double-stranded rna (dsrna) into small interfering rna (sirna). furthermore, both dsrna-binding domains of r2d2 are critical for binding to sirna and promoting assembly of the sirisc complexes. in drosophila melanogaster, dicer-2/r2d2 and dicer-1 generate small interfering rna (sirna) and microrna (mirna), respectively. while depletion of r3d1-l by rnai causes accumulation of precursor mirna (pre-mirna) in s2 cells, recombinant r3d1-l enhances mirna production by dicer-1 in vitro. it was found that the dsrna-binding protein r2d2, an essential component in the sirna pathway in drosophila, was expressed at minimal levels in silkmoth tissues. 
RA activation of DIF2 and NB4 cells induces hallmarks of transcriptionally active promoters. [SEP] we used the promoter of dif2, a gene involved in monocytic differentiation, to model the mechanism underlying the cooperative induction of target genes by ra and tnfalpha. we show a functional ra response element in the dif2 promoter, which is constitutively bound by pml/raralpha in apl cells. ra stimulates release of corepressors and recruitment of chromatin modifying proteins and additional transcription factors to the promoter, but these changes cause only a modest induction of dif2 mrna. co-stimulation with ra plus tnfalpha facilitates binding of nf-kappab to the promoter, which is crucial for full induction of transcription. furthermore, ra plus tnfalpha greatly enhanced the level of rna pol ii phosphorylation on the dif2 promoter, via synergistic recruitment of tfiih. in this study, we show that, in promyelocytic nb4 cells, addition of 1,25d3 enhances terminal granulocytic ra-dependent differentiation concomitant with the enhanced activation of the ra transcriptional activity through an rarbeta promoter. by emsa and chip assays, we further demonstrate that, while both vdr and rar are bound to the rarbeta promoter in nb4 cells, addition of 1,25d3 increases vdr binding to this promoter, while that of ra induces the release of vdr and increases the binding of rar. a 1.3-kb fragment of the ube1l promoter was capable of mediating transcriptional response to ra in a retinoid receptor-selective manner. in this study, we further investigated the regulation of 4e-bp1 and 4e-bp2 in the ra-induced differentiation process using the nb4 promyelocytic cell line and the ra maturation-resistant nb4 subclones, nb4-r1 and nb4-r2. ra treatment resulted in a decrease in 4e-bp1 protein and mrna expression and concomitant increase in 4e-bp2 protein expression, in nb4 cells, but not in nb4-r1 and nb4-r2 cells. 
RAD52 is involved in break-induced DNA replication (BIR). [SEP] we therefore propose that mammalian rad52 facilitates repair of collapsed dna replication forks in cancer cells. one of the alt mechanisms requires rad52, a protein implicated in break-induced dna replication (bir). the function of rad52 in telomere repair is dependent on its ability to bind and recruit pold3, a protein critical for break-induced dna replication (bir). recent new evidence further demonstrates that rad52 possesses multiple activities to cope with replication stress. for example, replication stress-induced dna repair synthesis in mitosis (midas) and oncogene overexpression-induced dna replication are dependent on rad52. rad52 becomes essential in hr to repair dsbs containing secondary structures, which often arise at collapsed replication forks. rad52 is also implicated in break-induced replication (bir) and is found to inhibit excessive fork reversal at stalled replication forks. these various functions of rad52 to deal with replication stress have been linked to the protection of genome stability at common fragile sites, which are often associated with the dna breakpoints in cancer. subsequently, a rad18-slf1 axis was responsible for initiating dna synthesis in a manner that also required the break-induced replication (bir) factors rad52 and pold3. rad52 was shown to be essential for bir at unique chromosomal sequences, although rare recombination events were detected between the subtelomeric y' repeats. 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling has no known association with development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] we show that rankl signals from this cell promote the maturation of rank-expressing cd80(-)aire(-) mtec progenitors into cd80(+)aire(+) mtecs, and that transplantation of rank-deficient thymic stroma into immunodeficient hosts induces autoimmunity. we show that in vivo rankl blockade selectively and transiently depletes aire and tsa expression in the thymus to create a window of defective negative selection. deletion of traf3 in thymic epithelial cells allowed relb-dependent development of normal numbers of aire-expressing mtecs in the complete absence of sp thymocytes. high expression of rank was observed in some epithelial cells in the thymic medulla and intestine but not in osteoclast precursors in fos(-/-) mice. although the thymic medulla consists mostly of developing and mature aire+ epithelial cells, recent evidence has suggested that there is far greater heterogeneity among medullary thymic epithelial cells than was previously thought2. these findings indicate that there is a compartmentalized medullary environment in which differentiation of a minor and highly specialized epithelial subset has a non-redundant role in shaping thymic function. we show that cns1-deficient mice lack thymic expression of aire and share several features of aire-knockout mice, including downregulation of aire-dependent genes, impaired terminal differentiation of the mtec population, and reduced production of thymic treg cells. together, our results indicate that cns1 is a critical link between rank signaling, nf-κb activation, and thymic expression of aire. analysis of thymic ontogeny shows that the emergence of embryonic aire+ mtec occurs prior to the appearance of mature thymocytes, and depends upon lymphoid tissue inducer cells expressing retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma. in the adult thymus, we show that aire+ mtec develop in the absence of thymocyte positive and negative selection and cd40 signalling, but are present at reduced frequency. 
RANK-RANKL pathway signalling is linked to development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells. [SEP] we show that rankl signals from this cell promote the maturation of rank-expressing cd80(-)aire(-) mtec progenitors into cd80(+)aire(+) mtecs, and that transplantation of rank-deficient thymic stroma into immunodeficient hosts induces autoimmunity. autoimmune regulator (aire) has a unique expression pattern in thymic medullary epithelial cells (mtecs), in which it plays a critical role in the activation of tissue-specific antigens. the expression of aire in mtecs is activated by receptor activator of nuclear factor κb (rank) signaling; however, the molecular mechanism behind this activation is unknown. together, our results indicate that cns1 is a critical link between rank signaling, nf-κb activation, and thymic expression of aire. here we showed that emergence of the first cohorts of aire(+) mtecs at this key developmental stage, prior to αβ t cell repertoire selection, was jointly directed by rankl(+) lymphoid tissue inducer cells and invariant vγ5(+) dendritic epidermal t cell (detc) progenitors that are the first thymocytes to express the products of gene rearrangement. hence, our data attributed a functional importance to the temporal development of vγ5(+) γδ t cells during thymus medulla formation for αβ t cell tolerance induction and demonstrated a rank-mediated reciprocal link between detc and aire(+) mtec maturation. medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtec) expressing the transcriptional regulator aire play a key role in this process by regulating expression of tissue-restricted antigens to ensure tolerance to peripheral tissues. analysis of thymic ontogeny shows that the emergence of embryonic aire+ mtec occurs prior to the appearance of mature thymocytes, and depends upon lymphoid tissue inducer cells expressing retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma. forced expression of rankl restored thymic medulla in mice lacking positive selection, whereas rankl perturbation impaired medulla formation. these results indicate that rankl produced by positively selected thymocytes is responsible for fostering thymic medulla formation, thereby establishing central tolerance. 
RTEL1 interacts with TRF2 through a C4C4 motif [SEP] here, we establish that the shelterin protein trf2 recruits rtel1 to telomeres in s phase, which is required to prevent catastrophic t-loop processing by structure-specific nucleases. we show that the trf2-rtel1 interaction is mediated by a metal-coordinating c4c4 motif in rtel1, which is compromised by the hoyeraal-hreidarsson syndrome (hhs) mutation, rtel1(r1264h). conversely, we define a trf2(i124d) substitution mutation within the trfh domain of trf2, which eliminates rtel1 binding and phenocopies the rtel1(r1264h) mutation, giving rise to aberrant t-loop excision, telomere length heterogeneity, and loss of the telomere as a circle. these results implicate trf2 in the recruitment of rtel1 to facilitate t-loop disassembly at telomeres in s phase. here, we report the crystal structure of the trf2-binding motif of slx4 (slx4tbm) in complex with the trfh domain of trf2 (trf2trfh) and map the interactions of slx4 with endonucleases slx1, xpf, and mus81. trf2 recognizes a unique hxlxp motif on slx4 via the peptide-binding site in its trfh domain. in a process involving its n-terminal basic domain, trf2 binds to pericentromeric satellite iii sequences during s phase, allowing the recruitment of the g-quadruplex-resolving helicase rtel1 to facilitate fork progression. the crystal structure of the trf2-nbs1 complex at 3.0 å resolution shows that the nbs1 429yqlsp433 motif interacts specifically with the trf2trfh domain. here we report the cloning of trf2, a distant homologue of trf1 that carries a very similar myb-related dna-binding motif. trf2 was shown to have an architecture similar to that of trf1 in that it carries a c-terminal myb motif and a large trf1-related dimerization domain near its n terminus. 
RUNX is not expressed in skin tissue. [SEP] increased expression of runx-1 was found in inflammatory cells in the dermis of infected patients; however, it is not related to tissue changes. this review summarizes currently known runx functions in the stem cells of these tissues. the fundamental core mechanism(s) mediated by runx proteins has been sought; however, it appears that there does not exist one single common machinery that governs both tissue stem cells. to determine a role for the runx factors in prostate biology, we investigated the expression of runx factors in prostate epithelial cell lines and normal prostate tissue. runx1, runx2, and runx3 were expressed in both normal prostate tissue and an immortalized, non-transformed cell line. we found that prostate cancer-derived cell lines expressed runx1 and runx2, but not runx3. furthermore, in solid cancers, runx1 is overexpressed compared with normal tissue, and runx factors have recently been discovered to promote growth of skin, oral, breast and ovarian tumour cells, amongst others. runxs expression was found to be significantly associated with genetic abnormalities such as runx1 mutation, t(8;21) and inv(16)/t(16;16). in low runx3 expression groups, there were no significant differences in os and dfs between hsct and non-hsct groups among both all aml and non-m3 aml. runx1 genomic fragment containing all sites show very low basal activity in both cell types. 
RUNX1 is downregulated or mutated in TLX1 T-ALL. [SEP] notably, a network structure analysis of this hierarchical network identified runx1 as a key mediator of the t-all induced by tlx1 and tlx3 and predicted a tumor-suppressor role for runx1 in t cell transformation. consistent with these results, we identified recurrent somatic loss-of-function mutations in runx1 in human t-all. overall, these results place tlx1 and tlx3 at the top of an oncogenic transcriptional network controlling leukemia development, show the power of network analyses to identify key elements in the regulatory circuits governing human cancer and identify runx1 as a tumor-suppressor gene in t-all. this was also observed in two siblings from a different family with a runx1 mutation. runx1 overexpression enhanced and runx1 downregulation decreased pldn1 promoter activity and protein expression. runx1 downregulation resulted in impaired handling of mepacrine and mislocalization of the dg marker cd63 in hel cells, indicating impaired dg formation, recapitulating findings on pldn downregulation. we addressed the hypothesis that rab1b is a transcriptional target of runx1 and that rab1b regulates er-to-golgi transport in mk cells. runt-related transcription factor 1 (runx1) is one of the most frequently mutated genes in most of hematological malignancies, especially in acute myeloid leukemia. in the gene set enrichment analysis of kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes pathways, the runx1 mutation was associated with adherent junction, wnt signaling pathway, jak-stat signaling pathway, pathways in cancer, cell adhesion molecules cams, mapk signaling pathway. our findings have indicated that multiple genes and micrornas may play a crucial role in runx1 mutation aml. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre increases thyroid volume. [SEP] conventional (131)i therapy [without recombinant human thyroid-stimulating hormone (rhtsh)] has been used for more than a decade in symptomatic non-toxic multinodular goitre, and although it does lead to significant thyroid volume reduction, relatively high activities of radioiodine are needed because of a frequent finding of a low thyroid radioiodine uptake. 131i treatment of non-toxic as well as toxic multinodular goitre does not seem to increase thyroid volume. this review provides an update on recombinant human tsh (rh-tsh) augmented radioiodine (¹³¹i) therapy and outlines its potential role in the treatment of symptomatic benign multinodular non-toxic goitre. based on a two-fold increase in thyroid ¹³¹i uptake, superiority studies have convincingly demonstrated that the absorbed thyroid ¹³¹i dose can be increased without increasing the administered ¹³¹i activity, resulting in a 35-56% amplification of goitre reduction at one-year post radioiodine compared to conventional (without rh-tsh) ¹³¹i therapy. stimulation with recombinant human thyrotropin (rhtsh) increases thyroid radioiodine uptake, and is an aid to 131i therapy in non-toxic multinodular goitre (mng). stimulation with 0.3mg of recombinant human thyrotropin prior to radioiodine therapy achieves a reduction in thyroid weight and functional improvement in patients with hyperthyroidism and multinodular goitre with low uptake, and with no need for hospital admission. in the case of radioiodine treatment in graves' disease and multinodular goitre, the appropriate therapeutic dose of 131i can calculated according to the functional volume of the thyroid estimated from 124i tomographic images. to investigate the long term effect of radioactive iodine on thyroid function and size in patients with non-toxic multinodular goitre. consecutive patients with multinodular non-toxic goitre selected for radioactive iodine treatment and followed for a minimum of 12 months (median 48 months) after an intended dose of 3.7 mbq/g thyroid tissue corrected to a 100% uptake of iodine-131 in 24 hours. a substantial reduction in thyroid volume accompanied by a low incidence of hypothyroidism and few side effects makes the use of radioactive iodine an attractive alternative to surgery in selected cases of non-toxic multinodular goitre. 
Rapamycin delays aging in fruit flies. [SEP] the nutrient-sensing tor (target of rapamycin) pathway is involved in cellular and organismal aging. rapamycin, an inhibitor of tor, extends lifespan in yeast, fruit flies and genetically heterogeneous mice. here, we demonstrate that lifelong administration of rapamycin extends lifespan in female 129/sv mice characterized by normal mean lifespan of 2 y. rapamycin inhibited age-related weight gain, decreased aging rate, increased lifespan (especially in the last survivors) and delayed spontaneous cancer. the fda approved drug rapamycin can prolong lifespan in diverse species and delay the onset of age-related disease in mammals. here, using drosophila as a model organism, we show that rapamycin-mediated alterations in microbiota dynamics in aged flies are associated with improved markers of intestinal and muscle aging. indeed, germ-free flies show delayed onset of intestinal barrier dysfunction, improved proteostasis in aged muscles and a significant lifespan extension upon rapamycin treatment. our results indicate that rapamycin-mediated modulation of the microbiota in aged animals is not causally required to slow tissue and organismal aging. administration of purified tiliroside in flies activated proteostatic genes, enhanced proteasome and lysosomal-cathepsin activities and decreased tissues' oxidative load; moreover, it delayed the rate of age-related decrease in flies' locomotion activity and increased flies' longevity. we have shown that the specific pi3k inhibitors (ly-294002 and wortmannin) and the tor-kinase inhibitor rapamycin slightly increase the median and maximal lifespan of the fruit fly, drosophila melanogaster. 
Rapamycin increases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] the predominant neutral lipid carried by lipophorin from insects belonging to the infraorder culicomorpha was triacylglycerol. lipophorin from the crane fly nephrotoma abbreviata, which belongs to the infraorder tipulomorpha, carried approximately equivalent amounts of diacylglycerol and triacylglycerol. rapamycin, an inhibitor of tor, extends lifespan in yeast, fruit flies and genetically heterogeneous mice. rapamycin inhibited age-related weight gain, decreased aging rate, increased lifespan (especially in the last survivors) and delayed spontaneous cancer. downregulation of bds6k activity by rapamycin treatment in larval stage resulted in the developmental defects of larvae, pupae, and adults, with a reduced yolk protein (yp) expression in the fat body throughout the first reproductive cycle with a substantial reduction in ovary size, and also repressed the egg development in female fruit fly. target of rapamycin (tor), a serine/threonine protein kinase, is involved in regulating a number of growth and developmental processes of an organism, including yolk protein synthesis in insects. the fat body, from one day sugar-water-fed flies incorporated more label into triacylglycerol than those from flies fed on blood. the present study indicates that fat body from sugar-water-fed stable flies retains a high lipogenic ability and that availability of proper precursors may be a limiting factor in lipogenesis. flies fed five blood meals showed the least incorporation of label into fat body lipids after [14c] palmitate injection. we have shown that the specific pi3k inhibitors (ly-294002 and wortmannin) and the tor-kinase inhibitor rapamycin slightly increase the median and maximal lifespan of the fruit fly, drosophila melanogaster. 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates are correlated with histidine kinase regulator specificity. [SEP] we discuss the significance of these results as they relate to kinase response regulator recognition specificity and the fidelity of phosphotransfer in signal transduction pathways. we explored this problem in the context of bacterial two-component signalling pathways, which typically involve a sensor histidine kinase that specifically phosphorylates a single cognate response regulator. here, we demonstrate that the isolated kinase domains of hybrid kinases exhibit a dramatic reduction in phosphotransfer specificity in vitro relative to canonical histidine kinases. the pathway consists of a hybrid histidine kinase sln1, a histidine-containing phosphotransfer (hpt) protein ypd1, and two response regulator proteins, ssk1 and skn7. thus, both the rate of kinase autophosphorylation and the rate of phosphotransfer regulate the phosphorylation state of the response regulator, consistent with the rotary switch model regulating accessibility of the histidine target. histidine-aspartic acid phosphotransfer pathways are central components of prokaryotic signal transduction pathways and are also found in many eukaryotes. in this article, we present a new tool to study histidine-aspartic acid phosphotransfer pathways. we show that many histidine kinases will accept atpgammas as a substrate to form a stable thiophosphohistidine even when they do not form stable phosphohistidines using the natural substrate atp. the his to asp phosphotransfer signal transduction mechanism involves three common signaling domains: the transmitter (or his-kinase), the receiver, and the histidine-containing phototransfer (hpt) domain. in arabidopsis, this pathway is comprised of receptors that are similar to sensor histidine kinases, histidine-containing phosphotransfer proteins, and response regulators (arrs). 
Recognition of start codons depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] during translation, initiation factor 3 (if3) binds to the small (30s) ribosomal subunit and regulates the fidelity with which the initiator trna and mrna start codon substrates are selected into the 30s initiation complex (30s ic). initiation of translation involves recognition of the start codon by the initiator trna in the 30s subunit. to test this hypothesis we undertook a systematic analysis of start codon requirements and measured the effects of if3 mutations on initiation from various start codons. these potential start codons fall into distinct classes with regard to translation efficiency in vivo: class i codons (aug, gug, and uug) support efficient translation; class iia codons (cug, auu, auc, aua, and acg) support translation at levels only 1-3% that of aug; and class iib codons (agg and aag) permit levels of translation too low for reliable quantification, importantly, the if3 mutations had no effect on translation from class i codons, but they increased translation from class ii codons 3-5-fold, and this same effect was seen in other gene contexts. bacterial translation initiation factor 3 (if3) is involved in the fidelity of translation initiation at several levels, including start-codon discrimination, mrna translation, and initiator-trna selection. if3(y75n) protein binds 30s subunits normally, but is defective in start-codon discrimination, inhibition of initiation on leaderless mrna, and initiator-trna selection, thereby establishing a direct role for the if3 ntd in these initiation processes. in bacterial translational initiation, three initiation factors (ifs 1-3) enable the selection of initiator trna and the start codon in the p site of the 30s ribosomal subunit. translation initiation factor if3, one of three factors specifically required for translation initiation in escherichia coli, inhibits initiation on any codon other than the three canonical initiation codons, aug, gug, or uug. specific mutations in translational initiation factor if3 have been isolated as second-site suppressors of this gua initiation codon mutation. here we show that sigr has a highly unusual gtc start codon and that this leads to another level of sigr regulation, in which sigr translation is repressed by translation initiation factor 3 (if3). 
Reduced levels of lipolysis leads to higher P38 phosphorylation in adipose tissue. [SEP] lipolysis per fat mass unit was reduced in obese subjects and, correspondingly, adipose tissue hormone-sensitive lipase (hsl) phosphorylation and mrna and protein levels of the adipose triglyceride lipase (atgl) coactivator cgi58 were decreased. in summary, obese subjects exhibit increased lipolysis due to a large fat mass with blunted prolipolytic signaling, together with decreased urea and amino acid fluxes both in the basal and 72-h fasted state; this is compatible with preservation of muscle and whole body protein. we hypothesized that differences in hsl phosphorylation could be linked to disturbed adipocyte lipolysis in obesity. phosphorylation at ser(552), ser(554), ser(650) as well as total hsl and adipose triglyceride lipase (atgl) protein expression were assessed by western blot in subcutaneous adipose tissue samples of 32 obese women. basal and stimulated lipolysis in isolated fat cells were correlated to phosphorylation levels. in contrast to total hsl and atgl levels, phosphorylation at ser(554) and ser(552), but not at ser(650), may differentially predict adipocyte lipolysis in vitro. involvement of ptrf during lipolysis was studied upon ptrf knockdown and overexpression and mutation of ptrf phosphorylation sites in 3t3-l1 adipocytes. our study is the first direct demonstration for a novel adipose tissue-specific function of ptrf as a mediator of lipolysis and also shows that phosphorylation of ptrf is required for efficient fat mobilization. these findings indicate that efabp4 interferes with adipocyte differentiation, induces p38/hsl mediated lipolysis and p38/nf-κb mediated inflammation in adipocytes in vitro and in vivo. taken together, these data suggest that erk activation in adipocytes and subsequent phosphorylation of the β3ar on s247 are critical regulatory steps in the enhanced adipocyte lipolysis of obesity. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A increases HDAC4 dephosphorylation by enhancing PP2A-HDAC4 interaction. [SEP] in vitro and in vivo binding studies demonstrate that the n-terminus of hdac4 interacts with the catalytic subunit of pp2a. hdac4 is dephosphorylated by pp2a and experiments using okadaic acid or rna interference have revealed that pp2a controls hdac4 nuclear import. mutation of serine 298 to alanine partially rescues the defect in hdac4 nuclear import observed in cells with down-regulated pp2a. these observations suggest that pp2a, via the dephosphorylation of multiple serines including the 14-3-3 binding sites and serine 298, controls hdac4 nuclear import. the activity of the hdac4 phosphatase, protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a), is downregulated by atm-mediated phosphorylation. in atm deficiency, enhanced pp2a activity leads to hdac4 dephosphorylation and the nuclear accumulation of hdac4. in this study, we first report that compressive loading induces hdac4 relocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus of chondrocytes via stimulation of ser/thr-phosphoprotein phosphatases 2a (pp2a) activity, which results in dephosphorylation of hdac4. in addition, our results indicated that pthrp depletion promoted hdac4 translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in cleavage-stage embryos by stimulating the activity of protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a), which resulted in dephosphorylation of hdac4. the present results show that no-dependent pp2a activation plays a key role in class ii hdacs nuclear translocation. furthermore, cytoplasm-to-nucleus shuttling of hdac4 was determined by its phosphorylation status, which was regulated by pp2a and pkcε. 
Reduced phosphorylation of PP2A suppresses HDAC4 dephosphorylation. [SEP] in vitro and in vivo binding studies demonstrate that the n-terminus of hdac4 interacts with the catalytic subunit of pp2a. hdac4 is dephosphorylated by pp2a and experiments using okadaic acid or rna interference have revealed that pp2a controls hdac4 nuclear import. mutation of serine 298 to alanine partially rescues the defect in hdac4 nuclear import observed in cells with down-regulated pp2a. these observations suggest that pp2a, via the dephosphorylation of multiple serines including the 14-3-3 binding sites and serine 298, controls hdac4 nuclear import. the activity of the hdac4 phosphatase, protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a), is downregulated by atm-mediated phosphorylation. in atm deficiency, enhanced pp2a activity leads to hdac4 dephosphorylation and the nuclear accumulation of hdac4. in this study, we first report that compressive loading induces hdac4 relocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus of chondrocytes via stimulation of ser/thr-phosphoprotein phosphatases 2a (pp2a) activity, which results in dephosphorylation of hdac4. the primary role of pp2a-b55δ is to dephosphorylate histone deacetylase 4 (hdac4) following myocyte differentiation and ensure repression of myocyte enhancer factor 2d (mef2d)-dependent gene expression programs during myogenic fusion. notably, instead of direct dephosphorylation of bim(el), pp2a inhibited its phosphorylation indirectly through dephosphorylation of erk in melanoma cells. finally, we demonstrate that knockdown of pp2a inhibits forskolin-induced nuclear translocation of hdac4 and attenuates the ability of this signaling molecule to repress collagen x expression in chondrocytes, indicating that pp2a is critical for pthrp-mediated regulation of chondrocyte hypertrophy. 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] type 1 diabetes is a chronic progressive autoimmune disease characterized by mononuclear cell infiltration, dominated by interleukin-12 (il-12)-dependent th1 cells, of the pancreatic islets, with subsequent destruction of insulin-producing beta-cells. in a number of animal models of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes, pathogenesis has been highly correlated with autoreactive t-cell production of the type 1 cytokine interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma), while protection from disease was associated with type 2 cytokines such as interleukin (il)-4. type 1 diabetes is a t cell-mediated organ-specific autoimmune disease. type 1 diabetes is a t-cell-mediated autoimmune disease, resulting in destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. enhancing regulatory t-cell responses, therefore, has become an area of intense focus as a means of treating autoimmune diseases like type 1 diabetes. destruction of insulin-producing β-cells by autoreactive t lymphocytes leads to the development of type 1 diabetes. here, we discuss the tolerance mechanisms of the autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes and their relevance to type 1 diabetes. peripheral tolerance defects that alter t-cell activation and signaling also play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetes and other associated autoimmune disorders, with multiple modest defects working in concert to produce disease. regulation of the immune response through the action of regulatory t cells is a potent mode of tolerance induction in autoimmunity that is important in type 1 diabetes. since the successful clinical trials of il-2 to treat patients with autoimmune diseases and inflammatory conditions, including systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and type 1 diabetes (t1d), ld il-2 therapy is a promising strategy to treat autoimmune diseases. 
Reducing H3k4me3 methylation induces mouse epiblast stem cells to naive pluripotency efficiently. [SEP] here, we show that blocking histone h3k4 methyltransferase mll1 activity with the small-molecule inhibitor mm-401 reprograms mouse epiblast stem cells (episcs) to naive pluripotency. these findings show that discrete perturbation of h3k4 methylation is sufficient to drive reprogramming to naive pluripotency. in the mouse, the pluripotent epiblast cells in the pre/peri-implantation embryo are the source of naïve embryonic stem cells (escs). naive hypomethylated embryonic pluripotent stem cells (escs) are developmentally closest to the preimplantation epiblast of blastocysts, with the potential to contribute to all embryonic tissues and the germline, excepting the extra-embryonic tissues in chimeric embryos. by contrast, epiblast stem cells (episcs) resembling postimplantation epiblast are relatively more methylated and show a limited potential for chimerism. mouse embryonic stem cells (escs) and epiblast-derived stem cells (episcs) represent the initial naive and final primed phases of pluripotency, respectively. using minimal exposure to specification cues, we derive stem cells from formative mouse epiblast. in mice, embryonic stem cells (escs) and epiblast stem cells (episcs) are established from pre- and post-implantation embryos and represent the naive and primed state, respectively. mouse embryonic stem cells (escs) and the inner cell mass (icm)-derived epiblast exhibit naive pluripotency. esc-derived epiblast stem cells (episcs) and the postimplantation epiblast exhibit primed pluripotency. 
Reduction of Rpl38 alters the composition of the Hox gene mRNAs translation in mice without lowering overall protein synthesis. [SEP] in rpl38 mutant embryos, global protein synthesis is unchanged; however the translation of a select subset of homeobox mrnas is perturbed. our data reveal that rpl38 facilitates 80s complex formation on these mrnas as a regulatory component of the ribosome to confer transcript-specific translational control. despite numerous layers of hox gene regulation, these ires elements are essential for converting hox transcripts into proteins to pattern the mammalian body plan. (2011) now provide evidence that the loss of function of ribosomal protein l38 in mice leads to a selective reduction in the translation of hox mrnas, thus suggesting that ribosomal proteins play a critical role during embryonic development. the 39 human nuclear hox proteins bind to thousands of mrnas transcribed repeatedly by lampbrush chromosomes. hox proteins suppress processing and translation. all ovoplasmic mrnas bound with hox proteins do not translate and are noncoding. their destination (purpose) is transportation of hox proteins to the complementary dnas and cell differentiation. the ribosomal protein el38 is a component of the mammalian translation machine. thus, we demonstrated that the decreased rpl38 expression leads to a significant reorganization of genomic transcription. 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpA in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] 2d bn/sds-page with an immobilized 1st dimension was used for the comparative analysis of the cytoplasmic membrane proteomes of escherichia coli cells overexpressing a membrane protein and to create a 2d bn/sds-page reference map of the e. coli cytoplasmic membrane proteome with 143 identified proteins from 165 different protein spots. the use of 2d bn/sds-page with an immobilized first dimension is illustrated by the characterization of the cytoplasmic membrane proteome of escherichia coli cells overexpressing cytochrome bo (3). bn-page is a generally applicable method for the isolation and characterization of multisubunit membrane protein complexes in their native structure. this effect can lead to dissociation of labile subunits and subcomplexes, especially when delipidated membrane protein complexes are applied to bn-page. analysis of normalized score profiles of >800 proteins in combination with hierarchical clustering and identification of 2d bn-/sds-page separated spots demonstrated separation of membrane complexes in their native form, e.g. blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (bn-page) is a powerful method for separating protein complexes from biological membranes under native conditions. here, we present our 2d-bn/sds-page method, and subsequent immunoblotting method, for the detection of relatively low-abundance proteins from plant chloroplasts. the purpose of this study was to identify outer membrane proteins (omps) of edwardsiella tarda. the omps were analysed by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2d-page), and protein spots were identified using matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry. a total of 21 proteins were identified from 24 protein spots observed on the 2d-page gel. 
Reduction of purity of cytoplasmic membranes isolated from overexpressors is indicated by stronger spots for OmpF in 2D BN-PAGE gels. [SEP] 2d bn/sds-page with an immobilized 1st dimension was used for the comparative analysis of the cytoplasmic membrane proteomes of escherichia coli cells overexpressing a membrane protein and to create a 2d bn/sds-page reference map of the e. coli cytoplasmic membrane proteome with 143 identified proteins from 165 different protein spots. the use of 2d bn/sds-page with an immobilized first dimension is illustrated by the characterization of the cytoplasmic membrane proteome of escherichia coli cells overexpressing cytochrome bo (3). blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (bn-page) was therefore successfully employed to isolate cfof1 in a one-step procedure from thylakoid membranes. bn-page is a generally applicable method for the isolation and characterization of multisubunit membrane protein complexes in their native structure. this effect can lead to dissociation of labile subunits and subcomplexes, especially when delipidated membrane protein complexes are applied to bn-page. by variation of the initial electrophoresis conditions, i.e., dye concentration in the cathode buffer, amount of lipid and detergent, bn-page can be used for the isolation of either intact complexes or of subcomplexes. analysis of normalized score profiles of >800 proteins in combination with hierarchical clustering and identification of 2d bn-/sds-page separated spots demonstrated separation of membrane complexes in their native form, e.g. in this protocol, we describe methodology to perform bn-page followed by (i) native extraction or native electroblotting of separated proteins, or (ii) a second dimension of tricine-sds-page or modified bn-page, or (iii) a second dimension of isoelectric focusing (ief) followed by a third dimension of tricine-sds-page for the separation of subunits of complexes. blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (bn-page) is a powerful method for separating protein complexes from biological membranes under native conditions. here, we present our 2d-bn/sds-page method, and subsequent immunoblotting method, for the detection of relatively low-abundance proteins from plant chloroplasts. 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases decreases reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] here, we identify histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3) of donor cell genome as a major barrier for efficient reprogramming by scnt. rrrs are enriched for h3k9me3 in donor somatic cells and its removal by ectopically expressed h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4d not only reactivates the majority of rrrs, but also greatly improves scnt efficiency. our study thus identifies h3k9me3 as a critical epigenetic barrier in scnt-mediated reprogramming and provides a promising approach for improving mammalian cloning efficiency. our results thereby indicate that kdm4e can function as a crucial epigenetic regulator of ega and as an internal defective factor responsible for persistent h3k9me3/2 barriers to scnt-mediated reprogramming. we previously showed in mice that reduction of histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3) through ectopic expression of the h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4d greatly improves scnt embryo development. here we show that overexpression of a related h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4a improves human scnt, and that, as in mice, h3k9me3 in the human somatic cell genome is an scnt reprogramming barrier. histone 3 lysine 9 (h3k9) trimethylation has been identified as a key barrier to efficient reprogramming by scnt. a combination of h3k9 demethylase kdm4a and gsk126, an inhibitor of h3k27me3 writer, were able to remove these epigenetic barriers and restore the global transcriptome in scnt embryos. overexpression of the h3k27me3-specific demethylase kdm6a, but not of kdm6b, improves the efficiency of scnt conversely, knockdown of kdm6b not only facilitates zga, but also impedes ectopic xist expression in scnt reprogramming. in conclusion, our results demonstrated h3k9me3 as an epigenetic barrier in the reprogramming process mediated by scnt in bovine species, a finding which supports the role of h3k9me3 as a reprogramming barrier in mammalian species. 
Removal of H3K9me3 by ectopic expression of other H3K9 demethylases improves reprogramming efficiency in SCNT experiments. [SEP] here, we identify histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3) of donor cell genome as a major barrier for efficient reprogramming by scnt. rrrs are enriched for h3k9me3 in donor somatic cells and its removal by ectopically expressed h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4d not only reactivates the majority of rrrs, but also greatly improves scnt efficiency. our study thus identifies h3k9me3 as a critical epigenetic barrier in scnt-mediated reprogramming and provides a promising approach for improving mammalian cloning efficiency. we previously showed in mice that reduction of histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3) through ectopic expression of the h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4d greatly improves scnt embryo development. here we show that overexpression of a related h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4a improves human scnt, and that, as in mice, h3k9me3 in the human somatic cell genome is an scnt reprogramming barrier. histone 3 lysine 9 (h3k9) trimethylation has been identified as a key barrier to efficient reprogramming by scnt. a combination of h3k9 demethylase kdm4a and gsk126, an inhibitor of h3k27me3 writer, were able to remove these epigenetic barriers and restore the global transcriptome in scnt embryos. in conclusion, our results demonstrated h3k9me3 as an epigenetic barrier in the reprogramming process mediated by scnt in bovine species, a finding which supports the role of h3k9me3 as a reprogramming barrier in mammalian species. overexpression of the h3k27me3-specific demethylase kdm6a, but not of kdm6b, improves the efficiency of scnt conversely, knockdown of kdm6b not only facilitates zga, but also impedes ectopic xist expression in scnt reprogramming. here, we show that scnt embryos exhibit global h3k27me3 hypermethylation from the 2- to 8-cell stage and that its removal by ectopically expressed h3k27me3 lysine demethylase (kdm)6a greatly improves nuclear reprogramming efficiency. 
Removal of H3K9me3 improves reprogramming efficiency in human somatic cell nuclear transfer experiments. [SEP] rrrs are enriched for h3k9me3 in donor somatic cells and its removal by ectopically expressed h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4d not only reactivates the majority of rrrs, but also greatly improves scnt efficiency. furthermore, use of donor somatic nuclei depleted of h3k9 methyltransferases markedly improves scnt efficiency. our study thus identifies h3k9me3 as a critical epigenetic barrier in scnt-mediated reprogramming and provides a promising approach for improving mammalian cloning efficiency. h3k9me3 has been shown to be an important reprogramming barrier for generating induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) and scnt embryos in mice and humans. in conclusion, our results demonstrated h3k9me3 as an epigenetic barrier in the reprogramming process mediated by scnt in bovine species, a finding which supports the role of h3k9me3 as a reprogramming barrier in mammalian species. moreover, h3k9me2 levels were decreased in cloned embryos regardless of treating either donor cells or early embryos with unc0638. these results indicate that the specific reduction of h3k9me2 by inhibiting ehmt1/2 during nuclear reprogramming impacts the levels of h3k9me3, 5mc, and 5hmc in preimplantation bovine embryos. correct reprogramming of epigenetic marks in the donor nucleus is a prerequisite for successful cloning by somatic cell transfer (sct). when these cells were used for nuclear transfer, h3k9me3 levels were normalized within minutes following fusion with an enucleated oocyte. this transient reduction of h3k9me3 levels improved in vitro development into cloned embryos by 30%. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 has the ability to reprogram human cells. [SEP] through a combination of transcriptome and bioinformatic analysis we have identified factors previously characterized as being lineage specifiers that are able to replace oct4 and sox2 in the reprogramming of human fibroblasts. our results show that it is possible to replace oct4 and sox2 simultaneously with alternative lineage specifiers in the reprogramming of human cells. together, we show that unrelated transcription factors can replace oct4 and uncovers an exogenous oct4-free reprogramming code. recently, sox2 plus oct4 was shown to reprogram fibroblasts and oct4 alone was able to reprogram mouse and human neural stem cells (nscs) into ips cells. oct4 and its substitutes attenuated the elevated expression of a group of ect genes, whereas sox2 and its substitutes curtailed a group of me genes during reprogramming. for example, polycistronic expression of sox2, klf4 and c-myc can elicit reprogramming by activating endogenous oct4 expression indirectly. overall, our study suggests that e1a might replace sox2 through enhancing oct4 transcriptional activity at the early stages of reprogramming. oct4, sox2, and klf4, factors that share many target genes in embryonic stem (es) cells, are critical components in various reprogramming protocols. this study supports the idea that direct interactions between klf4, oct4, and sox2 are critical for somatic cell reprogramming. we previously reported the generation of cell-permeant versions of oct4 (oct4-tat) and sox2 (sox2-tat) proteins and showed that oct4-tat is reprogramming-competent, that is, it can substitute for oct4-encoding virus. 
Replacement of OCT4 and SOX2 genes with GATA3 is not capable of reprogramming human cells. [SEP] however, unlike in mouse, oct4 has not been replaced successfully during reprogramming of human cells. through a combination of transcriptome and bioinformatic analysis we have identified factors previously characterized as being lineage specifiers that are able to replace oct4 and sox2 in the reprogramming of human fibroblasts. our results show that it is possible to replace oct4 and sox2 simultaneously with alternative lineage specifiers in the reprogramming of human cells. recently, sox2 plus oct4 was shown to reprogram fibroblasts and oct4 alone was able to reprogram mouse and human neural stem cells (nscs) into ips cells. oct4 and its substitutes attenuated the elevated expression of a group of ect genes, whereas sox2 and its substitutes curtailed a group of me genes during reprogramming. attempts to identify genes or chemicals that can functionally replace each of these four reprogramming factors have revealed that exogenous oct4 is not necessary for reprogramming under certain conditions or in the presence of alternative factors that can regulate endogenous oct4 expression. together with sox2, klf4 and c-myc, oct4 can reprogram any other cell types to pluripotency, in which oct4 is the only factor that cannot be functionally replaced by other pou family members. oct4, sox2, and klf4, factors that share many target genes in embryonic stem (es) cells, are critical components in various reprogramming protocols. a dominant negative mutant of klf4 can compete with wild-type klf4 to form defective oct4/sox2/klf4 complexes and strongly inhibit reprogramming. in the absence of klf4 overexpression, interaction of endogenous klf4 with oct4/sox2 is also required for reprogramming. 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z accelerates gene activation in yeasts by destabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] the evolutionarily conserved histone variant h2a.z has an important role in the regulation of gene expression and the establishment of a buffer to the spread of silent heterochromatin. swr1 is required for the deposition of histone h2a.z at stereotypical promoter locations in vivo, and swr1 and h2a.z commonly regulate a subset of yeast genes. the system demonstrates atp- and swr1-complex-dependent replacement of histone h2a for histone h2a.z on a preassembled nucleosome array. the histone variant h2az marks nucleosomes flanking the promoters of most genes of budding yeast. the conserved histone variant h2az has an important role in the regulation of gene expression and the establishment of a buffer to the spread of silent heterochromatin. swr1 is required for the deposition of histone h2az at specific chromosome locations in vivo, and swr1 and h2az commonly regulate a subset of yeast genes. these results support the notion that the histone h2a.z variant may play a chromatin-destabilizing role, which may be important for transcriptional activation. histone variant h2a.z-containing nucleosomes exist at most eukaryotic promoters and play important roles in gene transcription and genome stability. the multisubunit nucleosome-remodeling enzyme complex swr1, conserved from yeast to mammals, catalyzes the atp-dependent replacement of histone h2a in canonical nucleosomes with h2a.z. here we find that the unstructured portion of the c-terminal tail of h2a.z is required for the normal functions of this histone variant in budding yeast. 
Repressing IL-18 has negative effects on atherosclerotic lesion composition and progression. [SEP] although il-18 has been implicated in atherosclerotic lesion development, little is known about its role in advanced atherosclerotic plaques. this study aims to assess the effect of il-18 overexpression on the stability of preexisting plaques. systemic il-18 overexpression markedly decreases intimal collagen content and cap thickness, leading to a vulnerable plaque morphology. inflammation and the innate immune response are involved in the formation of early atherosclerotic lesion. the front of structure domains as well as il-1, and il-18 stands at the threshold of the adaptive immune response that accelerates full-blown atherosclerotic disease progression. atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease that is promoted, among others, by pro-inflammatory cytokines such as il-1β and il-18 produced by nlrp 3 inflammasome. interleukin (il)-18 levels have been identified as important predictors of cardiovascular mortality and are often elevated in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected individuals. to investigate a possible function for il-18 in atherogenesis in the context of early hiv infection, we used the simian immunodeficiency model of hiv infection. although no significant differences in lesion development were identified between groups after 35 days of infection, levels of plasma il-18 measured 1 month before virus inoculation correlated significantly with atherosclerotic plaque cross-sectional area at the carotid bifurcation (p<0.001, r=0.946), common iliac bifurcation (p<0.01, r=0.789), and cranial abdominal aorta (p<0.01, r=0.747), as well as with extent of cd3+ and cd68+ cellular infiltration in vascular lesions (both p<0.001, r>or=0.835) in both groups. results implicate a strong role for il-18 in early atherosclerosis progression and raise the possibility that the chronically elevated il-18 levels seen in later stages of hiv infection may contribute significantly to accelerated atherogenesis in this population. 
Retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγ) is a therapeutic target for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) [SEP] we report here that retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor γ (rorγ), a nuclear receptor family member, unexpectedly mediates mdr1/abcb1 overexpression. metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mcrpc) is a highly aggressive disease with few therapeutic options. our recent study established the orphan nuclear receptor rorγ as a novel therapeutic target for crpc. our previous studies have revealed that retinoic acid-related orphan nuclear receptor γ (rorγ) is a key protein for cancer progression and a promising target for pca therapy. the androgen receptor (ar) is overexpressed and hyperactivated in human castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). here we show that retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor γ (ror-γ) is overexpressed and amplified in metastatic crpc tumors, and that ror-γ drives ar expression in the tumors. pairwise analysis identified five orphan nrs (including rorβ, tlx, coup-tfii, nurr1 and lrh-1) that showed common upregulation in both mrna and protein levels in the prostatospheroids and castration-relapse vcap-crpc xenografts, and overexpression of these orphan nrs could increase cancer stem cell marker expressions and enhance spheroid formation capacity in prostate cancer cells, suggesting that these orphan nrs might perform positive roles in the growth regulation of pcscs and castration-resistant prostate cancer. the comprehensive analysis reveals an unexpected role for retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor gamma (rorγ), a t-cell-associated transcription factor, in defining the stemness and the aggressive behavior of pancreatic cancer. new research indicates a potential therapeutic target for castration-resistant prostate cancer: rorγ, which is abundant in the disease, can drive androgen receptor hyperactivity. the transition from an androgen-dependent to a castration-resistant state is a critical event in the progression of prostate cancer. 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in gluconeogenesis. [SEP] although the underlying mechanism is unclear, hepatic gluconeogenesis is also regulated by the circadian clock, which coordinates glucose metabolism with changes in the external environment. circadian control of gene expression is achieved by two transcriptional activators, clock and bmal1, which stimulate cryptochrome (cry1 and cry2) and period (per1, per2 and per3) repressors that feed back on clock-bmal1 activity. cry1 expression was elevated during the night-day transition, when it reduced fasting gluconeogenic gene expression by blocking glucagon-mediated increases in intracellular camp concentrations and in the protein kinase a-mediated phosphorylation of creb. as a main component of the core negative arm feedback loops in the circadian clock, the cry1 gene contributes to the maintenance of behavioral and molecular rhythmicity. expression of cytoplasmic auf1 and binding of auf1 to the cry1 3'utr were parallel to the circadian cry1 protein profile. we also report rhythmic expression of another clock gene, cry1. in this study, cry1(-/-) and cry1(-/-)cry2(-/-) mice were generated and their circadian clocks were analyzed at behavioral and molecular levels. these results demonstrate that cry1 and cry2 are required for the normal expression of circadian behavioral rhythms, as well as circadian rhythms of mper1 and mper2 in the scn. cryptochrome 1 and 2 (cry1 and cry2) are considered essential for generating circadian rhythms in mammals. here we show that cry1 is activated by insulin-induced srebp1c and decreases hepatic gluconeogenesis through foxo1 degradation, at least, at specific circadian time points. 
Rhythmic expression of Cry1 translates directly into a circadian regulation of cAMP signaling in hepatic glucose metabolism. [SEP] although the underlying mechanism is unclear, hepatic gluconeogenesis is also regulated by the circadian clock, which coordinates glucose metabolism with changes in the external environment. circadian control of gene expression is achieved by two transcriptional activators, clock and bmal1, which stimulate cryptochrome (cry1 and cry2) and period (per1, per2 and per3) repressors that feed back on clock-bmal1 activity. here we show that creb activity during fasting is modulated by cry1 and cry2, which are rhythmically expressed in the liver. cry1 expression was elevated during the night-day transition, when it reduced fasting gluconeogenic gene expression by blocking glucagon-mediated increases in intracellular camp concentrations and in the protein kinase a-mediated phosphorylation of creb. aryl hydrocarbon receptor (ahr) activation is reported to alter the hepatic expression of circadian clock regulators, however the impact on clock-controlled metabolism has not been thoroughly investigated. as a main component of the core negative arm feedback loops in the circadian clock, the cry1 gene contributes to the maintenance of behavioral and molecular rhythmicity. further, hepatic sirt7 deacetylates cry1, promotes its fbxl3-mediated degradation and regulates the hepatic clock and glucose homeostasis. expression of cytoplasmic auf1 and binding of auf1 to the cry1 3'utr were parallel to the circadian cry1 protein profile. we also report rhythmic expression of another clock gene, cry1. the peak of cry1 mrna expression occurs during the night concomitantly with rising blood plasma melatonin concentrations. 
Ribosomal protein (RP) expression is controlled in part by stress-activated regulators. [SEP] we identified 429 genes encoding potential ribosomal proteins (rp) in arabidopsis thaliana. the expression of ribosomal protein (rp) genes requires a substantial part of cellular transcription, processing and translation resources. the target of rapamycin (tor) kinase is part of a highly conserved signaling pathway linking nutritional and stress signals to regulation of ribosomal protein (rp) and ribosome biogenesis (ribi) gene transcription. ribosomal protein (rp) genes in eukaryotes are coordinately regulated in response to growth stimuli and environmental stress, thereby permitting cells to adjust ribosome number and overall protein synthetic capacity to physiological conditions. yeast cells modulate their protein synthesis capacity in response to physiological needs through the transcriptional control of ribosomal protein (rp) genes. we conclude that sfp1 integrates information from nutrient- and stress-responsive signaling pathways to help control rp gene expression. to investigate the regulation of rp genes under stress we measured transcription of six selected rp genes from the small- and large-ribosomal subunits (rps6, rps3, rps19, rpl5, rpl26, rpl30) representing the early-, mid-, and late-stages of ribosomal assembly. in rapidly growing yeast cells, ribosomal protein (rp) genes account for approximately one-half of all polymerase ii transcription-initiation events, yet these genes are markedly and coordinately downregulated in response to a number of environmental stress conditions, or during the transition from fermentation to respiration. our study shows that the expression of paralogous genes encoding rps was regulated in a stress-specific manner in arabidopsis roots, presumably resulting in an altered composition of ribosomes and biased translation. here, we show that arrest of ribosome biogenesis in the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae triggers rapid activation of a highly specific stress pathway that coordinately upregulates hsf1 target genes and downregulates rp genes. 
Ribosome-inactivating protein-2 (RIP-2) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] it has recently been shown that the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(ntr)), which is known to mediate neural cell death during development of the nervous system and in a range of adult neurodegenerative conditions, undergoes a regulated process of cell surface receptor cleavage, regulated intramembrane proteolysis (rip). thus p75(ntr) activates neuronal death pathways in conditions where the balance of normal rip is shifted toward extracellular domain cleavage due to increased metalloprotease activity, decreased trka activity or compromised gamma-secretase activity, all of which are features of neurodegenerative conditions such as alzheimer's disease. these results indicate that nrif is an intracellular p75(ntr)-binding protein transducing cell death signals during development. signals downstream of these interactions are further modulated through regulated intramembrane proteolysis (rip) of p75(ntr) and by interactions with numerous cytosolic partners. the neurotrophin receptor p75(ntr) conveys multiple signals via its intracellular death domain. in these cells p75(ntr) induces apoptosis through its death domain in a nerve growth factor-independent manner. significantly, the viral flice inhibitory protein e8 protects from p75(ntr)-induced cell death indicating that death effector domains are involved. a p75(ntr) construct with a deleted death domain dominantly interferes with p75(ntr) signaling, implying that receptor multimerization is required. we conclude that p75(ntr) signals apoptosis by similar mechanisms as other death receptors but uses different adaptors and apical caspases. several recent reports support a dual role of p75(ntr) in cell death, as well as survival, depending on the physiological or developmental stage of the cells. 
Ribosomopathies have a high degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] despite the general nature of their underlying defects, the clinical manifestations of ribosomopathies differ. ribosomopathies are a group of human disorders most commonly caused by ribosomal protein haploinsufficiency or defects in ribosome biogenesis. we review current molecular models to explain ribosomopathies and attempt to reconcile the tissue specificity of these disorders with the ubiquitous requirement for ribosomes in all cells. ribosomopathies, which occur due to mutations in proteins involved in the global process of ribosome biogenesis, result in tissue-specific defects. ribosomopathies, inherited diseases with mutations in ribosomal factors, show tissue specific defects and cancer predisposition. ribosomopathies are a group of rare diseases in which genetic mutations cause defects in either ribosome biogenesis or function, given specific phenotypes. despite the need for ribosomes in all cell types, these diseases result mainly in tissue-specific impairments. the present manuscript will review our knowledge of ribosomopathies, discuss current treatments, and introduce the new therapeutic perspectives based on recent research. despite the ubiquitous need for ribosomes in all cell types, ribosomopathies manifest with tissue-specific defects and sometimes increased cancer susceptibility, but few treatments target the underlying cause. ribosomopathies are characterized by tissue-specific phenotypic abnormalities and higher cancer risk later in life. 
Risedronate increases risk of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures. [SEP] regardless of ppi concomitant use, risedronate significantly reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures compared with placebo (risk reduction: ppi users 57%, p = 0.009; ppi non-users 38%, p < 0.001). risedronate significantly reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures compared with placebo, regardless of ppi concomitant use. this study examined the effects of risedronate treatment on the time course of the reduction in the risk of clinical vertebral fractures (i.e., symptomatic fractures), on the risk of moderate-to-severe radiographic vertebral fractures, and on height. in 2442 postmenopausal women with prevalent vertebral fractures from the vertebral efficacy with risedronate therapy (vert) studies who received either risedronate 5 mg or placebo, daily risedronate reduced the risk of clinical vertebral fractures within 6 months (rr = 0.08, 95% ci 0.01-0.63), and by 69% at 1 year (rr = 0.31, 95% ci 0.12, 0.78). at 1 year, risedronate also reduced the risk of moderate-to-severe radiographically-defined vertebral fractures by 71% (rr = 0.29 95% ci 0.16, 0.54). eleven out of one hundred women who received risedronate had a vertebral fracture compared to 17 out of one hundred of those who received calcium and vitamin d (pooled relative risk for vertebral fractures of 0.64 (95% ci 0.52 - 0.77). three percent of participants who received risedronate had a non-vertebral fracture compared to 4.6% of those who received calcium and vitamin d (pooled relative risk for nonvertebral fractures of 0.73 (95% ci 0.61 - 0.87). eleven out of one hundred women who received risedronate had a vertebral fracture compared to 17 out of one hundred of those who received an alternative treatment (pooled relative risk for vertebral fractures of 0.64 (95% ci 0.52 - 0.77). three percent of participants who received risedronate had a non-vertebral fracture compared to 4.6% of those who received an alternative treatment (pooled relative risk for nonvertebral fractures of 0.73 (95% ci 0.61 - 0.87). risedronate significantly decreases the risk of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures in women who have had > or =1 fractures in the past. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming increases risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] warm temperatures might intensify or extend the transmission season for dengue fever. recent climate changes related to global warming have increased the potential risk of domestic outbreaks of dengue in korea. our results demonstrate that a higher temperature significantly enhances the potential threat of domestic dengue outbreaks in korea. due to the climate change, the expansion two more months of dengue transmission risk occurs in many regions of india. with population and climate change projections for 2085, we estimate that about 5-6 billion people (50-60% of the projected global population) would be at risk of dengue transmission, compared with 3.5 billion people, or 35% of the population, if climate change did not happen. we conclude that climate change is likely to increase the area of land with a climate suitable for dengue fever transmission, and that if no other contributing factors were to change, a large proportion of the human population would then be put at risk. thus, dengue may increase in the future, and it will be necessary to anticipate dengue epidemics using climate forecasts, to reduce adverse health impacts. climate factors influence the transmission of dengue fever, the world's most widespread vector-borne virus. we examined the potential added risk posed by global climate change on dengue transmission using computer-based simulation analysis to link temperature output from three climate general circulation models (gcms) to a dengue vectorial capacity equation. if climate change occurs, as many climatologists believe, this will increase the epidemic potential of dengue-carrying mosquitoes, given viral introduction and susceptible human populations. 
Rising temperatures caused by global warming lowers the risk of dengue fever transmission. [SEP] warm temperatures might intensify or extend the transmission season for dengue fever. recent climate changes related to global warming have increased the potential risk of domestic outbreaks of dengue in korea. our results demonstrate that a higher temperature significantly enhances the potential threat of domestic dengue outbreaks in korea. with population and climate change projections for 2085, we estimate that about 5-6 billion people (50-60% of the projected global population) would be at risk of dengue transmission, compared with 3.5 billion people, or 35% of the population, if climate change did not happen. we conclude that climate change is likely to increase the area of land with a climate suitable for dengue fever transmission, and that if no other contributing factors were to change, a large proportion of the human population would then be put at risk. global warming and declining dtr are likely to favor a rise of dengue, and we suggest a simple method to mitigate this. results show that the incidence of dengue in puerto rico was relatively constant over time despite global warming, possibly due to the offsetting effects of declining rainfall, improving health care and little change in population. thus, dengue may increase in the future, and it will be necessary to anticipate dengue epidemics using climate forecasts, to reduce adverse health impacts. we show that policies to limit global warming to 2 °c could reduce dengue cases by about 2.8 (0.8-7.4) million cases per year by the end of the century compared with a no-policy scenario that warms by 3.7 °c. our results demonstrate that although future climate change may amplify dengue transmission in the region, impacts may be avoided by constraining the level of warming. 
Risk of cardiovascular events can be cut by a third by using antihypertensive drug therapy among hemodialysis patients. [SEP] randomized trials suggested a benefit of antihypertensive therapy among hemodialysis patients. secondly, combinations of antihypertensive drugs vary in their ability to prevent major renal and cardiovascular events, even if they produce similar reductions in blood pressure. to compare the relative effectiveness of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (aceis) and angiotensin receptor blockers (arbs) in reducing cardiovascular mortality in chronic hemodialysis patients, we conducted an observational analysis of all patients initiated on acei or arb therapy undergoing chronic hemodialysis at a large dialysis provider. in conclusion, our findings suggested that volume reduction, leading to a decrease in the use of antihypertensive drugs, is a therapeutic strategy in patients undergoing hemodialysis to prevent lvmi progression. drug therapy for hypertension in hemodialysis patients includes mainly angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors, angiotensin ii receptor blockers, beta-blockers and diuretics, but guidelines for the use of specific classes of antihypertensive medications do not exist for end-stage renal disease (esrd) patients on maintenance hemodialysis treatment. blood pressure [bp]-lowering with the use of antihypertensive drugs appears to protect the cardiovascular (cv) system in hemodialysis patients. although several studies suggest that the prognosis of hypertensive dialysis patients can be improved by using antihypertensive drug therapy, it is unknown whether the prescription of a particular class or combination of antihypertensive drugs is beneficial during hemodialysis. we performed a propensity score matching study to compare the effectiveness of various classes of antihypertensive drugs on cardiovascular (cv) mortality in 2518 incident hemodialysis patients in spain. further prospective randomized controlled trials are necessary to confirm the beneficial effects of this combination of antihypertensive drugs in patients undergoing hemodialysis. three recent studies involving over 800 hemodialysis patients and follow-up of 2-3 years suggest that epa therapy may improve clinical outcomes in this patient population as evidenced by significant reductions in cardiovascular mortality, all-cause mortality, and/or cv events. 
Risk-adjusted mortality rates are similar in teaching and non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] high-risk patients had similar mortality rates in non-teaching hospitals and teaching hospitals. mortality rates were higher in teaching versus non-teaching hospitals in high-risk patients both in may and july. after accounting for patient characteristics, major teaching hospitals continued to demonstrate lower mortality rates compared with non-teaching hospitals (-1.0% difference [95%ci -1.2% to -0.7%]; p<0.001). sixty- and ninety-day overall mortality rates, adjusted for procedure type, state, and invasiveness of procedure showed that major teaching hospitals had a 1.7% (95%ci -2.1% to -1.4%; p<0.001) and 2.0% (95%ci -2.4 to -1.6%, p<0.001) lower mortality relative to non-teaching hospitals. teaching hospitals have superior outcomes for major medical conditions including cardiovascular disease compared to non-teaching hospitals. risk-adjusted analysis showed no significant difference in death, in-hospital myocardial infarction, contrast induced nephropathy or gastrointestinal bleeding between teaching and non-teaching hospitals. demographics were similar between teaching and nonteaching hospitals and across admission months. the overall mortality rate was 3.64% and was slightly higher in teaching hospitals compared with nonteaching hospitals (3.69% vs. 3.61%, relative risk [rr] = 1.0062, 95% ci 0.99-1.02). teaching hospitals were associated with lower mortality despite higher complication rates in the beginning of the academic cycle compared to non-teaching hospitals. risk-adjusted mortality rates were not different between the teaching and nonteaching hospitals in the specialties and operations studied. 
Rotator cuff exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] the aim of the present study is to determine whether adding shockwave therapy (swt) to a progressive exercise program improves shoulder pain and function in individuals with rotator cuff tendinopathy (rc tendinopathy). recent studies report that surgical rotator cuff repair leads to significant improvement in function, pain relief, and greater patient satisfaction. the goals of managing rotator cuff disease are to regain normal shoulder function and biomechanics, and to improve functional abilities in elderly patients. the primary aim of this randomized crossover study was to compare the effect of painful versus nonpainful isometric shoulder exercises on pain intensity after exercise in individuals with rotator cuff-related shoulder pain. perspective: this study evaluated for the first time in individuals with rotator cuff-related shoulder pain the effects of painful versus non-painful isometric exercises on different pain-related outcome measures. both painful and non-painful isometric exercises caused a moderate but relatively short-lasting increase in shoulder pain in individuals with rotator cuff-related shoulder pain. both treatment options significantly reduced pain and increased shoulder rom compared with baseline measurements. trend analysis revealed that in the first and third months, exercise therapy was superior to prp in pain, shoulder flexion and abduction, and functionality. shoulder rehabilitation programs commonly focus on strengthening the muscles of the shoulder complex and, more specifically, the rotator cuff. exercises to strengthen the rotator cuff and the surrounding dynamic stabilizers of the shoulder girdle vary and include activities such as internal and external rotation, full-can lifts, and rhythmic stabilizations. 
Roughly 55% of women with chronic pelvic pain have no underlying pathology. [SEP] all the women presenting with chronic pelvic pain for more than 6 months duration, without any obvious pathological findings on clinical as well as on ultrasound examination were recruited. highest frequency of chronic pelvic pain was observed in women aged between 26 - 35 years (62.4%), 53 out of 85 women. this study was undertaken to assess the spectrum of pelvic pathology observed at laparoscopy in women with chronic pelvic pain, and to compare women with an identifiable cause of pain to those with no visible pelvic pathology, with regard to symptomatology and demography. no cause of pain was identified at laparoscopy in 30% of these patients, while endometriosis was found in 16% of women and pelvic adhesions in 40%. lifetime prevalence of definite or possible migraine was 67% of women with chronic pelvic pain. chronic pelvic pain is a common, burdensome, and costly condition that disproportionately affects women. this practice bulletin addresses the diagnosis and management of chronic pelvic pain that is not completely explained by identifiable pathology of the gynecologic, urologic, or gastrointestinal organ systems. chronic pelvic pain is a common, burdensome, and costly condition that disproportionately affects women. this practice bulletin addresses the diagnosis and management of chronic pelvic pain that is not completely explained by identifiable pathology of the gynecologic, urologic, or gastrointestinal organ systems. like pelvic pain, these disorders describe symptoms without pathologic findings. 
Satellite cell dysfunction is a key factor in sarcopenia development. [SEP] controversy remains on the actual contribution of satellite cells to the development of sarcopenia in later life, this clearly requires further research. although important strides are made investigating the importance of satellite cells in the development and/or treatment of sarcopenia, the idea that satellite cell function is a therapeutic target to treat sarcopenia remains controversial. although the etiology of sarcopenia is unknown, the correlation during aging between the loss of activity of satellite cells, which are endogenous muscle stem cells, and impaired muscle regenerative capacity has led to the hypothesis that the loss of satellite cell activity is also a cause of sarcopenia. this review aims to present and to discuss some of the most relevant molecular mechanisms related to the pathophysiological effect of sarcopenia. current knowledge on satellite cells in relation to suggested mechanisms of loss of muscle mass and strength, induction of fat infiltration, and countermeasures is highlighted. human satellite cells are indispensable for maintenance of human muscle mass, but their implications in the pathogenesis of sarcopenia and sarcopenic obesity are still under debate. sarcopenia is also linked to a progressive reduction in the regenerative capacity of the skeletal muscle stem cells (satellite cells), which are critical for myofiber formation in early life stages and for sustaining repair in response to muscle damage or trauma. further understanding of the interplay between satellite cell extrinsic and intrinsic factors in sarcopenia will facilitate therapies aimed at improving muscle repair in the increasing aging population. one of the mechanisms of sarcopenia is the loss in the function and number of muscle satellite cells. this muscle dysfunction, caused by decreased proliferation of muscle satellite cells, increased levels of inflammatory markers, and altered levels of sex hormones, exposes women to a raised incidence of sarcopenia. 
ScPif1p has higher binding ability to G-rich ssDNA than to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] here we report that human orc binds preferentially to g-quadruplex (g4)-preferable g-rich rna or single-stranded dna (ssdna). this domain itself has an ability to preferentially recognize g4-preferable sequences of ssdna. cst discriminates against random sequence and binds a minimal ssdna comprised of three repeats of telomeric sequence. cytoplasmic intermediate filament (cif) proteins interact strongly with single-stranded (ss) dnas and rnas, particularly with g-rich sequences. association of the cif proteins with the corresponding nonfolded g-rich ssdnas was negligible. the design strategy of hex-labelled ssdna consists of two types of aptamer probe, g-rich base pair sequence forms g-quadruplex confirmation with pb2+ ions. this sensing mechanism proposes a specific affinity of ga-rich ssdna with pb2+ to form g-quadruplex via g-pb2+-g sequences. because of the excellent catalytic performance and huge specific surface area, hi-aunf serves as not only an ecl enhancer but also a carrier for g-ssdna. we utilize the fact that the g-rich ssdna can fold into a g-quadruplex via intramolecular hydrogen bonding by wrapping around a potassium ion exclusively. the bio-layer interferometry, surface plasmon resonance and microscale thermophoresis showed that the aporc1 can interact with ssdna and it binds preferentially to t-rich ssdna. 
ScPif1p has reduced binding ability to G-rich ssDNA compared to non-G-rich ssDNA. [SEP] here we report that human orc binds preferentially to g-quadruplex (g4)-preferable g-rich rna or single-stranded dna (ssdna). this domain itself has an ability to preferentially recognize g4-preferable sequences of ssdna. cst discriminates against random sequence and binds a minimal ssdna comprised of three repeats of telomeric sequence. cytoplasmic intermediate filament (cif) proteins interact strongly with single-stranded (ss) dnas and rnas, particularly with g-rich sequences. band shift assays indeed demonstrated differential binding of the cif proteins to parallel four-stranded g4 dnas and, with lower affinity, to bimolecular g'2 and unimolecular g'4 dna configurations, whereby the transition regions from four- to single-strandedness played an additional role in the binding reaction. association of the cif proteins with the corresponding nonfolded g-rich ssdnas was negligible. because of the excellent catalytic performance and huge specific surface area, hi-aunf serves as not only an ecl enhancer but also a carrier for g-ssdna. this sensing mechanism proposes a specific affinity of ga-rich ssdna with pb2+ to form g-quadruplex via g-pb2+-g sequences. the g-rich ssdna is used to produce a g-quadruplex, and the g-quadruplex/thioflavin t (tht) complex acts as a fluorescent reporter. the bio-layer interferometry, surface plasmon resonance and microscale thermophoresis showed that the aporc1 can interact with ssdna and it binds preferentially to t-rich ssdna. 
Scapular stabilizer exercises are more effective than general exercise therapy in reducing pain and improving function of the shoulder. [SEP] scapular stabilization exercise has been proved to be efficacious in relieving pain and improving function. this study will investigate the potential of scapular stabilization exercise based on the type of scapular dyskinesis in treating periarthritis of the shoulder. the results may provide evidence of the effect of targeted scapular stabilization exercise in improving shoulder function and correcting scapular dyskinesis, and provide valuable information for future research. [conclusion] scapular stability exercise can improve shoulder stability and the thickness of the lower trapezius in rehabilitative ultrasound images of office workers, and could be useful in clinical rehabilitation. the addition of abdominal control feedback to the scapular stabilization exercises was shown to be superior to the scapular stabilization exercises alone for decreasing neck pain and restoring proper proprioception, strength, and electromyography in females with forward head and round shoulder postures and neck movement impairment. the addition of abdominal control feedback to scapular stabilization exercises is superior to scapular stabilization exercises alone on the neck for improving electromyography, strength, and function in females with forward head and round shoulder postures and neck movement impairment. therapeutic exercise for scapular muscles is suggested to be effective in reducing shoulder pain in patients with rotator cuff disorders, whereas its effectiveness on scapular position and motion has remained unclear. shoulder stabilization exercises consisted of a glenohumeral stabilization and scapular stabilization. to compare the effect of a glenohumeral stabilization exercise (gse) combined with a scapular stabilization exercise (sse) on changes in shoulder function in patients with shoulder painmethods: shoulder stability, scapular alignment, pain, muscle power, and range of motion (rom) were measured before and after the intervention in both groups. progressive exercise training independent from specific scapular stabilization exercises provides decreased disability and pain severity in impingement syndrome. 
Self-advocacy training is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] best practice vocational education and training programs for individuals who are homeless recognize that success in the worker role often hinges on a person's capacity to manage day-to-day living. the residency program implemented a 6-month enrichment activities series that provided various educational experiences and aimed to improve the participants' knowledge of and attitudes toward homeless persons. the longitudinal enrichment activities series, which was implemented in a rural family medicine residency program and aimed to provide experiences working with homeless individuals, was effective in improving attitudes supporting social advocacy among participants. the study assessed advocacy attitudes and self-efficacy before and after participants were provided advocacy training and participated in an advocacy event. homelessness is a national epidemic and individuals experiencing homelessness have decreased access to healthcare services. the study objective was to evaluate whether participating in a student-run free clinic (srfc) at a homeless shelter could change pt students' attitudes towards individuals experiencing homelessness. background millions of americans experience homelessness annually. effective advocacy for homeless mentally ill persons should have realistic goals that address the specific needs of that population rather than attempt to change the basic problems of society. data from the pilot groups indicate the program effectively addresses the self-advocacy skills of communication, information seeking, problem solving, decision making, and negotiating. emerging evidence suggests a role for peer advocates-that is, trained volunteers with lived experience-to support people who are homeless to access healthcare. 
Sepsis related mortality has remained stable between 2009-2014. [SEP] crude and risk-adjusted mortality after major trauma have remained stable in those injured in metropolitan areas of nsw between 2009 and 2014. between 1999 and 2009, the incidence of mcs-related sepsis increased; however, sepsis-related mortality remained stable. sepsis incidence, outcomes, and trends from 2009-2014 were calculated using regression models and compared with claims-based estimates using international classification of diseases, ninth revision, clinical modification codes for severe sepsis or septic shock. from 2009-2014, sepsis incidence using clinical criteria was stable (+0.6% relative change/y [95% ci, -2.3% to 3.5%], p = .67) whereas incidence per claims increased (+10.3%/y [95% ci, 7.2% to 13.3%], p < .001). in clinical data from 409 hospitals, sepsis was present in 6% of adult hospitalizations, and in contrast to claims-based analyses, neither the incidence of sepsis nor the combined outcome of death or discharge to hospice changed significantly between 2009-2014. while overall maternal mortality rates have decreased in the last decade, respiratory failure-related deaths have remained stable over time. the overall sepsis-related mortality rates remained stable in both males (57 deaths per 100,000) and females (45.1 deaths per 100,000) during this period. the majority of sepsis-related deaths occurred in the hospital. from 2005 to 2018, the overall sepsis-related mortality rates were stable, but there were significant racial and gender disparities in mortality trends. in contrast, sepsis-associated mortality rates increased in patients without cancer from 20.9% in 2003-2005 to 23.9% in 2012-2014 (absolute increase, 2.1% [95% ci, 0.1-4.1%]), but were stable after risk-adjustment (adjusted odds ratio, 0.90 [95% ci, 0.79-1.03]) (p < 0.001 for comparison of trends between patients with vs. without cancer on both crude and adjusted analysis). 
Sepsis related mortality has risen from 2009 to 2014. [SEP] rates of hospitalization with sepsis/septicemia and associated mortality in the us have risen significantly during the last two decades. estimates from claims-based analyses suggest that the incidence of sepsis is increasing and mortality rates from sepsis are decreasing. from 2009-2014, sepsis incidence using clinical criteria was stable (+0.6% relative change/y [95% ci, -2.3% to 3.5%], p = .67) whereas incidence per claims increased (+10.3%/y [95% ci, 7.2% to 13.3%], p < .001). the incidence of sepsis in the united states has risen in the past few years, and mortality from sepsis has risen over the past several decades. long-term outcomes (mortality and health-related quality of life) of sepsis have risen as important indicators for health care. the number of hospitalizations from he has increased while in-hospital mortality has concomitantly decreased from 2009 to 2013. there were 541 694 sepsis admissions in 2005 and increased to 1 338 905 in 2014. sepsis rates increased significantly from 1.2% to 2.7% during the years 2005 to 2014 (relative increase: 123.8%; p trend < .001). hospitalizations for sepsis increased during the years 2005 to 2014. despite global efforts to reduce maternal mortality, maternal deaths from bacterial sepsis have actually risen in the uk. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a high-accuracy predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] comparisons of orthologous sequences from multiple species are effective at detecting highly conserved regions and can reveal potential regulatory sequences. comparative cross-species sequence analysis of these genomes shows considerable conservation of noncoding sequences in dna. biological analyses show that an unexpectedly high number of the conserved sequences correspond to functional cis-regulatory regions that influence gene transcription. the cis-regulatory regions of many developmental regulators and transcription factors are believed to be highly conserved in the genomes of vertebrate species, suggesting specific regulatory mechanisms for these gene classes. the most ancient regions identified in our analysis were all found to overlap transcribed regions of genes, reflecting stronger conservation of translational regulatory elements than transcriptional elements. genes coding for transcription factors and developmental regulators have a high likelihood to harbour cis-regulatory regions that are structurally conserved among orthologous genes in the vertebrate lineage. even though this conservation is an efficient tool to discover cis-regulatory regions, we know little about why these specific genes maintain such highly conserved regulatory sequences. common putative transcription factor binding sites (tfbs) found at these sites in multiple species indicate that sequence conservation alone is insufficient to identify much of the functionally conserved iec regulatory information. one way in which the accuracy of gene structure prediction in vertebrate dna sequences can be improved is by analyzing alignments with multiple related species, since functional regions of genes tend to be more conserved. moreover, comparison of the activity of cognate irx enhancers from different organisms demonstrates that conservation of sequence is accompanied by in vivo functional conservation across species. 
Sequence conservation in gene regulatory regions between species is a poor predictor of conserved functionality. [SEP] while the coding regions of the lif gene are highly conserved, the non-coding regions are largely non-conserved. a sequence in the murine gene adjacent to this highly conserved region which appears to contain a negative control element is, however, poorly conserved between the four species compared, except for a sequence of 16 conserved nucleotides. however, a sequence in intron 1 of the murine lif gene which corresponds to an alternative exon of a putative variant lif transcript is very poorly conserved between species, with only relics of this exon evident in the other three species. comparative cross-species sequence analysis of these genomes shows considerable conservation of noncoding sequences in dna. evolutionary constraints on gene regulatory elements are poorly understood: little is known about how the strength of transcription factor binding correlates with dna sequence conservation, and whether transcription factor binding sites can evolve rapidly while retaining their function. we then correlate the evolutionary divergence of gene regulatory regions with differences in dna binding affinities. although these sites rarely showed sequence conservation from fish to mammals, surprisingly, they drove highly conserved iec expression in a zebrafish reporter assay. common putative transcription factor binding sites (tfbs) found at these sites in multiple species indicate that sequence conservation alone is insufficient to identify much of the functionally conserved iec regulatory information. studies of regulatory activity and gene expression have revealed an intriguing dichotomy: there is substantial turnover in the regulatory activity of orthologous sequences between species; however, the expression level of orthologous genes is largely conserved. in this study, we investigated determinants of the conservation of regulatory enhancer activity for orthologous sequences across mammalian evolution. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants do not represent a mortality risk to postmenopausal women. [SEP] antidepressants are commonly prescribed medications, but their effect on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality remains unclear. cardiovascular morbidity and all-cause mortality for women with new antidepressant use at follow-up (n = 5496) were compared with those characteristics for women taking no antidepressants at follow-up (mean follow-up, 5.9 years). antidepressant use was not associated with coronary heart disease (chd). in postmenopausal women, there were no significant differences between ssri and tca use in risk of chd, stroke, or mortality. antidepressants were not associated with risk of chd. there are no epidemiologic data on the relation of depression before colorectal cancer diagnosis to colorectal cancer mortality among women with colorectal cancer, especially those who are postmenopausal. among women with colorectal cancer, there was no association between baseline depression and all-cause mortality or colorectal cancer-specific mortality after adjusting for age or multiple covariates. thus, the possibility of increased risk of osteoporosis should be considered when prescribing antidepressants for postmenopausal women. no associations were observed between depressive symptoms or antidepressant therapy and hip or wrist fracture. antidepressant use was not associated with changes in bmd, but was associated with increased risk of fractures at the spine and "other " anatomic sites. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants increases risk of stroke. [SEP] antidepressant current-use was associated with increased stroke (hr 1.56; 95% ci 1.50-1.61) but decreased mortality risk (hr 0.93; 95% ci 0.91-0.94). during antidepressant recent-use and past-use, both stroke and mortality risks were significantly increased compared to no antidepressant use. antidepressant use may be associated with increased stroke risk in the elderly. antidepressants may carry an increased risk for incident stroke, but there is little safety evidence regarding poststroke antidepressant use. this study aimed to examine whether antidepressants are associated with an increased risk of stroke recurrence. antidepressant medications, however, may increase stroke risk via direct pathways. we evaluated associations between antidepressant use and incident stroke. use of antidepressants with high inhibition of the serotonin transporter was associated with a greater risk of stroke than use of other types of antidepressants. these findings suggest that antidepressant use may be associated with an increased risk of stroke. antidepressants use was associated with an increased risk of stroke recurrence (adjusted hazard ratio [hr], 1.42; 95 % confidence interval [c.i. 
Side effects associated with antidepressants lower risk of myocardial infarction. [SEP] we examined whether use of different antidepressant classes is associated with a lower risk of first-time hospitalization for myocardial infarction, as compared with nonuse. in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease, we found indications of a lower risk of myocardial infarction among those who used ssris (adjusted odds ratio [or] = 0.85; 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.62 to 1.16), nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (adjusted or = 0.83; 95% ci: 0.50 to 1.38), and other antidepressants (adjusted or = 0.55; 95% ci: 0.31 to 0.97). antidepressant use may be associated with a decreased risk of hospitalization for myocardial infarction among persons with a history of cardiovascular disease, although it remains uncertain whether there are differences by class of antidepressant. we assessed the association between the use of antidepressant drugs and myocardial infarction, and whether that association differs between the tricyclic and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (ssri) classes of medication. to assess associations between different antidepressant treatments and rates of three cardiovascular outcomes (myocardial infarction, stroke or transient ischaemic attack, and arrhythmia) in people with depression. in the first year of follow-up, patients treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors had a significantly reduced risk of myocardial infarction (adjusted hazard ratio 0.58, 95% confidence interval 0.42 to 0.79) compared with no use of antidepressants; among individual drugs, fluoxetine was associated with a significantly reduced risk (0.44, 0.27 to 0.72) and lofepramine with a significantly increased risk (3.07, 1.50 to 6.26). depression following myocardial infarction is associated with an increased risk of cardiac events, but attempts to alter cardiovascular prognosis by providing antidepressive treatment have not been successful. antidepressants, specifically selective serotonin reuptake-inhibiting antidepressants (ssris), decrease platelet activation and aggregation in in vitro experiments and could therefore decrease the risk of myocardial infarction (mi). current use of antidepressants was associated with a lower risk of mi. we aimed to investigate the association between antidepressant use and the risk of hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction (ami). 
Sildenafil worsens erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] sildenafil can be a cost-effective add-on therapy to control ssri-induced erectile dysfunction. patients with erectile dysfunction receiving sildenafil and concomitant serotonergic antidepressants had significantly greater improvements in ability to achieve and maintain an erection, frequency of ejaculation, and orgasm frequency than did patients receiving placebo, without increased sexual desire. sildenafil significantly improved erectile dysfunction in patients taking concomitant serotonergic antidepressants. in this open clinical trial with men who had ssri-induced ejaculatory delay, high-dose sildenafil appeared to be effective in reducing ejaculatory latency. to assess the efficacy of sildenafil citrate in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of selective and nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (sri) antidepressants. in our study, sildenafil effectively improved erectile function and other aspects of sexual function in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of sri antidepressants. erectile dysfunction is a common sexual side effect of various antidepressants. various agents have been used in the treatment of antidepressant-induced erectile dysfunction; however, there are no reports on the use of sildenafil for this indication. a possible mechanism of action of sildenafil in this type of erectile dysfunction is discussed. to evaluate the effect of sildenafil on iatrogenic serotonergic antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction. 
Smc5/6 engagment halts the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] the mms21 sumo ligase docks to the arm region of the smc5 protein in the smc5/6 complex; together, they cooperate during recombinational dna repair. here we show that the sumo ligase and the chromosome disjunction functions of mms21 depend on its docking to an intact and active smc5/6 complex, indicating that the smc5/6-mms21 complex operates as a large sumo ligase in vivo. in spite of the physical distance separating the e3 and the nucleotide-binding domains in smc5/6, mms21-dependent sumoylation requires binding of atp to smc5, a step that is part of the ligase mechanism that assists ubc9 function. the communication is enabled by the presence of a conserved disruption in the coiled coil domain of smc5, pointing to potential conformational changes for sumo ligase activation. our results demonstrate that the atp-binding activity of the smc5/6 complex is coordinated with its sumo ligase, through the coiled coil domain of smc5 and the physical remodeling of the molecule, to promote sumoylation and chromosome disjunction during dna repair. its mms21 subunit supports both functions by docking to the arm region of smc5 and providing sumo ligase activity. our structure revealed two distinct structural and functional domains of the smc5-bound mms21: its n-terminal half is dedicated to smc5 binding by forming a helix bundle with a coiled-coil structure of smc5; its c-terminal half includes the sumo ligase domain, which adopts a new type of ring e3 structure. mms21 (nse2), the relatively well-studied subunit in smc5/6, contains a sp-like-ring finger motif on the c-terminus and was identified as a sumo e3 ligase. the sumo ligase activity of mms21/nse2, a conserved member of the smc5/6 complex, is required for resisting extrinsically induced genotoxic stress. one target of mms21-dependent sumoylation is the cohesin- and condensin-related smc5-smc6 complex (smc5/6). 
Sn is present on mature DCs during inflammation in vivo. [SEP] when dendritic cells (dcs) encounter signals associated with infection or inflammation, they become activated and undergo maturation. nm-activated dcs secreted the proinflammatory cytokines il-6 and tnf-α. nm is recognized by dcs in vitro and triggers their maturation. dcs can also be indirectly activated by inflammatory mediators released during infection (e.g., ifn). we propose evidence for at least two potential locations of in vivo interactions for human nk cells and dcs, including sites of inflammation and lymph nodes. it is well known that dendritic cells (dcs) play a critical role in the initiation and development of an immune response. inhibitory effect on dc maturation alters immune-mediated inflammatory reaction in vivo. in vitro, dcs were treated with ox-ldl + ang ii, simulating the internal environment of mi in apoe-/- mice to explore the mechanism involved in the dcs maturation and inflammation. this study examined whether sites of cutaneous inflammation can be repopulated with dcs from a pool of immature dcs circulating in the blood. in adoptive transfer experiments with ex vivo-generated radioactively labeled primary bone marrow-derived dcs injected into mice challenged by an allergic contact dermatitis reaction, immature dcs were actively recruited from the blood to sites of cutaneous inflammation, whereas mature dcs were not. 
Specialized functional cell types can be derived from human pluripotent stem cells. [SEP] pluripotent stem cells are the most promising cell source for organ regeneration. one such cell type is the germline cell-derived pluripotent cell, which is derived from adult spermatogonial stem cells. the germline cell-derived pluripotent stem cells have been obtained from both human and mouse and, importantly, are adult stem cells with embryonic stem cell-like properties that do not require specific manipulations for pluripotency acquisition, hence bypassing problems related to induced pluripotent stem cells and embryonic stem cells. the in vitro culture of pluripotent stem cells may represent one of the most advanced examples in the effort to create an artificial or synthetic stem cell niche. in this concise review we describe the advances in human pluripotent stem cell culture, and explore the idea that the knowledge gained from this model could be replicated to create synthetic niches for other human stem cell populations, which have proven difficult to maintain in vitro. pluripotent stem cells, both human embryonic stem cells (hesc) and human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hipsc), can give rise to multiple cell types and hence have tremendous potential for regenerative therapies. in clinical practice, most pluripotent cells will be differentiated into useful therapeutic cell types such as neuronal, cardiac, or endothelial cells prior to human transplantation, drastically reducing their tumorigenic potential. specialized cell types and organoids have been derived from human pluripotent stem cells in vitro, but generating a human ovarian follicle remains a challenge. so far, human pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons-a revolutionary tool for studying physiological function and modeling neurodegenerative diseases-have not been applied to such innovative substrates, due to the highly demanding nature of stem cell quality control and directed differentiation procedures to generate specialized cell types. these findings establish human pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons as a viable model for the study of synaptic differentiation and function under normal and disorder-associated conditions. 
Splenomegaly is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] mice lacking functional shp-1 (me/me and me(v)/me(v)) develop systemic autoimmune disease with accumulation of macrophages, suggesting that shp-1 may be a negative regulator of hemopoietic cell growth. by using macrophages expressing dominant negative ras and the me(v)/me(v) mouse mutant, we show that shp-1 is activated in the course of mitogenic signal transduction in a ras-dependent manner and that its activity is necessary for the ras-dependent activation of the mapk pathway but not of the raf-1 kinase. mutation of y115 of the cytoplasmic domain of lifr eliminates receptor-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of shp-2. in this study, we overexpressed a catalytically inactive form of shp-2 with a classic cysteine 459-to-serine mutation (dnshp-2) to elucidate the in vivo effects of shp-2 on t cells. shp-2 appears to be a positive regulator of the mapk pathway in t cells, likely through coupling of the multimeric complex to the ras/mapk pathway. we discuss the idea that, with the exception of ls mutations that have been shown to exert a dominant negative effect, all disease-causing mutations involved in ras/mapk-mediated signaling, including shp-2, might lead to enhanced mapk activation. the role of tyrosine phosphatase src homology region 2 domain-containing phosphatase (shp)-1 in lps-activated cytokine production and inflammation was investigated by determining tnf-α and il-10 production in splenic macrophages employing shp-1-null (me/me) mouse model. overall, to our knowledge our results show for the first time that shp-1 acts as a positive regulator of lps-induced il-10 production in splenic macrophages through two distinct and independent shp-1-pyk2-src and p38 mapk pathways. in this study we examined the role of shp-2 in regulating igf-mediated proliferation in human trophoblast. kinase activation assays suggested that shp-2 interacts with the mapk pathway to mediate these effects. 
Stacking is more stable when a purine is present in the +5 position (C1698). [SEP] substantial stacking ability was found for the dimers composed of a thymine base and a purine base and also for the deoxythymidylyl-3',5'-deoxythymidine dimer. from this it is deduced that purine-purine stacking across the junction cannot be considered as a major factor that determines the preferred stacking arrangement. two-residue loops with purines in the first position give rise to the most stable structures due to their enhanced stacking interaction with the adjacent minor groove tetrad. interstrand purine-purine stacks originate from tandem sheared purine.purine pairing and represent one of the most important motifs in both dna and rna structures. the finding that non-symmetrical (pugapu):(pygapy) motif also form similarly stable structures loosens the requirement for a more restricted (pygapu)2 motif in forming the interstrand purine-purine stacks. if the cy5 is attached to a pyrimidine nucleotide of pyrimidine-purine base pair, the stabilization is larger compared to the attachment to a purine nucleotide. two-dimensional 1h nmr data on 5'd(gcgagc)3' revealed that the center bases g and a pair through g amino hydrogen bonding and that the two consecutive g.a pairs form excellent purine-purine stacks. thermodynamic analysis indicated that duplexes in the 5'pyrimidine-ga-purine3' group were more stable than the duplexes in the 5'purine-ga-pyrimidine3' group. the results indicate that 5'-loop triplexes are more stable than 3'-loop ones and the stacking interaction of purines with their adjacent basw are stronger than that of pyrimidines. we now report novel cross-strand purine-pyrimidine (a-c) and hetero purine-purine (g-a) stacks that are established from a sheared purine.pyrimidine (a.c) pair adjacent to a sheared g.a pair in the 5'-aa/gc-3' sequence. 
Stiff substrates encourage mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] we found that, on a hydrogel-based compliant matrix, hescs accumulate β-catenin at cell-cell adhesions and show enhanced wnt-dependent mesoderm differentiation. mechanistically, src-driven ubiquitination of e-cadherin by cbl-like ubiquitin ligase releases p120-catenin to facilitate transcriptional activity of β-catenin, which initiates and reinforces mesoderm differentiation. by contrast, on a stiff hydrogel matrix, hescs show elevated integrin-dependent gsk3 and src activity that promotes β-catenin degradation and inhibits differentiation. integrin-β1 and β-catenin expression on cytomembrane were up-regulated and down-regulated with the increase of substrate stiffness, respectively. our data not only suggested that hepatocytes were sensitive to substrate stiffness, but also suggested that there may be a potential relationship among substrate stiffness, cellular young's modulus and the dynamic balance of integrin-β1 and β-catenin pathways. silencing of integrin subunit beta 1 (itgb1) in mscs abolished both osteoblastic and chondrogenic differentiation in response to substrate stiffness. our results suggest that substrate stiffness is an important mediator of osteoblastic and chondrogenic differentiation, and integrin β1 plays a pivotal role in this process. using physiologically stiff (1.7 mpa) and soft (3 kpa) pdms substrates, compared to polystyrene plates (3 gpa), we demonstrate that mechanical priming during mesoderm induction activates the yes-associated protein and drives wnt/β-catenin signaling. gene expression studies suggested the involvement of integrins and catenins in the beta cell differentiation process; in particular, α1, αv, and β1 integrins, and β-catenin showed the highest upregulation. while alpha5beta1 integrin is expressed on both ectodermal and mesodermal cell surface, we have shown previously that alphav containing integrins are essentially restricted to the surface of mesodermal cells (alfandari, d., whittaker, c. a., desimone, d. w., and darribère, t., dev. 
Stiff substrates inhibit mesodermal differentiation by degrading beta-catenin in an integrin-dependent manner. [SEP] we found that, on a hydrogel-based compliant matrix, hescs accumulate β-catenin at cell-cell adhesions and show enhanced wnt-dependent mesoderm differentiation. mechanistically, src-driven ubiquitination of e-cadherin by cbl-like ubiquitin ligase releases p120-catenin to facilitate transcriptional activity of β-catenin, which initiates and reinforces mesoderm differentiation. by contrast, on a stiff hydrogel matrix, hescs show elevated integrin-dependent gsk3 and src activity that promotes β-catenin degradation and inhibits differentiation. integrin-β1 and β-catenin expression on cytomembrane were up-regulated and down-regulated with the increase of substrate stiffness, respectively. our data not only suggested that hepatocytes were sensitive to substrate stiffness, but also suggested that there may be a potential relationship among substrate stiffness, cellular young's modulus and the dynamic balance of integrin-β1 and β-catenin pathways. expression of integrin subunits α1, α2, α5, αv, β1, and β3 changed in a stiffness- and cell type-dependent manner. silencing of integrin subunit beta 1 (itgb1) in mscs abolished both osteoblastic and chondrogenic differentiation in response to substrate stiffness. our results suggest that substrate stiffness is an important mediator of osteoblastic and chondrogenic differentiation, and integrin β1 plays a pivotal role in this process. while alpha5beta1 integrin is expressed on both ectodermal and mesodermal cell surface, we have shown previously that alphav containing integrins are essentially restricted to the surface of mesodermal cells (alfandari, d., whittaker, c. a., desimone, d. w., and darribère, t., dev. using physiologically stiff (1.7 mpa) and soft (3 kpa) pdms substrates, compared to polystyrene plates (3 gpa), we demonstrate that mechanical priming during mesoderm induction activates the yes-associated protein and drives wnt/β-catenin signaling. 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a higher risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] patients with prior use of warfarin or noacs were older and had higher prevalence of atrial fibrillation and prior stroke. compared with patients without prior use of oacs, the risk of in-hospital mortality was higher among patients with prior use of warfarin (adjusted risk difference [ard], 9.0% [97.5% ci, 7.9% to 10.1%]; adjusted odds ratio [aor], 1.62 [97.5% ci, 1.53 to 1.71]) and higher among patients with prior use of noacs (ard, 3.3% [97.5% ci, 1.7% to 4.8%]; aor, 1.21 [97.5% ci, 1.11-1.32]). prior warfarin treatment was associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 3 months compared with no prior anticoagulation ( inr <2: adjusted odds ratio: 0.58; 95% ci, 0.42-0.81; p=0.001; inr ≥2: adjusted odds ratio: 0.40; 95% ci, 0.16-0.97; p=0.043) but was not associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 2 years. prior warfarin treatment with an inr ≥2 on admission was associated with a higher risk of ischemic events within 2 years compared with no prior anticoagulation (adjusted hazard ratio: 2.94; 95% ci, 1.20-6.15; p=0.021). conclusions prior warfarin treatment was associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 3 months but was not associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 2 years in ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. baseline clinical characteristics were compared between patients prescribed warfarin and those prescribed direct-acting oral anticoagulants. age, percentage of heart failure, chads2 score before stroke onset, percentage of treatment with warfarin on admission, percentage of feeding tube at hospital discharge, and modified rankin scale at hospital discharge were significantly higher in the warfarin group versus the direct oral anticoagulants group, while creatinine clearance was significantly higher in the direct oral anticoagulant group. selection of oral anticoagulants in acute ischemic stroke patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation was influenced by warfarin use at admission, clinical severity at hospital discharge, and renal function. comparing 237 warfarin users and 948 propensity-matched nonusers over 2287 person-years of follow-up, the occurrence of ischemic stroke was similar (hr = 0.92; 95% ci, 0.61 to 1.37), whereas warfarin users experienced twice the risk of hemorrhagic stroke (hr = 2.38; 95% ci, 1.15 to 4.96). in those with prior gib, the apixaban versus warfarin relative risks for stroke/systemic embolism, hemorrhagic stroke, death, or major bleeding were consistent with the results of the overall trial. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are at increased risk for professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] the authors intended to explore strategies that reinforce professionalism education and prevent misconduct in medical students. we conducted an extensive literature review to identify patterns and categorize issues of misconduct and unprofessional behavior by medical students; existing evidence to determine why early detection and intervention of are crucial to prevent future misbehavior and disciplinary action by doctors; and education and evaluation systems to enhance professionalism for medical students. several factors may explain the increased risk of scientific misconduct in medical publishing. to examine the contribution of programme year and demographic factors to medical students' perceptions of evidence-based classification categories of professional misconduct. to determine whether there are risk factors in a doctor's time at medical school that are associated with subsequent professional misconduct. this small study suggests that male sex, a lower socioeconomic background, and early academic difficulties at medical school could be risk factors for subsequent professional misconduct. early recognition of students at risk for future professionalism struggles would provide an opportunity for proactive professional development prior to the clinical years, when students' permanent records may be affected. this study investigated medical students' attitudes toward academic misconduct that occurs in the learning environment during the pre-clinical and clinical periods. medical students showed a strict attitude toward academic misconduct such as cheating on examinations and disrespectful behavior in patient care, but they showed a less rigorous attitude toward dishonesty in clerkship tasks and irresponsibility in class. this study indicates a critical vulnerability in medical students' professionalism toward academic integrity and responsibility. 
Students who perform poorly in the early years of medical school are less likely to commit professional misconduct later in their careers. [SEP] confidentiality should be introduced early in the curriculum so that students understand their ethical, professional, and legal obligations throughout their medical studies and later professional career. many studies in other countries have stressed the early detection and intervention of unprofessional behaviors in medical students using an adequate evaluation system. the authors intended to explore strategies that reinforce professionalism education and prevent misconduct in medical students. we conducted an extensive literature review to identify patterns and categorize issues of misconduct and unprofessional behavior by medical students; existing evidence to determine why early detection and intervention of are crucial to prevent future misbehavior and disciplinary action by doctors; and education and evaluation systems to enhance professionalism for medical students. attrition from medical school remains uncommon even when a medical student performs poorly, has a change in interests, or experiences an unexpected life event that alters his/her ability to succeed as a physician. this study investigated medical students' attitudes toward academic misconduct that occurs in the learning environment during the pre-clinical and clinical periods. medical students showed a strict attitude toward academic misconduct such as cheating on examinations and disrespectful behavior in patient care, but they showed a less rigorous attitude toward dishonesty in clerkship tasks and irresponsibility in class. the graduate medical school students showed a stricter attitude toward some factors of academic misconduct than the medical college students. this study indicates a critical vulnerability in medical students' professionalism toward academic integrity and responsibility. academic misconduct is widespread among medical students at the largest medical school in croatia and its prevalence is greater than that reported for developed countries. 
Suboptimal nutrition is a leading cause of premature death [SEP] premature infants often suffer from suboptimal outcome, at least partially due to suboptimal nutrition. the leading causes of mortality in the u.s. are well known: cardiovascular disease, cancer and stroke. of the more than 2 million deaths that occur each year in the u.s., more than 1 million are premature and "preventable" through the modification of lifestyle and environmental exposures. due to the epidemic of obesity and overweight, a clinical practice that neglects patient nutrition (or physical activity) patterns is neglecting the leading causes of death for patients. non-communicable diseases, together, were the leading causes of age-standardized mortality rates, whereas cmnn diseases were leading causes of premature mortality in 2015. ischemic heart disease, hemorrhagic stroke, and ischemic stroke were among the top causes of premature mortality and age-standardized death rates in ethiopia in 2015. however, the country's performance regarding non-communicable diseases, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and chronic respiratory disease, was minimal, causing these diseases to join the leading causes of premature mortality and death rates in 2015. prevention and control strategies should also pay special attention to the leading causes of premature mortality and death rates caused by non-communicable diseases: cardiovascular disease, cancer, and diabetes. to identify the leading causes of mortality and premature mortality in cape town, south africa, and its subdistricts, and to compare levels of mortality between subdistricts. improved housing, sanitation, nutrition and medical care reduced premature deaths. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with complex ventricular arrhythmias. [SEP] complex ventricular arrhythmias tended to be more prevalent in patients who died suddenly (in 100%) compared to survivors (in 37%), but their presence did not predict the subsequent sudden death when ejection fraction was included in the stepwise regression model. the relationship between lvh, qt dispersion, complex ventricular arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death in previously untreated patients over long-term follow-up in hypertension has not been reported before and is the purpose of this study. in children, sudden death related to ventricular arrhythmias occurs virtually always in a patient with an abnormal heart. in other forms of cardiac hypertrophy, however, such as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, complex ventricular arrhythmias detected during ambulatory monitoring are predictive of subsequent sudden death and there is some evidence that appropriate antiarrhythmic drug therapy may reduce mortality. there were four sudden deaths, all in patients with abnormal echocardiograms and complex ventricular arrhythmias. these findings suggest that complex ventricular arrhythmia on holter monitoring is common in cardiac amyloidosis and may be a harbinger of subsequent sudden cardiac death. the hypothesis that ventricular arrhythmias represent an independent predictor of sudden cardiac death was examined by analyzing the published data. simple and complex ventricular arrhythmias are not strong independent predictors of sudden death in survivors of myocardial infarction. although both asymptomatic ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death are common in patients with chronic heart failure, there is little evidence that patients who have frequent or complex ventricular arrhythmias are at increased risk of sudden death. first, complex ventricular arrhythmias may be a nonspecific manifestation of a dying left ventricle rather than an indication of a specific arrhythmogenic substrate. 
Sudden death can occur in patients with orthostatic hypertension without cardiac conduction abnormalities. [SEP] patients with high blood pressure have an increased risk of sudden death compared to the normotensive population. silent ischaemia is an independent predictor for the development of cardiac events in patients with hypertension and may be a predictor for sudden death in these patients. to evaluate the relationship between sudden cardiac death, ventricular arrhythmias and left ventricular hypertrophy in patients with hypertension. current evidence indicates that left ventricular hypertrophy is a risk factor for sudden cardiac death and that ventricular arrhythmias are more prevalent in hypertensive patients with than in those without left ventricular hypertrophy. one possible mechanism for sudden cardiac death is myocardial ischaemia, either as a consequence of associated coronary disease or due to left ventricular hypertrophy, but this remains unproved. there is currently no evidence that the ventricular ectopic activity seen in patients with hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy is a marker for sudden cardiac death. whether orthostatic hypertension indicates a generally increased risk of death, constitutes an intermediate variable in the causal pathway of cardiovascular risk factors, a simple measure of disease severity, or an independently acting mechanism is not known. since both orthostatic hypotension and orthostatic hypertension herald increased risk of cardiovascular disease, it appears reasonable to screen the patients for abnormal orthostatic blood pressure responses using simple orthostatic testing. the relationship between lvh, qt dispersion, complex ventricular arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death in previously untreated patients over long-term follow-up in hypertension has not been reported before and is the purpose of this study. in spite of increased qtc dispersion in hypertensive patients, this finding was not associated with increased risk of sudden death and only lvh and high grade ventricular arrhythmias identified hypertensive patients at risk of sudden cardiac death over a 10-year follow-up period. 
Surfactin producing cells and exopolymer producing cells cooperate to generate "Van Gogh" bundles that have sliding abilities on specialized media. [SEP] cell collectives organize themselves into bundles (called "van gogh bundles") of tightly aligned cell chains that form filamentous loops at the colony edge. the formation of van gogh bundles depends critically on the synergistic interaction of surfactin-producing and matrix-producing cells. we propose that surfactin-producing cells reduce the friction between cells and their substrate, thereby facilitating matrix-producing cells to form bundles. while sliding is a flagellum-independent motility produced by the expansive forces in a growing colony, swarming requires flagellar functionality and is characterized by the appearance of hyperflagellated swarm cells that associate in bundles or rafts during movement. surfactin also allows the nonswarming swra mutant strain to efficiently colonize moist surfaces by sliding. finally, we reconfirm the essential role of swra in swarming and show that surfactin, which increases surface wettability, allows swra(+) strains to produce swarm cells on media at low humidity. we have visualized bundles of the actin filaments of a characean internodal cell and investigated the sliding motion of organelles with myosin on the bundles. in turn, surfactin causes a subpopulation of cells to produce an extracellular matrix. concretely, we have observed that the subpopulation of matrix producers differentiates in response to the presence of self-produced extracellular signal surfactin (25). interestingly, surfactin is produced by a subpopulation of specialized cells different from the subpopulation of matrix producers (15). 
Surgical treatment is not superior to non-surgical in treating adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus. [SEP] this systematic review of  overlapping meta-analyses reveals that although surgical treatment is more advantageous than and superior to non-surgical treatment for displaced 3-part and 4-part fractures of the proximal humerus, the former leads to a higher incidence of postoperative complications. while it is clear that a majority of proximal humerus fractures may be treated nonoperatively, it is less clear which patients benefit from surgical management. the results suggest that current surgical treatment is not cost effective for the majority of displaced fractures of the proximal humerus involving the surgical neck in the united kingdom's nhs. the results of this trial do not support the trend of increased surgical treatment for patients with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus involving the surgical neck within the united kingdom nhs. most cases of displaced fracture of the proximal humerus are treated surgically; it is probable that more cases are preferred to be treated surgically greater than required. even in bilaterally displaced proximal humerus fractures, conservative treatment can be an efficient option, reducing complications, reaching adequate functional results and acceptable radiographic reduction.​. severely displaced pathologic proximal humerus fractures are treated less often conservatively (36%) than surgically (40%), and severely displaced humerus shaft fractures are preferably treated surgically (63%) by intramedullary stabilization (60%). this study aimed to compare the results of surgical and non-surgical methods in treatment the fracture of proximal humerus for decisions based on high-performance and less side effect. the aims of this study were to evaluate patients with a proximal humeral fracture treated in a hospital, assess the outcome of the fracture treatment, and decide whether surgical treatment of displaced proximal humeral fractures is superior to conservative treatment or not. surgical treatment of displaced, multi-fragment fractures of the proximal humerus did not improve shoulder functional outcome, based on the constant-murley score, when compared with conservative and non-surgical treatments. 
Sweet taste receptors on the tongue are deactivated by between 1 and 10 mM glucose. [SEP] sweet taste receptors may enhance glucose absorption. this study aimed to explore the cell biology of sweet taste receptors on glucose uptake. activation of sweet taste receptors had no effect on glucose uptake in low (<25 mm) glucose concentrations but increased uptake at greater concentrations (>25 mm). in β-cells, activation of the sweet taste receptor leads to stimulation of insulin secretion. sucralose-responding neurons were activated by high-concentration of glucose. these data suggest that sweet taste receptor-mediated cellular activation mainly occurs on non-pomc leptin-responding neurons and contributes to glucose responding. endogenous sweet molecules including glucose may regulate energy homeostasis through sweet taste receptors on glucose-and leptin-responsive neurons in the arc. in an effort to understand potential mechanisms underlying the taste perception of glucose oligomers in humans, this study was designed to investigate: 1) the variability of taste sensitivity to mos with low degree-of-polymerization (dp), and 2) the potential role of ht1r2/t1r3 in the mos taste detection. perceived sweetness was rated in a sip and spit paradigm when the taste solution, the tongue, or both were either held at 36 degrees c or cooled to 20 degrees c. it was discovered that for glucose and fructose perceived sweetness was significantly reduced by cooling, and that cooling the tongue reduced sweetness more than did cooling the solution. in this review, the physiological role of the sweet taste receptor in taste perception and metabolic regulation is discussed by focusing on dysfunctions leading to diabetes. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is elevated throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] muscle sympathetic nerve activity is elevated during pregnancy with a large peak in the first trimester (δ17 bursts/min) and a secondary peak in the third trimester (δ11 bursts/min). throughout pregnancy, bp and muscle sympathetic nerve activity were augmented in women with gestational hypertension (all p<0.05). previous microneurographic studies found that muscle sympathetic nerve activity (msna) increased in normotensive pregnant women and was even greater in women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia during the third trimester. healthy, normotensive human pregnancies are associated with striking increases in both plasma volume and vascular sympathetic nerve activity (sna). these data suggest that the link between avp release and resting sna becomes stronger in pregnancy, which may contribute importantly to blood pressure regulation in healthy women during pregnancy.new & noteworthy sympathetic nerve activity and blood volume are both elevated during pregnancy, but blood pressure is usually normal. although reflex compensatory sympathoexcitation is suppressed, baseline sympathetic nerve activity to the heart and vasculature is well maintained or slightly elevated in pregnancy. there is an increase in basal sympathetic nerve activity (sna) during normal pregnancy; this counteracts profound primary vasodilation. direct recordings from peripheral sympathetic nerves have shown an increased sympathetic drive in pregnancy-induced hypertension (pih) and preeclampsia (pe). central sympathetic output was increased in women with normal pregnancy and was even greater in the hypertensive pregnant group. the findings suggest that the moderate sympathetic hyperactivity during the latter months of normal pregnancy may help to return the arterial pressure to nonpregnant levels, although when the increase in activity is excessive, hypertension may ensue. 
Sympathetic nerve activity is reduced throughout normal pregnancy. [SEP] throughout pregnancy, bp and muscle sympathetic nerve activity were augmented in women with gestational hypertension (all p<0.05). it is possible that sympathetic activation during the latter months of normal pregnancy helps return arterial pressure to non-pregnant levels. muscle sympathetic nerve activity and baroreflex sensitivity were examined at rest before, during (weeks 6, 11, 17, 22, 25, 33 and 36) and after a normotensive pregnancy. plasma noradrenaline levels declined as pregnancy advanced. it is unknown whether sympathetic drive is altered in normal pregnancy, when arterial blood pressure can be normal or relatively low. after delivery, sympathetic activity decreased to values similar to those obtained in nn, and there was an increase in brs. central sympathetic output was increased in women with normal pregnancy and was even greater in the hypertensive pregnant group. the findings suggest that the moderate sympathetic hyperactivity during the latter months of normal pregnancy may help to return the arterial pressure to nonpregnant levels, although when the increase in activity is excessive, hypertension may ensue. even more remarkable, uterine sympathetic nerves degenerate during normal pregnancy and regenerate following delivery. here, we identified a relationship between vasopressin and sympathetic nerve activity in pregnant but not nonpregnant women. 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy does not enhance the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] the purpose of this study is to review the literature on the risk of malignancy in patients with inflammatory eye disease (ied) treated with systemic immunosuppressive (is) therapy. literature with regards systemic is therapy in transplant recipients and patients with autoimmune diseases revealed a significant increase in malignancies, especially non-melanocytic skin cancers and lymphomas. to outline recommendations from an expert committee on the assessment and investigation of patients with severe inflammatory eye disease commencing immunosuppressive and/or biologic therapy. to ascertain whether patients on long-term systemic immunosuppressive therapy for inflammatory eye disease (ied) are at increased risk of malignancy. our findings suggest that patients with ied treated with systemic immunosuppressive therapy are at increased risk of malignancy; however, the increase in absolute risk was modest. purpose: to assess the spectrum and treatment outcomes of inflammatory eye disease (ied) in subjects with hidradenitis suppurativa (hs).methods: we conducted a single center retrospective chart review of 236 patients with hs seen for ophthalmic examination between 2013 and 2018.results: of 236 subjects with hs, 22 subjects (9.3%) were found to have ied. to evaluate the clinical usefulness of tumor necrosis factor (tnf) inhibitors in patients with inflammatory eye disease that is resistant to conventional immunosuppressive therapies. sixteen patients (4 males and 12 females aged 7 to 78 years) who received etanercept (n = 14) or infliximab (n = 2) for either inflammatory eye disease or associated joint disease were studied retrospectively to determine the effect of these medications on their ocular inflammation. five patients developed inflammatory eye disease for the first time while taking a tnf inhibitor. tnf inhibitors are well tolerated immunosuppressive medications that may benefit certain subgroups of patients with inflammatory eye disease, but they appear to be more effective in controlling associated inflammatory arthritis. 
Systemic immunosuppressive (IS) therapy increases the chance of cancer mortality in patients with inflammatory eye disease (IED) [SEP] the purpose of this study is to review the literature on the risk of malignancy in patients with inflammatory eye disease (ied) treated with systemic immunosuppressive (is) therapy. literature with regards systemic is therapy in transplant recipients and patients with autoimmune diseases revealed a significant increase in malignancies, especially non-melanocytic skin cancers and lymphomas. to ascertain whether patients on long-term systemic immunosuppressive therapy for inflammatory eye disease (ied) are at increased risk of malignancy. our findings suggest that patients with ied treated with systemic immunosuppressive therapy are at increased risk of malignancy; however, the increase in absolute risk was modest. to outline recommendations from an expert committee on the assessment and investigation of patients with severe inflammatory eye disease commencing immunosuppressive and/or biologic therapy. the approach to assessment is based on the clinical experience of an expert committee and a review of the literature with regard to corticosteroids, immunosuppressive drug and biologic therapy and other adjunct therapy in the management of patients with severe sight-threatening inflammatory eye disease. we recommend a careful assessment and consultative approach by ophthalmologists or physicians experienced in the use of immunosuppressive agents for all patients commencing immunosuppressive and/or biologic therapy for sight threatening inflammatory eye disease with the aim of preventing infection, cardiovascular, metabolic and bone disease and reducing iatrogenic side effects. purpose: to assess the spectrum and treatment outcomes of inflammatory eye disease (ied) in subjects with hidradenitis suppurativa (hs).methods: we conducted a single center retrospective chart review of 236 patients with hs seen for ophthalmic examination between 2013 and 2018.results: of 236 subjects with hs, 22 subjects (9.3%) were found to have ied. furthermore, inflammatory bowel disease patients with immunosuppressive therapy showed an increased risk of the cancer, but patients without immunosuppressive therapy did not have this finding. inflammatory bowel disease (particularly ulcerative colitis) itself and use of immunosuppressant might contribute to the development of the cancer. 
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. [SEP] indeed, systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular disease and the etiology thereof deserves closer attention. hypertension, secondary of the lupus nephritis represents a major cardiovascular risk factor. high prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: association with disease characteristic and cardiovascular risk factors. systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with higher rates of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, related to accelerated atherosclerosis. systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease. young women with systemic lupus erythematosus have strikingly high rates of coronary heart disease. when considering strategies for preventing premature cardiovascular disease in systemic lupus erythematosus, modifying immune and inflammatory risk factors will likely become a major component of the program in addition to modifying the current traditional risk factors. patients with systemic lupus erythematosus present with a higher number of classic risk factors for coronary diseases and a higher prevalence of metabolic syndrome resulting from the disease itself. individuals with systemic lupus erythematosus presented with increased risk factors, as determined using anthropometric measurements and laboratory tests, for cardiovascular disease, indicating the need for nutritional guidance in this population to reduce cardiovascular risk, increase the quality of life, and increase survival of these patients. the chronic inflammatory environment associated with systemic lupus erythematosus can lead to an accelerated immunosenescence responsible for the endothelial damage and increased cardiovascular risk observed in these patients. 
T cell receptor /CD3 microdomains are required to induce the immunologic synapse. [SEP] productive t cell activation depends on the assembly of a highly ordered and compartmentalized immunological synapse or supramolecular activation complex (smac). engagement of the tcr by mhc-bound ag triggers the formation of the immunological synapse by recruiting detergent-resistant membrane microdomains, termed lipid rafts. this cognate interaction culminates in the formation of an immunological synapse that contains the various proteins and lipids required for efficient t cell activation. we propose that t cell activation is facilitated by recruitment of mhc class ii-peptide complexes to the immunological synapse by virtue of their constitutive association with lipid raft microdomains. t cell receptor engagement by an apc induces the formation of a highly organized complex of surface receptors and intracellular signaling molecules, known as the immunological synapse, at the site of cell-cell contact. our results therefore suggest the involvement of the tfr in the formation of the immunological synapse. in this study, we investigated the functional involvement of cd28 costimulation in the t cell receptor (tcr)-mediated immunologic synapse formation with respect to protein kinase c (pkc)theta; localization. finally, by using tcr-transgenic t cells from either wild-type or cd28-deficient mice, we showed that cd28 expression was required for the formation of the mature immunologic synapse, because antigen stimulation of cd28(-) t cells led to a diffuse pattern of localization of pkc theta; and lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 in the immunologic synapse, in contrast to the central supramolecular activation cluster localization of pkc theta; in cd28(+) t cells. thus, redistribution of cd2 towards the immunological synapse appears to be essential for full t cell activation. we found that ewi-2 colocalizes with cd3 and cd81 at the central supramolecular activation cluster of the t cell immune synapse. 
TMEM27 is a marker for beta cells. [SEP] transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27) is a membrane protein cleaved and shed by pancreatic beta cells that has been proposed as a beta cell mass biomarker. we aimed to characterise the function of tmem27 in islets and its potential use as a beta cell mass biomarker. to elucidate its utility as a beta cell mass biomarker, we studied tmem27 cleavage in a beta cell line, islets and primary proximal tubular cells. tmem27 overproduction in a beta cell line and islets significantly enhanced glucose-induced insulin secretion, with modest or no effects on proliferation. tmem27 forms dimers and its extracellular domain is glycosylated, cleaved and shed from the plasma membrane of beta cells. furthermore, transgenic mice with increased expression of tmem27 in pancreatic beta cells exhibit increased beta cell mass. transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27), which is expressed in pancreatic β-cells, plays an important role in insulin secretion and pancreatic β-cell proliferation. our data indicate that tmem27 could be of potential value as a serum marker for the pathogenesis of diabetes and as such may warrant the development of measurement methods with lower limit of detection for its further validation. the pancreatic β-cell surface protein tmem27 is promotes the preservation of functional β-cell mass. we generated a monoclonal antibody, 8/9-mab, targeting transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27; a surface n-glycoprotein that is highly expressed on beta cells), compared its expression in human and mouse pancreas, and demonstrated beta cell-specific binding in both. 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor enhancer. [SEP] a prediction model based on the resistance signature enabled the subclassification of an independent, validation cohort of 31 glioblastomas into two outcome groups (p = .037) and revealed tnfaip3 as part of an optimized four-gene predictor associated significantly with patient survival (p = .022). our results offer strong evidence for tnfaip3 as a key regulator of the cytoplasmic signaling to activate nf-kappab en route to o6-alkylating agent resistance in glioblastoma cells. mir‑125b‑5p targeted tnfaip3. targeted disruption of the tt>a enhancer impaired its interaction with the tnfaip3 promoter by long-range dna looping, thereby reducing tnfaip3 gene expression. results demonstrate that the tt>a enhancer variants contribute to causality and function independently of other variants to disrupt tnfaip3 expression. meanwhile, tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) has been described as a protective molecule against the deleterious effects of uncontrolled inflammation. enhancing the expression and/or function of tnfaip3 in the affected cell type may be a promising therapeutic strategy. tumor necrosis factor α-induced protein-3 (tnfaip3) is a zinc finger protein that serves a major role in the negative feedback regulation of nf-κb signaling in response to multiple stimuli, and is a central regulator of immunopathology. tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) is a negative regulator of nf-κb activity. the intracellular-ubiquitin-ending-enzyme tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) is a potent inhibitor of the pro-inflammatory nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated b cell (nf-kb) pathway. 
TNFAIP3 is a glioblastoma tumor suppressor. [SEP] a prediction model based on the resistance signature enabled the subclassification of an independent, validation cohort of 31 glioblastomas into two outcome groups (p = .037) and revealed tnfaip3 as part of an optimized four-gene predictor associated significantly with patient survival (p = .022). our results offer strong evidence for tnfaip3 as a key regulator of the cytoplasmic signaling to activate nf-kappab en route to o6-alkylating agent resistance in glioblastoma cells. gene expression and loss of heterozygosity analyses of tnfaip3 were carried out in a subset of tumors to assess its role as a tumor suppressor in crc. experimental results indicate that tnfaip3 may act as a tumor suppressor in crc. these results implicate tnfaip3 as a functionally important endogenous suppressor of ask1 hyperactivation in the pathogenesis of nash and identify it as a potential new molecular target for nash therapy. our study confirms the involvement of the tnfaip3 tumor suppressor gene in chl. here, we identified non-synonymous alterations in the tnfaip3 tumor suppressor gene in 3 of 39 t-lgl. we determined that a20 (tnfaip3), a regulator of cell survival and the nf-kappab pathway, is overexpressed in gscs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mrna and protein levels. elevated levels of a20 in gscs contributed to apoptotic resistance: gscs were less susceptible to tnfalpha-induced cell death than matched non-stem glioma cells, but a20 knockdown sensitized gscs to tnfalpha-mediated apoptosis. this report identifies tnfaip3 (a20), a key regulator of nf-kappab activity, as a novel tumor suppressor gene in chl and pmbl. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor enhancer in glioblastoma. [SEP] most genes classically associated with the inflammatory compartment are part of the nf-kappab signaling pathway including tnfaip3 and birc3 that have been shown to be involved in resistance to chemotherapy.our results associate hypoxia-driven tumor response with inflammation in glioblastoma, hence underlining the importance of tumor-host interaction involving the inflammatory compartment. a prediction model based on the resistance signature enabled the subclassification of an independent, validation cohort of 31 glioblastomas into two outcome groups (p = .037) and revealed tnfaip3 as part of an optimized four-gene predictor associated significantly with patient survival (p = .022). our results offer strong evidence for tnfaip3 as a key regulator of the cytoplasmic signaling to activate nf-kappab en route to o6-alkylating agent resistance in glioblastoma cells. targeted disruption of the tt>a enhancer impaired its interaction with the tnfaip3 promoter by long-range dna looping, thereby reducing tnfaip3 gene expression. results demonstrate that the tt>a enhancer variants contribute to causality and function independently of other variants to disrupt tnfaip3 expression. meanwhile, tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) has been described as a protective molecule against the deleterious effects of uncontrolled inflammation. enhancing the expression and/or function of tnfaip3 in the affected cell type may be a promising therapeutic strategy. tumor necrosis factor α-induced protein-3 (tnfaip3) is a zinc finger protein that serves a major role in the negative feedback regulation of nf-κb signaling in response to multiple stimuli, and is a central regulator of immunopathology. tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) is a negative regulator of nf-κb activity. the intracellular-ubiquitin-ending-enzyme tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (tnfaip3) is a potent inhibitor of the pro-inflammatory nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated b cell (nf-kb) pathway. 
TRAP+ osteoclasts regulate mature osteoblast maintenance. [SEP] here, we showed the important role of osteoblasts for controlling osteoclasts to modify the attachment bone during tooth replacement in medaka pharyngeal teeth, coupled with an osterix-dsred/trap-gfp transgenic line to visualize osteoblasts and osteoclasts. adult bone mass is maintained through a balance of the activities of osteoblasts and osteoclasts. tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (trap) is known as an osteoclast marker, but osteoblasts and osteocytes in the vicinity of bone remodeling sites also express trap. cell culture studies suggest that osteoblasts endocytose osteoclastic trap for inactivation. to evaluate whether changes in osteoclast activity could alter trap expression in osteoblasts and/or osteocytes in vivo, we studied the ovariectomized and vitamin d-deficient rat (ovx-d) and rats healing from rickets. bone sections were analyzed for trap gene expression by in situ hybridization, trap protein by immunogold labeling, and trap enzyme activity using the fluorescent substrate elf97. osteoblasts and osteocytes close to intracortical remodeling sites and bone surfaces demonstrated trap, most prominently in cancellous bone and osteocytes. thus, increased osteoclast activity does not affect trap expression in osteoblasts and osteocytes, favoring the notion that increased trap in these cells is rather due to increased synthesis. although the role of trap in osteoblasts and osteocytes remains elusive, we speculate that the function is related to the capability of the enzyme to regulate the phosphorylation of proteins known to be expressed by these cells. osteoclast-like giant cells and some mononuclear cells possessed trap activity. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate does not prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] α-tocopheryl succinate is one of the most effective analogues of vitamin e for inhibiting cell proliferation and inducing cell death in a variety of cancerous cell lines while sparing normal cells or tissues. the cytoprotective role of nrf2 downstream genes/proteins prompted us to investigate whether and how α-tocopheryl succinate increases resistance of pc3 prostate cancer cells to pro-oxidant damage. in the alpha-tocopheryl acetate study, skin cancers developed in 70% of uvb-irradiated control mice and in 90%, 73%, and 90% of mice receiving topical applications of 12.5, 25, and 50 mg of dl-alpha-tocopheryl acetate, respectively. thus neither alpha-tocopheryl acetate nor alpha-tocopheryl succinate prevented photocarcinogenesis. at 12.5 and 25 mg/treatment, alpha-tocopheryl acetate and alpha-tocopheryl succinate, respectively, enhanced photocarcinogenesis (p = 0.0114 and 0.0262, respectively, log rank test). thus alpha-tocopheryl acetate or alpha-tocopheryl succinate not only failed to prevent photocarcinogenesis, but may have enhanced to process. in this study, we examined the ability of 2 vitamin e isoforms [α-tocotrienol (γ-tt) and δ-tocotrienol (δ-tt)] and 4 synthetic derivatives [γ- and δ-tocotrienol succinate (γ-ts, δ-ts), α-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol succinate (tpgs), and α-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol ether (tpgs-e)] of vitamin e to induce cell death in ar- (du145 and pc-3) and ar+ (lncap) prostate cancer cell lines. at similar supplementation levels (0.25, 0.50 and 1.0 g/kg compound feed), α-tocopherol content in the selected tissues was not affected by α-tocopherol source. results showed that only α-tocopheryl phosphate displayed antimicrobial activity against the tested strains. the activity of α-tocopheryl phosphate was greater than that of α-tocopheryl acetate. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate in combination with vitamin C reduces the risk of prostate cancer. [SEP] there is convincing evidence that vitamin e succinate significantly reduces human prostate cancer growth in experimental models compared with alpha-tocopherol or tocopheryl acetate. its intact delivery to cancer cells is questionable when administered orally; however, a study in transgenic mice showed a synergistic inhibitory effect of dietary vitamin e succinate, selenium, and lycopene on prostate cancer incidence. compared with the placebo (referent group) in which 529 men developed prostate cancer, 620 men in the vitamin e group developed prostate cancer (hazard ratio [hr], 1.17; 99% ci, 1.004-1.36, p = .008); as did 575 in the selenium group (hr, 1.09; 99% ci, 0.93-1.27; p = .18), and 555 in the selenium plus vitamin e group (hr, 1.05; 99% ci, 0.89-1.22, p = .46). compared with placebo, the absolute increase in risk of prostate cancer per 1000 person-years was 1.6 for vitamin e, 0.8 for selenium, and 0.4 for the combination. dietary supplementation with vitamin e significantly increased the risk of prostate cancer among healthy men. the redox-silent vitamin e analog α-tocopheryl succinate (α-tos) was found to synergistically cooperate with vitamin k3 (vk3) plus ascorbic acid (aa) in the induction of cancer cell-selective apoptosis via a caspase-independent pathway. α-tocopheryl succinate is one of the most effective analogues of vitamin e for inhibiting cell proliferation and inducing cell death in a variety of cancerous cell lines while sparing normal cells or tissues. the cytoprotective role of nrf2 downstream genes/proteins prompted us to investigate whether and how α-tocopheryl succinate increases resistance of pc3 prostate cancer cells to pro-oxidant damage. a 4h α-tocopheryl succinate pre-treatment increases glutathione intracellular content, indicating that the vitamin e derivative is capable of training the cells to react to an oxidative insult. increased supplementation of either vitamin e sources led to a significant increase (p < 0.001) in α-tocopherol concentration in all tissues studied. 
Taking anti-depresents is associated with a decrease in the Aβ level in the brain of experimental animals. [SEP] aβ aggregates transmit aβ pathology to experimental animals. the experimental dementia was induced in the male rats by intracerebroventricular administration of aβ(1-42) on day 1 (d-1) of the experimental schedule of 14 days. the levels of serum anti-aβ antibodies and plasma aβ peptides increased in both animals and decreased the brain aβ 40 level of guinea pigs. several studies suggest that aβ increases the generation of free radicals in neurons, which leads to oxidative damage and cell death. aβ can also induce neuroinflammation by increasing pro-inflammatory cytokines and enzymes. aβ significantly attenuated the spatial working memory in mwm and y-maze tests. in addition, aβ significantly increased cholinergic dysfunction in terms of decrease in the activity of chat and ach level and increase in the ache activity in the hippocampus, pre-frontal cortex and amygdala of ad-like animals. moreover, aβ caused a substantial reduction in the mitochondrial function, integrity and bioenergetics in all the mouse brain regions. the experimental dementia was induced in the male rats by intracerebroventricular administration of aβ(1-42) on day-1 (d-1) of the experimental schedule of 14 days. trigonelline significantly abolished the therapeutic effectiveness of ang(1-7) on aβ-induced alterations in the behavioral, neurochemicals and molecular observations in the animals. 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages reduced the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] background: a number of countries have adopted sugar-sweetened beverage taxes to prevent non-communicable diseases but there is variance in the structures and rates of the taxes. as interventions, sugar-sweetened beverage taxes could be cost-effective but must be compliant with existing legal and taxation systems.objectives: to assess the legal feasibility of introducing or strengthening taxation laws related to sugar-sweetened beverages, for prevention of non-communicable diseases in seven countries: botswana, kenya, namibia, rwanda, tanzania, uganda and zambia.methods: we assessed the legal feasibility of adopting four types of sugar-sweetened beverage tax formulations in each of the seven countries, using the novel felip framework. nutrition-labelling laws in all countries made it feasible to adopt taxes linked to the sugar content of beverages, but there were lacunas in existing infrastructure for more sophisticated taxation structures.conclusion: sugar-sweetened beverage taxes are legally feasible in all seven countries existing laws provide a means to implement taxes as a public health intervention. taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages holds substantiated potential for decreasing its consumption. the soft drink industry has been influential in framing the taxation debate, and the ministry of finance previously reduced taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages. evidence suggests reducing consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is important to reducing weight gain and chronic disease risk. sugar-sweetened beverage taxation can help to reduce the number of overweight and obese, and prevent over a million cases of diabetes in indonesia. taxing sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs) has been proposed in high-income countries to reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes. sustained ssb taxation at a high tax rate could mitigate rising obesity and type 2 diabetes in india among both urban and rural subpopulations. the region has become a targeted growth market for sugar-sweetened beverages, which are associated with weight gain, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes.objective: to identify politico-economic factors relevant to nutrition-related fiscal policies, and to draw lessons regarding strategies to strengthen sugar-sweetened beverages taxation in the region and globally.methods: we collected documentary data on policy content, stakeholders and corporate political activity from seven countries in east and southern africa augmented by qualitative interviews in botswana, namibia, kenya and zambia, and stakeholder consultations in rwanda, tanzania and uganda. 
Ten percent (10%) of kidney cancers in the UK are attributable to excess weight. [SEP] estimates of the percentage of cancers that can be attributed to excess body weight suggest that in the uk and similar countries approximately 5% of all cancers are attributable to overweight and obesity. globally, excess body weight is the third commonest attributable risk factor for cancer (after smoking and infection); in western populations such as the uk, excess weight ranks as second commonest risk factor. excess body weight has been consistently associated with colorectal, breast, endometrial, esophageal, gall bladder, pancreatic and kidney cancers. we estimate that roughly 17% and 12% of obesity-related cancers among men and women, respectively, could be attributed to excess body weight in alberta in 2012. overall, about 5% of all cancers in adults in alberta in 2012 were estimated to be attributable to excess body weight in 2000-2003. excess body weight contributes to a substantial proportion of cases of cancers associated with overweight and obesity annually in alberta. in canada in 2010, an estimated 9645 cancer cases were attributable to excess body weight, representing 5.7% of all cancer cases (males 4.9%, females 6.5%). the cancer burden attributable to excess body weight is substantial and will continue to rise in the near future because of the rising prevalence of overweight and obesity in canada. among men, 6.8% of colorectal, 2.9% of pancreatic, and 16.0% of kidney cancer was attributable to excess body weight. in women, 6.6% of colorectal, 3.9% of pancreatic, 18.7% of kidney, 8.2% of postmenopausal breast, and 32.7% of endometrial cancer was attributable to excess body weight. 
The C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2) rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. [SEP] here, we describe a role for clec-2 in the morphodynamic behavior and motility of dcs. clec-2 engagement of pdpn was necessary for dcs to spread and migrate along stromal surfaces and sufficient to induce membrane protrusions. clec-2 activation triggered cell spreading via downregulation of rhoa activity and myosin light-chain phosphorylation and triggered f-actin-rich protrusions via vav signaling and rac1 activation. thus, activation of clec-2 by pdpn rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dcs to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. dendritic cell (dc) migration to lymph nodes is dependent on the interaction of c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2; encoded by the gene clec1b), expressed by dcs, with podoplanin, expressed by lymph node stromal cells, although the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. clec-2-expressing cd37 -/- dcs showed impaired adhesion, migration velocity and displacement on lymph node stromal cells. c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2) is a podoplanin (pdpn) receptor almost exclusively expressed on the surface of platelets and megakaryocytes. clec-2 belongs to a c-type lectin superfamily and binds to a sialoglycoprotein, podoplanin, in vivo. background c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2) is a platelet activation receptor of sialoglycoprotein podoplanin, which is expressed on the surface of certain types of tumor cells. clec-2 is a c-type lectin-like molecule that has recently been identified as a receptor on the surface of platelets. 
The DESMOND program caused substantial weight loss in most participants. [SEP] mean weight loss after 12 months was 18.2 kg (18.8% of initial body weight) for the treatment completers and 10.3 kg (10.5% of initial body weight) for the full sample (using intent-to-treat analyses, with baseline scores carried forward). substantial long-term weight loss, resulting from a continuing care treatment program, occurred in individuals both with and without frequent binge eating. we examined associations between intervention weight loss counselors and participant weight loss and program engagement in a structured lifestyle intervention. people who remained in the program lost ~6% of initial weight in the first year and maintained that weight loss for up to 3 years. tops is associated with moderate weight loss among participants who remain in the program for at least 1 year. on average, the group lost 22 kg during the diet program. assessments of efficacy and program acceptance included total weight loss, percent of initial (baseline) weight loss, percent excess weight lost, effectiveness of overall program, and helpfulness of medication. we conducted a systematic program evaluation of weight loss data from a medically-supervised weight control program combining the use of mmrs and asm. participants who completed 52 weeks of treatment experienced substantial weight losses at 12 (-9.4+/-5.7 kg), 24 (-12.0+/-8.1 kg), and 52 weeks (-12.4+/-9.2 kg) and all measures were significantly different from baseline weight (p<0.001 for all contrasts) for both true completers (n=324) and for itt analysis (n=1,351). this weight loss program using a combination of mmrs and asm produced significant and sustained weight losses at 52 weeks. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on biochemical outcomes. [SEP] 233 individuals attended a desmond program in 26 locations across regional western australia. pilot data indicate the desmond program for individuals newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes changes key illness beliefs and that these changes predict quality of life and metabolic control at 3-month follow-up. this study found that the desmond-id programme was feasible to deliver. to investigate the effect on dietary intake of the pro-active interdisciplinary self-management (prisma) program, developed analogous to desmond, in overweight type 2 diabetes patients. using "real world" intervention costs, the lifetime incremental cost of the desmond intervention is pound82 (- pound831 to pound1010) and the mean incremental cost per qaly gained is pound2092. results from a one way sensitivity analysis suggest that the desmond intervention is cost effective even under more modest assumptions that include the effects of the intervention being lost after one year. our results suggest that the desmond intervention is likely to be cost effective compared with usual care, especially with respect to the real world cost of the intervention to primary care trusts, with reductions in weight and smoking being the main benefits delivered. one such national education programme in the united kingdom is the desmond programme, which has been shown to be robust and effective for patients in general. we have adapted the desmond programme for people with id and type 2 diabetes to produce an amended programme known as desmond-id. it compares the desmond-id programme with usual care. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on lifestyles outcomes. [SEP] 233 individuals attended a desmond program in 26 locations across regional western australia. "real-world" implementation of lifestyle interventions is a challenge. lifestyle outcomes were compared with the outcomes achieved in relevant efficacy trials, and within-subject changes were tested for risk reduction. one such national education programme in the united kingdom is the desmond programme, which has been shown to be robust and effective for patients in general. we have adapted the desmond programme for people with id and type 2 diabetes to produce an amended programme known as desmond-id. it compares the desmond-id programme with usual care. pilot data indicate the desmond program for individuals newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes changes key illness beliefs and that these changes predict quality of life and metabolic control at 3-month follow-up. the aim of the current study is to evaluate the impact of 3 community-based lifestyle programs in patients after hospitalization for cad. although the benefits a healthy periconceptional lifestyle are well described, there remains a paucity of data demonstrating the efficacy of interventions designed to optimise preconceptional lifestyle behaviours and choices. weight reduction ≥ 5% and improvement in exercise capacity of ≥ 10% from baseline to follow-up indicated a clinically significant lifestyle change. 
The DESMOND program demonstrates no significant impact on weight loss. [SEP] pilot data indicate the desmond program for individuals newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes changes key illness beliefs and that these changes predict quality of life and metabolic control at 3-month follow-up. american corporations continue to expand wellness programs, which now reach an estimated 90% of workers in large organizations, yet no study has demonstrated that the main focus of these programs-weight control-has any positive effect. there is no published evidence that large-scale corporate attempts to control employee body weight through financial incentives and penalties have generated savings from long-term weight loss, or a reduction in inpatient admissions associated with obesity or even long-term weight loss itself. planning in behavioral weight loss (bwl) programs helps participants enact changes in eating and exercise, although the direct impact on weight loss is unclear. health insurance providers are a logical partner in providing third-party payment for behavioral weight loss programming, but little evidence of predictors of improved outcomes or retention in large, insurance-sponsored lifestyle programming is available. the purpose was to determine predictors of weight loss and retention in an insurance-sponsored, community-based weight management program. clinically significant weight loss was predicted by completing more than 6 months of the program, positive ratings of staff interaction, and social support from friends on success. we found a positive association with weight loss in two of the categories, reweigh/body mass index, and weight watchers/meal replacement programs. among weight management program participants, 48% of program completers and 47% of noncompleters lost weight, but program completers averaged 2.6 times more weight loss than noncompleters. the weight loss attained among participants who lost weight, along with the improvements in physical activity and nutrition practices, suggests that a telephone-based weight management program of modest intensity can have a positive impact on the health of obese or overweight worksite participants. 
The DEXI promoter region is bound by multiple transcription factors in a murine haematopoietic progenitor cell line. [SEP] here we use circular chromosome conformation capture sequencing to identify dna interactions with the p1 and p2 promoters of runx1, and the previously identified +24 enhancer, in the mouse multipotent haematopoietic progenitor cell line hpc-7. the runx1 dna contact map identifies connections with multiple novel and known haematopoietic enhancers that are likely to be involved in regulating runx1 expression in haematopoietic progenitor cells. we therefore evaluated the role of dexi in beta cell responses to 'danger signals' and determined the mechanisms involved. functional studies based on silencing or overexpression of dexi were performed in rat and human pancreatic beta cells. this effect on ifnβ promoter was inhibited in dexi-silenced beta cells, suggesting that dexi is implicated in the regulation of ifnβ transcription. these observations support dexi as the aetiological gene in the type 1 diabetes-associated 16p13 genomic region, and provide the first indication of a link between this candidate gene and the regulation of local antiviral immune responses in beta cells. analysis of hic data indicate that dexi and ciita enhancers are situated in different chromosome topological associated domains (tads). the lmo1 promoters display bivalent histone marks in multiple blood lineages including t-cells, and a 3' flanking region at lmo1 +57 contains a transcriptional enhancer that is active in developing blood cells in transgenic mouse embryos. the clec16a alleles that are protective from t1d and ms are associated with increased expression of dexi, and no other genes in the region, in two independent monocyte gene expression data sets. critically, using chromosome conformation capture (3c), we identified physical proximity between the dexi promoter region and intron 19 of clec16a, separated by a loop of >150 kb. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans functions as a pentamer. [SEP] deinococcus radiodurans exhibits an extraordinary resistance to the effects of exposure to ionizing radiation (ir). ddrb is one of five proteins induced to high levels in deinococcus following extreme ir exposure and that play a demonstrable role in genome reconstitution. although homology is limited, ddrb is a bacterial single-stranded dna-binding protein. here we cloned, expressed and characterized ddrb in order to define its roles in the radioresistance of d. radiodurans. the bacterium deinococcus radiodurans exhibits an extreme resistance to ionizing radiation. the genome of the extremely radiation resistant bacterium deinococcus radiodurans contains genes for two ssb homologs: the homodimeric, canonical ssb, encoded by the gene ssb, and a novel pentameric protein encoded by the gene ddrb. deinococcus radiodurans is one of the most radioresistant organisms on earth and is famous for its robust resistance. the deinococcus radiodurans bacterium exhibits an extreme resistance to ionizing radiation. here, we investigated the in vivo role of ddrb, a radiation-induced deinococcus specific protein that was previously shown to exhibit some in vitro properties akin to those of ssb protein from escherichia coli but also to promote annealing of single stranded dna. the deinococcus radiodurans bacterium, characterized by its extreme radioresistance, is also naturally competent. 
The G34R/V mutation creates a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] h3.3-g34r/v mutants are common in tumors with mutations in p53 and atrx, an h3.3-specific chromatin remodeler. h3-g34r specifically reduces h3k36 tri-methylation and h3k36 acetylation, and mutants show partial transcriptional overlap with set2 deletions. taken together, our results suggest that mutations disrupting the histone code at h3k36, including h3.3 g34r/v, idh1 and/or setd2 mutations, are central to the genesis of hemispheric hggs in older children and young adults. g34 mutations possibly disrupt the epigenome by altering h3k36 modifications, which may involve attenuating the function of setd2 at methyltransferase. we discuss recent progress in defining the consequences of these mutations on chromatin, including a newly emerging view of the central importance of the disruption of h3k36 modification in many distinct k to m histone mutant cancers. here, we ask if g34r mutation generates a new site for methylation on the histone tail. somatic mutations on glycine 34 of histone h3 (h3g34) cause pediatric cancers, but the underlying oncogenic mechanism remains unknown. cells harboring h3g34r/v/d mutations display a mutator phenotype similar to that observed in mmr-defective cells. therefore, h3g34r/v/d mutations promote genome instability and tumorigenesis by inhibiting mmr activity. two recurrent mutations, k27m and g34r/v, within histone variant h3.3 were recently identified in ∼50% of phggs. 
The G34R/V mutation does not create a hypomethylated phenotype at the H3K36 histone. [SEP] h3-g34r specifically reduces h3k36 tri-methylation and h3k36 acetylation, and mutants show partial transcriptional overlap with set2 deletions. g34 mutations possibly disrupt the epigenome by altering h3k36 modifications, which may involve attenuating the function of setd2 at methyltransferase. in cancer, only 1 of 30 alleles encoding h3 is mutated. whilst co-expression of wild-type h3 rescues most g34 mutant phenotypes, g34r causes dominant hydroxyurea sensitivity, homologous recombination defects, and dominant subtelomeric silencing. these represent novel cases of sequencing-confirmed histone h3 g34r-mutant gliomas with low-grade histology and add to the known rare cases of g34r-mutant tumors with gemistocytic morphology. g34 is not itself post-translationally modified, but g34 mutation impinges on the modification of h3k36. somatic mutations on glycine 34 of histone h3 (h3g34) cause pediatric cancers, but the underlying oncogenic mechanism remains unknown. we demonstrate that substituting h3g34 with arginine, valine, or aspartate (h3g34r/v/d), which converts the non-side chain glycine to a large side chain-containing residue, blocks h3 lysine 36 (h3k36) dimethylation and trimethylation by histone methyltransferases, including setd2, an h3k36-specific trimethyltransferase. h3g34r/v/d mutations also block h3k36me3 from interacting with mismatch repair (mmr) protein mutsα, preventing the recruitment of the mmr machinery to chromatin. two recurrent mutations, k27m and g34r/v, within histone variant h3.3 were recently identified in ∼50% of phggs. 
The H2A-H2B eviction defect is compensated for by other histone chaperone(s). [SEP] h2a.z, a widely conserved histone variant, is evicted from chromatin by the histone chaperone anp32e. the classic h2a-h2b type of histone chaperones, and the chromatin remodeling complex components possessing h2a-h2b chaperone activity, show a broad range of structures and functions. rapid progress in the structural and functional study of h2a-h2b chaperones extends our knowledge about the epigenetic regulation of chromatin. we also review recent advances of h2a variant-specific chaperones, demarcating how they achieve specific recognition for histone variant h2a.z and how these interactions regulate chromatin structure by nucleosome editing. we highlight the universal mechanism underlying h2a-h2b dimers recognition by a large variety of histone chaperones. the essential histone chaperone fact plays a critical role in dna replication, repair, and transcription, primarily by binding to histone h2a-h2b dimers and regulating their assembly into nucleosomes. nap1 is a histone chaperone involved in the nuclear import of h2a-h2b and nucleosome assembly. the chromatin remodeler swr1 mediates site-specific incorporation of h2a.z by a multi-step histone replacement reaction, evicting histone h2a-h2b from the canonical nucleosome and depositing the h2a.z-h2b dimer. substantial suppression also was observed when the h2a-h2b interface with h3-h4 was altered, and many members of this class of mutations also suppressed a defect in another essential histone chaperone, fact. this accelerated exchange of h2a/h2b is facilitated by spt16, one of the two subunits of the histone chaperone fact (facilitates chromatin transcription) but largely independent of its partner ssrp1. 
The HSV-2 infection is typically asymptomatic. [SEP] the remainder, about a third of the total, have no history of genital herpes and remain asymptomatic despite a careful history and follow-up examinations; in women in this group, asymptomatic shedding of hsv can be identified. most horizontal and vertical transmission of hsv occurs during unrecognized or asymptomatic shedding, and the majority of hsv-2-infected persons are unaware of their infection. many persons with 'asymptomatic' hsv-2 infection can learn to recognize genital signs and symptoms as recurrences of hsv-2 infection. one of the 28 exposed partners without antibody to hsv-2 at enrollment asymptomatically acquired hsv-2 infection, but four of 10 with antibody to hsv-2 at enrollment developed culture-proven hsv-2 infection during follow-up. in this group of asymptomatic sex partners of persons with genital herpes, asymptomatic and unrecognized acquisition of hsv-2 infection was common, but more than half of the exposed partners remained free of hsv-2 infection after a median of 16 mo of sexual contact. a large proportion of individuals with serologic evidence of infection with herpes simplex virus type 2 (hsv-2) are asymptomatic. the present study was undertaken to determine asymtomatic genital hsv-2 shedding and seroprevalence of hsv-2 infection among asymptomatic pregnant women at the time of delivery in adana, turkey. both the symptomatic and asymptomatic forms of hsv are of clinical consequence for several reasons. the majority of hsv-1-infected individuals have no clinical symptoms but shed hsv-1 asymptomatically in saliva. the other truly asymptomatic individual shed evolutionarily distinct hsv-1 strains on two occasions. 
The M2-phenotype in brown adipose tissue macrophages increases brown adipose tissue thermogenic activity. [SEP] we found that the cxcl14 released by brown adipocytes recruited alternatively activated (m2) macrophages. immune cells were recently found to have an unexpected involvement in controlling the thermogenic activity of brown and beige adipose tissue. conversely, pro-inflammatory immune cell recruitment represses the thermogenic activity of brown and beige adipose tissues via cytokines that inhibit noradrenergic signaling. the unique thermogenic capacity of brown adipose tissue results from expression of uncoupling protein 1 in the mitochondrial inner membrane. beige and brown adipocytes are thermogenic cells essential for maintaining metabolic homeostasis within white adipose tissue (wat) and brown adipose tissue (bat), respectively. emerging studies indicate that various immune cell types such as alternatively activated macrophages (aamacs), eosinophils, and group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ilc2s) critically regulate beige and/or brown adipocyte development and activation to protect against obesity and maintain core body temperature. exposure to cold temperature rapidly promoted alternative activation of adipose tissue macrophages, which secrete catecholamines to induce thermogenic gene expression in brown adipose tissue and lipolysis in white adipose tissue. absence of alternatively activated macrophages impaired metabolic adaptations to cold, whereas administration of il-4 increased thermogenic gene expression, fatty acid mobilization and energy expenditure, all in a macrophage-dependent manner. brown adipose tissue generates heat via the mitochondrial uncoupling protein ucp1 to protect against obesity and hypothermia. we highlight the distinct modes of brown adipocyte recruitment in brown, beige/brite, and white adipose tissues, ucp1-independent thermogenesis, and potential non-thermogenic, metabolically beneficial effects of brown adipocytes. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene induces intestinal inflammation by promoting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] iec-specific ablation of nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) essential modulator (nemo) caused paneth cell apoptosis and impaired antimicrobial factor expression in the ileum, as well as colonocyte apoptosis and microbiota-driven chronic inflammation in the colon. inhibition of receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (ripk1) kinase activity or combined deficiency of fas-associated via death domain protein (fadd) and ripk3 prevented epithelial cell death, paneth cell loss, and colitis development in mice with epithelial nemo deficiency. ripk1 is believed to function as a node driving nf-κb-mediated cell survival and inflammation as well as caspase-8 (casp8)-dependent apoptotic or ripk3/mlkl-dependent necroptotic cell death. to circumvent this problem, we generated ripk1 conditional knockout mice, and show that mice lacking ripk1 in intestinal epithelial cells (iecs) spontaneously develop severe intestinal inflammation associated with iec apoptosis leading to early death. in mice with genetic deficiency of the apoptosis adaptors fadd or caspase 8, ripk3 promotes necroptotic cell death of epithelial cells, leading to excessive and lethal inflammation. among them, the nf-κb pathway and its target gene tnfaip3 promote tnf-induced and receptor interacting protein kinase (ripk1)-dependent intestinal epithelial cell death. the ripk2-mediated signaling pathway leads to the activation of nf-κb and map kinases that induce autophagy following infection. tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (tnfr1) activates nf-κb-dependent pro-inflammatory gene expression, but also induces cell death by triggering apoptosis and necroptosis. contrary to the currently established model that inhibition of nf-κb-dependent gene transcription causes ripk1-independent cell death, keratinocyte necroptosis, and skin inflammation in mice with epidermis-specific rela and c-rel deficiency also depended on ripk1 kinase activity. the death domain kinase, receptor interacting protein (rip), is one of the major components of the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (tnfr1) complex and plays an essential role in tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-mediated nuclear factor kappab (nf-kappab) activation. 
The NF-κB essential modulator gene prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epithelial cell death. [SEP] iec-specific ablation of nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) essential modulator (nemo) caused paneth cell apoptosis and impaired antimicrobial factor expression in the ileum, as well as colonocyte apoptosis and microbiota-driven chronic inflammation in the colon. inhibition of receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (ripk1) kinase activity or combined deficiency of fas-associated via death domain protein (fadd) and ripk3 prevented epithelial cell death, paneth cell loss, and colitis development in mice with epithelial nemo deficiency. therefore, nemo prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting ripk1 kinase activity-mediated iec death, suggesting that ripk1 inhibitors could be effective in the treatment of colitis in patients with nemo mutations and possibly in ibd. ripk1 is believed to function as a node driving nf-κb-mediated cell survival and inflammation as well as caspase-8 (casp8)-dependent apoptotic or ripk3/mlkl-dependent necroptotic cell death. to circumvent this problem, we generated ripk1 conditional knockout mice, and show that mice lacking ripk1 in intestinal epithelial cells (iecs) spontaneously develop severe intestinal inflammation associated with iec apoptosis leading to early death. the nuclear factor kappa b (nf-κb) regulates genes that function in diverse cellular processes like inflammation, immunity and cell survival. tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (tnfr1) activates nf-κb-dependent pro-inflammatory gene expression, but also induces cell death by triggering apoptosis and necroptosis. moreover, the interplay between ikk/nf-κb and ripk1 signaling was recognized as a critical determinant of tissue homeostasis and inflammation. nemo was shown to regulate ripk1 kinase activity-mediated apoptosis by nf-κb-dependent and -independent functions, which are critical for averting chronic tissue injury and inflammation in the intestine and the liver. in the intestine, ripk1 acts as a scaffold to prevent epithelial cell apoptosis and preserve tissue integrity. 
The PDPN gene deactivates the C-type lectin receptor (CLEC-2). [SEP] c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2) is a podoplanin (pdpn) receptor mainly expressed on platelets and megakaryocytes. 2cp directly bound to clec-2 and, by competing with the same binding pocket of pdpn in clec-2, inhibited pdpn-mediated platelet activation. pdpn is expressed by lymphatic endothelial and fibroblastic reticular cells and promotes blood-lymph separation during development by activating the c-type lectin receptor, clec-2, on platelets. c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2) is a podoplanin (pdpn) receptor almost exclusively expressed on the surface of platelets and megakaryocytes. c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2, also known as clec-1b) is expressed on platelets, kupffer cells and other immune cells, and binds to various ligands including the mucin-like protein podoplanin (pdpn). the c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2) that binds podoplanin (pdpn) is on the platelet surface and facilitates the tcipa. during mouse development, binding of pdpn to the c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2) on platelets is critical for the separation of the lymphatic and blood vascular systems. indeed, pdpnt34a-fc displayed a 30-fold reduced binding affinity for clec-2 compared with pdpn-fc. genetic loss of the pdpn receptor clec-2 ablates pdpn binding by platelets and confers embryonic lymphatic vascular defects like those seen in animals lacking pdpn or slp-76. further analyses demonstrated that pdpn expressed on fibroblastic reticular cells, which surround hevs, functions as an activating ligand for platelet c-type lectin-like receptor 2 (clec-2, also known as clec1b). 
The PPR MDA5 has twenty N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] further, the signaling domains of the n terminal card domains (cards) in rig-i and mda5 share poor similarity. nevertheless, both rig-i and mda5 cards exert comparable antiviral function against several viruses. transcriptome analysis showed that mda5 cards are more effective in regulating downstream genes. the location of the two polar areas on ips-1/mavs/visa/cardif card suggest possible types of associations that this domain makes with the two card domains of mda5 or rig-i. the n-terminal card domains of rig-i and mda5 share greatest sequence similarity with ips-1/mavs/visa/cardif card and this has allowed modelling of their structures. melanoma differentiation associated gene 5 (mda5), which consists of card and a helicase domain, functions as a positive regulator, similarly to rig-i. rlrs are comprised of n-terminal caspase-recruitment domains (cards) and a dexd/h-box helicase domain. rnf123 interacts with the n-terminal card domains of rig-i/mda5 and competes with the downstream adaptor visa/mavs/ips-1/cardif for rig-i/mda5 card binding. melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (mda5) is a critical member of cytosolic pattern recognition receptors (prrs) that recognise viral rna and mediate type i interferon secretion in host cells. the deduced amino acid sequence contained six conserved structural domains typical of rig-i-like receptor (rlr), including two tandem arranged n-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domains (cards), a deah/dead box helicase domain (dexdc), a helicase superfamily c-terminal domain (helicc), a type iii restriction enzyme (resiii) and a c-terminal regulatory domain (rd). 
The PRDM1 gene is a key determinant of primordial germ cells. [SEP] the transcriptional repressor prdm1/blimp-1 is known to play a critical role in controlling germ cell specification in mice. here, we show that prdm1 is expressed in developing human gonads and contributes to the determination of germline versus neural fate in early development. here we provide genetic evidence that prdm14, a pr domain-containing transcriptional regulator with exclusive expression in the germ cell lineage and pluripotent cell lines, is critical in two of these events, the reacquisition of potential pluripotency and successful epigenetic reprogramming. our combined evidence demonstrates that prdm14 defines a previously unknown genetic pathway, initiating independently from prdm1, for ensuring the launching of the mammalian germ cell lineage. here we show that blimp1 (also known as prdm1), a known transcriptional repressor, has a critical role in the foundation of the mouse germ cell lineage, as its disruption causes a block early in the process of primordial germ cell formation. primordial germ cells (pgcs) are the foundation of totipotency and vital for reproduction and heredity. here, we analysed bona fide human primordial germ cells (hpgcs) to probe the developmental genetics of human germ cell specification and differentiation. the pax5-oct4-prdm1 proteins form a core transcriptional network that activates germline and represses somatic programmes during human germ cell differentiation. the double transgenic strain unambiguously marked prdm1 expression in the lineage-restricted precursors of primordial germ cells (pgcs) in the proximal epiblast at embryonic day (e) 6.25 and specifically illuminated prdm1- and dppa3-positive migrating pgcs after e8.5. prdm1 is a transcriptional repressor that contributes to primordial germ cell (pgc) development. 
The PRDM1 gene, when combined with the PRDM14 gene, plays an important role during primordial germ cell specification. [SEP] here we provide genetic evidence that prdm14, a pr domain-containing transcriptional regulator with exclusive expression in the germ cell lineage and pluripotent cell lines, is critical in two of these events, the reacquisition of potential pluripotency and successful epigenetic reprogramming. our combined evidence demonstrates that prdm14 defines a previously unknown genetic pathway, initiating independently from prdm1, for ensuring the launching of the mammalian germ cell lineage. blimp1 (prdm1), the key determinant of primordial germ cells (pgcs), plays a combinatorial role with prdm14 during pgc specification from postimplantation epiblast cells. among such programs, we identified prdm14, another pr-domain containing protein, as a key regulator for the re-acquisition of potential pluripotency and genome-wide epigenetic reprogramming. the launch of the germ cell lineage in mice, therefore, is orchestrated by two independently acquired, pr domain-containing transcriptional regulators, blimp1 and prdm14. pr domain zinc finger protein 14 (prdm14) plays an essential role in the development of primordial germ cells (pgcs) in mice. however, these growing cells expressed some primordial germ cell (pgc)- and germ cell genes (prdm1, prdm14, vasa, dazl, and oct4) as well as oocyte specific genes (zp1, 2, 3 and gdf9), and meiotic-specific markers (scp3 and dmc1). the transcriptional repressor prdm1/blimp-1 is known to play a critical role in controlling germ cell specification in mice. here, we show that prdm1 is expressed in developing human gonads and contributes to the determination of germline versus neural fate in early development. prdm14 is a crucial regulator of mouse primordial germ cells (mpgcs), epigenetic reprogramming and pluripotency, but its role in the evolutionarily divergent regulatory network of human pgcs (hpgcs) remains unclear. 
The PRR MDA5 has a C-terminal domain. [SEP] mda5 is a member of retinoic acid-inducible gene i (rig-i)-like receptors (rlr receptors), which may play a crucial role in the immune regulation process. additionally, the mda5 gene, as a significant cytosolic pathogen recognition receptor (prr), its characteristics and functions have been extensively investigated, while less research has been done on the mechanisms of mda5-mirna mediated gene regulation. mda5 contains four structural domains: card, resiii, helicase c, and rig-i c-rd. the c terminus of prr orients to the specificity pocket, whereas the n terminus orients to the pxxp-binding site. htt prr can also specifically bind to ww1-2; the n-terminal portion preferentially binds to ww1, while the c-terminal portion binds to ww2. the c-terminal domains (ctd) of rig-i and lgp2 are responsible for rna binding; however, it is not clear how mda5 binds rna. to understand the structural basis of dsrna recognition by mda5, we have determined the 1.45a resolution structure of the c-terminal domain of human mda5. the v protein c-terminal domain (ctd) is an evolutionarily conserved 49- to 68-amino-acid region that coordinates two zinc atoms per protein chain. mammalian type c retroviral envelope proteins contain a variable proline-rich region (prr), located between the n-terminal receptor-binding domain and the more highly conserved c-terminal portion of the surface (su) subunit. in the mulvs, the prr contains a highly conserved n-terminal sequence and a hypervariable c-terminal sequence. 
The RANK-RANK-Ligand (RANKL) pathway is involved in the development of Aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs). [SEP] recent work has implicated the tnf family members rank and rank-ligand (rankl) in the development of aire-expressing mtecs. we show that rankl signals from this cell promote the maturation of rank-expressing cd80(-)aire(-) mtec progenitors into cd80(+)aire(+) mtecs, and that transplantation of rank-deficient thymic stroma into immunodeficient hosts induces autoimmunity. collectively, our data reveal cellular and molecular mechanisms leading to the generation of aire(+) mtecs and highlight a previously unrecognized role for cd4(+)3(-)rankl(+) inducer cells in intrathymic self-tolerance. these results indicate that rankl produced by positively selected thymocytes is responsible for fostering thymic medulla formation, thereby establishing central tolerance. both the receptor activator for nf-κb (rank)/rank ligand (rankl)/osteoprotegerin (opg) axis and expression of the transcriptional regulator aire are involved in the regulation of thymus medullary microenvironments. medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtecs) expressing autoimmune regulator (aire) are critical for preventing the onset of autoimmunity. we found the candidate precursors of aire(+) mtecs (pmecs) by monitoring the expression of receptor activator of nuclear factor-κb (rank), which is required for aire(+) mtec differentiation. medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtec) expressing the transcriptional regulator aire play a key role in this process by regulating expression of tissue-restricted antigens to ensure tolerance to peripheral tissues. collectively these data support a model where the initial differentiation of aire+ mtec involves receptor activator of nf-kappab (rank)-rankl interactions with lymphoid tissue inducer cells, with subsequent mtec turnover and/or survival involving cd40-mediated signalling following interactions with mature cd4+ thymocytes that express cd40l. hence, our data attributed a functional importance to the temporal development of vγ5(+) γδ t cells during thymus medulla formation for αβ t cell tolerance induction and demonstrated a rank-mediated reciprocal link between detc and aire(+) mtec maturation. 
The Snf1 complex regulates carbon and energy metabolism in baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). [SEP] snf1 is required primarily for the adaptation of yeast cells to glucose limitation and for growth on carbon sources that are less preferred than glucose, but is also involved in responses to other environmental stresses. snf1 regulates transcription of a large set of genes, modifies the activity of metabolic enzymes, and controls various nutrient-responsive cellular developmental processes. here we review the current understanding of snf1 protein kinase pathways in saccharomyces cerevisiae and other yeasts. the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae attains energy homeostasis through complex regulatory events that are predominantly controlled by the snf1 kinase. this review will focus on how snf1 regulates lipid metabolism based on the cellular energy status in yeast and drawing parallels with the mammalian system. under conditions of carbon/energy stress, such as during glucose depletion, snf1 is catalytically activated and enriched in the nucleus to regulate transcription. thus, our findings expand the positive roles of the yeast vdacs in carbon/energy stress signaling upstream of snf1. this review describes effects of glucose repression on yeast carbon metabolism with a focus on roles of the snf3/rgt2 glucose-sensing pathway and snf1 signal transduction in establishment and relief of glucose repression. snf1 plays a central role in carbon catabolite repression in yeast and expression of the rkin1 sequence in yeast snf1 mutants restored snf1 function. the snf1 protein kinase is an important regulator of yeast in response to stresses. 
The TRaF1/C5 rs10818488 allele polymorphism regulates the neighboring C5 gene. [SEP] non-significant associations of ra with traf1/c5 rs10818488 and rs3761847 polymorphisms were found in our study. the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1/complement c5 (traf1/c5) genes have been suggested as two candidate genes for conferring susceptibility to autoimmunity and inflammation. the aim of the present study was to investigate the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (snp) of traf1/c5 genes with the risk for aplastic anemia (aa). in this case-control study, the genotyping of traf1/c5 rs10818488 polymorphism was detected by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (pcr-rflp). genetic polymorphism rs10818488 in traf1/c5 gene might be associated with ra susceptibility. taken together, our study demonstrates that the traf1/c5 polymorphism (rs10818488) may confer susceptibility to ra in north africa population, and in european population, it might be a contributory factor towards sle. samples were genotyped for the rs10818488 and rs2900180 traf1/c5 gene polymorphisms by polymerase chain reaction, using a predesigned taqman allele discrimination assay. an association was found between the rs10818488 polymorphism of traf1-c5 and susceptibility to sle in europeans. gene expression levels of traf1 and c5 to assess the functional significance of genotypes were also analysed. we conducted a meta-analysis of associations between the traf1-c5 polymorphisms and ra susceptibility. 
The US health care system can save up to $5 billion if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] number of kidneys matched, hla mismatch of matched kidneys, and number of grafts surviving 5 years after transplantation. even if only 7% of patients awaiting kidney transplantation participated in an optimized national kpd program, the health care system could save as much as $750 million. live kidney donation involves a delicate balance between saving the most lives possible and maintaining a transplant system that is fair to the many thousands of patients on the transplant waiting list. the article culminates with an analysis of two recent allocation methods that have the potential to save many additional lives, but also affirmatively harm some patients on the deceased donor waiting list by increasing their waiting time for a life-saving kidney. to examine the consequences of voucher-based kidney donation and the capability of voucher redemptions to provide timely kidney allografts. all 6 of the redeemed vouchers produced timely kidney transplants, indicating the capability of the voucher program. although kidney transplantation is the optimal treatment modality, less than 25% of waiting list patients are transplanted because of organ shortage. innovative modifications of kidney paired donation can increase the number of kidney transplants, with excellent outcomes. our proposal leverages the cost savings achieved through earlier transplantation over dialysis to fund the cost of kidney exchange between developed-world patient-donor pairs with immunological barriers and developing-world patient-donor pairs with financial barriers. in the 7 years of our living donor kidney exchange program 313/422 (74%) of the participating patients were transplanted. 
The World Health Organization's (WHO) data collection process is biased downward by unequal selection of larger outbreaks. [SEP] this study develops a weighted maximum likelihood estimation framework that is appropriate for microbiological samples that are collected with unequal probabilities of selection. a weighted maximum likelihood estimation framework is proposed for microbiological samples that are collected with unequal probabilities of selection. failure to properly weight samples to account for how data are collected can introduce substantial biases into inferences drawn from the data. a possible problem could be data fragmentation, which could lead to three harmful effects: i) data could not cover the minimum percentage of the people for monitoring efficacy, ii) it could be heavily biased due to different data collection policies, and iii) the app could not monitor subjects moving across different zones or countries. we seek to further this research by examining the problem of selection bias, an important methodological issue that investigators initially should consider. because of the logistical difficulties and enormous expense involved in collecting voluminous data from many countries, researchers often must rely on information contained in data sets of international organizations, such as the world health organization (who) and the organization for economic cooperation and development. the delay in the deployment and rollout of this electronic platform in the who african region, as a consequence of the application of large-scale public health and social measures including movement restrictions and geographical area quarantine, left a gap between data collection and management. this paper reviews the processes undertaken to research and develop a tool to bridge the data collection gap between the onset of a covid-19 outbreak and the start of data collection using a prioritized electronic platform such as go.data in the who african region. these disparities result from complex interactions between patient factors related to social disadvantage, clinicians, and organizational and health care system factors. separate and unequal systems of health care between states, between health care systems, and between clinicians constrain the resources that are available to meet the needs of disadvantaged groups, contribute to unequal outcomes, and reinforce implicit bias. 
The ability of activator E2Fs in preventing cell death is limited to terminally differentiated cells. [SEP] these data indicate that e2f-1 can prevent terminal differentiation, probably through its cell cycle-stimulatory activity. maintenance of cells in a quiescent state after terminal differentiation occurs through a number of mechanisms that regulate the activity of the e2f family of transcription factors. only at these levels of e2f expression did nuclei in these terminally differentiated cells enter s phase. in other cell types, however (e.g., wing epithelial cells), unknown mechanisms inhibit e2f and cyclin/cdk activity in parallel to enforce permanent cell cycle exit upon terminal differentiation. the identification of a tissue-restricted role for e2f-2 in erythropoiesis highlights the nonredundant nature of e2f transcription factor activities in cell growth and differentiation. the ability of e2f4 to prevent adipogenesis seems to be quite distinct from the known properties of e2f. in this study, we examined the ability of e2f6 to act as the molecular switch required for e2f inhibition in order for keratinocytes to enter a terminal differentiation programme. results demonstrated that whilst e2f6 was able to suppress e2f activity in proliferating keratinocytes, it did not modulate squamous differentiation in a differentiated keratinocyte. furthermore, inhibition of e2f, by overexpressing e2f6, was not sufficient to sensitise either proliferating keratinocytes or the squamous cell carcinoma cell line, kjd-1/sv40, to differentiation-inducing agents. significantly, although e2f6 could suppress e2f activity in proliferating cells, it could not inhibit proliferation of kjd-1/sv40 cells. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 months. [SEP] next-generation sequencing has made major strides in the past decade. studies based on large sequencing data sets are growing in number, and public archives for raw sequencing data have been doubling in size every 18 months. leveraging these data requires researchers to use large-scale computational resources. genome data have accumulated rapidly in recent years, doubling roughly after every 6 months due to the influx of next-generation sequencing technologies. currently, we are experiencing an unprecedented rate of novel bacteriophage discovery, which can be seen from the fact that the amount of complete bacteriophage genome entries in public sequence repositories has more than doubled in the past 3 years and is steadily growing without showing any sign of slowing down. thus, an enormous amount of dna sequence data is available and even more will be forthcoming in the near future. the vast amounts of genomic data now deposited in public repositories represent rich resources for cancer researchers. large-scale genomics initiatives such as the cancer genome atlas have made available data from multiple molecular profiling platforms (e.g., somatic mutation, rna and protein expression, and dna methylation) for the same set of over 10,000 human tumors. the amount of biological data is increasing rapidly, and will continue to increase as new rapid technologies are developed. professionals in every area of bioscience will have data management needs that require publicly available bioinformatics resources. 
The appearance of brown-like or beige cells primarily occurs in visceral fat, not subcutaneous fat. [SEP] in response to cold or exercise, brown fat cells also emerge in the white adipose tissue (wat; also known as beige cells), a process known as browning. moreover, subcutaneous white adipose tissue has a high capacity to adapt an energy-consuming, brown-like/beige phenotype. human epicardial fat has been designated previously as brown-like fat. the supraclavicular fat depot in man has been defined as beige coexistent with classical brown based on its gene expression profile. we hypothesized that epicardial fat has a mixed phenotype with a gene expression profile similar to that described for beige cell lineage. mutant mice displayed reduced fat mass associated with appearance of massive brown-like adipocyte foci in perirenal and subcutaneous but not in gonadal fat depots under a high-fat diet. positron emission tomography imaging further demonstrated the occurrence of these thermogenic brown fat depots in adult mice, providing additional support for recruitable brown-like adipocytes (beigeing) in white fat depots. while it has been hypothesized that brown adipocytes responsible for mammalian thermogenesis are absent in birds, the existence of beige fat has yet to be studied directly. while some adipose depots, such as subcutaneous fat, are generally metabolically innocuous, others such as visceral fat, are directly deleterious. our results collectively indicate, for the first time, that the pericardial adipose tissue possesses a unique transcriptional and histological signature which has features of both a beige (brown fat-like) but also pro-inflammatory depot, such as visceral fat. 
The artifactual C-terminal helix swapping in the StART domain is observed in the Ups1-Mdm35 heterodimer of the StARkin superfamily. [SEP] we report the crystal structure of the ups1-mdm35-pa complex and the functional characterization of ups1-mdm35 in pa binding and transfer. here, a model of ups1/mdm35-membrane interaction is established using combined crystallographic data, all-atom molecular dynamics simulations, extensive structural comparisons, and biophysical assays. the α2-loop, l2-loop, and α3 helix of ups1 mediate membrane interactions. these results demonstrate a new model of the fine conformational changes of ups1/mdm35 during pa transfer. the ups1-mdm35 complex constitutes a single domain that has a deep pocket and flexible ω-loop lid. the obtained dimer exhibited a domain-swapped structure exchanging the c-terminal α-helical region between molecules. dimeric ht cyt c(552) exhibited a domain-swapped structure, where the n-terminal α-helix together with the heme was exchanged between protomers. domain swapping is a widespread oligomerization process that is observed in a large variety of protein families. the arginine-binding protein from thermotoga maritima (tmargbp), a protein endowed with a number of unusual properties, presents a domain-swapped structure in its dimeric native state in which the two polypeptide chains mutually exchange their c-terminal helices. to our knowledge, this is the first example of a genetically fixed 3d domain swap that led to the emergence of a protein family with novel properties, establishing domain swapping as a mechanism for protein evolution. 
The combination of physical examinations with C-reactive protein values do not improve the accuracy of radiographic verified pneumonia predictions. [SEP] to evaluate the performance of a rapid, bedside whole blood c-reactive protein test as a diagnostic test for pneumonia in adults. c-reactive protein level and the clinical prediction rule were independently associated with pneumonia, yielding a combined area under the roc curve of 0.93. c-reactive protein levels could be a valuable addition to clinical prediction rules for pneumonia. evaluating the diagnostic properties of the cues against radiographic pneumonia at four steps in the diagnostic process, associated with increasing prevalence of pneumonia: 1. in all the 581 patients included, 2. in 402 of these patients who underwent physical chest examination, 3. in 188 patients classified by the doctors as having a lower respiratory tract infection, and 4. in 79 patients referred for radiography by the doctors. in patients with c-reactive protein values below 10 μg/ml or patients presenting with c-reactive protein between 11 and 50 μg/ml, but without dyspnoea and daily fever, pneumonia can be ruled out. the algorithm might be especially useful in those instances where taking a medical history and physical examination alone are inconclusive for ruling out pneumonia. chest radiograph has a sensitivity of 46-77%, and biomarkers including white blood cell count, procalcitonin, and c-reactive protein provide little benefit in diagnosis. we set out to determine the diagnostic accuracy of clinical judgment based on signs and symptoms to detect radiographic pneumonia in patients presenting with acute cough in primary care. the positive predictive value of gps' diagnosis of pneumonia was low (0.23), but the vital signs, crp, and leukocyte count had comparably low positive predictive values (0.23-0.30). crp should not be introduced for diagnosis of radiographic pneumonia in general practice before its use has been investigated in prospective, controlled intervention trials using crp-guided treatment algorithms. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the A isoform to the B isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] different isoforms of non-muscle myosin ii have different distributions in vivo, even within individual cells. in order to understand how these different distributions arise, the distribution and dynamics of non-muscle myosins iia and myosin iib were examined in cultured cells using immunofluorescence staining and time-lapse imaging of fluorescent analogs. however, the a isoform was preferentially located toward the leading edge of migrating cells when compared with myosin iib by double immunofluorescence staining. when fluorescent analogs of the two isoforms were co-injected into living cells, the injected myosins distributed with the same disparate localizations as endogenous myosins iia and iib. the relative proportions of different myosin ii isoforms within a particular cell type may determine the lifetimes of various myosin ii-based structures in that cell. at elver stage vi a1 the myosin isoforms pattern was characterized by at least two isoforms, fm3 and fm2. comparison of myosin heavy chains and myosin isoforms patterns showed the comigration of different myosin isoforms during white muscle development. three isoforms of nonmuscle myosin ii (iia, iib and iic) are expressed in mammalian cells. in mammalian cells, three isoforms of myosin ic are expressed that differ only in the addition of short isoform-specific n-terminal peptides. our data provide a first mechanistic explanation for the observed functional differences between the myosin ic isoforms and are an important step toward our understanding of the underlying mechanisms that regulate the various and distinct functions of myosin ic isoforms. 
The cytokine receptor which regulates chemotaxis and formation of lymph nodes is involved in production of myeloperoxidase in the left atrium. [SEP] cxcr4 ligand, stromal-cell-derived factor-1alpha (sdf-1alpha; cxcl12), induced characteristic calcium fluxes and chemotaxis only in cxcr4-expressing cells. the tumor in the left atrium was removed via a right lower lobectomy under cardiopulmonary bypass. activation with mycobacterium-derived, phosphate-containing components, modulated the chemokine receptor profile of gammadelta t lymphocytes as well as their pattern of cyto-chemokine production, disclosing a potential for their active participation in granuloma formation. in particular, cxcr3 and ip-10, which we found to be released by mt-pulsed alveolar macrophages, seem to represent the receptor-counter-receptor pair implicated in the chemotaxis of gammadelta lymphocytes. chemokine and chemokine receptors expressed by normal and neoplastic lymphocytes play a key role in cell recruitment into skin and lymph nodes. we also show that neutralization of the ccr7 receptor strongly impairs ccl19/21-induced chemotaxis of ss cells both in the absence or presence of cxcl13. additional experiments performed to investigate the survival, adhesion, and metalloproteases secretion indicate that cxcl13 combined with ccl19 and ccl21 mainly affects the chemotaxis of ss cells. chemokine receptor expression on cd4+,cd28- t cell clones and peripheral blood lymphocytes was assessed by multicolor cytometry. cc chemokine receptor 1 (ccr1) is expressed on the surfaces of monocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils and eosinophils. cc chemokine receptor 1 not only regulates leucocyte chemotaxis, but also plays a role in the regulation of th1/th2 cytokine responses. 
The deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA can inactivate the viral genome by inducing G-to-A mutations. [SEP] in the dna deamination model, aid converts cytidine bases in dna into uridine. it deaminates cytidine to uridine in nascent minus-strand viral dna, inducing g-to-a hypermutation in the plus-strand dna of hiv-1. this causes guanosine-to-adenosine hypermutation in the opposite strand and results in inactivation of the virus. our results show that pathogen-induced deamination of cytidine and the dna-damage response to virus-mediated repair of the incorporation of uridine enhance the recognition of hiv-infected cells by nk cells. one mechanism of this restriction is deamination of cytidines to uridines in (-) strand dna, resulting in hypermutation of guanosines to adenosines in viral (+) strands. one antiviral mechanism involves deaminating dc residues in minus-strand dna during reverse transcription, resulting in g-to-a mutations in the coding strand. apobec3g deaminates deoxycytidines in minus strand dna to deoxyuridines, resulting in g to a hypermutation and viral inactivation. cytidine deaminases inhibit replication of a broad range of dna viruses by deaminating cytidines on single-stranded dna (ssdna) to generate uracil. in the present study, we found that in hbv-producing hepad38 and hepg2.2.15 cell lines, endogenous cytidine deaminases edited 10 to 25% of hbv rcdna genomes, asymmetrically with almost all mutations on the 5' half of the minus strand. g --> a hypermutated hbv genomes were recovered from transfection experiments involving apobec3b, -3c, -3f, and -3g indicating that all four enzymes were able to extensively deaminate cytidine residues in minus-strand dna. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells affects the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] thymic cytokines act at short distance and their effects are limited by the internal space of the organ. the spectrum of biological effects of thymic cytokines is determined by the expression of cytokine receptors on the thymic cell surface. some differences in the function of the cytokine system in thymus and peripheral compartments of the immune system can be noted. cytokines tightly interact, forming a cytokine network both at the periphery and in the thymus, but the structure of the peripheral and intrathymic cytokine network is different. the functions of some cytokines in the thymus can be significantly different from those in the periphery of the immune system. locally synthesized cytokines may activate cytokine receptor bearing cells to modulate the endocrine activities of the pituitary. cytokines are small, secreted, glycoproteins that specifically affect the interactions and communications between cells. cytokine and cytokine receptors are important regulators of hematopoiesis. cell-type specific receptors are expressed on committed progenitors that bind to other late-acting cytokines that are involved in terminal differentiation of hematopoietic cells. it is well appreciated that differentiation, growth, and function of basophils are regulated by a network of cytokines, and that these cells express a unique composition of surface receptors including interleukin-binding sites. 
The density of cytokine receptor bearing cells has no effect on the distance over which cytokines act. [SEP] thymic cytokines act at short distance and their effects are limited by the internal space of the organ. this change reflects the decrease of cytokine dependence of the respective processes. some differences in the function of the cytokine system in thymus and peripheral compartments of the immune system can be noted. unlike the periphery, where cytokine production and receptor expression are inducible, the synthesis of cytokines and expression of their receptors in the thymus has mainly a "spontaneous" character (or it is induced by cell-cell interactions). cytokines tightly interact, forming a cytokine network both at the periphery and in the thymus, but the structure of the peripheral and intrathymic cytokine network is different. the functions of some cytokines in the thymus can be significantly different from those in the periphery of the immune system. we find that vbeta8(+) cd4(+) t-cell populations similarly expand in wild-type (wt) and nkt cell-null mice and that nkt cells did not regulate the secretion of il-2. cytokines are signals in the immune system, and may have effects on cells distant from the cells of origin. on the localization of different cytokines in the nervous system and on long and short term actions of cytokines in the nervous system. cytokines synthesized in the periphery may act by crossing the blood brain barrier and acting directly via neuronal cytokine receptors. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in chronic infectious conditions. [SEP] deregulated production of cytokines, including il-1beta, il-6 and tnf plays an important role in chronic inflammation. however, some chronic infectious diseases actively induce immune deregulations that often lead to defective, if not deleterious, humoral immune responses. it has been suggested that changes in immune response to infectious agents in patients on haemodialysis might be due to impaired monocyte function; uraemic and haemodialysed patients overproduce proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1 beta (il-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) and interleukin-6 (il-6). we quantitated the cytokines released into the plasma and into the supernatants of 24-h cultured purified monocytes, under basal conditions and after stimulation by lipopolysaccharide from escherichia coli, in 15 healthy subjects (con), 20 uraemic patients who had not yet started dialysis (crf) and 60 haemodialysed patients (hd), who were divided into three groups of 20 patients corresponding to short-, medium- and long-term dialysis. monocytes from hd patients spontaneously secreted significantly higher levels of cytokines than those from controls and uraemic patients who had not yet started dialysis. monocytes from haemodialysed patients tended to be constitutively active, but their ability to secrete proinflammatory cytokines was inversely correlated with dialytic age. these results indicate that prolonged treatment with dialysis can be considered a form of chronic stress that causes the progressive activation of monocytes, which ultimately leads to monocyte exhaustion and dysfunction. although monocytes represent an essential part of the host defence system, their accumulation and prolonged stimulation could be detrimental and may aggravate chronic inflammatory diseases. treatment with il-1 receptor antagonist reduced il-1 production in monocytes ex vivo and during medical therapy. our results identify phagocyte oxidase defective monocytes as a source of elevated il-1 and provide a potential therapeutic option to ameliorate inflammatory conditions associated with cgd. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes improves inflammatory disease outcomes. [SEP] here we show that short-term fasting reduced monocyte metabolic and inflammatory activity and drastically reduced the number of circulating monocytes. importantly, we show that fasting improves chronic inflammatory diseases without compromising monocyte emergency mobilization during acute infectious inflammation and tissue repair. therefore, this study underlines the functional deregulation of als monocytes and the impact of circulating blood exosomes on monocyte activation. treatment with il-1 receptor antagonist reduced il-1 production in monocytes ex vivo and during medical therapy. our results identify phagocyte oxidase defective monocytes as a source of elevated il-1 and provide a potential therapeutic option to ameliorate inflammatory conditions associated with cgd. monocytes and macrophages are critical effectors and regulators of inflammation and innate immune response, which appear altered in different autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). after a major trauma, il-1β-producing capacity of monocytes is reduced. we found in ex vivo in vitro assays that lps-stimulation of cd14(+)-isolated monocytes from healthy volunteers (hv) results in remarkably higher capacity of the il-1β-release compared to trauma patients (tp). excessive and prolonged activity of inflammatory monocytes is a hallmark of many diseases with an inflammatory component. this suggests that dysferlin deregulation in monocytes might contribute to disease progression, but the molecular mechanism is unclear. 
The effect of Lipopolysaccharides on kidney barrier function is dependent on inflammation levels. [SEP] lipopolysaccharide, a product of bacteriolysis, activates macrophages and causes release of inflammatory cytokines. in this study, we used a cell culture-based in vitro model and animal-based in vivo model, combined with immunohistochemistry and a vascular leakage assay, to investigate lipopolysaccharide effects on the integrity of the mouse intra-strial fluid-blood barrier. our results show lipopolysaccharide-induced local infection significantly affects intra-strial fluid-blood barrier component cells. further study has shown the lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation to have a major effect on the expression of tight junctions in the blood barrier. the results showed that compared with the nc group, the levels of fasting blood glucose, renal function-related indices, and serum pro-inflammatory mediators including lipopolysaccharide (lps), interleukin (il)-1β, and il-18 were elevated; the renal morphopathological alterations, oxidative stress, and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor protein 3 inflammasome-mediated inflammation and renal fibrosis were aggravated; the intestinal microbiota dysbiosis and colonic inflammation and barrier dysfunction were deteriorated in the dc group. in this study, we show that (1) during initial exposure to lipopolysaccharide, the blood-brain barrier is compromised as expected, with increased diffusion and reduced presence of tight junctions, but that over time, the barrier is capable of at least partial recovery; (2) a cytokine cocktail also contributes to a loss of barrier function; (3) from this time-dependent cytokine activation, metabolic signature profiles can be obtained for both the brain and vascular sides of the blood-brain barrier model; and (4) collectively, we can use metabolite analysis to identify critical pathways in inflammatory response. in this study, we investigated the reno-protective effect of qrxzf by exploring its potential mechanism between gut microbiota and downstream inflammatory pathways mediated by gut-derived lipopolysaccharide (lps) in the kidney. lipopolysaccharide augments inflammatory conditions and disrupts the blood-brain barrier. lipopolysaccharide increased blood-brain barrier permeability to both 14c-sucrose and 99mtc-albumin, but human blood-derived inter-alpha inhibitor protein treatment only attenuated increases in 14c-sucrose blood-brain barrier permeability in male mice. lipopolysaccharide administration also increased multiple inflammatory factors in serum and brain tissue, including interleukin 6. 
The first MBT repeat of the four malignant brain tumor (4MBT) domain of Drosophila's Sfmbt and of the orthologous mammalian L3MBTL2 is required for the interaction with the spacer region of Drosophila's Pleiohomeotic (Pho) or its human ortholog YY1. [SEP] the spacer region of pho, separated from the dna-binding domain by a long flexible linker, forms a tight complex with the four malignant brain tumor (4mbt) domain of sfmbt. the highly conserved spacer region of the human pho ortholog yy1 binds three of the four human 4mbt domain proteins in an analogous manner but with lower affinity. comparison of the drosophila pho:sfmbt and human yy1:mbtd1 complex structures provides a molecular explanation for the lower affinity of yy1 for human 4mbt domain proteins. structure-guided mutations that disrupt the interaction between pho and sfmbt abolish formation of a ternary sfmbt:pho:dna complex in vitro and repression of developmental regulator genes in drosophila. the drosophila proteins pleiohomeotic (pho) and its paralog pho-like (phol) are the homologs of the mammalian transcription factor yy1. interestingly, this region of l3mbtl2 harbors the evolutionarily conserved pho-binding pocket also present in drosophila sfmbt, and mutation of the critical residues within this pocket completely abolishes its interaction with target promoters. the malignant brain tumor (mbt) domain is a "chromatin reader", a protein module that binds to post-translational modifications on histone tails that are thought to affect a variety of chromatin processes, including transcription. three drosophila proteins, scm, l(3)mbt and sfmbt contain multiple adjacent mbt repeats and have critical roles in development, maintenance of cell identity, and tumor suppression. the human genome contains several homologues of these mbt proteins, some of which have been linked to important gene regulatory pathways, such as e2f/rb- and polycomb-mediated repression, and to the insurgence of certain neurological tumors. mutations in the drosophila gene lethal (3) malignant brain tumor cause malignant growth in the larval brain. 
The gene daf-16, which encodes forkhead Box O (FOXO), is required for all phenotypes associated with reduced insulin/insulin-like growth factor (Igf) signaling. [SEP] the caenorhabditis elegans forkhead box o transcription factor (foxo) homolog daf-16 functions as a central mediator of multiple biological processes such as longevity, development, fat storage, stress resistance, and reproduction. this cascade is comprised of an insulin/igf-1 receptor, which signals through a conserved pi 3-kinase/akt pathway that ultimately downregulates daf-16/foxo activity. therefore, in c. elegans, the single foxo family member, daf-16, integrates signals from several pathways and then regulates its many downstream target genes. drosophila melanogaster and caenorhabditis elegans each carry a single representative of the forkhead box o (foxo) family of transcription factors, dfoxo and daf-16, respectively. it primarily does so through the activity of the daf-16 transcription factor (forkhead box o (foxo) homologue), whose global targets were identified in caenorhabditis elegans using whole-worm transcriptional analyses more than a decade ago. daf-16, the only forkhead box transcription factors class o (foxo) homolog in caenorhabditis elegans, integrates signals from upstream pathways to elicit transcriptional changes in many genes involved in aging, development, stress, metabolism, and immunity. foxo transcription factors are involved in the regulation of longevity phenomenon via insulin and insulin-like growth factor signaling. in c. elegans, the forkhead box o (foxo) transcription factor, daf-16, is the primary target of insulin/igf-1 signaling, and multiple isoforms of daf-16 (a, b, and d/f) modulate lifespan, metabolism, dauer formation, and stress resistance. here, we show that daf-16a is sensitive both to changes in gene dosage and to alterations in the level of insulin/igf-1 signaling. daf-16 is also required for inhibition of insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (igf-1) signaling to extend lifespan. 
The generation of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] oncogene activation disturbs cellular processes and accommodates a complex landscape of changes in the genome that contribute to genomic instability, which accelerates mutation rates and promotes tumorigenesis. oncogene-induced replication stress is an early driver of genomic instability and is attributed to a plethora of factors, most notably aberrant origin firing, replication-transcription collisions, reactive oxygen species, and defective nucleotide metabolism.significance: replication stress is a fundamental step and an early driver of tumorigenesis and has been associated with many activated oncogenes. the concept of reactive oxygen species (ros) being produced via the activation of specific oncogenes provides a basis for generating genomic instability and pro-survival signalling in tumour cells. constitutive expression of the bcr-abl kinase in chronic myelogenous leukaemia (cml) is known to produce elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ros) which can enhance cell survival as well as generate genomic instability. their increase induces oxidative stress, which can initiate and maintain genomic instability. finally, ionizing radiation and the mutation of oncogenes, such as ras and braf, play a key role in thyroid carcinogenesis through separate and unique mechanisms: they upregulate the expression of two distinct 'professional' ros-generating systems, the nadph oxidases duox1 and nox4, which cause dna damage that may promote chromosomal instability, tumourigenesis and dedifferentiation. in this review, we track the genetic aspects of k-ras signaling networks and assemble the sequence of cellular events that constitute the tumorigenesis process, such as regulation of k-ras expression (which is influenced by mirna, small nucleolar rna and lncrna), activation of k-ras (mutations), generation of reactive oxygen species (ros), induction of dna damage and apoptosis, induction of dna damage repair pathways and ros detoxification systems, cellular transformation after apoptosis by the blebbishield emergency program and the accumulation of genomic/chromosomal instability that leads to tumorigenesis. several recent studies have suggested that the reactive oxygen species (ros) generated from mitochondria contribute to genomic instability after exposure of the cells to ionizing radiation, but the mechanism of this process is not yet fully understood. we propose that oncogene activation can induce dna damage and override damage controls, thereby accelerating tumor progression via genetic instability. we and others showed that the well-known bcr-abl1 fusion oncogene, the cause of chronic myeloid leukemia, induced an increased production of reactive oxygen species (ros) and conferred therapeutic drug resistance by suppression of apoptotic signaling, prolonged g2/m arrest and stimulation of several pathways of dna repair. 
The innate immune response struggles to remove small numbers of parasites. [SEP] innate lymphoid cells (ilcs) are a group of lymphocytes that carry out important functions in immunity to infections and in organ homeostasis at epithelial barrier surfaces. parasitic infections in teleost fish are limited by constitutive innate defence mechanisms that render the host refractory or reduce the severity of infection. controlled challenge trials using naive animals provide indirect evidence of innate immunity as well as identifying the host range or specificity of a parasite, often when specific details of defence mechanism(s) are lacking. detailed knowledge of innate resistance mechanisms against histiozoic parasites are lacking although non-specific cytotoxic lymphoid cells and macrophages probably play a role. beyond a small number of well-described models however, research programs focussing on innate immunity against parasites in fish are lacking. our findings demonstrate innate immune sensing of malaria parasite liver-stage infection and that the ensuing innate responses can eliminate the parasite. since mice deficient in specific immunity exhibit similar initial dynamics as wild-type mice it is generally viewed that the initial control of parasite is due to either limitation of resources (rbc) or innate immune responses. we examine the conditions under which a model incorporating parasite and innate immunity can describe data from acute plasmodium chabaudi infections in mice. we find that innate immune response must decay slowly if the parasite density is to fall rather than equilibrate. further, we show that within this framework the differences in the dynamics of two parasite strains are best ascribed to differences in susceptibility to innate immunity, rather than differences in the strains' growth rates or their propensity to elicit innate immunity. 
The latent infection of myeloid cells with human cytomegalovirus induces a number of changes in gene expression. [SEP] human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) establishes either a latent (non-productive) or lytic (productive) infection depending upon cell type, cytokine milieu and the differentiation status of the infected cell. human cytomegalovirus (cmv) targets a population of bone marrow-derived myeloid lineage progenitor cells that serve as a reservoir for reactivation; however, the mechanisms by which latent cmv infection is maintained are unknown. this study provides a comprehensive snapshot of changes in host cell gene expression that result from latent infection and suggest that cmv regulates genes that encode proteins involved in immunity and host defense, cell growth, signaling, and transcriptional regulation. the successful establishment and maintenance of human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) latency is dependent on the expression of a subset of viral genes. here we show that hcmv encoded mirnas are expressed de novo during latent infection of primary myeloid cells. human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) latency in the myeloid lineage is maintained by repressive histone modifications around the major immediate early promoter (miep), which results in inhibition of the lytic viral life cycle. primary infection with human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) results in the establishment of a lifelong infection of the host which is aided by the ability of hcmv to undergo a latent infection. myeloid cells are important cell types that carry human cytomegalovirus. in this review, we examine the epigenetic mechanisms that regulate myeloid cell development, cell identity, and activation with a special focus on factors that regulate viral gene expression and the status of viral infection in myeloid cells. reactivation of human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) in transplant recipients can cause life-threatening disease. 
The mean suicide rate in women is higher after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] the rates of attempted suicide increased in the women who experienced fetal loss. the risk of completed suicide was higher in women who experienced a stillbirth [adjusted odds ratio (aor) 5.2; 95% ci 1.77-15.32], miscarriage (aor 3.81; 95% ci 2.81-5.15), or termination of pregnancy (aor 3.12; 95% ci 1.77-5.5) than in those who had a live birth. furthermore, the risk of attempted suicide was significantly higher in women who experienced a miscarriage (aor 2.1; 95% ci 1.66-2.65) or termination of pregnancy (aor 2.5; 95% ci 1.63-3.82). the risk of suicide might increase in women who experience fetal loss within 1 year postnatally. suicide risk increased in women who had a stillbirth, miscarriage, or termination of pregnancy within 1 year postnatally. perinatal women had higher rates of death by violent means than all women in queensland who died by suicide during the same time period. the suicide rate associated with birth was significantly lower (5.9) and the rates associated with miscarriage (18.1) and induced abortion (34.7) were significantly higher than in the population. the increased risk of suicide after an induced abortion indicates either common risk factors for both or harmful effects of induced abortion on mental health. mean scores of psychological abuse, physical violence, forced sex, and ptsd were significantly higher in the miscarriage group than in the live birth group. the suicide rate was 1.18 per 100,000 after giving birth (n = 2,876,193), 2.77 after an induced abortion (n = 650,549) and 2.90 after a miscarriage (n = 379,583). 
The mean suicide rate in women is lower after miscarriage than live birth. [SEP] the suicide rate associated with birth was significantly lower (5.9) and the rates associated with miscarriage (18.1) and induced abortion (34.7) were significantly higher than in the population. to investigate the risks of attempted and completed suicide in women who experienced a stillbirth, miscarriage, or termination of pregnancy within 1 year postnatally and compare this risk with that in women who experienced a live birth. the rates of attempted suicide increased in the women who experienced fetal loss. the risk of completed suicide was higher in women who experienced a stillbirth [adjusted odds ratio (aor) 5.2; 95% ci 1.77-15.32], miscarriage (aor 3.81; 95% ci 2.81-5.15), or termination of pregnancy (aor 3.12; 95% ci 1.77-5.5) than in those who had a live birth. furthermore, the risk of attempted suicide was significantly higher in women who experienced a miscarriage (aor 2.1; 95% ci 1.66-2.65) or termination of pregnancy (aor 2.5; 95% ci 1.63-3.82). the risk of suicide might increase in women who experience fetal loss within 1 year postnatally. suicide risk increased in women who had a stillbirth, miscarriage, or termination of pregnancy within 1 year postnatally. to characterise the demographic and clinical characteristics of women who died by suicide in the perinatal period to inform and improve suicide prevention strategies. there were 65 deaths by suicide in the study period; six occurred during pregnancy, 30 occurred after a live birth, 22 occurred after a termination of pregnancy and seven followed a miscarriage or stillbirth. the suicide rate was 1.18 per 100,000 after giving birth (n = 2,876,193), 2.77 after an induced abortion (n = 650,549) and 2.90 after a miscarriage (n = 379,583). 
The microtubule-dependent delivery and secretion of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) is partially responsible for the disassembly of adhesion sites. [SEP] in addition, fa-associated microtubules may provide a polarized microtubule track for localized secretion of matrix metalloproteases (mmps). this is at least partly mediated by actin disassembly and mmp secretion. cytochalasin b produced actin disassembly and resulted in the secretion of mmps. recent studies have shown that the targeting of substrate adhesions by microtubules promotes adhesion site disassembly (kaverina, i., o. krylyshkina, and j.v. it was accordingly suggested that microtubules serve to convey a signal to adhesion sites to modulate their turnover. we conclude that conventional kinesin is not required for the guidance of microtubules into substrate adhesions, but is required for the focal delivery of a component(s) that retards their growth or promotes their disassembly. matrix metalloproteases (mmps) are a family of ecm degrading enzymes required for both physiological and pathological angiogenesis. targeting serves to bring molecular complexes bound at the tips and along microtubules in close proximity with adhesion complexes, to promote adhesion disassembly and remodelling of the actin cytoskeleton. the membrane proteases known to participate in these processes currently include the ectopeptidases, the membrane-type matrix metalloproteases (mt-mmps), the adam (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) family, the meprins, and the secretases, and this list may be expected to grow. the assembly and disassembly of microtubules is coupled to rho gtpase signalling, thereby controlling actin polymerisation, myosin-driven contractility and the turnover of cellular adhesions locally. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 downregulates pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] minor allele carriage is shown to limit inflammatory responses in monocytes via a foxo3-driven pathway, which through tgfβ1 reduces production of proinflammatory cytokines, including tnfα, and increases production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, including il-10. thus, we uncover a shared genetic contribution to prognosis in distinct diseases that operates via a foxo3-driven pathway modulating inflammatory responses. forkhead box o 3 (foxo3) perturbations in immune cells are increasingly linked to ra pathogenesis. mrna profiling revealed that the inactivation of foxo3 is important for the sustained pro-inflammatory interferon response to tnfα (cxcl9, cxcl10, cxcl11, and tnfsf18). emerging evidence shows that foxo3 plays an important role in the human immune system. cell survival transcription factor foxo3 has been recently implicated in moderating pro-inflammatory cytokine production by dendritic cells (dcs), but the molecular mechanisms are unclear. thus, we identify foxo3 as a new ikk-ε-controlled check-point of irf activation and regulation of ifn-β expression, providing new insight into the role of foxo3 in immune response control. the role of foxo3-driven pathway in modulating inflammatory responses, including mediation of distinct functions of regulatory t effector cell populations (tregs) by the transcription factor foxo3, has recently been recognized. we aimed to study possible associations of a non-coding polymorphism in intron 2 of the foxo3a gene (rs12212067t>g) that was shown earlier to modulate the foxo3 expression and to be associated with the prognosis of distinct inflammatory and infectious diseases. the foxo3a variant rs12212067t>g is associated with increased inflammatory responses to plasmodium falciparum malaria, indicating a role of the foxo3-dependent pathway in malaria. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to less severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] we identify a noncoding polymorphism in foxo3a (rs12212067: t > g) at which the minor (g) allele, despite not being associated with disease susceptibility, is associated with a milder course of crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis and with increased risk of severe malaria. minor allele carriage is shown to limit inflammatory responses in monocytes via a foxo3-driven pathway, which through tgfβ1 reduces production of proinflammatory cytokines, including tnfα, and increases production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, including il-10. thus, we uncover a shared genetic contribution to prognosis in distinct diseases that operates via a foxo3-driven pathway modulating inflammatory responses. it has also been reported that the minor g allele from the rs12212067 polymorphism (t>g) in foxo3 is associated with milder cd. emerging evidence shows that foxo3 plays an important role in the human immune system. foxo3 gene variant rs12212067 has been associated to differential severity of infectious diseases like malaria. we aimed to study possible associations of a non-coding polymorphism in intron 2 of the foxo3a gene (rs12212067t>g) that was shown earlier to modulate the foxo3 expression and to be associated with the prognosis of distinct inflammatory and infectious diseases. the foxo3a variant rs12212067t>g is associated with increased inflammatory responses to plasmodium falciparum malaria, indicating a role of the foxo3-dependent pathway in malaria. we have previously shown that bacterial infection regulates foxo3 in intestinal epithelial cells and increases cytokine levels. consistent with a role for foxo3 in colitis, foxo3-deficient mice treated with dss developed more severe colonic inflammation with an increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes and pmns infiltrated in the epithelia, than wild-type mice. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 up-regulates IL-10. [SEP] minor allele carriage is shown to limit inflammatory responses in monocytes via a foxo3-driven pathway, which through tgfβ1 reduces production of proinflammatory cytokines, including tnfα, and increases production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, including il-10. thus, we uncover a shared genetic contribution to prognosis in distinct diseases that operates via a foxo3-driven pathway modulating inflammatory responses. emerging evidence shows that foxo3 plays an important role in the human immune system. here, we investigated the role of foxo3 transcription factor in mycobacteria-induced secretion of il-10. we observed that pi3k/akt/foxo3 axis regulates il-10 expression in human macrophages. knocking down of foxo3 expression resulted in an increase of il-10 production in bcg-infected macrophages. the gene reporter assay further confirmed the transcriptional regulation of il-10 by foxo3. taken together, we report for the first time that foxo3 modulates il-10 secretion in mycobacteria-infected macrophage, driving their polarization and the subsequent adaptive immune response. chromatin immunoprecipitation assay results suggest that foxo3 is able to bind to the il-21 promoter and regulate il-21 secretion. in conclusion, our study unveils a critical role of foxo3 in the regulation of tfh differentiation and il-21 production. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of decreased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] obesity is a disease characterized by imbalance between energy intake and expenditure, excessive energy store in white adipocytes, but brown and beige adipocytes consume energy to relieve obesity. the morphological changes in the adipose tissue included smaller white adipose tissue depots, white adipocytes with smaller diameter, smaller lipid droplets inside the brown adipocytes and more beige adipocytes in the ezh2-deficient mice compared with the control. the differentiation markers of white adipocytes in ezh2 knockout mice decreased; ucp1 and other browning markers increased in brown and beige adipocytes. brown and white adipocytes can play a key role not only in the control of energy homeostasis, or through the balance between energy storage and expenditure, but also by the modulation of immune and inflammatory responses. recent works have indicated that white adipose tissues can undergo a process called browning, in which an inducible brown adipocyte develops. genetic tracing and transcriptional characterization of isolated adipocytes demonstrates that they are converted into cells with the morphology and gene expression pattern of white adipocytes. we examined adipocyte morphology and the development of inflammation in the white adipose tissue. some areas of these depots are brown and correspond to brown adipose tissue, while many are white and correspond to white adipose tissue. white areas contain a variable amount of brown adipocytes and their number varies with age, strain and environmental conditions. brown adipose tissue, which can be converted to white adipose tissue, contains a large number of mitochondria and regulates energy expenditure through thermogenesis. 
The morphology change from large white adipocytes to small brown adipocytes is a sign of increased energy expenditure potential in white adipose tissue. [SEP] brown and white adipocytes can play a key role not only in the control of energy homeostasis, or through the balance between energy storage and expenditure, but also by the modulation of immune and inflammatory responses. recent works have indicated that white adipose tissues can undergo a process called browning, in which an inducible brown adipocyte develops. in humans, the conversion of white fat cells into brite adipocytes could be a strategy to increase energy expenditure. genetic tracing and transcriptional characterization of isolated adipocytes demonstrates that they are converted into cells with the morphology and gene expression pattern of white adipocytes. obesity is a disease characterized by imbalance between energy intake and expenditure, excessive energy store in white adipocytes, but brown and beige adipocytes consume energy to relieve obesity. promotion of the browning of white fat increases energy expenditure and could combat adiposity. we examined adipocyte morphology and the development of inflammation in the white adipose tissue. brown adipocytes are specialized for energy expenditure and of therapeutic interest for treatment of metabolic diseases, but how brown adipocytes are distinguished from white adipocytes at the level of translational regulation remains poorly understood. some areas of these depots are brown and correspond to brown adipose tissue, while many are white and correspond to white adipose tissue. white areas contain a variable amount of brown adipocytes and their number varies with age, strain and environmental conditions. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are cardiovascular. [SEP] we assessed cardiovascular outcomes of once-daily oral semaglutide in an event-driven, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial involving patients at high cardiovascular risk (age of ≥50 years with established cardiovascular or chronic kidney disease, or age of ≥60 years with cardiovascular risk factors only). major adverse cardiovascular events occurred in 61 of 1591 patients (3.8%) in the oral semaglutide group and 76 of 1592 (4.8%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.79; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.57 to 1.11; p<0.001 for noninferiority). results for components of the primary outcome were as follows: death from cardiovascular causes, 15 of 1591 patients (0.9%) in the oral semaglutide group and 30 of 1592 (1.9%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.49; 95% ci, 0.27 to 0.92); nonfatal myocardial infarction, 37 of 1591 patients (2.3%) and 31 of 1592 (1.9%), respectively (hazard ratio, 1.18; 95% ci, 0.73 to 1.90); and nonfatal stroke, 12 of 1591 patients (0.8%) and 16 of 1592 (1.0%), respectively (hazard ratio, 0.74; 95% ci, 0.35 to 1.57). expert commentary: semaglutide demonstrates high glycemic efficacy and favorable safety profile, and reduces the risk for cardiovascular events. mild to moderate gastrointestinal events and retinopathy complications were more common with semaglutide compared to placebo, though serious adverse events were similar to controls and infrequent. in the current review we discuss the occurrence of adverse events associated with semaglutide focusing on hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, pancreatic safety (pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer), thyroid cancer, gallbladder events, cardiovascular aspects, acute kidney injury, diabetic retinopathy (drp) complications and injection-site and allergic reactions and where available, we highlight potential underlying mechanisms. we conclude that semaglutide induces mostly mild-to-moderate and transient gastrointestinal disturbances and increases the risk of biliary disease (cholelithiasis). using data from the leader (9340 patients) and sustain 6 (3297 patients) trials, we evaluated post hoc the cardiorenal effect of liraglutide and semaglutide on major adverse cardiovascular events (mace) and nephropathy by baseline bp categories using a cox proportional hazards model (treatment and subgroup as factors; adjusted for cardiorenal risk factors). nonfatal myocardial infarction occurred in 2.9% of the patients receiving semaglutide and in 3.9% of those receiving placebo (hazard ratio, 0.74; 95% ci, 0.51 to 1.08; p=0.12); nonfatal stroke occurred in 1.6% and 2.7%, respectively (hazard ratio, 0.61; 95% ci, 0.38 to 0.99; p=0.04). cardiovascular (cv) effects of once-weekly subcutaneous (s.c.) semaglutide 0.5 and 1 mg and dulaglutide 1.5 mg are reported in their respective placebo-controlled cardiovascular outcome trials (cvots), sustain 6 and rewind. 
The most prevalent adverse events to Semaglutide are gastrointestinal. [SEP] in the current review we discuss the occurrence of adverse events associated with semaglutide focusing on hypoglycemia, gastrointestinal side effects, pancreatic safety (pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer), thyroid cancer, gallbladder events, cardiovascular aspects, acute kidney injury, diabetic retinopathy (drp) complications and injection-site and allergic reactions and where available, we highlight potential underlying mechanisms. we conclude that semaglutide induces mostly mild-to-moderate and transient gastrointestinal disturbances and increases the risk of biliary disease (cholelithiasis). this review focusses on the safety of injectable semaglutide. gastrointestinal adverse events (mostly mild and transient constipation and nausea) occurred in a dose-dependent manner with oral semaglutide. mild to moderate gastrointestinal events and retinopathy complications were more common with semaglutide compared to placebo, though serious adverse events were similar to controls and infrequent. the most common adverse effects of oral semaglutide are gastrointestinal (typically nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting). most adverse events with semaglutide treatment were mild or moderate. adverse events with semaglutide and co-administered medication were comparable to those reported during treatment with semaglutide alone, and were mostly gastrointestinal related. orally administered semaglutide qd 14 mg was associated with statistically similar odds of experiencing gastrointestinal adverse events vs injectable glp-1 ras. we did not observe increased hypoglycaemia rates with semaglutide; nevertheless, we noted an increased incidence of nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. 
The myocardial cell lineage originally develops from cardiac progenitors of exclusively endodermal origin. [SEP] mesodermal progenitors are thought to derive endothelial cells (ecs) that contribute to both embryonic vasculogenesis and the subsequent organ angiogenesis. the embryonic heart is composed of two cell layers: the myocardium, which contributes to cardiac muscle tissue, and the endocardium, which covers the inner lumen of the heart. whereas significant progress has been made toward elucidating the embryonic origins of the myocardium, the origins of the endocardium remain unclear. furthermore, embryonic endothelial cells implanted into the cardiac crescent contribute to the endocardium, but not to the myocardium. in mouse, lineage analysis focusing on endocardial cells revealed an unexpected heterogeneity in the origins of the endocardium. to gain deeper insight into this heterogeneity, we conditionally ablated flk1 in distinct cardiovascular progenitor populations; flk1 is required in vivo for formation of the endocardium in the mesp1 and tie2 lineages, but not in the isl1 lineage. ablation of flk1 coupled with lineage analysis in the isl1 lineage revealed that endothelium-derived isl1(-) endocardial cells were significantly increased, whereas isl1(+) endocardial cells were reduced, suggesting that the endocardium is capable of undergoing regulative compensatory growth. collectively, our findings demonstrate that the second heart field contains distinct myocardial and endocardial progenitor populations. we suggest that the endocardium derives, at least in part, from vascular endothelial cells. ectodermal progenitors were distinct from other lineages by the 6th cleavage, although a small percentage of ectoderm cells briefly co-expressed endoderm markers that indicated an early ecto-endoderm cell state, likely in cells originating from the equatorial region of the egg. 
The number of unfertilized oocytes in mated hermaphrodites increases with age. [SEP] hermaphrodites make spermatids that fail to activate to crawling spermatozoa so passing oocytes sweep them out of the spermatheca. mdl-1 mutant hermaphrodites also lay increased numbers of unfertilized oocytes. during aging, unfertilized oocytes in the uterus develop into tumors, whose development was accelerated by mdl-1(tm311). we have previously determined that in the arrested oocytes of old-aged c. elegans hermaphrodites with depleted sperm, large cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein foci form. we demonstrate that in three of these four species, ovulation arrests in unmated females until mating occurs and large cytoplasmic foci develop in arrested oocytes. we further speculate that their presence in oocytes of old-aged c. elegans hermaphrodites is due to conservation from an ancestral gonochoristic state. we determined that reduced progeny production or complete sterility enhanced anoxia survival except in the case of sterile hermaphrodites [spe-9(hc52ts), fer-15(hc15ts)] undergoing oocyte maturation and ovulation as exhibited by the presence of laid unfertilized oocytes. self-progeny brood sizes are determined by the number of sperm, and most of the oocytes remain unfertilized. specifically, we quantified egg production of solitary hermaphrodites compared to hermaphrodites exposed to males and exposed to other hermaphrodites. hermaphrodites tended to produce more fertilized eggs in the presence of males but unfertilized eggs were produced relatively rarely and did not vary significantly among treatments. 
The one-child policy has created a hospitable environment for female infants. [SEP] multivariable linear regression analyses showed that women who gave birth to male infants were positively associated with the total score of maternal well-being, when the participating hospitals, maternal well-being at baseline, sociodemographic characteristics, and maternal and infant health outcomes were added to the adjustments (β=1.462, p<0.05). our results emphasise the importance of conducting interventions to increase maternal general well-being, especially for those with a female infant in a society such as china where preference is for a son, and enhance the necessity of sustainability of a newly relaxed two-child policy which allows more couples to have a second child in china. providing infants with the 'best possible start in life' is a priority for the scottish government. the results confirmed the importance of an enabling environment--cultural, family, health service and other maternal and infant health-related factors--in increasing the likelihood to breast feed. the one-child policy led to the imbalance of the sex ratio at birth (srb) in china. if only one of them was the only child, they were allowed to have two children in policy (otcp). the excess female infant mortality observed in south asia has typically been attributed to gender discrimination in the intra-household allocation of food and medical care. the results suggest, for example, that while male children have a significantly lower likelihood of surviving their first year relative to female children, should they survive they have significantly better height-for-age z-scores. the study shows that female infants and children have higher than expected mortality rates, suggesting that son preference may lead to discriminatory practices against females. the study also reveals that the one-child policy of the late 1970s has a strong influence on the survivorship for female infants and children. 
The origin of the CRF01_1b2k protein occurred between 1923 and 1956. [SEP] phylogenetic analysis based on near full length genome (nflg) sequences revealed that crf101_01b formed a distinct monophyletic cluster supported by a high bootstrap value of 100%, distantly related to all known hiv-1 crfs. crf101_01b had a crf01_ae backbone with two b segments inserted, respectively, in the gag and pol region. in addition, our study found that crf101_01b originated around the year 1996-1998. phylogenic analysis shows that this novel second-generation recombinant (jl.rf09) was composed of two well-established circulating recombinant forms (crf01_ae and crf07_bc), with two recombinant breakpoints observed in the vpu/env and env gene regions, respectively. the detailed origin of crf07_bc in this recombinant is still not clear. to estimate the epidemic history of hiv-1 crf01_ae in vietnam and adjacent guangxi, china, we determined near full-length nucleotide sequences of crf01_ae from a total of 33 specimens collected in 1997-1998 from different geographic regions and risk populations in vietnam. phylogenetic and bayesian molecular clock analyses were performed to estimate the date of origin of crf01_ae lineages. crf01_ae appears to have been present among heterosexuals in south-vietnam for more than a decade prior to its epidemic spread in the early 1990s. our results indicate the northward dissemination of crf01_ae during this time. here, we reported a near full-length crf01_ae sequence 07jswx045 obtained from a jiangsu idu, using a modified method. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs during pubertal growth spurt in early adolescents. [SEP] the relationship of fractures to physical activity and growth velocity in stature and metacarpal ii bone dimensions was investigated in adolescent belgian boys. peak fracture incidence occurred between 12 and 14 yr of age and preceded the age at peak height velocity. the peak fracture rate occurred during mid adolescence (+/- 2 sd of the age at peak height velocity) and was twice as high as the rates before and after this period. a lag in cortical bone thickness and mineralization, relative to linear skeletal growth, and unknown factors associated with active participation in sports, rather than an increase in the amount of physical activity, appear to be the predominant factors associated with the increased fracture incidence in belgian boys during the growth spurt. the pubertal growth spurt is also known as a good example of rapid bone turnover. at the peak of the pubertal growth spurt the skeletal development was more advanced in girls than in boys, but at the end of the spurt the girls had a less mature skeletal development than the boys. in adolescents who reached their adult height at the end of the pubertal growth spurt. in both the axial and appendicular skeleton, about half of peak adult bone mass is accumulated during the adolescent growth spurt, which occurs two years earlier in girls than in boys, and is under pituitary control via interactions between growth hormone and sex hormones. the large increase in incidence of upper extremity (particularly lower forearm) fractures, coincident with the adolescent growth spurt in both sexes, is due to an increase in cortical porosity as a consequence of an increase in intracortical bone turnover, which supplies some of the calcium needed by the growing ends of the long bones. in the present state of knowledge, an increased incidence of fracture during the adolescent growth spurt is the inescapable consequence of an appropriate level of physical activity, and is the price that has to be paid in order to maximize bone accumulation during growth and minimize fracture risk in old age. 
The peak incidence of fractures occurs in toddlers. [SEP] furthermore, the toddler impact forces were larger than those in the infant, but because of the thicker toddler skull, the risk of skull fracture from low-height falls is likely lower in toddlers compared with infants. if similar fracture limits and brain tissue injury thresholds between infants and toddlers are assumed, it is expected that for impact events, the toddler is likely less vulnerable to skull fracture but more vulnerable to neurological impairment compared with the infant. fractures were present in 17.5% of the study group, exclusively in mobile infants and toddlers. the aims of this study were as follows: to determine the national incidence of facial fractures among infants, toddlers, and children; to evaluate the types of facial fractures; and to analyze common products/activities associated with the fractures. facial fractures in infants were caused most commonly by floors or flooring materials, likely due to falls, while household items/furniture-related injuries were the most common cause of facial fractures in both toddlers and children. injuries involving foreign bodies and fractures had a higher incidence in toddlers 2 years or older, and fractures comprised fewer than 1% of facial injuries in any age group. among toddlers, fractures were more likely to occur at home (p<.001) and to be the result of suspected nonaccidental trauma (p<.001). peak fracture incidence occurred between 12 and 14 yr of age and preceded the age at peak height velocity. toddlers sustained soft tissue injuries predominantly (86%) and older children sustained more bony injuries (77%). we also compared the age-specific incidence of the fracture in children with the incidence in adults. 
The predominant localization of Linc00173 is in mononuclear macrophage nuclei. [SEP] both transcript variants of linc00173 (lnc173 tsv1 and 2) could be detected by qpcr, localized predominantly to the nucleus and were reproducibly up-regulated during infection. quantitative pcr analysis was performed to determine the expression of linc00173 in tnbc and adjacent breast tissues (n = 84). the function of linc00173 in tnbc cell proliferation, colony formation, and invasion was explored. the expression of linc00173 in crc tissues and cell lines were analyzed via qrt-pcr. linc00173 expression was markedly upregulated in crc tissues and cells. in this study, we aimed to characterize the involvement of linc00173 in melanoma and elucidate its mechanisms of action. we found that linc00173 was upregulated in melanoma tissues and cell lines. linc00173 expression was measured using qrt-pcr. linc00173 expression was elevated in glioma tissues and cells. loss of linc00173 inhibited proliferation, migration and invasion. 
The proliferative capacity of neural progenitors differs across species. [SEP] neocortex evolutionary expansion is primarily due to increased proliferative capacity of neural progenitor cells during cortical development. exploiting insights into the cell biology of cortical progenitors gained during the past two decades, recent studies uncovered a variety of gene expression differences that underlie differential cortical progenitor behavior. in this study, we examined the development of neural progenitors in the chinese tree shrew (tupaia belangeri chinensis), a lissencephalic animal with closer affinity than rodents to primates. this expansion is a consequence of the enhanced production of neurons during the fetal/embryonic development of the neocortex, which in turn reflects an increased proliferative capacity of neural progenitor cells; in particular basal progenitors (bps). this expansion is thought to primarily reflect differences in proliferation versus differentiation of neural progenitors during cortical development. consistent with this, the small set of genes more highly expressed in human apical progenitors points to increased proliferative capacity, and the proportion of neurogenic basal progenitors is lower in humans. in all vertebrate species studied thus far, the adult central nervous system harbors neural stem cells that sustain constitutive neurogenesis, as well as latent neural progenitors that can be awakened in lesional contexts. in spite of this common theme, many species differ dramatically in their ability to recruit constitutive progenitors, to awaken latent progenitors, or to enhance or bias neural progenitor fate to achieve successful neuronal repair. this review summarizes the striking similarities in the essential molecular and cellular properties of adult neural stem cells between different vertebrate species, both under physiological and reparative conditions. it also emphasizes the differences in the reparative process across evolution and how the study of non-mammalian models can provide insights into both basic neural stem cell properties and stimulatory cues shared between vertebrates, and subsequent neurogenic events, which are abortive under reparative conditions in mammals. 
The proliferative capacity of progenitors is regulated cell-autonomously. [SEP] use of a transplantation approach demonstrated a likely cell-autonomous (in cardiac progenitors) function for hey2. the lifelong self-renewal of the epidermis is driven by a progenitor cell population with high proliferative potential. regulation of stem and progenitor cell populations is critical in the development, maintenance, and regeneration of tissues. thus, ang plays a non-cell-autonomous role in regulation of hematopoiesis by simultaneously preserving hspc stemness and promoting myepro proliferation. interestingly, sgz proliferative capacity is regulated by both physiological and pathophysiological conditions. together, these data reveal a critical role for msk1/2 as regulators of both basal and activity-dependent progenitor cell proliferation and morphological maturation in the sgz. in contrast to the parental line, the autonomous clones tested formed progressively growing tumors in vivo. it is not known, however, to what extent the progenitor cells are heterogeneous in their developmental potential or to what extent cell-cell interactions versus cell-autonomous factors influence the types of cells they become. we show that even when cultured at clonal density in a homogeneous general environment, where they cannot contact cells outside their own clone, the retinal progenitor cells vary in proliferative capacity, cell cycle time, and in the cell types that they generate. the tight regulation by socs3 of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 phosphorylation and gene transcription after cytokine receptor ligation significantly influences the fate of myeloid progenitor cells. 
The proportion of people with visual difficulty is two times higher in low-income countries than in high-income countries. [SEP] using a world-wide, population-based dataset of adults, we sought to determine the frequency of far visual difficulty and its associated risk factors. the rate varied by the income status of the country with the percentage who had any visual difficulty being 24%, 23%, and 13% in low, middle, and high income countries, respectively. five percent of people reported severe or extreme visual difficulty with rates in low, middle, and high income countries of 6%, 5%, and 2% respectively. risk factors for visual difficulty included older age, female sex, poorer socioeconomic status, little to no formal education, and diabetes (p<0.05). within the categories of low-income and high-income countries, low back pain rates vary twofold or more. in comparisons between these categories of countries, rates on the whole are higher among the general populations of selected high-income countries than among rural low-income populations; specifically, rates are 2-4 times higher among swedish, german, and belgium general populations than among nigerian, southern chinese, indonesian, and filipino farmers. total supply differs by a factor of two between low and high income countries. they were significantly higher in rural areas (rate ratio, rr: 2.01; 95% confidence interval, ci: 1.40-2.89) and countries with lower world bank income classification (rr: 1.55; 95% ci: 1.32-1.82). there is dramatic global disparity in the care for epilepsy between high- and low- income countries, and between rural and urban settings. the death rates from these potentially preventable diseases are higher in low-income and middle-income countries than in high-income countries, especially among adults aged 30-69 years. 
The recruitment of Wdr5 to its target loci depends on Kat8. [SEP] pkn1 or wdr5 knockdown severely inhibited kat8 association with ar target genes and histone h4 lysine 16 acetylation upon androgen treatment. knockdown of kat8 significantly decreased ar target gene expression and prostate cancer cell proliferation. our data reveal wdr5 as a key determinant for myc recruitment to chromatin and uncover a tractable target for the discovery of anticancer therapies against myc-driven tumors. furthermore, the recruitment of hbx to promoters of target genes relied on its interaction with wdr5 through its α-helix domain. using this system, we show that wdr5 recruits myc to chromatin to control the expression of genes linked to biomass accumulation. wd repeat domain 5 (wdr5) is a member of the wd40-repeat protein family that plays a critical role in multiple chromatin-centric processes. most drug-discovery efforts center on the win site of wdr5 that is responsible for the recruitment of wdr5 to chromatin. various cancer contexts have been proposed to be targets for win site inhibitors, but a lack of understanding of wdr5 target genes and of the primary effects of win site inhibitors hampers their utility. here, by the discovery of potent win site inhibitors, we demonstrate that the win site links wdr5 to chromatin at a small cohort of loci, including a specific subset of ribosome protein genes. our studies define a mode by which wdr5 engages chromatin and forecast that win site blockade could have utility against multiple cancer types. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is independent of the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] breast cancer treatment outcome with adjuvant tamoxifen relative to patient cyp2d6 and cyp2c19 genotypes. this study demonstrates that patients treated with tamoxifen with intermediate and poor metabolism genotypes have a higher risk of relapse, independent of other prognostic factors. this study adds to the growing body of literature suggesting that genetic differences in patients can determine the effectiveness of tamoxifen and highlights the need for studies evaluating how genotype can best guide selection of endocrine therapy for breast cancer. in breast and colorectal cancer, polymorphisms in metabolic enzymes involved in tamoxifen and irinotecan therapies has led the u.s. food and drug administration to address genetic factors relevant to patient consideration of treatment with these compounds. this review summarizes current knowledge on the roles of polymorphisms in the drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters in tamoxifen pharmacogenomics. this article reviews the pharmacology of tamoxifen, the genetics and physiology of the cyp2d6 enzyme system that has important effects on tamoxifen metabolism, and subset data analyses from large controlled, clinical trials that cast new light on previously held beliefs about the utility of cyp2d6 genotyping for predicting tamoxifen effectiveness and improved breast cancer outcomes in women with early-stage, hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. in this study, the inter-relationships among endocrine symptoms, drug adherence, and genetic polymorphisms in chinese breast cancer patients receiving tamoxifen therapy will be examined. the aim of this study was to characterize genetic polymorphisms in tamoxifen metabolism-associated genes in chinese women with breast cancer and to explore the inter-relationships between genetic polymorphisms, endocrine symptoms, and adherence to tamoxifen. genetic factors of the host that affect the metabolism of tamoxifen, a widely used drug for the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer, have received particular attention. cyp2d6 genotype was not associated with tamoxifen treatment outcome, even when cyp2d6 inhibitor use, aromatase inhibitor use, or chemotherapy was taken into account. 
The removal of reactive oxygen species by activated oncogenes contributes to the increased genomic instability of leukaemia cells. [SEP] oncogene activation disturbs cellular processes and accommodates a complex landscape of changes in the genome that contribute to genomic instability, which accelerates mutation rates and promotes tumorigenesis. oncogene-induced replication stress is an early driver of genomic instability and is attributed to a plethora of factors, most notably aberrant origin firing, replication-transcription collisions, reactive oxygen species, and defective nucleotide metabolism.significance: replication stress is a fundamental step and an early driver of tumorigenesis and has been associated with many activated oncogenes. we and others showed that the well-known bcr-abl1 fusion oncogene, the cause of chronic myeloid leukemia, induced an increased production of reactive oxygen species (ros) and conferred therapeutic drug resistance by suppression of apoptotic signaling, prolonged g2/m arrest and stimulation of several pathways of dna repair. since the regenerative capacity of normal haematopoietic stem cells is limited by the accumulation of reactive oxygen species and dna double-strand breaks, we speculated that dna damage might also constrain leukaemic self-renewal and malignant haematopoiesis. the concept of reactive oxygen species (ros) being produced via the activation of specific oncogenes provides a basis for generating genomic instability and pro-survival signalling in tumour cells. although oncogene-induced senescence (ois) is considered a tumor suppressor mechanism, the accumulation of dna damage in senescent cells is thought to cause genomic instability, eventually allowing secondary hits in the genome that promote tumorigenesis. finally, ionizing radiation and the mutation of oncogenes, such as ras and braf, play a key role in thyroid carcinogenesis through separate and unique mechanisms: they upregulate the expression of two distinct 'professional' ros-generating systems, the nadph oxidases duox1 and nox4, which cause dna damage that may promote chromosomal instability, tumourigenesis and dedifferentiation. constitutive expression of the bcr-abl kinase in chronic myelogenous leukaemia (cml) is known to produce elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ros) which can enhance cell survival as well as generate genomic instability. in this chapter, i review how ros are produced and detoxified and how ros can damage dna leading to the genomic instability featured in cancers. several recent studies have suggested that the reactive oxygen species (ros) generated from mitochondria contribute to genomic instability after exposure of the cells to ionizing radiation, but the mechanism of this process is not yet fully understood. 
The repeat-variable diresidue (RVD) in the loop of Transcription-Activator Like (TAL) effectors specifies the nucleotides-amino acid contact at the target promoter element. [SEP] each repeat comprises 33 to 35 conserved amino acids and targets a specific base pair by using two hypervariable residues [known as repeat variable diresidues (rvds)] at positions 12 and 13. dna recognition by tal effectors is mediated by tandem repeats, each 33 to 35 residues in length, that specify nucleotides via unique repeat-variable diresidues (rvds). the first rvd residue forms a stabilizing contact with the protein backbone, while the second makes a base-specific contact to the dna sense strand. containing several rvds and noncanonical associations, the structure illustrates the basis of tal effector-dna recognition. most of the polymorphism is located at two consecutive amino acids termed repeat variable diresidue (rvd). the dna-binding activity of tal effectors is carried out by a central domain which contains a series of repeat variable diresidues (rvds) that dictate the sequence of bound nucleotides. in each repeat, one of two amino acids (repeat variable di-residues, rvds) contacts a base in the dna target. each repeat specifies binding to one base in the target dna via amino acid residues 12 and 13 termed repeat variable diresidue (rvd). each tal-repeat recognises a specific base by the repeat variable diresidue (rvd) at positions 12 and 13. residue number 13 in each tal repeat (one of two consecutive polymorphic amino acids that are termed 'repeat variable diresidues', or 'rvds') specifies the identity of a single base; collectively the sequential repeats and their rvds dictate the recognition of sequential bases along one of the two dna strands. 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women decreases with placental weight of pregnancies. [SEP] there is epidemiological evidence that breast cancer mortality in premenopausal women increases with placental weight in the most recent pregnancy. using cox regression models, we estimated hazard ratios for the association between placental weight and risk of premenopausal breast cancer mortality. the increased mortality risk in premenopausal breast cancer associated with higher placental weight was most pronounced among er(-) and pr(-) tumors. results of two previous studies suggested that placental weight may be positively associated with breast cancer risk. in a cohort of 338,051 women followed from 1999 to 2008, on the basis of data linkage between the medical birth registry of norway and the cancer registry of norway, we assessed whether placental weight in a woman's most recent pregnancy was related to breast cancer risk during the first years following pregnancy. placental weight in the most recent pregnancy was not associated with breast cancer risk: the hazard ratio per 100-gram increase in placental weight was 1.03 [95% confidence interval, 0.96-1.10]. compared with women who had placentas weighing less than 500 g in 2 consecutive pregnancies, the risk of breast cancer was increased among women whose placentas weighed between 500 and 699 g in their first pregnancy and at least 700 g in their second pregnancy (or vice versa) (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.82; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.07-3.08), and the corresponding risk was doubled among women whose placentas weighed at least 700 g in both pregnancies (adjusted hazard ratio, 2.05; 95% ci, 1.15-3.64). placental weight is positively associated with maternal risk of breast cancer. we hypothesized that increasing placental weight, as an indirect marker of exposure to elevated hormone levels during pregnancy, would be associated with reduced survival in breast cancer. increasing placental weight is associated with reduced breast cancer survival. 
The risk of cancer rises with level of alcohol consumption. [SEP] alcohol consumption affects breast cancer risk through the alteration in hormone levels and the associated biological pathways, the metabolism of ethanol resulting in carcinogens, and the inhibition of the one carbon metabolism pathway. all levels of evidence showed a risk relationship between alcohol consumption and the risk of breast cancer, even at low levels of consumption. due to this strong relationship, and to the amount of alcohol consumed globally, the incidence of and mortality from alcohol-attributable breast cancer is large. in addition, mortality risk increased linearly with rising alcohol dose among drinkers. the incidence and mortality of esophageal cancer is likely to increase further in the future in countries where the level of alcohol consumption was relatively high in 1960 and where consumption increased further in the 1960s and 1970s. alcohol consumption is associated with elevated risk of oropharyngeal, laryngeal, esophageal, colon, rectal, breast, liver, pancreatic and stomach cancers. at the current consumption levels, alcohol-attributable cancers are expected to increase to 10,122 (8.8% of cases among alcohol-associated cancers) by 2042. in 2016, alcohol consumption was one of the leading risk factors for cancer development and cancer death globally, causing an estimated 376 200 cancer deaths, representing 4.2% of all cancer deaths, and 10.3 million cancer disability-adjusted life years lost, representing 4.2% of all cancer disability-adjusted life years lost. the impact of alcohol consumption on cancer in 2016 varied by age group; the proportion of cancer deaths attributable to alcohol consumption ranged from 13.9% of cancer deaths among people aged 30-34 years to 2.7% of cancer deaths among people aged 80-84 years. increasing alcohol consumption was associated with increased breast cancer risk that was statistically significant at levels as low as 5.0 to 9.9 g per day, equivalent to 3 to 6 drinks per week (relative risk, 1.15; 95% ci, 1.06-1.24; 333 cases/100,000 person-years). 
The risk of female prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of male prisoners. [SEP] self-harm rates were more than ten times higher in female prisoners than in male inmates. 109 subsequent suicides in prison were reported in individuals who self-harmed; the risk was higher in those who self-harmed than in the general prison population, and more than half the deaths occurred within a month of self-harm. risk factors for suicide after self-harm in male prisoners were older age and a previous self-harm incident of high or moderate lethality; in female inmates, a history of more than five self-harm incidents within a year was associated with subsequent suicide. the burden of self-harm in prisoners is substantial, particularly in women. the rate of completed suicides in overcrowded prisons was about ten times higher than in non-overcrowded ones. attempted suicides were about ten times higher than completed suicides, with females being significantly more likely to attempt to take their own lives and males being more likely to complete suicide. in the total population, among females and males the relative risk of self-harm was statistically significantly (fdr p < 0.05) consistently associated with: involvement in prison misconduct, violent behavior, and verbal threats of self-harm. both types of self-injury are common in prisons, which have a predominantly male population; however, most studies of nonlethal self-injury have been done with female subjects. background: in england and wales, women in prison make up a minority (<5%) of the total custodial population, yet acts of self-harm are around five times more common among incarcerated women. results: we found that women in prison who frequently self-harmed disclosed high levels of trauma: past experiences of domestic violence (81.5%), childhood sexual abuse (66.7%), and adult sexual abuse (60.2%). 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) is decorated with VgrG and PAAR proteins. [SEP] the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is used by many gram-negative bacteria as a molecular weapon to modulate neighbouring bacterial and eukaryotic cells, thereby affecting the dynamics of community structure in multiple species environments. the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a large multicomponent, dynamic macromolecular machine that has an important role in the ecology of many gram-negative bacteria. we demonstrate that paar proteins are essential for t6ss-mediated secretion and target cell killing by vibrio cholerae and acinetobacter baylyi. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a nanomachine employed by gram-negative bacteria to deliver effector proteins into target cells. the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a protein secretion apparatus widely distributed in gram-negative bacterial species. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is widespread among bacterial pathogens and acts as an effective weapon against competitor bacteria and eukaryotic hosts by delivering toxic effector proteins directly into target cells. the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) secretes many toxic effectors to gain advantage in inter-bacterial competition and for eukaryotic host infection. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a macromolecular machine that delivers protein effectors into host cells and/or competing bacteria. here, we show that rhs effectors are essential for type vi secretion system (t6ss) activity in enterobacter cloacae (ecl). the t6ss spike, which punctures the bacterial cell envelope allowing effector transport, consists of a torch-like vgrg trimer on which sits a paar protein sharpening the vgrg tip. 
The tissue surrounding the granuloma in an immune cell induces an anti-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] the inhibitory effects of pge, however, are also readily observable on the tissue component of the carrageenin-induced granuloma (an immune-related inflammatory model) in which activated macrophages, but not lymphocytes participate. granuloma-derived macrophages are particularly interesting cells for the study of responsiveness to pge, because the results obtained on such cells in vitro are directly related to the anti-inflammatory effects of pge on the macrophage phase of the granuloma in vivo. seven animals showed stage iii granuloma, with high immunoreactivity to ifn-γ (average of 44.5% immunoreactive cells) and moderate to tnf-α and to the anti-inflammatory cytokines il-10 and tgf-β, in relation to the proliferation of fibroblasts in granuloma periphery we found satellite stage i granulomas in 4 bovines and stage ii granulomas in 2 bovines, which exhibited low immunostaining response (-13%). cytokine expression in stage iii and iv granulomas was significant, with predominance of immunoreactivity to ifn-γ, thus suggesting a strong, longstanding local immune response mediated by macrophages and epithelioid cells. studies demonstrate that in addition to sustaining a systemic anti-mycobacterial response, the inflammatory dendritic cell subset present in mycobacterium-induced granulomas also influences local immune regulation within the granuloma over the course of infection. these immune cells started to surround the parasites, leading to the formation of granuloma around them. although various immune cells are recruited to lung granulomas, the roles of other immune cells, especially during the initial process of tdm-induced inflammation, are not clear. neutrophils were recruited during the early stage of lung inflammation following tdm-induced granuloma formation. specific spatial organization of granulomas within the lungs is crucial for protective anti-tuberculosis (tb) immune responses. the contribution of inducible costimulatory molecule (icos) to th1 and th2 cell-mediated immune responses was examined in well-defined pathogen antigen-elicited models of cell-mediated granuloma formation. 
Therapeutics receiving accelerated approval encounter a lower frequency of post-marketing safety events [SEP] in this paper, we examine whether any pre-marketing drug characteristics are associated with serious post-marketing safety actions. drugs approved with a boxed warning are 3.88 times more likely to receive a post-marketing boxed warning, while drugs approved with a priority review are 3.51 times more likely to receive a post-marketing boxed warning. although drugs approved with a boxed warning or priority review are more likely to experience serious post-marketing safety events, other information provided during the fda drug review that is easy to quantify is generally not associated with post-marketing safety events. postmarket safety events of novel pharmaceuticals and biologics occur when new safety risks are identified after initial regulatory approval of these therapeutics. these safety events can change how novel therapeutics are used in clinical practice and inform patient and clinician decision making. to characterize the frequency of postmarket safety events among novel therapeutics approved by the us food and drug administration (fda), and to examine whether any novel therapeutic characteristics known at the time of fda approval were associated with increased risk. the median time from approval to first postmarket safety event was 4.2 years (iqr, 2.5-6.0 years), and the proportion of novel therapeutics affected by a postmarket safety event at 10 years was 30.8% (95% ci, 25.1%-37.5%). in multivariable analysis, postmarket safety events were statistically significantly more frequent among biologics (incidence rate ratio [irr] = 1.93; 95% ci, 1.06-3.52; p = .03), therapeutics indicated for the treatment of psychiatric disease (irr = 3.78; 95% ci, 1.77-8.06; p < .001), those receiving accelerated approval (irr = 2.20; 95% ci, 1.15-4.21; p = .02), and those with near-regulatory deadline approval (irr = 1.90; 95% ci, 1.19-3.05; p = .008); events were statistically significantly less frequent among those with regulatory review times less than 200 days (irr = 0.46; 95% ci, 0.24-0.87; p = .02). biologics, psychiatric therapeutics, and accelerated and near-regulatory deadline approval were statistically significantly associated with higher rates of events, highlighting the need for continuous monitoring of the safety of novel therapeutics throughout their life cycle. we found that drugs approved after the act's passage were more likely to receive a new black-box warning or be withdrawn than drugs approved before its passage (26.7 per 100.0 drugs versus 21.2 per 100.0 drugs at up to sixteen years of follow-up). 
There is a positive correlation between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] in some epidemiological studies, statins have been associated with a reduced fracture risk. our objective was to examine associations between statin treatment and risk of hip fracture in a population-based case-control study. after adjustment for potential confounders, statin treatment was associated with a reduced risk of hip fracture (or=0.68; 95% confidence interval: 0.50-0.93) for those who had redeemed more than three prescriptions for a statin drug. we found that risk of hip fracture decreased with the number of statin prescriptions. our findings support an association between statin treatment and a reduced hip fracture risk. to examine the association of statin use with incidence of hip, lower arm or wrist, and other clinical fractures and with baseline levels of bone density. the probability that statin use reduces fracture risk by at least 20% was 0.995 for hip fracture and 0.61 for non-vertebral fracture. results of this bayesian consideration are highly consistent with the hypothesis that statin use reduces hip fracture, but the association between statin use and non-vertebral fracture remains uncertain. to determine whether statin use is associated with a reduced risk for fracture, we analyzed statin use and fracture rates in 4 large prospective studies (the study of osteoporotic fractures, the fracture intervention trial, the heart and estrogen/progestin replacement study, and the rotterdam study). clinical studies suggest that statin use may reduce the risk of hip fractures in the general population. 
There is a relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] to assess the association between prenatal antibiotics, including erythromycin, and infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in a large cohort of infants. there was no association with prenatal erythromycin prescription and infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis either after 32 weeks' gestation (adjusted odds ratio 1.17, 95% confidence interval, 0.84, 1.64, p =.33) or at any time during pregnancy (adjusted odds ratio 1.15, 95% confidence interval 0.84, 1.56, p =.36). there was an association between maternal prescriptions for nonerythromycin macrolides and infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (adjusted odds ratio 2.77, 95% confidence interval 1.22, 6.30, p =.01). early exposure to oral erythromycin in young infants, particularly in the first 2 weeks of life, has previously been associated with the development of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. a case report has suggested that exposure to erythromycin through breast milk might cause infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. • erythromycin intake in the first 2 weeks of life is associated with an increased risk of pyloric stenosis. to assess the link between very early erythromycin exposure and pyloric stenosis in young infants. very early exposure to erythromycin (between 3 and 13 days of life) was associated with a nearly 8-fold increased risk of pyloric stenosis (adjusted incident rate ratio, 7.88; 95% confidence interval, 1.97-31.57). the significant increase in pyloric stenosis in children with very early exposure to erythromycin is consistent with reports of other investigators. newborn infants treated with erythromycin may be at risk for developing pyloric stenosis. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] we examined birthweight and hypoglycaemia in 108 patients from families with diabetes due to hnf4a mutations, and 134 patients from families with hnf1a mutations. birthweight and prevalence of neonatal hypoglycaemia were not increased in hnf1a-mutation carriers. mutations in hnf4a cause a form of monogenic beta-cell diabetes. we screened families with a clinical suspicion of hnf4a monogenic beta-cell diabetes for mutations in the hnf4a p2 promoter. we identified two novel hnf4a p2 promoter mutations that co-segregate with diabetes in two families, -136a>g and -169c>t. two novel mutations identified here and the previously identified late-onset diabetes mutation, -192c>g, impair the function of the hnf4a p2 promoter in vitro. our results show that mutations in hnf4a and hnf1a genes might account for this early-onset inherited type 2 diabetes. hnf4a mutations cause increased birth weight, transient neonatal hypoglycemia, and maturity onset diabetes of the young (mody). seven of the 11 probands with a heterozygous hnf4a mutation did not have a parent affected with diabetes, and four de novo mutations were confirmed. dominant inactivating mutations in hnf1a and hnf4a have been described to cause hyperinsulinism (hi) before evolving to diabetes. 
There is no increased risk of hypospadias with clomiphene. [SEP] the available data suggest that clomiphene treatment, especially after several cycles, might be associated with a slightly higher risk of neural tube defects and severe hypospadias in the offspring. micronized progesterone, which is widely used in in vitro fertilization treatment, does not appear to increase the risk of nongenital birth defects; however, there might be a possible weak association between other progestational agents and hypospadias. repeated clomiphene treatment might be associated with a slightly higher risk of hypospadias and neural tube defect. case-control analyses were performed to investigate the association between clomiphene exposure and hypospadias. maternal uses of most components were not associated with an increased risk of hypospadias. overall, findings were reassuring that hypospadias is not associated with most medication components examined in this analysis. the birth prevalence of hypospadias in males without any studied risk factors also increased, but this was not statistically significant. after adjusting for birth period and personal hypospadias/cryptorchidism status, there was little evidence of increased risk of cryptorchidism given a family history of hypospadias, and vice versa. we found no persuasive evidence that a family history of hypospadias increases the risk of cryptorchidism and vice versa. the purpose of this study was to determine if there is an increased incidence of hypospadias in male offspring conceived by in vitro fertilization (ivf). 
There is no known interaction between Pioneer factor OCT3/4 and major chromatin remodeling factors. [SEP] pioneer transcription factors are essential for remodeling the chromatin and driving the initial wave of zygotic gene expression. however, it was unknown whether additional pioneer factors were required for this transition. pioneer factors such as foxa target nucleosomal dna and initiate cooperative interactions at silent genes during development, cellular reprogramming, and steroid hormone induction. taken together, the distinguishing feature of pioneer factors remains nucleosomal access rather than an exceptional residence time in chromatin. pioneer transcription factors recognise and bind their target sequences in inaccessible chromatin to establish new transcriptional networks throughout development and cellular reprogramming. during this process, pioneer factors establish an accessible chromatin state to facilitate additional transcription factor binding, yet it remains unclear how different pioneer factors achieve this. here, we discover that the pluripotency-associated pioneer factor oct4 binds chromatin to shape accessibility, transcription factor co-binding, and regulatory element function in mouse embryonic stem cells. together this reveals a distinct requirement for a chromatin remodeller in promoting the activity of the pioneer factor oct4 and regulating the pluripotency network. pulldown and gel shift assays revealed that the interaction of dax1 with oct3/4 abolished the dna binding activity of oct3/4. current studies argue that gaf acts as a "pioneer" factor, generating nucleosome-free regions of chromatin for different classes of regulatory elements. 
There is no relation between Erythromycin use and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. [SEP] to assess the association between prenatal antibiotics, including erythromycin, and infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in a large cohort of infants. there was no association with prenatal erythromycin prescription and infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis either after 32 weeks' gestation (adjusted odds ratio 1.17, 95% confidence interval, 0.84, 1.64, p =.33) or at any time during pregnancy (adjusted odds ratio 1.15, 95% confidence interval 0.84, 1.56, p =.36). the hypothesized association between erythromycin and infantile pyloric stenosis was not seen. early exposure to oral erythromycin in young infants, particularly in the first 2 weeks of life, has previously been associated with the development of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. a case report has suggested that exposure to erythromycin through breast milk might cause infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. to assess the link between very early erythromycin exposure and pyloric stenosis in young infants. no increased risk of pyloric stenosis was seen in infants exposed to erythromycin after 13 days of life or in infants exposed to antibiotics other than erythromycin. the significant increase in pyloric stenosis in children with very early exposure to erythromycin is consistent with reports of other investigators. newborn infants treated with erythromycin may be at risk for developing pyloric stenosis. we found no evidence of an increased risk of pyloric stenosis among infants born to mothers exposed to erythromycin during pregnancy. 
There was an estimated 30 million cases of pneumonia in young children worldwide in 2010. [SEP] we then estimated the number of pneumonia episodes and deaths that occurred in hiv-infected children in 2010. in 2010, 1·4 million pneumonia episodes (uncertainty range [ur] 0·6 million to 3·3 million) and 88 000 pneumonia deaths (ur 47 400-153 000) occurred in hiv-infected children in low-income countries. 1·3 million (90%) pneumonia episodes and 82 400 (93%) pneumonia deaths in hiv-infected children aged younger than 5 years occurred in the who african region. in this paper we aim to estimate the worldwide incidence of clinical pneumonia in young children. however, large population-based studies report that the incidence of community-acquired pneumonia among children less than five years old is approximately 0.026 e/cy, suggesting that more than 95% of all episodes of clinical pneumonia in young children worldwide occur in developing countries. in this context, we aimed to estimate the number of severe pneumonia episodes, pneumococcal pneumonia episodes and pneumonia deaths in children younger than 5 years in 2010. our results suggest that in 2010, 3.6 million (3.3-3.9 million) episodes of severe pneumonia and 0.35 million (0.31-0.40 million) all cause pneumonia deaths occurred in children younger than 5 years in india. s. pneumoniae kills at least one million children under the age of five every year, which is more than malaria, aids and measles combined. a recent unicef publication estimated that 410,000 children under age 5 y die of pneumonia each year in india, and recent data shows that an estimated 25% of all child deaths in india are due to pneumonia. we estimated that, in 2010, there were 1·731 billion episodes of diarrhoea (36 million of which progressed to severe episodes) and 120 million episodes of pneumonia (14 million of which progressed to severe episodes) in children younger than 5 years. 
Thiopurine active metabolites can be catabolized through dephosphorylation of thioguanine nucleotides. [SEP] thiopurine methyltransferase (tpmt) activity exhibits a monogenic codominant inheritance and catabolizes thiopurines. the activity of thiopurines is partly mediated by the metabolite 6-thioguanosine 5'-triphosphate, which inhibits the function of the small gtpase rac1, leading to apoptosis of activated t cells, and influences the conjugation of t cells with antigen-presenting cells. the activity of the enzyme thiopurine s-methyltransferase has a major influence on the bioavailability and toxicity of thiopurines, and several thiopurine metabolites might have adverse effects in patients. we have studied thiopurine methyltransferase activity and 6-thioguanine nucleotide concentrations in erythrocytes from 39 heart and kidney recipients. thiopurine methyltransferase is important for the metabolism of thiopurines. the association between clinical response and thiopurine methyltransferase activity and 6-thioguanine nucleotide levels singly or in combination were analysed. 6-thioguanine-nucleotides seem to be the active metabolites of thiopurine therapy, and their monitoring has been considered a useful tool for optimizing response in inflammatory bowel diseases. the therapeutic benefits of thiopurines have been shown to correlate with the concentration of 6-thioguanine nucleotides. the thiopurine methyltransferase enzyme plays an important role in the metabolism of 6-mercaptopurine and azathioprine and in the determination of thiopurine cytotoxicity. methylated thiopurine metabolites are associated with hepatotoxicity, drug intolerance and nonresponse and their production can be reduced or bypassed. 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on cardiac muscle. [SEP] in an animal model of myasthenia gravis (mg), single oral doses of tirasemtiv improved muscle force and reduced fatigability. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of single doses of tirasemtiv on skeletal muscle function and fatigability in patients with generalized mg. thirty-two patients with acetylcholine receptor-antibody positive mg and muscle weakness received single doses of tirasemtiv (250 mg or 500 mg) or placebo in a double-blind, randomized treatment sequence with each treatment separated by at least 1 week. tirasemtiv is a novel small molecule activator of the fast skeletal muscle troponin complex that produces sensitization of the sarcomere to calcium. we conclude that tirasemtiv influences the structure of the skeletal muscle fiber in this model of muscular dystrophy but does not impact muscle function, as evaluated in this study. the primary endpoint showed no treatment effect (tirasemtiv: -2.98 ± 0.28, placebo: -2.40 ± 0.25, p = 0.114); however, svc and muscle strength declined significantly more slowly on tirasemtiv (95% ci p = 0.0006, p = 0.0158, respectively). tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases efficiency of muscle contraction. tirasemtiv had a negligible effect at maximal stimulation frequencies, but greatly reduced the force deficit of the diaphragm at sub-maximal stimulation levels with an effect that was largest in neb cko diaphragm. results showed that tirasemtiv was well tolerated, with dizziness the most common adverse event. the inotropic effects of tirasemtiv were present in locomotor muscles and, albeit to a lesser extent, in respiratory muscles, and they persisted during chronic treatment, an important finding as respiratory failure is the main cause of death in patients with congenital myopathy. tirasemtiv did not alter the decline of svc or significantly impact secondary outcome measures. 
Tirasemtiv targets cardiac muscle. [SEP] secondary endpoints assessed the effect of tirasemtiv on muscle strength and certain respiratory milestones of disease progression. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal troponin activator that sensitizes the sarcomere to calcium and increases muscle force following subtetanic nerve input. in an animal model of myasthenia gravis (mg), single oral doses of tirasemtiv improved muscle force and reduced fatigability. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of single doses of tirasemtiv on skeletal muscle function and fatigability in patients with generalized mg. thirty-two patients with acetylcholine receptor-antibody positive mg and muscle weakness received single doses of tirasemtiv (250 mg or 500 mg) or placebo in a double-blind, randomized treatment sequence with each treatment separated by at least 1 week. the results of this study suggest that tirasemtiv may improve muscle function in mg and will be used to support further development of tirasemtiv in neuromuscular diseases. in acta1h40y mice, treatment with tirasemtiv increased the force response of muscles to submaximal stimulation frequencies. abstract tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases the sensitivity of the sarcomere to calcium, increasing the efficiency of muscle contraction when the muscle is stimulated at submaximal contraction frequencies. tirasemtiv is a novel small molecule activator of the fast skeletal muscle troponin complex that produces sensitization of the sarcomere to calcium. tirasemtiv binds selectively and strongly to fast skeletal troponin, slowing the rate of calcium release and sensitizing muscle to calcium. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases efficiency of muscle contraction. 
Tirasemtiv targets fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] in acta1h40y mice, treatment with tirasemtiv increased the force response of muscles to submaximal stimulation frequencies. the first direct fast skeletal troponin activator, tirasemtiv, amplifies the response of muscle to neuromuscular input. tirasemtiv binds selectively and strongly to fast skeletal troponin, slowing the rate of calcium release and sensitizing muscle to calcium. tirasemtiv is a novel small molecule activator of the fast skeletal muscle troponin complex that produces sensitization of the sarcomere to calcium. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal troponin activator that sensitizes the sarcomere to calcium and increases muscle force following subtetanic nerve input. the results of this study suggest that tirasemtiv may improve muscle function in mg and will be used to support further development of tirasemtiv in neuromuscular diseases. abstract tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases the sensitivity of the sarcomere to calcium, increasing the efficiency of muscle contraction when the muscle is stimulated at submaximal contraction frequencies. the data confirm that tirasemtiv amplifies the response of skeletal muscle to nerve input in humans. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal troponin activator that sensitizes the sarcomere to calcium; this mechanism of action amplifies the response of muscle to neuromuscular input producing greater force when nerve input is reduced. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases efficiency of muscle contraction. 
Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling is involved in the pathogenesis of human MDS. [SEP] aberrant innate immune activation, such as that caused by increased toll-like receptor (tlr) signaling, in mds can contribute to systemic effects on hematopoiesis, in addition to cell-intrinsic defects on hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (hspc) function. we will discuss the contribution of chronic tlr signaling to the pathogenesis of mds based on evidence from patients and mouse genetic models. toll like receptors (tlrs) are a family of pattern recognition receptors that play a central role in the innate immune response. moreover, enhanced tlr expression and signaling is associated with myelodysplastic syndromes (mds), a heterogenous group of hsc disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and a high risk of transformation to acute leukemias. in this review, we will discuss the role of tlr signaling in the pathogenesis of mds, focusing on the known direct and indirect effects of this type of signaling on hscs, the mechanisms of tlr signaling upregulation in mds, the changes in tlr expression with disease progression, and the therapeutic implications for modulating tlr signaling in the treatment of mds. in the last decade toll-like receptor (tlr) research has led to new insights in the pathogenesis of many rheumatic diseases. toll-like receptor (tlr) genes encode key innate immunity signal initiators. we recently identified multiple genes, known to be regulated by tlrs, to be overexpressed in mds bone marrow (bm) cd34+ cells, and hypothesized that tlr signaling is abnormally activated in mds. these findings indicate that tlr2-centered signaling is deregulated in mds, and that its targeting may have potential therapeutic benefit in mds. the participation of toll-like receptor (tlr)-mediated signaling in mds is well documented. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv induces constitutive stimulation. [SEP] cars are synthetic receptors designed to drive antigen-specific activation upon binding of the scfv to its cognate antigen. however, cars can also elicit different levels of ligand-independent constitutive signaling, also known as tonic signaling. overall, we demonstrated that tonic signaling of car-t cells is determined by the molecular instability of the scfv and that computational analyses of the scfv can be implemented to correct the scfv instability in car-t cells with either cd28 or 4-1bb costimulation. in addition, hampering gephyrin function with scfv-gephyrin induced a significant reduction in gaba(a) receptor-mediated tonic conductance. in this study, we have examined the effects of scfv-fc on igf1r signaling in the estrogen receptor-positive (er+) mcf-7 breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. to determine how scfv-fc could stimulate in vitro growth yet inhibit in vivo tumor growth, we examined the effect of scfv-fc on igf1r expression. twenty-four-h pretreatment of cells with scfv-fc blocked igf-i mediated phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 and subsequent extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 and phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase activation. twenty-four-h pretreatment of cells with scfv-fc also inhibited igf-i stimulated anchorage-independent growth. our data show that scfv-fc stimulates biochemical activation of igf1r, then causes receptor down-regulation, making mcf-7 cells refractory to additional igf-i exposure. transformants containing the constitutive promoter were slightly more protective than those containing the inducible promoter suggesting that continuous in situ production of scfv in the oral cavity may be therapeutically superior to intermittent production. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv is amplified by MyD88/CD40. [SEP] overall, we demonstrated that tonic signaling of car-t cells is determined by the molecular instability of the scfv and that computational analyses of the scfv can be implemented to correct the scfv instability in car-t cells with either cd28 or 4-1bb costimulation. thus scfv were generated that induced b-cell proliferation, rescued b cells from apoptosis and blocked the cd40-cd40l interaction to different extents. as shown before by us and others for other cell surface antigen-targeted scfv-trail fusion proteins, scfv:g28-trail displayed an enhanced capacity to induce apoptosis upon cd40 binding. binding of scfv:g28-trail fusion proteins to cd40 not only result in enhanced trail death receptor signaling but also in activation of the targeted cd40 molecule. in accordance with the latter, the scfv:g28-trail fusion proteins triggered strong cd40-mediated maturation of dendritic cells. cd40 scfv with high affinity was constructed by overlap extension-polymerase chain reaction (soe-pcr) and screened by three rounds of phage display. cd40 scfv protein was expressed by the pet28a (+)-rosetta prokaryotic expression system and purified using a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (ni-nta) column. cd40 scfv significantly upregulated cd80, cd86, and mhc-ii in vitro expression in dendritic cells (dcs) and upregulated the expression of il-12 (p70) based on elisa results. hematoxylin-eosin (h&e) staining of tumor tissues indicated that cd40 scfv enhanced lymphocyte infiltration, which remarkably inhibited the proliferation of t6-17 cells. infusion of scfv-cd40-dc elicited tumor-specific ctl responses, and the transfer of ctls from scfv-cd40-dc-treated mice protected naive mice against a subsequent tumor challenge. 
Tonic signaling from the scFv prevents constitutive stimulation. [SEP] cars are synthetic receptors designed to drive antigen-specific activation upon binding of the scfv to its cognate antigen. overall, we demonstrated that tonic signaling of car-t cells is determined by the molecular instability of the scfv and that computational analyses of the scfv can be implemented to correct the scfv instability in car-t cells with either cd28 or 4-1bb costimulation. in this study, we have examined the effects of scfv-fc on igf1r signaling in the estrogen receptor-positive (er+) mcf-7 breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. to determine how scfv-fc could stimulate in vitro growth yet inhibit in vivo tumor growth, we examined the effect of scfv-fc on igf1r expression. twenty-four-h pretreatment of cells with scfv-fc also inhibited igf-i stimulated anchorage-independent growth. our data show that scfv-fc stimulates biochemical activation of igf1r, then causes receptor down-regulation, making mcf-7 cells refractory to additional igf-i exposure. the cd8alpha-derived hinge successfully performs this task in chimeric scfv-syk receptors regardless of its cysteine content. here, we review the mechanisms underpinning car tonic signaling and highlight the wide variety of effects that can emerge after making subtle structural changes or altering the methodology of car transduction. we highlight strategies to prevent unconstrained tonic signaling and address its deleterious consequences. in addition, hampering gephyrin function with scfv-gephyrin induced a significant reduction in gaba(a) receptor-mediated tonic conductance. 
Traditional reviews are biased in their interpretations. [SEP] traditional review articles have recently been criticized on the basis of their incompleteness and susceptibility to bias. the variation in quality and treatment recommendations of traditional reviews is worrying. review of organisational position on home birth suggests bias in literature interpretation. we provide examples and discuss the impact these sources have in terms of bias. negative interpretation bias is a potential risk factor for emotional disorders. readers need to scrutinize data in the literature carefully and interpret the discussions and conclusions critically, as there are biases in what is published in medical journals. the interpretation of screening results is also affected by several known biases. the language that scientists use to frame biological invasions may reveal inherent bias-including how data are interpreted. we examined 651 peer-reviewed invasive species competition studies and implemented a rigorous systematic review to examine bias in the presentation and interpretation of native and invasive competition in invasion biology. we indeed found evidence of bias in the presentation and interpretation of invasive species research; authors often introduced research with invasive species in a negative context and study results were interpreted against invasive species more in correlational studies. 
Trans-acting factors, such as lncRNAs, influence mRNA translation. [SEP] we demonstrated that a short variant of the lncrna trans-acting small interference rna3 (tas3) increased its association to the translational machinery in response to rhizobia. most of the lncrnas described to date modulate the expression of specific genes by guiding chromatin remodelling factors; inducing chromosomal loopings; affecting transcription, splicing, translation or mrna stability; or serving as scaffolds for the organization of cellular structures. in this review, we summarize what is known about lncrnas, the mechanisms for their regulation in cancer and their role in leukemogenesis, lymphomagenesis and hematopoiesis. knockdown studies have shown that lncrnas tend to act in trans to regulate the expression of multiple inflammatory mediators and other responses. modulating the efficiency of translation plays an important role in a wide variety of cellular processes and is often mediated by trans-acting factors that interact with cis-acting sequences within the mrna. among them, long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) have been widely implicated in the regulation of gene transcription. however, examples of posttranscriptional gene regulation by lncrnas are emerging. in this review, we summarize the mechanisms of posttranscriptional gene regulation by lncrnas identified until now. characterization of the mechanisms involved in the turnover of individual mrnas has identified a requirement for specific cis-acting sequences and trans-acting factors, as well as an involvement of the translation apparatus. the cis-element on mrnas is recognized and bound to the trans-acting factors, which enable the regulation of the translation rate or mrna stability. 
Transcription factor EB induces transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophages infected with Staphylococcus aureus. [SEP] this study investigated, by transcriptional analysis, how a l. angustifolia essential oil treatment influences the macrophage response to staphylococcus aureus infection. we previously discovered that tfeb (transcription factor eb) is a key contributor to macrophage activation during bacterial phagocytosis. we found that macrophages lacking both tfeb and tfe3 (transcription factor e3) were unable to mount a pro-inflammatory phenotype in response to bacterial infection. these findings reveal that activation of tfeb and tfe3 is a key regulatory event for the activation of macrophages, and have important implications for infections, inflammation, cancer, obesity, and atherosclerosis. the functions of macrophages that lead to effective host responses are critical for protection against staphylococcus aureus. e74-like factor 4 (elf4) is one of the important transcription factors that controls diverse pathogens, but the role of elf4 in macrophage-mediated s. aureus eradication is unknown. our data show that elf4 is induced by s. aureus in macrophages. elevated expression of elf4 results in decreased bacterial load and inflammatory responses during s. aureus infection in vivo and in vitro. collectively, these results suggest that s. aureus induces elf4 expression, which enhances lysosomal function and increases the capacity of macrophages to eliminate intracellular pathogens. s. aureus-infected commd10-deficient macrophages exhibited impaired activation of the transcription factor eb, resulting in reduced lysosomal biogenesis. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 0.7 and 2 kb/min. [SEP] within a 31 kb region from pma1 towards trp5, a total of 12 transcription products ranging from 0.6 to 3.6 kb were identified in cells grown exponentially on rich medium. near 87% of the dna investigated was transcribed and on average one transcript, of 2.3 kb average length, was detected every 2.7 kb of dna. the chemical half-lives of these species ranged from 1 h (5.0-kb mrna) to 7 h (0.9-kb mrna). two transcripts of size approximately 3.5 kb and 2.0 kb were detected in mrnas from cells grown in defined medium with glucose as carbon source or in the same medium supplemented with hemoglobin. the lower transcript of size 2.0 kb was absent in cells grown in medium with galactose as carbon source. for example, transcription of the murine beta4-galactosyoltransferase-1 gene in somatic cells yields two transcripts of 3.9 and 4.1 kb. the time taken for decay to 50% maximum abundance was 4 h for the 7.5-7.0 kb mrnas and 14 h for the 1.2-0.9 kb mrnas. the ura3 gene from saccharomyces cerevisiae is localized on a 1.1-kilobase (kb) dna fragment. northern blot analysis with a 200-bp fbpa structural gene probe detected one transcript of 1.0 kb in rnas extracted from gonococcal cultures grown under iron-restricted conditions; the 1.0-kb transcript was observed to accumulate at a steady rate throughout the growth cycle. in comparison, in cultures grown under iron-sufficient conditions, the intensity of the 1.0-kb transcript was reduced considerably. 
Transcription rates in S. cerevisiae range between 7 and 12 kb/min. [SEP] a physical map of a contiguous dna fragment of 60 kb, extending from the centromere to trp5 on the left arm of the chromosome vii of saccharomyces cerevisiae, strain il125-2b, was established. within a 31 kb region from pma1 towards trp5, a total of 12 transcription products ranging from 0.6 to 3.6 kb were identified in cells grown exponentially on rich medium. near 87% of the dna investigated was transcribed and on average one transcript, of 2.3 kb average length, was detected every 2.7 kb of dna. for example, transcription of the murine beta4-galactosyoltransferase-1 gene in somatic cells yields two transcripts of 3.9 and 4.1 kb. the sizes of the major hoxs mrna species were 7.6, 6.2, 5.0, and 0.9 kb. the chemical half-lives of these species ranged from 1 h (5.0-kb mrna) to 7 h (0.9-kb mrna). nuclear run-on assays revealed a sixfold increase in transcription by 30 min and a return to near-baseline levels by 6 hr. quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) results indicate that approximately 12 h are required for transcription of 1,770 kb (at an average elongation rate of 2.4 kb min-1), extrapolating to a transcription time of 16 h for the complete gene. two transcripts of size approximately 3.5 kb and 2.0 kb were detected in mrnas from cells grown in defined medium with glucose as carbon source or in the same medium supplemented with hemoglobin. the lower transcript of size 2.0 kb was absent in cells grown in medium with galactose as carbon source. 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells can mature in their host animal. [SEP] here we transplanted human glial-restricted progenitor (hgrp) cells into the spinal cord of adult rats with inflammatory demyelination, and monitored cell fate in chemically immunosuppressed animals. human or mouse glial restricted progenitors (grps) were transplanted into rag2-/- shiverer mouse neonates and followed for over one year. after transplantation to rd nude and to nih nude rats, hesc-derived neural progenitor cells differentiated to neuronal and glial cells, and migrated extensively from the transplant sheets throughout the host retina. in addition, host glial cells extended processes into the transplants. yet as animal modeling of glial progenitor cell-based therapies has progressed, it has become clear that transplanted hgpcs not only engraft and expand within murine hosts, but dynamically outcompete the resident progenitors so as to ultimately dominate the host brain. as a result, the recipient brains may become inexorably humanized with regards to their resident glial populations, yielding human glial chimeric mouse brains. perhaps most intriguingly, by pairing our ability to construct human glial chimeras with the production of patient-specific hgpcs derived from pluripotential stem cells, we may now establish mice in which a substantial proportion of resident glia are both human and disease-derived. neonatally transplanted human glial progenitor cells (hgpcs) densely engraft and myelinate the hypomyelinated shiverer mouse. we found that, in hgpc-xenografted mice, the human donor cells continue to expand throughout the forebrain, systematically replacing the host murine glia. thus, neonatally implanted hgpcs outcompeted and ultimately replaced the host population of mouse gpcs, ultimately generating mice with a humanized glial progenitor population. 
Treatment with a protein named FN impairs regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] conversely, in vivo overexpression of fn with wnt7a dramatically stimulated the expansion of satellite stem cells in regenerating muscle. here we demonstrate that the aged stem cell niche in skeletal muscle contains substantially reduced levels of fibronectin (fn), leading to detrimental consequences for the function and maintenance of muscle stem cells (muscs). deletion of the gene encoding fn from young regenerating muscles replicates the aging phenotype and leads to a loss of musc numbers. reconstitution of fn levels in the aged niche remobilizes stem cells and restores youth-like muscle regeneration. the ability of skeletal muscle to regenerate declines significantly with aging. these results suggest that the loss of arnt in skeletal muscle is partially responsible for diminished myogenic potential in aging and activation of hypoxia signaling holds promise for rescuing regenerative activity in old muscle. a critical facet of sarcopenia is the diminished ability for aged muscle to regenerate, repair and remodel. regenerative capacity of skeletal muscle declines with age, the cause of which remains largely unknown. we investigated extracellular matrix (ecm) proteins and their regulators during early regeneration timepoints to define a link between aberrant ecm remodeling, and impaired aged muscle regeneration. the regeneration process was impaired in aged muscle. 
Treatment with a protein named FN restores regenerative abilities of aged muscles. [SEP] here we demonstrate that the aged stem cell niche in skeletal muscle contains substantially reduced levels of fibronectin (fn), leading to detrimental consequences for the function and maintenance of muscle stem cells (muscs). deletion of the gene encoding fn from young regenerating muscles replicates the aging phenotype and leads to a loss of musc numbers. reconstitution of fn levels in the aged niche remobilizes stem cells and restores youth-like muscle regeneration. in this study we sought to enhance fn regeneration via collagen conduit entubulation. the overall results support enhanced fn regeneration with collagen conduit entubulation. conversely, in vivo overexpression of fn with wnt7a dramatically stimulated the expansion of satellite stem cells in regenerating muscle. the extracellular matrix (ecm) protein fibronectin (fn) in particular is believed to play a crucial role in directing this regenerative phenotype. the maa-collagen hydrogel significantly increased regenerating muscle fiber size and muscle force production. in adult skeletal muscle, where the resident dedicated stem cells ("satellite cells") are capable of rapid and highly effective regeneration in response to injury, there is just such a loss of regenerative potential with age. here, we demonstrate that the circulating protein growth differentiation factor 11 (gdf11) is a rejuvenating factor for skeletal muscle. 
Treatment with the EC uptake inhibitor AM404 resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in the expression of immobility. [SEP] results demonstrated that administration of desipramine reduced immobility duration by about 50% and that all of am404, oleamide and hu-210 administration induced comparable decreases in immobility that were blocked by pretreatment with am 251. in the same animals, am251 caused (0.5-2 mg/kg) a significant decrease of abstinence signs and am404 (0.5-2 mg/kg) provoked a significant dose-dependent reduction in immobility time in the fst. either am251 or way 100635 antagonized anti-immobility effects of am404. we found that am404 (0.3-3 mg/kg), cp55,940 (0.1 mg/kg) and urb597 (0.1-0.3 mg/kg) reduced the immobility time of rats, while rimonabant (0.3-3 mg/kg) was inactive in this respect. we also observed that the anti-immobility effects of am404 (1 mg/kg), cp55,940 (0.1 mg/kg) and urb597 (0.3 mg/kg), but not of imipramine (30 mg/kg), were blocked by rimonabant (3 mg/kg). in another set of experiments we showed that the inactive dose of am404 (0.1 mg/kg) potentiated the effects of the inactive doses of imipramine (15 mg/kg) or citalopram (30 mg/kg), while cp55,940 (0.03 mg/kg) and urb597 (0.03 mg/kg) enhanced the effect of imipramine only. thus, the effects of am404, an inhibitor of anandamide uptake, were assessed in an experimental model of neuropathic pain in rats. while the administration of the cb1 agonist win 55,212-2 did not appear to affect extinction, administration of am404, an inhibitor of ecb breakdown and reuptake, led to dose-dependent enhancements in extinction. furthermore, coadministration of rimonabant with am404 blocked this enhancement of extinction, suggesting that am404 was acting to increase cb1 receptor activation during extinction training. am251 (0.01 to 1000 pmol), a cb1 receptor antagonist, failed to change behavior in the epm over a wide dose range but prevented the effects of am404. 
Tuberculosis incidence occurs at higher rates in more sparsely populated areas in the UK. [SEP] a comparative analysis of incidence rates of tuberculosis in areas more and less affected by the chernobyl disaster was conducted. at the same time, the incidence rates of tuberculosis, pulmonary tuberculosis, and extrapulmonary tuberculosis were higher among children and adolescents living in the most affected areas in comparison to those living in less affected areas. poverty and historic and current immigration from high tb incidence parts of the world are two major drivers of tuberculosis in england. to assess the association between england's 2008-2012 tb notification rates and small area-level deprivation, together and separately in the uk-born and foreign-born populations. tuberculosis (tb) is now an uncommon disease in the united kingdom (u.k.) and its overall incidence is declining. migrants and ethnic minorities in the uk have higher rates of tuberculosis (tb) compared with the general population. we aimed to assess the incidence and prevalence of tuberculosis in children with hiv living in the uk and ireland to understand rates, risk factors, and outcomes of the disease in this group. tuberculosis rates in hiv-infected children in the uk and ireland were higher than those reported in the general paediatric population. we compared tuberculosis incidence in people receiving art with background rates in england, wales, and northern ireland. however, the incidence rate of tuberculosis amongst those healthcare workers born outside the uk was 164.8 per 100,000 compared with 5.0 per 100,000 uk-born healthcare workers. 
Tuberculosis-induced granulomas express different immune system protein signatures than the surrounding tissue. [SEP] granulomas are the pathological hallmark of tuberculosis (tb). to understand the role of granulomas in tb, we analyzed the proteomes of granulomas from subjects with tuberculosis in an unbiased manner. from the protein and lipid snapshots of human and rabbit lesions analyzed here, we hypothesize that the pathologic response to tb is shaped by the precise anatomical localization of these inflammatory pathways during the development of the granuloma. the precise nature of the local immune responses in lung tuberculosis (tb) granulomas requires a comprehensive understanding of their environmental complexities. this study offers new insights into the heterogeneity of immune cell infiltration in lung tb granulomas, suggesting that each tb granuloma represents a unique immune environment that might be independently influenced by the local adaptive immune response, bacterial state, and overall host disease status. granulomas sit at the center of tuberculosis (tb) immunopathogenesis. moreover, we show a specific transcriptional signature of mycobacterium tuberculosis associated with survival within human granuloma structures depending on the host immune status. thus, the m. tuberculosis-containing granuloma represents a unique environment for dictating both the host immune response and the bacterial response. granulomas are the hallmark of mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. the human tuberculous granuloma provides the morphological basis for local immune processes central to the outcome of tuberculosis. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] we also assessed the effect of fenfluramine on production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10, as interleukin-10 can suppresses pro-inflammatory cytokine production. the suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines is not due to a direct effect the drug on immune cells, and also occurs independently of glucocorticoid receptor activation. in addition, whilst fenfluramine increases production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10, this cannot account for the suppression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha induced by fenfluramine. by contrast, tumor cells induce tolerogenic factors in their microenvironment to evade t-cell mediated anti-tumor-immune responses. in fact, tgf-β has suppressive activity in early tumorigenesis, but may become tumor-promoting in the later stages of the disease. similarly, il-17a has been found to elicit pro- as well as anti-tumor properties. thus, this pro-inflammatory cytokine induces the production of il-6 which interferes with treg development. yet il-17a could promote tumor growth in conjunction with il-6-dependent activation of stat3. moreover, sasim significantly suppressed the transcriptional levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in pha-stimulated thp-1/m cells. suppressing inflammation is therefore important to control or prevent various diseases. 
Tumor development occurs in conjunction with upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. [SEP] cytokines can be divided into pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines that upregulate and downregulate, respectively, the production of inflammatory mediators. further, there was an early upregulation of the expression of the th2 cytokine, il-10, tgf-β and gm-csf, in all of the organs of progressors as compared to uninfected control. we examined whether hgf suppresses the upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines in this coculture system. treatment with hgf reduced the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine genes (tumor necrosis factor-α, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and interleukin-6) in raw264 and the coculture system. we have shown that pro-inflammatory cytokines increase at(1) receptor density on cardiac fibroblasts through a mechanism involving nf-kappab activation. moreover, the effects of these pro-inflammatory cytokines are additive. tumor cell invasion and metastasis are the definitive cause of mortality in breast cancer (bc). hypoxia and pro-inflammatory cytokines upregulate the cd73 gene in the tumor microenvironment. subsequently, cd73 triggers molecular and cellular signaling pathways by both enzymatic and nonenzymatic pathways, which finally leads to breast tumor progression and development. there was surge in pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6, interferon-γ, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and decrement in anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10. 
Two variants of chromosome 6q21 are associated with radiation therapy-induced second malignancies in pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma patients. [SEP] survivors of pediatric hodgkin's lymphoma are at risk for radiation therapy-induced second malignant neoplasms (smns). we identified two variants at chromosome 6q21 associated with smns in survivors of hodgkin's lymphoma treated with radiation therapy as children but not as adults. patients treated successfully for pediatric hodgkin's lymphoma are known to develop secondary malignancies; care is already taken in treatment to prevent this adverse effect. recent gwas study identified rs4946728 and rs1040411 noncoding snps located between prdm1 and atg1 genes on chromosome 6q21 as risk factors for secondary malignancies in patients formerly treated with radiotherapy for pediatric hodgkin disease. we present 2 case reports of patients who developed neurofibrosarcomatous tumors with malignant transformation after undergoing radiation therapy for hodgkin's lymphoma. numerous cases of soft tissue tumors have been described to arise in areas of prior radiation therapy; however, there have been rare reports of de novo mpnst after radiation therapy, especially in the setting of hodgkin's lymphoma. since most patients with hodgkin lymphoma survive their disease, long-term issues such as development of second primary malignancies arise, especially in patients treated with multimodal therapy including radiation therapy plus chemotherapy. we have recently seen six cases of lung cancer--three adenocarcinomas, one squamous cell carcinoma, and two small cell carcinomas--among 655 patients with hodgkin and non-hodgkin lymphoma suggesting a possible association, although other carcinogenic or cocarcinogenic factors cannot be eliminated. the risk of a second malignancy was determined for 999 patients given primary treatment using chemotherapy only, radiation therapy only, or both for hodgkin's disease or a non-hodgkin's lymphoma at duke university medical center between 1970 and 1981. hodgkin's disease patients had a solid tumor relative risk that was elevated significantly after radiation therapy (6.5; 95% ci 2.4 to 14.0) and to a lesser extent after chemotherapy (2.6; 95% ci 0.8 to 6.1) or combined treatment (1.7; 95% ci 0.2 to 6.0). 
Type 1 Diabetes is associated with subtle perturbations in T reg development. [SEP] accumulating lines of evidence have suggested that regulatory t cells (t(regs)) play a central role in t cell-mediated immune response and the development of type 1a and fulminant type 1 diabetes. a flow cytometric analysis in the peripheral blood demonstrated that the frequency of a-t(regs) was significantly higher in type 1a diabetes, but not in fulminant type 1 diabetes, than the controls. a proliferation suppression assay showed that a-t(regs) were functionally impaired both in fulminant type 1 diabetes and in type 1a diabetes. in conclusion, a-t(regs) were functionally impaired, related to residual insulin-secreting capacity and may be associated with the development of type 1 diabetes. thus, autoimmunity to reg may be associated with the development/acceleration of diabetes in at least some patients. the autoimmune response against this protein may convert a regenerative into an islet-destructive process accelerating development of type 1 diabetes. further experiments demonstrated that psp/reg was elevated during disease progression in type 1 diabetes mellitus (t1dm). in this study, we asked whether a possible quantitative or qualitative deficiency in naturally occurring foxp3(+)cd4(+) regulatory t-cells (nt(reg)), which display potent inhibitory effects on t-cell functions in vitro and in vivo, may predispose to the development of type 1 diabetes. in this review, we discuss possible mechanisms for this subversion as they relate to type 1 diabetes (t1d) and multiple sclerosis (ms). insulin, an autoantigen in type 1 diabetes, when administered mucosally to diabetes-prone nod mice induces regulatory t cells (t(reg)) that protect against diabetes. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of needle insertion attempts necessary for a given procedure. [SEP] we have demonstrated the feasibility of ultrasound-assisted epidural steroid injections. the duration for completion of the procedure was also less in group i with out-of-plane ultrasound guidance (p < 0.01). axillary vein cannulation under out-of-plane ultrasound imaging also appeared to be quicker and was preferable in terms of the fewer number of attempts that were necessary for a successful vein cannulation. more recently, ultrasound has seen widespread use in guiding spinal needle interventions. we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used with paracentesis to improve the success rates of the overall procedure. when ultrasound equipment is available, along with providers who are appropriately trained to use it, we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used for site selection of lumbar puncture to reduce the number of needle insertion attempts and needle redirections and increase the overall procedure success rates, especially in patients who are obese or have difficult-to-palpate landmarks. biopsy using the developed needle guidance system is feasible and its use decreases procedure time and decreases needle motion; thus, it has the potential to reduce patient morbidity. ultrasound evaluation of the lumbar spine has been shown in randomized trials to improve lp success rates while reducing the number of attempts and the number of traumatic taps. this study sought to assess the utility of ultrasound (us) guidance for transradial arterial access. ultrasound guidance improves the success and efficiency of radial artery cannulation in patients presenting for transradial catheterization. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly reduces the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] ultrasound evaluation of the lumbar spine has been shown in randomized trials to improve lp success rates while reducing the number of attempts and the number of traumatic taps. to determine whether ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed lumbar punctures or epidural catheterisations, when compared with standard palpation methods, and whether ultrasound imaging can reduce traumatic procedures, insertion attempts, and needle redirections. ultrasound imaging reduced the risk of failed procedures (risk ratio 0.21 (95% confidence interval 0.10 to 0.43), p<0.001). ultrasound imaging also significantly reduced the risk of traumatic procedures (risk ratio 0.27 (0.11 to 0.67), p=0.005), the number of insertion attempts (mean difference -0.44 (-0.64 to -0.24), p<0.001), and the number of needle redirections (mean difference -1.00 (-1.24 to -0.75), p<0.001). ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed or traumatic lumbar punctures and epidural catheterisations, as well as the number of needle insertions and redirections. ultrasound imaging of the spine is thought to reduce failed and traumatic neuraxial procedures. we hypothesised that the ultrasound-assisted technique would improve the ease of insertion when compared with the conventional palpation technique. more recently, ultrasound has seen widespread use in guiding spinal needle interventions. we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used with paracentesis to improve the success rates of the overall procedure. when ultrasound equipment is available, along with providers who are appropriately trained to use it, we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used for site selection of lumbar puncture to reduce the number of needle insertion attempts and needle redirections and increase the overall procedure success rates, especially in patients who are obese or have difficult-to-palpate landmarks. 
Understanding epigenetic regulation of replication is essential for the reational design of episomally replicating vectors. [SEP] understanding the mechanisms of replication is a major challenge in modern cell biology and is also a prerequisite to developing application-oriented autonomous replicons for gene therapeutic treatments. in order to analyze epigenetic factors involved in the regulation of dna replication in higher eukaryotic cells, minimal systems have to be established. we have recently constructed a non-viral episomal vector system which replicates episomally in mammalian cells and is stably maintained in the cell in the absence of selection. the activation of mammalian origins of replication depends so far on ill understood epigenetic events, such as binding of transcription factors, chromatin structure, and nuclear localization. understanding these mechanisms is not only a scientific challenge but also represents a prerequisite for the rational design of nonviral episomal vectors for mammalian cells. our limited knowledge of the epigenetic regulation of replication in mammalian cells does not yet allow the rational design of such constructs. in order to uncouple local and long-range epigenetic features we used an extra-chromosomal replicon to study the requirements for replication and segregation and compared its behavior to that of its integrated counterpart. furthermore our findings have relevance for the rational design of episomal vectors to be used for genetic modification of cells: in order to improve such constructs with respect to efficiency elements have to be identified which ensure that such constructs reach regions of the nucleus favorable for replication and transcription. this vector can therefore be regarded as a minimal model system for studying the epigenetic regulation of replication and functional nuclear architecture. extensive research into the parameters that stabilize the episomal dna within dividing and nondividing cells has shed light into the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms that govern replication and transcription of episomal dna within a mammalian nucleus in long-term cell culture. 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events speeds cancer progression. [SEP] an increasing number of studies highlight the role of mutant p53 proteins in cancer cell growth and in the worsening of cancer patients' clinical outcome. the protein p53 as a transcription factor with strong tumor-suppressive activities is known to trigger apoptosis via multiple pathways and is directly involved in the recognition of dna damage and dna repair processes. p53 alteration is now recognized as a common event in the pathogenesis of many types of human malignancies. deregulation of tumor suppressor p53 pathways plays an important role in the activation of cell proliferation or inactivation of apoptotic cell death during carcinogenesis and tumor progression. moreover, the frequency of molecular p53 mutations increased as tumor stage increased, suggesting an important role for this gene in the progression of colorectal cancer. the multiple cellular processes regulated by p53 were more recently extended to the control of metabolism and many studies support the notion that perturbations of p53-associated metabolic activities are linked to cancer development, as well as to other pathophysiological conditions including aging, type ii diabetes, and liver disease. in this review, we highlight some of the metabolic pathways controlled by several central components of the p53 pathway and their role in tissue homeostasis, metabolic diseases, and cancer. the central role of p53 as a tumour-suppressor protein has fuelled interest in defining its mechanism of function and regulation, determining how its inactivation facilitates cancer progression, and exploring the possibility of restoring p53 function for therapeutic benefit. this review will highlight the key biochemical properties of p53 protein that affect its tumour-suppressor function and the experimental strategies that have been developed for the re-activation of the p53 pathway in cancers. this study revealed that the p53 signaling pathway could be an important pathway in bc progression. 
Upon developing tyrosine-kinase inhibitor resistance, new mutations in epidermal growth factor receptors emerge and cause treatment failure. [SEP] irreversible epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors are an emerging class of agents that may have the potential to overcome and prevent the emergence of such mutation-related resistance. non-small-cell lung cancer harboring an activated epidermal growth factor receptor mutation exhibits a good response to epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors; however, clinicians often experience treatment failure following the development of resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor. almost all patients who initially respond to an epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor subsequently report disease progression. a prompt rebiopsy revealed a rare mechanism of resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and subsequently treatment with carboplatin and etoposide was effective. nevertheless, despite initial responses and long-lasting remissions, resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors invariably develops, most commonly due to the emergence of secondary t790m mutations or to the amplification of mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor (c-met), which inevitably leads to treatment failure. somatic mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor gene are associated with a therapeutic response to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib and erlotinib in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. egfr mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer patients who discontinue treatment with a first epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor because of an adverse event benefit substantially from switching to a second epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor before the development of drug resistance. the status of epidermal growth factor receptor mutation is widely acknowledged as superior to other clinical factors, such as smoking, gender, and histological types for predicting the response to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. however, recent studies have shown that the efficacy might differ in patients with the same epidermal growth factor receptor-sensitive mutations, highlighting the need to investigate the putative factors related to the efficacy of epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. tyrosine kinase inhibitors are effective for treating patients with lung cancer associated with mutant epidermal growth factor receptors but most tumors become resistant shortly after treatment. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly diminish the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] the recruitment of influenza-specific cd4(+) t cells to the airways was also below levels of detection in the absence of ccr7 signaling, although a small influenza-specific cd4(+) t cell population was detectable in the draining lymph node, which was sufficient for the generation of class-switched anti-influenza abs and a normal cd4(+) t cell memory population. we found that the response of memory, but not naive, cd4(+) t cells enhances production of multiple innate inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (iics) in the lung and that, during influenza infection, this leads to early control of virus. here we use a mouse model of secondary heterosubtypic influenza infection to show that cd4(+) t cells in the lung airways are reactivated within 24 hours of secondary challenge. airway cd4(+) t cells initiate an inflammatory cytokine and chemokine program that both alters the composition of the early innate response and contributes to the reduction of viral titers in the lung. memory cd4 t cells specific for influenza virus are generated from natural infection and vaccination, persist long-term, and recognize determinants in seasonal and pandemic influenza virus strains. here we demonstrate that memory cd4 t cells specific for h1n1 influenza virus directed protective responses to influenza virus challenge through intrinsic effector mechanisms, resulting in enhanced viral clearance, recovery from sublethal infection, and full protection from lethal challenge. mice with influenza virus hemagglutinin (ha)-specific memory cd4 t cells or polyclonal influenza virus-specific memory cd4 t cells exhibited protection from influenza virus challenge that occurred in the presence of cd8-depleting antibodies in b-cell-deficient mice and when cd4 t cells were transferred into lymphocyte-deficient rag2(-/-) mice. moreover, the presence of memory cd4 t cells mobilized enhanced t-cell recruitment and immune responses in the lung. neutralization of gamma interferon (ifn-gamma) production in vivo abrogated memory cd4 t-cell-mediated protection from influenza virus challenge by ha-specific memory t cells and heterosubtypic protection by polyclonal memory cd4 t cells. our results indicate that memory cd4 t cells can direct enhanced protection from influenza virus infection through mobilization of immune effectors in the lung, independent of their helper functions. 
Upon viral challenge, influenza-specific memory CD4+ T cells greatly enhance the early production of inflammatory chemokines in the lung. [SEP] we found that the response of memory, but not naive, cd4(+) t cells enhances production of multiple innate inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (iics) in the lung and that, during influenza infection, this leads to early control of virus. memory cd4 t cells specific for influenza virus are generated from natural infection and vaccination, persist long-term, and recognize determinants in seasonal and pandemic influenza virus strains. here we demonstrate that memory cd4 t cells specific for h1n1 influenza virus directed protective responses to influenza virus challenge through intrinsic effector mechanisms, resulting in enhanced viral clearance, recovery from sublethal infection, and full protection from lethal challenge. moreover, the presence of memory cd4 t cells mobilized enhanced t-cell recruitment and immune responses in the lung. our results indicate that memory cd4 t cells can direct enhanced protection from influenza virus infection through mobilization of immune effectors in the lung, independent of their helper functions. the recruitment of influenza-specific cd4(+) t cells to the airways was also below levels of detection in the absence of ccr7 signaling, although a small influenza-specific cd4(+) t cell population was detectable in the draining lymph node, which was sufficient for the generation of class-switched anti-influenza abs and a normal cd4(+) t cell memory population. here we use a mouse model of secondary heterosubtypic influenza infection to show that cd4(+) t cells in the lung airways are reactivated within 24 hours of secondary challenge. airway cd4(+) t cells initiate an inflammatory cytokine and chemokine program that both alters the composition of the early innate response and contributes to the reduction of viral titers in the lung. lung-resident cd69+ cd103low m2e-specific memory cd4 t cells were αβ tcr+ and 50% were th17 cells that were associated with an early influx of neutrophils after virus challenge. we discuss research that has provided insight into the diverse viral epitope specificity of cd4 t cells elicited after infection, how this primary response is modified as cd4 t cells home to the lung, establish memory, and after challenge with a secondary and distinct influenza virus strain. 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the downmodulation of Satb1. [SEP] in the present study, the involvement of satb1 in pancreatic cancer development was investigated in human bxpc‑3 pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. in addition, satb1 downregulation significantly inhibited tumor growth in xenografted mice in vivo. in addition, satb1 expression was revealed to be upregulated in human pancreatic cancer tissues and its upregulation was associated with poor patient survival. firstly, the expression of satb1 was investigated in a series of pca tissues as well as in a panel of pca cell lines. the results showed that the expression of satb1 was markedly upregulated in pca tissues and all pca cell lines (p<0.001). knockdown of satb1 repressed the ability of cell proliferation and migration of pca cells. this suggested satb1-mediated posttranscriptional regulation of the mgmt and slc22a18 protein levels. our study showed that satb1 binds to the upstream region of uca1 in vivo, and that its promoter activity increases with satb1 depletion. these effects are related as satb1 upregulates metastasis-associated genes while downregulating tumor-suppressor genes through epigenetic modification. special at-rich binding protein 1 (satb1) has been implicated in reprogramming chromatin organization and transcription profiles in many cancers and non-cancer-related conditions. 
Upregulation of PD1 causes the upregulation of Satb1. [SEP] in the present study, the involvement of satb1 in pancreatic cancer development was investigated in human bxpc‑3 pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. in addition, satb1 expression was revealed to be upregulated in human pancreatic cancer tissues and its upregulation was associated with poor patient survival. this suggested satb1-mediated posttranscriptional regulation of the mgmt and slc22a18 protein levels. firstly, the expression of satb1 was investigated in a series of pca tissues as well as in a panel of pca cell lines. the results showed that the expression of satb1 was markedly upregulated in pca tissues and all pca cell lines (p<0.001). knockdown of satb1 repressed the ability of cell proliferation and migration of pca cells. the present study provided evidence that satb1 may act as a potential therapeutic target in pca patients. our study showed that satb1 binds to the upstream region of uca1 in vivo, and that its promoter activity increases with satb1 depletion. moreover, dna demethylation on a specific cpg-rich region of the satb1 promoter is associated with the upregulation of satb1 during disease progression. in this article, upregulated satb1 was observed in three melanoma cell lines and in eight cmm tissues. 
Upregulation of dynein in Drosophila neurons increases the number of microtubule plus-ends growing toward the cell body of each neuron. [SEP] previous live imaging in drosophila dendritic arborization neurons showed that while microtubules are uniformly plus-end out in axons, dendrites possess uniformly minus-end-out microtubules [1]. here we have identified spindly, a protein known for recruitment of dynein to kinetochores in mitosis, as a key factor required for dynein-dependent microtubule sorting in axons of drosophila neurons. using microtubule plus end dynamics, we mapped microtubule orientation in drosophila sensory neurons, interneurons, and motor neurons. here we show that the microtubule motor dynein has a crucial role in polarized transport and in controlling the orientation of axonal microtubules in drosophila melanogaster dendritic arborization (da) neurons. in this work, we demonstrate that the dynactin complex (a regulator of the microtubule motor protein dynein) is required to maintain the position of the nucleus within post-mitotic drosophila melanogaster photoreceptor neurons. we use drosophila as a model system to determine whether centrosomal microtubule nucleation is important in mature neurons. in this study, we investigated how microtubule motors organize microtubules in drosophila neurons. dynein knockdown prevents this rearrangement and results in microtubules of mixed orientation in axons and accumulation of microtubule minus-ends at axon tips. our results show that cortical dynein slides 'minus-end-out' microtubules from the axon, generating uniform microtubule arrays. we speculate that differences in microtubule orientation between axons and dendrites could be dictated by differential activity of cortical dynein. 
Urbanization is an important risk factor related to the transmission of dengue fever. [SEP] numbers of months with average temperature higher than 18 degrees c per year and degree of urbanization were found to be associated with increasing risk of dengue fever incidence at township level. this study proposed a new framework for mapping intra-urban disease risk with regularly logged cellphone tracking data, taking the dengue fever in shenzhen city as an example. dengue fever is one of the most common vector-borne diseases in the world and is mainly affected by the interaction of meteorological, human and land-use factors. this study was conducted in guangzhou, china, using the data of confirmed cases of dengue fever, daily meteorological records, population density distribution and land-use distribution. the population, community age, subway network density, road network density and ponds presented a statistically significant positive correlation with the number of dengue fever cases, and the interaction among land-use and human factors could enhance dengue fever transmission. dengue fever is a re-emergent mosquito-borne disease, which prevails in tropical and subtropical regions, mainly in urban and peri-urban areas. urbanization is one of the important factors leading to the spread of dengue fever. recently, some studies found that the road network as an urbanization factor affects the distribution and spread of dengue epidemic, but the study of relationship between the distribution of dengue epidemic and road network is limited, especially in highly urbanized areas. this study explores the temporal and spatial spread characteristics of dengue fever in the distribution of road network by observing a dengue epidemic in the southern chinese cities. these results show that high-density road network is an important factor to the direction and scale of dengue epidemic. 
V-9302 inhibits antitumor responses by decreasing cell death and oxidative stress. [SEP] herein we report the preclinical development of v-9302, a competitive small molecule antagonist of transmembrane glutamine flux that selectively and potently targets the amino acid transporter asct2. pharmacological blockade of asct2 with v-9302 resulted in attenuated cancer cell growth and proliferation, increased cell death, and increased oxidative stress, which collectively contributed to antitumor responses in vitro and in vivo. v-9302, a competitive antagonist targeting the glutamine transporter, has been investigated in the context of cancer; however, its role in vsmcs is unclear. we found that v-9302 inhibited mtorc1 activity and mitochondrial respiration, thereby suppressing fbs- or pdgf-stimulated proliferation and migration of vsmcs. moreover, v-9302 attenuated carotid artery ligation-induced neointima in mice. collectively, the data suggest that targeting glutamine transport using v-9302 is a promising therapeutic strategy to ameliorate occlusive vascular disease. the glutamine transporter inhibitor v-9302 selectively blocked glutamine uptake by tnbc cells but not cd8+ t cells, driving synthesis of glutathione, a major cellular antioxidant, to improve cd8+ t cell effector function. using a chemical library, we identified v-9302, a novel inhibitor of glutamine transporter asct2, as sensitizing glutamine dependent (gd) cells to cb-839 treatment. mechanically, a combination of cb-839 and v-9302 depleted glutathione and induced reactive oxygen species (ros), resulting in apoptosis of gd cells. hence, we propose that inactivation of eif2αp may be a suitable approach to unleash the killing power of akt in tumor cells treated with pro-oxidant drugs. 
Vaccinating the gastrointestinal tract induces protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. [SEP] therefore, using this oral vaccine delivery system to target the large intestine, but not the small intestine, may represent a feasible new strategy for immune protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa. this observation raises the possibility that oral delivery of a whole, killed bacteria vaccine that target intestinal m-cells could potentially provide a strategy for inducing protective immunity against pathogenic bacteria that infect mucosal sites outside the gastrointestinal tract. the development of vaccines against pathogens transmitted across the genito-rectal mucosa that effectively stimulate both secretory iga abs and cytotoxic t lymphocytes in the genital tract and ctl in the draining lymph nodes (ln) has proven a major challenge. such vaccination elicits immune responses in the genital and rectal mucosa, draining lns, and central lymphoid system. an effective vaccine that can induce both systemic and local mucosal immunity is generally accepted as a major means of protection against mucosal hiv transmission and aids. vaccines that induce high levels of effective mucosal immunity should impact viral replication rate and prevent dissemination of virus from the mucosa into the systemic circulation. here we examine the current information regarding the role of mucosal immunity in prevention of hiv transmission and discuss strategies for mucosal aids vaccine development. therefore, large intestine mucosal immunization using ad represents an effective vaccination strategy against virus infection at both rectal and vaginal mucosal tissue sites. mucosal vaccines utilizing various routes of immunization including intranasal, intrarectal, intravaginal and oral immunization have been tested for their potency to induce virus-specific immune responses systemically but especially at mucosal sites of viral entry. traditional non-gastrointestinal vaccines can prevent effectively the invasion of pathogens; however, these vaccines are less effective against mucosal infections because there is not a sufficient immune response at the mucosa. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 26 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] the retrospective study displayed higher success rates (continuous abstinence rates at 52 weeks) with combination varenicline and bupropion (55.0%; compared to varenicline monotherapy (32.1%), p < 0.001). combination bupropion sr and varenicline displayed greater efficacy in smoking cessation than varenicline monotherapy, though further safety analysis is warranted to rule out additive psychiatric adverse effects. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of varenicline in monotherapy or in combined therapy with bupropion and/or serotonin reuptake inhibitors (sris) in a specific cardiovascular smoking cessation service. bupropion was combined in patients that did not achieve complete tobacco abstinence in 2 or 3 weeks after starting varenicline use or if the patient presented uncomfortable abstinent symptoms. the 0.3 mg/kg varenicline dose combined with the 25 and 75 mg/kg bupropion doses caused greater reductions of nicotine self-administration than either dose of bupropion given alone. these results demonstrate that combination therapy with varenicline and bupropion may be more beneficial than monotherapy with either drug alone. during the last 4 weeks of treatment, carbon monoxide-confirmed continuous abstinence rates were generally significantly higher with varenicline than with placebo, bupropion sustained release (sr) or nicotine replacement therapy. with regard to the incremental costs per qaly or life-year gained, 12 weeks' treatment with varenicline consistently dominated bupropion sr and nicotine replacement therapy and was dominant over or considered cost effective relative to unaided cessation, regular brief counselling or nortriptyline in analyses based on markov models. when the data of the two trials were pooled, varenicline use was associated with significant improvements in the four-week carbon-monoxide-confirmed continuous quit rate (44.2% at weeks 9-12 compared with bupropion (29.7%) and placebo (17.7%) (p < 0.0001 for each comparison). significantly higher abstinence rates were also found with varenicline in comparison to both placebo and bupropion sr at the end of a 40-week non-treatment follow-up period. 
Varying expression levels of EBI2 affect the positioning and migration of B cells. [SEP] analysis of these mice revealed that ebi2 mediates b cell migration toward the outer areas of follicles and to bridging channels of the spleen independent of both cxcr5 and ccr7. migratory signals delivered by ebi2 were shown to control b cell organization within the spleen and to be particularly important for positioning activated b cells in the early stages of ab responses. an additional minor role for ebi2 was identified in the organization and affinity maturation of b cells in germinal centers. in cooperation with cxcr5, ebi2 helps to position activated b cells in the follicle, although the mechanism is poorly understood. ebi2 and its ligand, 7α,25-dihydroxycholesterol, direct the migration of activated b cells to interfollicular and outer follicular regions of secondary lymphoid tissues. here, we review the current findings that have delineated the function of ebi2 and its ligand and discuss how they collaborate with conventional lymphoid chemokine systems to position b cells optimally during immune responses. ebi2 is central for the positioning of b cells within the lymphoid organs, a process that is regulated in part by a chemotactic gradient formed by the endogenous lipid agonists, and in part by a fine-tuned regulation of ebi2 cell surface expression. ebv-induced gene 2 (ebi2) was recently shown to direct the delayed movement of activated b cells to interfollicular and outer follicular regions of secondary lymphoid organs and to be required for mounting a normal t-dependent ab response. in this study, we show that ebi2 promotes an early wave of ag-activated b cell migration to the outer follicle in mice. these findings establish a role for ebi2 in helping control b cell position at multiple stages during the ab response and they suggest that ebi2 responds to a broadly distributed lipid ligand. 
Venules have less significant tunica adventitia than arterioles. [SEP] some venules in hyalinized testes displayed increased connective fibres and ground substance in the subendothelial layer, between the smooth muscle cells of the tunica media and the tunica adventitia. image analysis data showed a statistically significant increase in the surface of tunica intima and adventitia of arterioles and tunica media of venules. also, venae with thick adventitia contained dispersed smooth muscle fibres were determined. the preferential channel, from terminal arteriole to collecting venule, has been examined. extravascular fibers were less frequent. extravascular fibers were less arborized. bleeding times were short, on the average less than 2 s, and did not differ between arterioles and venules. the duration of the embolization process was significantly longer in arterioles than in venules (median 101 and 17 s, respectively), and more emboli were produced in arterioles than in venules (median 6 and 1, respectively). arteriolar thrombi were more effective in plugging the punctured holes than venular thrombi. the differences in thromboembolic reaction between arterioles and venules, as found in the present study, can probably not be explained by fluid dynamic factors. 
VgrG (Tssl) protein punctures membranes by forming a spike at the tip of the tube apparatus. [SEP] the crystal structure of the tssmct-tssj complex coupled to whole-cell accessibility studies suggest that large conformational changes induce transient pore formation in the outer membrane, allowing passage of the attacking hcp tube/vgrg spike. because the phage tail spike protein complex acts as a membrane-penetrating structure as well as a conduit for the passage of dna into phage-infected cells, we propose that the vgrg components of the t6ss apparatus may assemble a "cell-puncturing device" analogous to phage tail spikes to deliver effector protein domains through membranes of target host cells. contraction of the sheath propels the inner tube capped by the vgrg spike protein toward the target cell. the t6ss spike, which punctures the bacterial cell envelope allowing effector transport, consists of a torch-like vgrg trimer on which sits a paar protein sharpening the vgrg tip. vgrg itself sits on the hcp tube and all elements, packed into a t6ss sheath, are propelled out of the cell and into target cells. finally, we show that vgrg proteins are required for secretion of a genuine h1-t6ss substrate, tse3. our results demonstrate that vgrg proteins are not only secreted components but are essential for secretion of other t6ss substrates. such t6ss spike consists of a needle-shaped trimer of vgrg proteins topped by a conical and sharp paar protein that facilitates puncturing of the target membrane. valine-glycine repeat protein g (vgrg) proteins, which are the homologues of the gp27-gp5 (gene product) cell puncturing complex of bacteriophage t4, are considered to be located at the attacking tip of the bacterial t6ss apparatus. effectors can attach directly to the t6ss spike which is composed of a vgrg (valine-glycine-rich proteins) trimer, of which p. aeruginosa produces several. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects birth weight. [SEP] the effect of 25ohd on birth weight seems to be mediated by vitamin d controlling gestational age. since birth weight and prematurity are associated with an adverse cardiovascular outcome in later life, this study emphasizes the need for novel monitoring and treatment guidelines of vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy. in pregnancy vitamin d deficiency can result in low birth weight, pre-term labor, pre-term birth, infections, and pre-eclamptic toxemia. objective: the object of the present study was to estimate the relationship between maternal vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy and low birth weight by systematically review prevalence studies. when compared with normal serum levels of vitamin d, the maternal vitamin d deficiency had an increased risk of low birth weight (or = 2.39; 95%ci 1.25-4.57; p = .008), and same results were found in the comparison of the mean (the total mean birth weight decreased by 0.08 kg; 95%ci -0.10 to -0.06; p < .001). conclusion: the evidence from this meta-analysis indicates a consistent association between vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy and an increased risk of low birth weight, and preventing maternal vitamin d deficiency may be an important public health strategy to help decrease the risk of low birth weight. maternal serum vitamin d levels, and fasting blood glucose and insulin levels in both mothers and newborns were measured at delivery. maternal weight right before delivery negatively correlated with maternal serum vitamin d level (p = .04). maternal serum vitamin d levels did not correlate with maternal or neonatal serum glucose or insulin levels or newborns' birth weight. vitamin d deficiency/insufficiency is prevalent among pregnant women. 
Vitamin D is an important factor in the relationship between calcium and parathyroid hormone. [SEP] a review of the literature was undertaken regarding the function and metabolism of vitamin d; the role of the vitamin d receptor and calcium-sensing receptor in the secretion of parathyroid hormone; and the contemporary research regarding the interaction of vitamin d and parathyroid hormone in patients with vitamin d deficiency, primary hyperparathyroidism, and secondary hyperparathyroidism. over the last several years, great interest has been generated about the interaction of vitamin d and the parathyroid glands, gastrointestinal tract, kidney, and bone in relation to calcium and parathyroid hormone levels. vitamin d has an important role in calcium and parathyroid hormone metabolism. the precise regulation of serum calcium is controlled by calcium itself, through a calcium receptor and several hormones, the most important of which are parathyroid hormone and 1,25(oh)(2) vitamin d. this balance can be disturbed by mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor, inappropriately high or low levels of parathyroid hormone, resistance to parathyroid hormone effects, insufficient intake or production of 1,25(oh)(2) vitamin d and inactivation of the vitamin d receptor. thus the relationship between parathyroid hormone and metabolites of vitamin d may not be mediated through changes in serum calcium alone, and it is postulated that metabolites of vitamin d may directly affect the secretion of parathyroid hormone. the parathyroid hormone stimulates production of the vitamin d hormone. this constitutes the vitamin d endocrine system that plays an important role not only in calcium homeostasis but in phosphate homeostasis and in calcium economy of the body. parathyroid function and serum concentrations of physiologically important vitamin d metabolites were examined to determine their relationship to changes in mineral metabolism. parathyroid function is controlled by the regulation of hormone secretion as well as degradation, through the action of calcium and vitamin d derivatives. in order to clarify the relationship between vitamin d metabolism and parathyroid degradation system, parathyroid hormone (pth)-degrading activities of the kidney were measured in vitamin d repleted and depleted rats given various derivatives of vitamin d. kidney calcium content rose markedly in animals given 10 microgram/kg 1 alpha(oh) vitamin d3 and 1,000 microgram/kg dihydrotachysterol and pth-degrading activity rose only in these animals, indicating a parallelism between kidney calcium content and pth-degrading activity of the kidney tissue. 
Walking in traffic areas in London did not improve lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] objective measures of the physical environment contributed only to a small extent to socioeconomic gradients in walking in middle-aged and older adults living in greater london, uk. evidence on the effects of long-term exposure to traffic pollution on health is inconsistent. national and london policies recommend modal shift in travel-more walking and cycling for health benefits, and fewer motor vehicles journeys to reduce harm and risks. specific environment-walking associations differed by walking purpose and sex among elderly adults. we aimed to assess the effects on respiratory and cardiovascular responses of walking down a busy street with high levels of pollution compared with walking in a traffic-free area with lower pollution levels in older adults. participants with copd reported more cough (odds ratio [or] 1·95, 95% ci 0·96-3·95; p<0·1), sputum (3·15, 1·39-7·13; p<0·05), shortness of breath (1·86, 0·97-3·57; p<0·1), and wheeze (4·00, 1·52-10·50; p<0·05) after walking down oxford street compared with hyde park. in all participants, irrespective of their disease status, walking in hyde park led to an increase in lung function (forced expiratory volume in the first second [fev1] and forced vital capacity [fvc]) and a decrease in pulse wave velocity (pwv) and augmentation index up to 26 h after the walk. short-term exposure to traffic pollution prevents the beneficial cardiopulmonary effects of walking in people with copd, ischaemic heart disease, and those free from chronic cardiopulmonary diseases. the objective of this study was to investigate the walking speed of elderly adults and determine if it allows the safe clearance of pedestrian crossings. a substantial number of elderly adults walked slower than the speed required to safely cross the road. 
Walking in traffic areas in London improves lung function in elderly adults. [SEP] objective measures of the physical environment contributed only to a small extent to socioeconomic gradients in walking in middle-aged and older adults living in greater london, uk. national and london policies recommend modal shift in travel-more walking and cycling for health benefits, and fewer motor vehicles journeys to reduce harm and risks. transportation walking significantly correlated with a greater variety of environmental attributes. specific environment-walking associations differed by walking purpose and sex among elderly adults. a repeated-measures, crossover study design was used in which 23 healthy, non-smoking adults had clinical cardiopulmonary and systemic inflammatory measurements taken prior to, immediately after, and 24 hours after intermittent walking for two hours in the summer months along three diverse roadways having unique emission characteristics. we aimed to assess the effects on respiratory and cardiovascular responses of walking down a busy street with high levels of pollution compared with walking in a traffic-free area with lower pollution levels in older adults. participants with copd reported more cough (odds ratio [or] 1·95, 95% ci 0·96-3·95; p<0·1), sputum (3·15, 1·39-7·13; p<0·05), shortness of breath (1·86, 0·97-3·57; p<0·1), and wheeze (4·00, 1·52-10·50; p<0·05) after walking down oxford street compared with hyde park. in all participants, irrespective of their disease status, walking in hyde park led to an increase in lung function (forced expiratory volume in the first second [fev1] and forced vital capacity [fvc]) and a decrease in pulse wave velocity (pwv) and augmentation index up to 26 h after the walk. short-term exposure to traffic pollution prevents the beneficial cardiopulmonary effects of walking in people with copd, ischaemic heart disease, and those free from chronic cardiopulmonary diseases. the objective of this study was to investigate the walking speed of elderly adults and determine if it allows the safe clearance of pedestrian crossings. 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in high completion since they're cheap to run and impose low participant burden. [SEP] the collection of weighed food records (wfr) is a gold standard for dietary assessment. the wfr method involves a registered dietitian weighing each food item prepared for the subject to consume and any leftovers. the dqes v2 ffq and a 3-d wfr were completed on one occasion for measurement of food and nutrient intake. nutrient intake reported in the ffq was within 20 % of the corresponding intake level reported in the wfr for the majority of nutrients. one approach to reducing the burden placed on the participant is to use portion size assessment tools to obtain an estimate of the amount of food consumed, removing the need to weigh all foods. the aim was to assess the reproducibility and validity of the food4me ffq against a 4-day weighed food record (wfr). to assess the validity of the food4me ffq against the 4-day wfr, half the participants were also asked to complete a 4-day wfr 1 week after the first administration of the food4me ffq. to validate a diet history questionnaire (dhq) using a weighed food record (wfr) as the standard method in the estimation of food consumption and nutrient intake in a group of adults. wfr: all foods consumed by subjects during 7 consecutive days were weighed and recorded by nutrition students. the results indicate that the web-based eatwellq8 ffq is reproducible for assessing nutrient and food group intake and has moderate agreement compared with a pffq and a 4-day wfr for measuring energy and nutrient intakes. 
Weighed food records (WFR) result in poor completion since they're costly to run and impose high participant burden. [SEP] effective nutrition policies require timely, accurate individual dietary consumption data; collection of such information has been hampered by cost and complexity of dietary surveys and lag in producing results. the objective of this work was to assess accuracy and cost-effectiveness of a streamlined, tablet-based dietary data collection platform for 24-hour individual dietary recalls (24hr) administered using inddex24 platform vs. a pen-and-paper (papi) questionnaire, with weighed food record (wfr) as a benchmark. conventional methods of dietary assessment are prone to recall bias and place burden on participants. our aim was to compare the performance of image-based dietary assessment (ibda), including food photography (fp) and video recording (vr), with the criterion of weighed food records (wfr). the collection of weighed food records (wfr) is a gold standard for dietary assessment. the wfr method involves a registered dietitian weighing each food item prepared for the subject to consume and any leftovers. traditional dietary assessment methods, used in the uk, such as weighed food diaries impose a large participant burden, often resulting in difficulty recruiting representative samples and underreporting of energy intakes. the aim was to assess the reproducibility and validity of the food4me ffq against a 4-day weighed food record (wfr). to validate a diet history questionnaire (dhq) using a weighed food record (wfr) as the standard method in the estimation of food consumption and nutrient intake in a group of adults. wfr: all foods consumed by subjects during 7 consecutive days were weighed and recorded by nutrition students. 
Whole brain radiotherapy increases the occurrence of new brain metastases. [SEP] an important issue in palliative radiation oncology is the whether whole-brain radiotherapy should be added to radiosurgery when treating a limited number of brain metastases. this study investigated the role of whole-brain radiotherapy added to radiosurgery in breast cancer patients. in breast cancer patients with few brain metastases, radiosurgery plus whole-brain radiotherapy resulted in significantly better freedom from new brain metastases than radiosurgery alone. re-irradiation is frequently performed in radiotherapy (rt) departments for multiple brain metastases. we present a case of a 55-year-old male patient suffering from brain metastases, who had previously received whole-brain radiotherapy (wbrt) and first cyberknife stereotactic radiotherapy (cksrt) for metastases, presented with a recurrence of metastasis and new lesions in the brain. historically, whole-brain radiotherapy has been a standard of care for the management of patients with brain metastases. herein we discuss the background and prognostication of brain metastases as well as the role of palliative whole-brain radiotherapy, as monotherapy and adjuvant use after resection or stereotactic radiosurgery. the most widely used treatment for patients with brain metastases is whole-brain radiotherapy. while whole-brain radiotherapy may improve the locoregional control of brain metastases, it may cause long-term side effects and may not improve overall survival in some patients. as systemic disease control continues to improve, the expectations of radiotherapy for brain metastases are growing. 
Women are more susceptible to death due to pneumonia when compared to men. [SEP] women were at increased risk for bacterial pneumonia (rr, 1.38; 95% ci, 1.05 to 1.92) and at reduced risk for the development of kaposi's sarcoma (rr, 0.16; 95% ci, 0.04 to 0.65) and oral hairy leukoplakia (rr, 0.54; 95% ci, 0.31 to 0.94). the increased risk of death and bacterial pneumonia for women compared with men was primarily evident among those with a history of injection drug use (rr, 1.68 for death, 95% ci, 1.20 to 2.35, p = .003; rr, 1.53 for bacterial pneumonia, 95% ci, 1.03 to 2.29, p = .04). among patients without a history of disease progression at entry, death was the first event reported for more women than men (27.5% vs 12.2%). compared with men, hiv-infected women in the cpcra were at increased risk of death but not disease progression. risks of most incident opportunistic diseases were similar for women and men; however, women were at an increased risk of bacterial pneumonia. mortality and hospitalization rates for pneumonia were higher among men than women, and higher among those ages 65 and older than among those 55-64 of both sexes. risk of death from pneumonia was 3.6 times higher among women in the lowest quartile of serum albumin levels compared with women in the highest quartile. cvd and pneumonia were predominant causes of death in men and women with an associated higher risk in all age groups. pneumonia caused excess mortality in men over the entire observation period. inability to walk a half mile, climb stairs, or perform heavy housework was significantly associated with increased risk of pneumonia mortality for women but not for men in the same multivariate models. 
Women with a lower birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] previous studies have shown that woman's risk of breast cancer in later life is associated with her infants birth weights. risk of breast cancer in relation to a first infant's birth weight, mother's own birth weight and breast cancer risk factors were evaluated in a prospective cohort of 410 women in the framingham study. giving birth to an infant with high birth weight was associated with increased breast cancer risk in later life, independently of mother's own birth weight and breast cancer risk factors and was also associated with a hormonal environment during pregnancy favoring future breast cancer development and progression. the aim of this study was to investigate a possible association between neonatal birth weight of the women and breast cancer risk in greek women. according to fisher's exact analysis, there is a statistically significant relationship between the higher women's neonatal birth weight and the risk for breast cancer (p<0.001). our study trend to show that the increased neonatal birth weight may influence future risk of breast cancer. compared to women with birth weight of 6-8 pounds, women with birth weight of <6 pounds had lower risk of breast cancer (hr = 0.88 95% ci: 0.79-0.99). in conclusion, lower birthweight was associated with lower risk of postmenopausal breast cancer, and this reduction in risk was significantly mediated by childhood or adolescent growth, especially by adult height. the risk of breast cancer increased with birth weight. compared with women with birth weight of less than 2,000 g, women with birth weight of at least 3,000 g had a nonsignificant increase in risk of developing breast cancer (or = 3.5; 95% ci 0.7-18.5). 
YAP/TAZ is required in intestinal regeneration in mouse models of ulcerative colitis. [SEP] immunohistochemical and immunofluorescent staining was performed to evaluate the correlation between intestinal fibrosis and yap/taz expression in our cd cohort and a dss-induced chronic colitis murine model. yap/taz knockdown suppressed the activation of intestinal fibroblasts. yap/taz activation can lead to fibroblast activation and intestinal obstruction in cd. remarkably, experimental activation of yap/taz in the mouse can promote regeneration in organs with poor or compromised regenerative capacity, such as the adult heart and the liver and intestine of old or diseased mice. yap/taz are required for intestinal crypt overgrowth induced by apc deficiency and for crypt regeneration ex vivo. impaired epithelial regeneration is a crucial pathophysiological feature of ulcerative colitis (uc). in this study, we sought to identify the roles of yap in intestinal epithelial cell (iec) self-renewal, regeneration and tumorigenesis. we first observed that yap was significantly reduced in 62.5% (45/72) of human uc tissues and it was dramatically enhanced during epithelial regeneration in a murine colitis model. the yap transcriptional co-activator is known to be required for intestinal regeneration, but its mode of regulation remains controversial. thus, wnt and src-yap signals cooperate to drive intestinal regeneration. 
aPKCz causes tumour suppression by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] we find that, while inhibition of both glutaminase isoforms (gls1 and gls2) in tumours considerably delays tumourigenesis, glutamine catabolism continues, owing to the action of amidotransferases. synergistic inhibition of both glutaminases and compensatory amidotransferases is required to block glutamine catabolism and proliferation of mouse and human tumour cells in vitro and in vivo. over the past 30 years, increasing evidence has shown that many tumours require glutamine as well as glucose for their proliferation and survival. glutamine metabolism is, with its many links to oncogene expression, considered a crucial step in cancer metabolism and it is thereby a key target for alteration in cancer development. in animal models, glutaminase expression is correlated with tumour growth rate and it is readily possible to limit tumour growth by suppression of glutaminase activity. tumour suppression correlated with 37.6- and 18.9-fold increases in plasma and tumour bcaas, 37.5% and 30.4% decreases in tumour glutamine and alanine, and a 3.5-fold increase in the phosphorylation of tumour ampk in bcatmko mice on standard rodent chow. tumor cells dependence on glutamine offers a rationale for their elimination via targeting of glutamine metabolism. the aim of this work was to investigate how glutamine deprivation affects the cellular response to conventionally used anticancer drugs. thus, suppression of glutamine metabolism can sensitize tumor cells to treatment and could be utilized for anti-cancer therapy. the oncogenic kras mutation has a critical role in the initiation of human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) since it rewires glutamine metabolism to increase reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) production, balancing cellular redox homeostasis with macromolecular synthesis1,2. 
cSMAC formation represses weak ligand signalling. [SEP] one model suggests that the role of the csmac depends on antigen quality and can both enhance signaling and receptor downregulation, whereas a second model proposes that the sole function of the csmac is to downregulate signaling. here, we demonstrate that at early time points, signaling occurs outside the csmac, but occurs in the csmac at later time points. additionally, we show that csmac formation enhances the stimulatory potency of weak agonists for the tcr. combined with previous studies showing that csmac formation decreases the signaling by strong agonists, our data support a model proposing that signaling and receptor degradation both occur in the csmac and that the balance between signaling and degradation in the synapse is determined by antigen quality. this conclusion was supported by experiments that showed that enhancing csmac formation reduced stimulatory capacity of the weak peptide. here, we shall review the historical evolution of the role of the csmac in t-cell activation, finally discussing our most recent data indicating that the csmac serves to internalize exhausted tcrs by phagocytosis. cd28 initially colocalizes with the tcr-mc but then migrates to a distinct region of the csmac called the signaling csmac, where it recruits and associates with pkcθ, carma1, and rltpr to induce sustained co-stimulation signals leading to nf-kb activation. the co-stimulation receptor cd28 joins the signaling region of csmac and recruits pkcθ and carma1. however, this notion has been called into question and competing data suggest that the csmac contributes to receptor down-modulation. it recently has been suggested that the csmac may be associated with tcr degradation and signal termination. 
eRNAs influence is linked to senescence, aging, and carcinogenesis. [SEP] enhancer rnas (ernas) play an important role in carcinogenesis. conclusions: the genome-wide identification and characterization of ernas reveal novel regulators for the development of lung cancer, which provides a new biological dimension for the understanding of ernas during lung carcinogenesis and emphasize the clinical utility of erna-based molecular subtypes in the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma. in this review, we describe the mechanisms driving cellular senescence, the interface with cellular redox metabolism as well as the role that chemotherapy-induced senescence plays in secondary carcinogenesis. aging is associated with molecular, cellular and physiological events that influence carcinogenesis and cancer growth. these processes can result in cellular senescence as a barrier to tumorigenesis. previous studies have confirmed the significant role of cellular senescence in the development of various tumors, including lung cancer. it is highly probable that cellular senescence contributes to carcinogenesis in copd patients. aging may increase or decrease the susceptibility of various tissues to initiation of carcinogenesis and usually facilitates promotion and progression of carcinogenesis. aging may predispose to cancer by several mechanisms: (1) tissue accumulation of cells in late stages of carcinogenesis; (2) alterations in homeostasis, in particular, alterations in immune and endocrine system and (3) telomere instability linking aging and increased cancer risk. data on the acceleration of aging by carcinogenic agents as well as on increased cancer risk in patients with premature aging are critically discussed. 
mcm 5 s 2 U is required for proper decoding of NNR codons in eukaryotes. [SEP] the wobble modification in trnas, 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2-thiouridine (mcm(5)s(2)u), is required for the proper decoding of nnr codons in eukaryotes. we have identified five genes in saccharomyces cerevisiae, yil008w (urm1), yhr111w (uba4), yor251c (tum1), ynl119w (ncs2) and ygl211w (ncs6), that are required for 2-thiolation of mcm(5)s(2)u. we show that mcm(5) and ncm(5) side chains promote decoding of g-ending codons and that concurrent mcm(5) and s(2) groups improve reading of both a- and g-ending codons. moreover, the observation that the mcm(5)u(34)- and some ncm(5)u(34)-containing trnas efficiently read g-ending codons challenges the notion that eukaryotes do not use u-g wobbling. in addition, the decoding properties of trna(arg) lacking mnm(5)u modification in a knock-out strain of the modifying enzyme (deltamnme) were examined by pulse labeling using reporter constructs with consecutive agr codons. our results demonstrate that the xm(5)u modification plays a critical role in decoding nng codons by stabilizing u.g pairing at the wobble position. in eukaryotic cytoplasmic trnas the conserved constituent (xm(5)-) in position 5 of uridine is 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl (mcm(5)). since excess of the unmodified form of these three trnas rescued the double mutant elp3 tuc1, the primary function of mcm(5)s(2)u34 seems to be to improve the efficiency to read the cognate codons rather than to prevent mis-sense errors. we determined the in vivo ribosome distributions at single codon resolution in yeast strains lacking mcm(5)s(2)u. in both mutants, mcm(5)u and mcm(5)s(2)u nucleosides are absent in trnas and the major intermediates accumulating were ncm(5)u and ncm(5)s(2)u, not the expected cm(5)u and cm(5)s(2)u. trm9p and trm112p function together at the final step in formation of mcm(5)u in trna by using the intermediate cm(5)u as a substrate. 
miR-142-5P is a known regulator of raised body temperature. [SEP] thermomirs such as mir-142-5p and mir-143 in turn target endogenous pyrogens including il-6, il6st, tlr2, pge2 and tnf to complete a negative feedback mechanism, which may be crucial to prevent pathological hyperthermia. using normal pbmcs that were exogenously exposed to fever-like temperature (40 °c), we further demonstrate the trend by which decreased levels of rbm3 were associated with increased levels of mir-142-5p and mir-143 and vice versa over a 24 h time course. collectively, our results indicate the existence of a negative feedback loop that regulates fever via reduced rbm3 levels and increased expression of mir-142-5p and mir-143. mir-142-5p is reported to be an important regulator of cellular survival. moreover, mir-142-5p regulated nrf2 expression and downstream signaling. mir-142-5p has been suggested as a critical regulator for cellular survival. a recent study revealed that mir-142-5p is increased in the serum of colorectal cancer (crc) patients compared to health people. mir-142-5p is found increased in tle, but its role remains unknown. mir-142-5p has been reported to show high expression levels in cancer patients and to be involved in tumor growth and metastasis. previous studies have revealed that mir-142-5p serves a critical role in human cancer progression. 
miR-142-5P is a temperature-sensitive microRNA (miRNA). [SEP] thermomirs such as mir-142-5p and mir-143 in turn target endogenous pyrogens including il-6, il6st, tlr2, pge2 and tnf to complete a negative feedback mechanism, which may be crucial to prevent pathological hyperthermia. using normal pbmcs that were exogenously exposed to fever-like temperature (40 °c), we further demonstrate the trend by which decreased levels of rbm3 were associated with increased levels of mir-142-5p and mir-143 and vice versa over a 24 h time course. it has been demonstrated that microrna (mir)-142-5p was upregulated in uc patients. the results of quantitative rt-pcr verified that mir-142-5p was upregulated in uc patients. furthermore, the level of mir-142-5p plays an important role in the secretion of il-6 and il-8. mir-142-5p has been reported to show high expression levels in cancer patients and to be involved in tumor growth and metastasis. mir-142-5p expression was up-regulated in oscc tissues and oscc cell lines. the potential target gene of mir-142-5p was identified and confirmed via luciferase reporter assays. mir-142-5p expression was elevated in rcc tissues and cell lines. using a dual luciferase reporter assay and cellular co-transfection of a mirna expression vector and a luciferase reporter fused to the xiap 3'utr cognate mirna binding site, we identified three mirnas of which mir-142-5p had the greatest inhibitory effect. 
miRNAs enforce homeostasis by suppressing low-level ''leaky'' transcription. [SEP] micrornas (mirnas) are endogenous small noncoding rnas that negatively regulate gene expression by interfering with the translation or stability of target transcripts. micrornas (mirnas) are small noncoding rnas that play key roles in the regulation of biological pathways, from development to cellular stress responses. our findings suggest that mirnas exert critical roles in the cellular responses to the stress provoked by a low dose of nps in the long term and provide a fertile ground for further targeted experimental studies. micrornas (mirnas) are small non-coding rnas that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. emerging experimental evidence is disclosing a key regulatory role of micrornas (mirnas) in the regulation of bone homeostasis suggesting the mirna network as potential novel target for the treatment of mm-related bone disease (bd). posttranscriptional gene regulation by mirnas and rna binding proteins (rbp) is important in development, physiology, and disease. proximity of elavl1 binding sites attenuated mirna binding to transcripts and promoted gene expression. mirnas have been shown to play essential regulatory roles in the innate immune system. micrornas (mirnas) play significant regulatory roles in gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. it was recently shown that the phylogenetically deeply conserved mirna, mir-8, plays a role in maintaining the homeostasis of immunity by suppressing the production of anti-microbial peptides. 
miRNAs regulate a unique suite of mRNAs to maintain homeostasis in cells. [SEP] in summary, we provide evidence for a substantial degree of redundancy among mirnas to maintain cellular homeostasis. micrornas (mirnas) represent an elegant mechanism of posttranscriptional control of gene expression that serves to fine-tune biological processes. these findings have highlighted the complexity of lipid homeostasis and the important role that mirnas play in these processes, potentially opening new avenues for the treatment of dyslipidemias. herein, we present a comprehensive outline for the combinatorial regulation by mirnas. we conclude that the joint operation of mirnas is an attractive strategy to maintain cell homeostasis and overcoming the low specificity inherent in individual mirna-mrna interaction. mirna-mediated regulation of signaling transduction pathways is important in modulating dose-sensitive response of cells to signaling molecules. finely controlled mirna biogenesis, target recognition and degradation indicate that maintaining mirna homeostasis is essential for regulating cell proliferation, growth, differentiation and apoptosis. micrornas (mirnas) regulate gene expression by binding to target mrnas and control a wide range of biological functions. recent reports have identified specific mirnas as major regulators of fatty acid and cholesterol homeostasis. this review examines the biological function of various mirnas and the emerging evidence linking specific mirnas to critical pathways in lipid metabolism. 
p16INK4A degradation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the immunohistochemical expressions of pd1, cd4+, and cd8+ in premalignant lesions (opml) that were transformed into oral squamous cell carcinoma oscc (opml-oscc), in oscc and also in premalignant lesions that were not transformed into oscc (opml-nossc). carcinoma is more infiltrated by cd8+ cells than its associated opml. understanding immunological factors associated with malignant transformation of oral premalignant lesions can open a new way to treat this disease. screening and early detection of oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) are of great significance in reducing the mortality rates associated with head and neck malignancies. non-invasive strategies that can identify oral malignant and dysplastic oral potentially-malignant lesions (opml) are necessary in cancer screening and long-term surveillance. oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) with dysplasia and aneuploidy are thought to have a high risk of progression into oral squamous cell carcinomas (osccs). dna near-diploid aneuploid sublines in odfs and opmls appear as early events of the oral carcinogenesis in agreement with the concept of field effect. oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) is the most common oral cancer, and major efforts is being made to identify molecular markers capable to differentiate oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) with indolent course from lesions with aggressive behavior. it is believed that the majority of oral cancers develop from oral potentially malignant lesions (opml). complete excision of oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) could result in improved and earlier detection of more severe grades of oral epithelial dysplasia and/or frank malignancy. 
p16INK4A degradation is encoded by CDKN2A. [SEP] the locus encodes three cell cycle inhibitory proteins: p15ink4b encoded by cdkn2b, p16ink4a encoded by cdkn2a and p14arf (p19arf in mice) encoded by an alternative reading frame of cdkn2a (ref. however, many 9p21 deletions also remove cdkn2b, so we hypothesized a synergistic effect of the combined deficiency for p15ink4b, p14arf and p16ink4a. our data indicate that p15ink4b can fulfil a critical backup function for p16ink4a and provide an explanation for the frequent loss of the complete cdkn2b-cdkn2a locus in human tumours. the cdkn2a locus encodes two critical tumor suppressor proteins, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16ink4a and the p53 regulator p14arf. the majority of cdkn2a alterations in melanoma selectively target p16ink4a or affect the coding sequence of both p16ink4a and p14arf. firstly, two common haplotypes of mouse cdkn2a have been identified, each of which encodes cosegregating variants of p16ink4a and p19arf. the expression of cdkn2a (p16ink4a) and cdkn2a (p14arf) mrna and protein was detected by qrt-pcr and western blotting. cdkn2a is a gene located at chromosome 9p21, encoding for p16ink4a and p14(arf) proteins, whose role as a tumor suppressor has been clearly defined in many malignant tumors. alterations of the cdkn2a gene reduce the expression of p16ink4a in most cm subtypes. in a subset of nsclc samples, an e6ap-low/cdc6-high/p16ink4a-low protein abundance profile correlated with low methylation of the gene encoding p16ink4a (cdkn2a) and poor patient prognosis. 
p75 NTR - associated cell death executor (NADE) interacts with the p75 NTR death domain [SEP] recently, a 22 kda protein termed p75(ntr)-associated death executor (nade) was discovered to be a necessary factor for p75(ntr)-mediated apoptosis in certain cells. in these cells p75(ntr) induces apoptosis through its death domain in a nerve growth factor-independent manner. significantly, the viral flice inhibitory protein e8 protects from p75(ntr)-induced cell death indicating that death effector domains are involved. a p75(ntr) construct with a deleted death domain dominantly interferes with p75(ntr) signaling, implying that receptor multimerization is required. we conclude that p75(ntr) signals apoptosis by similar mechanisms as other death receptors but uses different adaptors and apical caspases. these results demonstrate that traf family proteins interact with p75(ntr) and differentially modulate its nf-kappab activation and cell death induction. the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(ntr)) is a death receptor which belongs to the tumor necrosis factor receptor super-family of membrane proteins. since the death domain deleted dominant-negative antagonist of p75(ntr) rescued intrinsic caspase associated apoptosis in pc-3 cells, this shows p75(ntr) was integral to ligand independent induction of apoptosis. the neurotrophin receptor p75(ntr) conveys multiple signals via its intracellular death domain. these results indicate that nrif is an intracellular p75(ntr)-binding protein transducing cell death signals during development. 
qSOFA scores are associated with length of stay in emergency department patients. [SEP] higher qsofa score was associated with triage to a higher acuity zone and longer hospital and icu length of stay, but not up-triage during ed stay. we determined the association between qsofa scores and outcomes in adult emergency department (ed) patients with and without suspected infection. univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to explore the association between qsofa scores and inpatient mortality, admission, and length of stay. qsofa scores were associated with mortality (0 [0.6%], 1 [2.8%], 2 [12.8%], and 3 [25.0%]), icu admission (0 [5.1%], 1 [10.5%], 2 [20.8%], and 3 [27.4%]), and hospital length of stay (0 [123 hours], 1 [163 hours], 2 [225 hours], and 3 [237 hours]). qsofa scores were associated with inpatient mortality, admission, icu admission, and hospital length of stay in adult ed patients likely to be admitted both with and without suspected infection and may be useful in predicting outcomes. we assessed the quick sequential organ failure assessment (qsofa) score as a predictor of in-hospital mortality or prolonged icu stay in emergency department (ed) patients with suspected infection. in a primary care setting, the qsofa score of more than 2 can be used reliably to refer patients for admission and intensive care as they are likely to need longer hospital stay and can have worse outcomes. we evaluated the ability of the qsofa score to predict poor outcome in south korean ed patients with suspected infection. patients with a higher qsofa score had higher admission, icu admission, and in-hospital mortality rates, longer los, and higher lactate level. the qsofa score is a useful triage indicator in patients who come to a hospital emergency department. 
r-protein chaperones are found in complexes with their r-protein binding partners. [SEP] dedicated chaperones protect newly synthesized ribosomal proteins (r-proteins) from aggregation and accompany them on their way to assembly into nascent ribosomes. currently, only nine of the ∼80 eukaryotic r-proteins are known to be guarded by such chaperones. in search of new dedicated r-protein chaperones, we performed a tandem-affinity purification based screen and looked for factors co-enriched with individual small subunit r-proteins. our findings highlight that the acquisition of eukaryote-specific domains in r-proteins was accompanied by the co-evolution of proteins specialized to protect these domains and emphasize the critical role of r-protein chaperones for the synthesis of eukaryotic ribosomes. due to the high abundance and difficult physicochemical properties of r-proteins, their correct folding and fail-safe targeting to the assembly site depends largely on general, as well as highly specialized, chaperone and transport systems. many r-proteins contain universally conserved or eukaryote-specific internal loops and/or terminal extensions, which were shown to mediate their nuclear targeting and association with dedicated chaperones in a growing number of cases. we conclude that r-a characteristics strongly suggest that this protein belongs to the molecular chaperone group. in addition, nod1 is demonstrated to be a client protein of the hsp90 chaperone complex containing the chp-1. molecular chaperones facilitate the folding of proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) of mammalian cells. however, beta-chaperone complexes containing the er chaperones bip, erp72, and erp94 have been detected in slow folding mutants of hcg-beta subunit that lack both of the n-linked oligosaccharides (feng, w., matzuk, m. m., mountjoy, k., bedows, e., ruddon, r. w., and boime, i. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 accelerates tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] furthermore, intratumorally administered lentivirus-sphk1 sirna could significantly inhibit tumor growth in an sh-sy5y xenograft mice model. a xenograft tumor model in mice was utilized to examine the knock-down effect of specific a20 sirnas on tumorigenesis. inhibiting a20 expression by sirnas in vitro reduced the growth rates of glioma cells and resulted in g1/s arrest and increased apoptosis. in a mouse tumor model, local administration of sirna significantly suppressed solid tumor growth. a20 was overexpressed both in human glioma tissues and cell lines, and inhibiting a20 expression greatly slowed tumor cell growth in culture and in mice. in subcutaneous liver cancer xenografts, we assessed the effects of pim2 knockdown on tumor growth via the systemic delivery of polyethylenimine (pei)‑complexed sirna. treatment of human pancreatic tumor (panc-1) xenograft in mice with mmta1 sirna resulted in tumor regression via suppression of angiogenesis in vivo, as also observed in the case of human prostate cancer xenograft treated with ms100a4 sirna. in the present study we examined the in vivo efficacy of the lna and una modified sirna and sisirna in a mouse model bearing human tumor xenografts. we report that lna and una modified sirna and sisirna improve the efficacy in target knockdown as compared with unmodified sirna in the tumor xenografts without formulation. intratumor injection of the mdm4/mdm2 sirnas suppressed in vivo tumor growth and boosted the antitumor effect of 5-fu in an athymic mouse xenograft model using hct116 cells. 
siRNA knockdown of A20 slows tumor progression in an in vivo murine xenograft model. [SEP] a xenograft tumor model in mice was utilized to examine the knock-down effect of specific a20 sirnas on tumorigenesis. inhibiting a20 expression by sirnas in vitro reduced the growth rates of glioma cells and resulted in g1/s arrest and increased apoptosis. in a mouse tumor model, local administration of sirna significantly suppressed solid tumor growth. a20 was overexpressed both in human glioma tissues and cell lines, and inhibiting a20 expression greatly slowed tumor cell growth in culture and in mice. furthermore, intratumorally administered lentivirus-sphk1 sirna could significantly inhibit tumor growth in an sh-sy5y xenograft mice model. in subcutaneous liver cancer xenografts, we assessed the effects of pim2 knockdown on tumor growth via the systemic delivery of polyethylenimine (pei)‑complexed sirna. in the present study we examined the in vivo efficacy of the lna and una modified sirna and sisirna in a mouse model bearing human tumor xenografts. we report that lna and una modified sirna and sisirna improve the efficacy in target knockdown as compared with unmodified sirna in the tumor xenografts without formulation. intratumor injection of the mdm4/mdm2 sirnas suppressed in vivo tumor growth and boosted the antitumor effect of 5-fu in an athymic mouse xenograft model using hct116 cells. in this study, we loaded anti-a20 sirna into a mend and investigated the gene knockdown activity in dc and the immunological functions of a20-silenced dc. 
taa1 tar1 tar2 triple mutants in Arabidopsis do not make root meristem during embryogenesis. [SEP] considering that taa1 and tars belong to a subgroup of plp (pyridoxal-5'-phosphate)-dependent enzymes, we propose that plp produced by mine/pdx3 acts as a cofactor in taa1/tar-dependent auxin biosynthesis induced by ethylene, which in turn influences the crosstalk between ethylene and auxin in the arabidopsis root. in addition, the wdr5a-1 mutant had higher production and activity levels of the auxin biosynthetic enzyme tryptophan aminotransferase of arabidopsis1 (taa1), in contrast to its reduced expression and activity in the wdr5a overexpression lines, and the increased root meristem growth in wdr5a-1 was suppressed by treatment with l-kynurenine, which inhibits taa1, as well as by mutating taa1. wdr5a therefore functions in root meristem growth by maintaining no homeostasis, and thus taa1-mediated auxin biosynthesis. for example, in the dicotyledon arabidopsis thaliana (arabidopsis), auxin biosynthesis via indole-3-pyruvic acid (ipa) is essential for root development and requires redundant tryptophan aminotransferase of arabidopsis 1 (taa1) and taa1-related (tar) genes. in summary, bdtar2l phenotypes contrast with gradually reduced root growth and auxin levels described for arabidopsis taa1/tar mutants. t101 phosphorylation status can act as an on/off switch to control taa1-dependent auxin biosynthesis and is required for proper regulation of root meristem size and root hair development. within the arabidopsis root meristem, both the fate and origin of its cells can be predicted with high accuracy. mutants defective in the determination of root cell fates show that the corresponding genes are first required during embryogenesis. the integrity of the root meristem is kept by balancing cell proliferation and cell differentiation, and differentiation-inhibiting signals originating from the quiescent centre are involved. the quadruple mutants of yuc1 yuc4 yuc10 yuc11 fail to develop a hypocotyl and a root meristem, a phenotype similar to those of mp and tir1 afb1 afb2 afb3 auxin signaling mutants. 
β-sheet opening occurs during pleurotolysin pore formation. [SEP] here we present an 11 å resolution cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-em) structure of the two-part, fungal toxin pleurotolysin (ply), together with crystal structures of both components (the lipid binding plya protein and the pore-forming macpf component plyb). pleurotolysin, a sphingomyelin-specific cytolysin consisting of a (17 kda) and b (59 kda) components from the basidiomycete pleurotus ostreatus, assembles into a transmembrane pore complex. here, we cloned complementary and genomic dnas encoding pleurotolysin, and studied pore-forming properties of recombinant proteins. mature and precursor forms of pleurotolysin b were expressed as insoluble 59- and 63-kda proteins, respectively, which were unfolded with 8 m urea and refolded by 100-fold dilution with 10 mm tris-hcl buffer, ph 8.5. here we purified pleurotolysin, a novel sphingomyelin-specific two-component cytolysin from the basidiocarps of pleurotus ostreatus and studied the pore-forming properties of the cytolysin. pleurotolysin consisted of non-associated a (17 kda) and b (59 kda) components, which cooperatively caused leakage of potassium ions from human erythrocytes and swelling of the cells at nanomolar concentrations, leading to colloid-osmotic hemolysis. hemolytic assays in the presence of poly(ethylene glycol)s with different hydrodynamic diameters suggested that pleurotolysin formed membrane pores with a functional diameter of 3.8-5 nm. pleurotolysin a specifically bound to sphingomyelin-cholesterol liposomes and caused leakage of the internal carboxyfluorescein in concert with pleurotolysin b. the aegerolysin-like proteins provide the membrane cholesterol/sphingomyelin selectivity and recruit oligomerised pleurotolysin b molecules, to create a membrane-inserted pore complex. ply protomers oligomerize as rings on the membrane and then undergo a structural transition that triggers the formation of membrane pores. 
β1/Ketel is able to bind microtubules. [SEP] importin-beta, encoded by the ketel gene in drosophila, is a key component of nuclear protein import, the formation of the spindle microtubules and the assembly of the nuclear envelope. the ketel gene appears to be ubiquitously expressed in embryonic cells. in the continuously dividing diploid cells, the ketel gene is constitutively expressed to fulfill all three functions of importin-beta. coimmunoprecipitation experiments suggested that β1-tubulin binds to both α1- and α2-tubulin and that β2-tubulin can also bind to α1- or α2-tubulin. microtubule observation assays showed that deletion of α1-tubulin completely disrupted β1-tubulin-containing microtubules and significantly decreased β2-tubulin-containing microtubules. deletion of α2-, β1-, or β2-tubulin had no obvious effect on the microtubule cytoskeleton. these results implied that α1-tubulin may be essential for the microtubule cytoskeleton. importance in this study, we found that f. graminearum contains four different α-/β-tubulin heterodimers (α1-/β1-, α1-/β2-, α2-/β1-, and α2-/β2-tubulin heterodimers), and they assemble together into a single microtubule. moreover, α1- and α2-tubulins are functionally interchangeable in microtubule assembly, vegetative growth, and sexual reproduction. this result was consistent with observations that mbc fungicides are more likely to disrupt β1 tubulin microtubules rather than β2 tubulin microtubules in gfp-β tubulin fusion mutants in vivo. 
0-dimensional biomaterials show inductive properties. [SEP] the complexity of the ecm taking care of many essential properties has inspired synthetic chemists to mimic these properties in artificial one-dimensional fibrous structures with the aim to arrive at multi-component biomaterials. strategies to provide smart capabilities to the composite biomaterials primarily seek to achieve matrices that are instructive/inductive to cells, or that stimulate/trigger target cell responses that are crucial in the tissue regeneration processes. here, we review in-depth, recent developments concerning smart composite biomaterials available for delivery systems of biofactors and cells and scaffolding matrices in tissue engineering. here, we summarize the studies on biomaterials that have been used for immunosuppression to facilitate tissue regeneration. in the second part, distinct approaches used by biomaterials to induce immunosuppression are introduced, which show excellent performance in terms of promoting tissue regeneration. the surprising properties of biomaterials are the results of billions of years of evolution. in this review, we summarize the recent progress in fabricating bioinspired materials with the emphasis on mimicking the structure from one to three dimensions. the outstanding protection performance, and the stimuli responsive and self-healing functions of biomaterials based on the sophisticated hierarchical bulk structures are the emphases of the three-dimensional mimicking. in this review article, we briefly introduce the fabrication of biomaterials and their classification into zero-dimensional (0d), one-dimensional (1d), two-dimensional (2d) and three-dimensional (3d) ones. more importantly, the influence of different biomaterials on inducing cell self-renewal, differentiation, reprogramming, dedifferentiation, and transdifferentiation was discussed based on the progress at 0d, 1d, 2d and 3d levels, following which the current research limitations and research perspectives were provided. 
1,000 genomes project enables mapping of genetic sequence variation consisting of rare variants with larger penetrance effects than common variants. [SEP] identification of these rarer variations in coding regions is now feasible and cost effective through exome sequencing, which has already identified high-penetrance variants for some rare diseases. recent advances in fast and inexpensive dna sequencing have enabled the extensive study of genomic and transcriptomic variation in humans. whole-genome sequencing enables complete characterization of genetic variation, but geographic clustering of rare alleles demands many diverse populations be studied. here we describe the genome of the netherlands (gonl) project, in which we sequenced the whole genomes of 250 dutch parent-offspring families and constructed a haplotype map of 20.4 million single-nucleotide variants and 1.2 million insertions and deletions. population-scale genome sequencing allows the characterization of functional effects of a broad spectrum of genetic variants underlying human phenotypic variation. here, we investigate the influence of rare and common genetic variants on gene expression patterns, using variants identified from sequencing data from the 1000 genomes project in an african and european population sample and gene expression data from lymphoblastoid cell lines. the properties of the newly discovered variants suggest that mapping common causal regulatory variants is challenging even with full resequencing data; however, we observe significant enrichment of regulatory effects in splice-site and nonsense variants. while larger genome-wide association studies are ongoing, the advent of whole exome and genome sequencing should lead to the identification of rare, and potentially more penetrant, variants. genome studies have accelerated the discovery of common and rare genetic variants associated with susceptibility to infection and with disease severity. in the future, whole genome sequencing will accelerate the identification of rare variants of substantial phenotypic impact that disrupt essential regulatory elements and the three-dimensional structure of chromatin. 
1/2000 in UK have abnormal PrP positivity. [SEP] two previous appendectomy sample surveys (appendix-1 and -2) estimated the prevalence of abnormal prion protein (prp) in the british population exposed to bse to be 237 per million and 493 per million, respectively. immunohistochemistry for abnormal prp was performed on 29,516 samples from appendices removed between 1962 and 1979 from persons born between 1891 through 1965, and from those born after 1996 that had been operated on from 2000 through 2014. there was no statistical difference in the prevalence of abnormal prp across birth and exposure cohorts. either there is a low background prevalence of abnormal prp in human lymphoid tissues that may not progress to vcjd. it was concluded that the prionics test detected prp(sc)in a small percentage (0.64%) of clinically suspected bse cases showing no spongiform change. national prospective collection of tonsillar tissue to be tested anonymously for abnormal lymphoreticular accumulation of prion protein (prp) was approved to begin in the uk in 2004. sporadic, inherited and acquired prion diseases show distinct histological patterns of abnormal prion protein (prp) deposits. we report here that filamentous prp is abundantly deposited in myelinated fibres in inherited prion diseases, in particular in those with n-terminal mutations. previously collected urine specimens from 100 patients referred to the uk national cjd surveillance unit as suspected cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd) were analyzed, testing for abnormal prion protein (prp(sc)). an abnormal isoform of the prion protein (prp) appears to be the agent responsible for transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tse). 
5% of perinatal mortality is due to low birth weight. [SEP] because low birth weight infants were at increased risk for perinatal death and cp, the declining incidence of low birth weight was attributable 41.4% of the decline in perinatal mortality, and 40% of the reduction of cp from the period 1970-79 to 1980-84. strategies for prevention of low birth weight may be important for further reduction of perinatal mortality and handicaps related to low birth weight. the low birth weight and preterm birth rates were 17.0% versus 5.5% and 12.3% versus 6.9% in kaniyambadi and nova scotia, respectively. the important causes of neonatal death are low birth weight, perinatal infections and birth asphyxia due to fetal hypoxia. preterm delivery and low birth weight babies accounted for 36.2% and 60.9% respectively. there was 50% mortality in very low birth weight category. during the years 2007-2015 stillbirth participate at perinatal mortality with 64%, low birth weight with 64% and severe congenital anomalies with 20%. keywords perinatal mortality, preterm delivery, multiple pregnancy, neonatal intensive care unit, low birth weight, very low birth weight. the perinatal deaths are mainly at a birth weight of 500-1,500 g (29/32; 90.6%). the perinatal deaths are increased with low birth weight (500-1,500 g) and with breech presentation. 
A deficiency of vitamin B12 increases blood levels of homocysteine. [SEP] deficient levels of folic acid and vitamin b12 are associated with elevated chromosome damage rate and high concentrations of homocysteine in the blood. in conclusion, it is apparent that elevated homocysteine status, in the absence of vitamin deficiency and low, but not deficient, vitamin b12 status are important risk factors for increased chromosome damage in lymphocytes. recent studies revealed that homocysteine increased the risk of hemolysis in vitamin b12 deficiency in vitro and there is a high frequency (30%) of vitamin b12 deficiency in asymptomatic patients with homozygous methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) c677t mutation, a known cause of hyperhomocysteinemia. we found that 54 (36.2%), 16 (10.7%), 44 (29.5%), and 36 (24.2%) patients with both vitamin b12 and iron deficiencies had hb deficiency (men <13 g/dl, women <12 g/dl), folic acid deficiency (≤ 6 mg/ml), abnormally high blood homocysteine level (>12.6 μm), and serum gpca positivity, respectively. patients with both vitamin b12 and iron deficiencies had a significantly higher frequency of hb deficiency, abnormally elevated blood homocysteine level, and serum gpca positivity than healthy control subjects (all p values < 0.001). among 33 patients with elevated mma or homocysteine levels, 8 patients (24.2%) were vitamin b12 deficient based on a serum vitamin b12 level < 200 pg/ml. folate, vitamin b12 and vitamin b6 are required for homocysteine metabolism and their deficiency can result in increased homocysteine concentration. we conclude that there is a significant association of deficiencies of hb, iron, folic acid, and vitamin b12 and abnormally high blood homocysteine level with olp. moreover, 65 (72.2%) and 37 (41.1%) patients with vitamin b12 deficiency had abnormally high blood homocysteine level (>12.7 μm) and high mcv (≧100 fl), respectively. patients with vitamin b12 deficiency had a significantly higher frequency of hb or iron deficiency, of abnormally elevated blood homocysteine level or high mcv, and of gpca positivity than healthy control subjects (all p-values < 0.001). 
A high microerythrocyte count raises vulnerability to severe anemia in homozygous alpha (+)- thalassemia trait subjects. [SEP] in addition, the frequency of the (-alpha) chromosome was found to increase progressively with age, supporting the hypothesis that alpha-thalassemia is favorable to the survival of subjects with sickle cell anemia. pregnancies at risk for fetal homozygous alpha thalassemia-1 disease at 18 to 22 weeks were recruited. among 142 fetuses at risk, 46 (32.4%) fetuses were diagnosed as affected by homozygous alpha thalassemia-1 disease and were categorized as mild anemia (16.3%), moderate anemia (58.1%), and severe anemia (25.6%). patients with sca co-inherited with α-thalassemia have less hemolysis as revealed by lower reticulocyte counts than with normal alpha genotype. microcytic erythropoiesis in case of anemia is frequently due to iron deficiency or may be due to alpha- and beta- thalassemia trait as a result of increased activity of erythropoiesis. if compared with the reference group obviously increased rbc counts together with decreased values for rdw-sd and mchc were established in case of alpha- and beta- thalassemia subjects. accelerated erythropoiesis in the case of subjects with ida and beta-thalassemia is manifested by detection of increased results for immature reticulocyte counts. in particular in case of beta- thalassemia, elevated reticulocyte counts combined with slightly increased values for zpp/heme ratio reflect increased activity of erythropoiesis. different degrees of severity of anemia are presented in three siblings with homozygous beta-thalassemia. the alpha-thalassemia 1 trait had heterogeneity in red cell population as shown by increased red cell distribution width (rdw), the increased percent microcytic red cell (%micro) and decreased mean cell volume (mcv). 
A total of 1,000 people in the UK are asymptomatic carriers of vCJD infection. [SEP] recently, two cases of apparent iatrogenic vcjd infection by blood transfusion from asymptomatic donors who subsequently died from vcjd have been reported from the uk. the first case resulted in clinical illness identical to other cases of vcjd, while the second case was an asymptomatic infection detected at autopsy. because the incubation period may be upwards of 40 years and there is no reliable screening test, it is currently unknown how many people may be in an asymptomatic phase of vcjd infection in the uk. vcjd has already been transmitted from human to human by blood transfusion, and the number of asymptomatic carriers of vcjd in the u.k. alone is estimated to be 1 in 2000 people. the incubation period for vcjd may be up to 40 years and the number of asymptomatic carriers in the population could be as many as 100,000. three clinical cases and one asymptomatic case of vcjd infection have been reported in uk recipients of non-leucodepleted red cell transfusions from donors subsequently diagnosed with vcjd. the united kingdom haemophilia centre doctors' organisation (ukhcdo) surveillance study has detected asymptomatic vcjd postmortem in a haemophilic patient treated with uk plasma products including two batches of clotting factor linked to a donor who subsequently developed vcjd. although just over 100 people have developed clinical vcjd, millions have probably been exposed to the infectivity by consumption of bse-infected beef. surveillance of 75 immunodeficiency patients exposed to uk-sourced immunoglobulin, including batches derived from donors who went on to develop vcjd, has not detected any clinical cases of vcjd, or of asymptomatic infection in 15 patients with available tissue samples of sufficient quality for testing. retrospective prevalence studies conducted on lympho-reticular tissue suggest that the number of asymptomatic vcjd carriers in the united kingdom might be around 1 in 2000 people. 
ADAR1 binds to Dicer to cleave pre-miRNA. [SEP] most importantly, adar1 increases the maximum rate (vmax) of pre-microrna (mirna) cleavage by dicer and facilitates loading of mirna onto rna-induced silencing complexes, identifying a new role of adar1 in mirna processing and rnai mechanisms. adar1 forms a complex via direct protein-protein interaction with dicer, an rnase iii gene family member involved in the rnai mechanism. adar1 in the dicer complex promotes pre-mirna cleavage by dicer and facilitates loading of mirna onto rna-induced silencing complexes, giving rise to an unsuspected stimulative function of adar1 on mirna processing and rnai mechanisms. by large-scale in vitro dicing assays and mutagenesis studies, we showed that human dicer cleaves most, although not all, of the 161 tested human pre-mirnas efficiently. human dicer tolerates remarkable structural variation in its pre-mirna substrates, although the dsrna feature in the stem region and the 2-nt 3'-overhang structure in a pre-mirna contribute to its binding and cleavage by dicer, and a large terminal loop further enhances pre-mirna cleavage. we previously reported that adar1 forms a heterodimer complex with dicer and facilitates processing of pre-mirnas to mature mirnas. in addition to mirna synthesis, dicer is involved in processing of long dsrnas into small rnas (endo-sirnas). the enzyme dicer is central to the production of small silencing rnas such as micrornas (mirnas) and small interfering rnas (sirnas). dicer has a central role in rna-interference pathways by cleaving double-stranded rnas (dsrnas) to produce small regulatory rnas. drosha then cleaves the flanking regions of pri-mirna into precursor-mirna (pre-mirna), while dicer cleaves the loop region of the pre-mirna to form a mirna duplex. 
AIRE is expressed in some skin tumors. [SEP] autoimmune regulator (aire) is a transcription factor that is expressed in medullary thymic epithelial cells. moreover, aire expression has been demonstrated in skin tumors and breast cancer. however, the expression of aire in osteosarcoma is unknown. we used immunohistochemistry to investigate aire expression in biopsy samples from 43 patients with conventional osteosarcoma and statistically analyzed the association between aire expression and clinicopathological characteristics. autoimmune regulator (aire) is a transcriptional regulator that is primarily expressed in medullary epithelial cells, where it induces tissue-specific antigen expression. under pathological conditions, aire expression is induced in epidermal cells and promotes skin tumor development. this study aimed to clarify the role of aire in the pathogenesis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc). aire expression was evaluated in six oscc cell lines and in oscc tissue specimens. these results indicate that aire is induced in oscc and supports cancer-related gene expression in cooperation with ets1. this is a novel function of aire in extrathymic tissues under the pathological condition. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with better breast cancer outcomes. [SEP] aldh1 expression is frequent in tumour-associated stromal cells of triple negative breast cancer and is associated with better outcome. we investigated breast cancer tissues for the prevalence of aldh1(+) tumor cells and their prognostic value. our findings suggest that the expression of aldh1 in breast cancer may be associated with tnbc and poor clinical outcomes. on the basis of our findings, we propose that aldh1 expression in breast cancer could be correlated with poor prognosis, and may contribute to a more aggressive cancer phenotype. previous studies have shown that aldh1 expression in primary breast cancers was associated with poor clinical prognosis. it has been shown that aldh1 is a predictor of poor clinical outcome in breast cancer. in contrast to its function in breast cancer, aldh1 was a favorable prognostic factor in ovarian carcinoma. the evaluation of the co-expression of aldh1 and transcription factors in primary lesions may be useful in prognosis of node-positive breast cancers. several studies have reported that aldh1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. we aimed, therefore, to determine the prognostic value of aldh1 expression and its association with several biomarkers in breast cancer tissue using immunohistochemistry. 
ALDH1 expression is associated with poorer prognosis in breast cancer. [SEP] previous studies have shown that aldh1 expression in primary breast cancers was associated with poor clinical prognosis. in this study, we aimed to determine whether aldh1 expression in axillary lymph node metastases (alnm) of breast cancer patients was also associated with poor prognosis. we conclude that the expression of aldh1 in primary breast tumors or alnm may be one potential risk factor for poor, long-term outcomes. several studies have reported that aldh1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer. we aimed, therefore, to determine the prognostic value of aldh1 expression and its association with several biomarkers in breast cancer tissue using immunohistochemistry. this study investigated the effect of aldh1 on prognosis and chemoresponse by breast cancer subtype. aldh1 expression was significantly observed in her2 type and triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc). aldh1(+) breast cancers tended to be aggressive, with poor prognoses. aldh1 expression and vm are correlated with the survival rate of patients with breast cancer. aldh1 and vm, either alone or together, are prognostic factors in patients with breast cancer. 
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation increases inflammation-related fibrosis in the lungs. [SEP] here, we studied the potency of ampk activation to reduce lta-induced inflammation in vitro and in lungs in vivo. activation of ampk in vitro reduced cytokine production in the alveolar macrophage cell line mh-s. in conclusion, ampk activation inhibits lta-induced lung inflammation in mice. the role of metformin and ampk in tissue fibrosis was evaluated using a bleomycin-induced acute lung injury model and in vitro experiments with cultured fibroblasts. enhanced ampk activation and decreased oxidative stress in lungs was found in metformin-treated asthmatic mice. in addition, the enhanced airway inflammation and fibrosis in heterozygous ampkα1-deficient mice were induced by both allergen and bleomycin challenges. amp-activated protein kinase (ampk), a crucial energy homeostasis regulator, may modulate inflammation. we have reported that cigarette smoke (cs) activates a nadph oxidase-dependent reactive oxygen species (ros)-sensitive amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) signaling pathway leading to induction of lung inflammation. amp-activated protein kinase (ampk), a crucial regulator of energy homeostasis, may modulate inflammation. amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) plays an important role in inflammation in various cells and increases the phagocytic ability of macrophages. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation causing GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), a variant of the apoe gene product and the major genetic risk factor for ad, we demonstrated that apoe4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation, unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (aβ) peptides, and that they displayed gabaergic neuron degeneration. apoe4 increased aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. neurons that lacked apoe behaved similarly to those expressing apoe3, and the introduction of apoe4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from apoe4. we investigated the possible role of tau phosphorylation in mediating this synergistic pathological cross talk between apoe4 and the amyloid cascade. neuronal expression of apoe4 or apoe4 fragments in transgenic mice increases tau phosphorylation. tbi induction led to increased phosphorylation of tau and apoe4 expression. recent studies have indicated a possible correlation between apoe isoform-dependent alterations in tau pathology and neurodegeneration. to explore whether neuronal expression of apoe4 triggers tauopathy, here we delivered adeno-associated viruses (aav) expressing human apoe4 in two different models of tauopathy-rtg4510 and ps19 lines. intracerebroventricular delivery of aav-apoe4 in neonatal rtg4510 and ps19 mice resulted in increased apoe4 protein in neurons but did not result in altered phosphorylated tau burden, pretangle tau pathology, or silver-positive tangle pathology. our results indicate that over-expression of apoe4 in neurons, using an aav-mediated approache, is not sufficient to accelerate or otherwise alter the inherent tau pathology that occurs in mice overexpressing mutant human tau. 
APOE4 expression in iPSC-derived neurons increases AlphaBeta production and tau phosphorylation, delaying GABA neuron degeneration. [SEP] using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), a variant of the apoe gene product and the major genetic risk factor for ad, we demonstrated that apoe4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation, unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (aβ) peptides, and that they displayed gabaergic neuron degeneration. apoe4 increased aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. neurons that lacked apoe behaved similarly to those expressing apoe3, and the introduction of apoe4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from apoe4. we investigated the possible role of tau phosphorylation in mediating this synergistic pathological cross talk between apoe4 and the amyloid cascade. neuronal expression of apoe4 or apoe4 fragments in transgenic mice increases tau phosphorylation. recent studies have indicated a possible correlation between apoe isoform-dependent alterations in tau pathology and neurodegeneration. to explore whether neuronal expression of apoe4 triggers tauopathy, here we delivered adeno-associated viruses (aav) expressing human apoe4 in two different models of tauopathy-rtg4510 and ps19 lines. our results indicate that over-expression of apoe4 in neurons, using an aav-mediated approache, is not sufficient to accelerate or otherwise alter the inherent tau pathology that occurs in mice overexpressing mutant human tau. overexpression of human apoe4 in neurons resulted in hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau. these findings demonstrate that expression of apoe in neurons results in hyperphosphorylation of protein tau and suggests a role for apoe in neuronal cytoskeletal stability and metabolism. 
Activation of PPM1D suppresses p53 function. [SEP] ppm1d is a p53-inducible ser/thr phosphatase. one of the main functions of ppm1d in normal cells is to act as a negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor by dephosphorylating p53 and several kinases. expression of oncogenic ras suppresses ppm1d mrna induction, leaving p53 phosphorylated at ser33 and ser46 and in an active state. because ppm1d is transcriptionally activated by p53 in response to dna damage, ppm1d may serve as a critical component of a p53 negative feedback regulatory loop since it now appears that ppm1d can inhibit p53 activity by at least four different molecular mechanisms. activation of ppm1d through various mechanism promotes the tumorigenic potential of various cancers by suppressing p53 and other dna damage response proteins. ppm1d phosphatase, also called wild-type p53-induced phosphatase 1, promotes tumor development by inactivating the p53 tumor suppressor pathway. furthermore, we showed that ppm1d modulates p53 mrna translation and p53-dependent growth suppression through dephosphorylation of rbm38. ppm1d is a p53-inducible ser/thr protein phosphatase. ppm1d may inhibit p53 activity through inactivating dephosphorylation of the p38 map kinase. in addition, silencing of ppm1d expression induced nuclear translocation of p53 in k‑1 and tpc‑1 cells. 
Activator-inhibitor pairs are provided dorsally by Admpchordin. [SEP] the authors hypothesize that spinal bupivacaine reduces cardiac neuronal firing and network interactions in the dorsal horn-dorsal horn and dorsal horn-intermediolateral nucleus that produce sympathoexcitation during myocardial ischemia, attenuating ventricular arrhythmogenesis. dorsal horn and intermediolateral nucleus neural interactions and known markers of cardiac arrhythmogenesis were evaluated during myocardial ischemia and cardiac load-dependent perturbations with intrathecal bupivacaine. spinal bupivacaine did not change the basal activity of cardiac neurons in the dorsal horn or intermediolateral nucleus. bupivacaine reduced this network response and augmentation in the interactions between dorsal horn-dorsal horn (931 to 38 correlated pairs out of 1,189 pairs, p < 0.0001) and intermediolateral nucleus-dorsal horn neurons (69 to 1 correlated pairs out of 1,135 pairs, p < 0.0001). blocking short-term coordination between local afferent-efferent cardiac neurons in the spinal cord contributes to a decrease in cardiac sympathoexcitation and reduction of ventricular arrhythmogenesis. four of these interneurons were part of a discrete population of interneurons whose somata are located in the dorsal posterior region of the ganglion. depletion of forebrain serotonin by lesions of the dorsal and median raphe nuclei or of norepinephrine by lesions of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle failed to prevent the pretreatment effect produced by either fluoxetine or desipramine. in paralichthys olivaceus, skeletogenesis proceeds from an anterior to posterior direction providing a good opportunity to study the formation of dorsal fin bud. moreover, the form of the dorsal fin bud could be inhibited by hh pathway inhibitor, further indicating that common basic molecular mechanisms might be utilized by median fins. in the dorsal horn of naïve but not cfa rats, dhpg increased fos expression and this was reduced by mpep and both pkc and erk inhibitors. 
Active H. pylori urease has a polymeric structure that compromises two subunits, UreA and UreB. [SEP] urease activity has recently been shown to be an important virulence determinant for helicobacter pylori, allowing it to survive the low ph of the stomach during colonization. these data indicate that the urea and ureb genes encoding h. pylori urease are transcribed and translated in e. coli and that these genes alone are sufficient for the synthesis and assembly of the native size enzyme. a region of cloned h. pylori dna containing the structural urease genes (urea and ureb) was disrupted by insertion of a mini-tn3-km transposon. generation of stable, genetically engineered urease mutants of h. pylori will be useful for addressing the role of urease in the pathogenesis of h. pylori infection. se5000 containing recombinant h. pylori urease genes was grown in minimal medium containing no amino acids, nicl2 was added to 0.75 microm, and structural genes urea and ureb (php902) were overexpressed in trans to the complete urease gene cluster (php808). under these conditions, e. coli se5000 php808/php902) expressed a urease activity up to 87 mumol of urea per min per mg of protein (87 u/mg of protein), a level approaching that of wild-type h. pylori umab41 (100 u/mg of protein), from which the genes were cloned. we conclude that recombinant h. pylori urease is optimally expressed when ni2+ transport is not inhibited and when sufficient synthesis of urease subunits urea and ureb is provided. it is well documented that the enzymatic active site of helicobacter pylori urease is present in the beta-subunit. an important sequence of 135 amino acids of the beta-subunit was determined from the structure of h. pylori urease and by a homology-based study of the urease of other bacteria and plants. the experimental results indicated that anti-ctb-ua antibody could recognize both h. pylori urease a subunit (urea) and urease b subunit (ureb). 
Albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] in october 2000, 71,187 persons were treated for lymphatic filariasis using albendazole and diethylcarbamazine (dec) or dec alone in leogane, haiti. lymphatic filariasis is targeted for elimination globally through mass drug administration (mda) with diethylcarbamazine or ivermectin monotherapy, or either drug in combination with albendazole. the elimination of lymphatic filariasis relies on drug administration using the three drugs currently available for treatment: diethylcarbamazine, albendazole, and ivermectin. follow-up studies demonstrate that a common albendazole metabolite, albendazole sulfone, reduces intracellular wolbachia titer both in drosophila melanogaster and brugia malayi, the nematode responsible for lymphatic filariasis. citing earlier advances in the treatment of lymphatic filariasis [particularly the effectiveness of single-dose diethylcarbamazine (dec) in reducing microfilaraemia and its enhanced effectiveness when co-administered with single-dose ivermectin], eric ottesen, mahroof ismail and john horton consider recent studies on the antifilarial activity of albendazole that have led to the current recommendations for its use in single-dose regimens in conjunction with either dec or ivermectin for large-scale control/elimination programmes. furthermore, the potential of albendazole as a macrofilaricide for treating individual patients with lymphatic filarial infections is emphasized as one of a number of important research questions that remain to be explored. annual mass treatment with ivermectin and albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis in many african countries, including tanzania. a moderate but significant reduction in lymphatic filariasis prevalence and worm burden was demonstrated after two rounds of treatment with albendazole and ivermectin. confirmation of these findings in a larger cohort may yield important new insights regarding the role of using albendazole in the ongoing intervention programs for the control of lymphatic filariasis. drugs to treat filariasis include diethylcarbamazine, ivermectin, and albendazole, which are used mostly in combination to reduce microfilariae in blood (lymphatic filariasis) and skin (onchocerciasis). 
Alizarin forms hydrogen bonds with residues involved in PGAM1 substrate binding. [SEP] we found that tyrosine 26 phosphorylation enhances the binding of pgam1 to its substrates through generating electrostatic environment and structural features that are advantageous to the binding. in the meantime, we determined the co-crystal structure of pgam1 and one of the anthraquinone inhibitors 9i with ic50 value of 0.27 μm. the co-crystal structure revealed that f22, k100 and r116 of pgam1 were critical residues for the binding of inhibitors which further validated the sar. the active site residues involving hydrogen bond formation with substrates included leu213, lys214, glu216, ser217, gln244, asp301, ser304, ala305, phe483, and phe484. within the identified substrate binding sites a number of residues from different subunits are involved in hydrogen bonding of the inhibitors. two residues (ala172 and thr173) that form an unusual cis-peptide bond at the binding site are important components in fixing the examined inhibitors by hydrogen bonds. the aldehyde oxygen forms hydrogen bonds to the side chains of the residues his30 and his263. one of the hydroxyl groups of the sugar phosphate forms a hydrogen bond to the side chain of asp477. overall, these studies indicate that a special combination of binding and reactive elements are united in the mje3 structure to inactivate pgam1. hydrogen bonds occurring in the catalytic triad (asp32, his64 and ser221) and the oxyanion hole (asn155) are very important to the catalysis of peptide bond hydrolysis by serine proteases. 
All hematopoietic stem cells segregate their chromosomes randomly. [SEP] we consider two modes of chromosome segregation: (1) random segregation, where the daughter chromosomes of a given parent chromosome segregate randomly into the stem cell and its differentiating sister cell and (2) "immortal dna strand" co-segregation, for which the stem cell retains the daughter chromosomes with the oldest parent strands. the stem cells left behind in the niche self-renew symmetrically and randomly segregate the chromosomes at each division, making more stem cells. we recently found that drosophila male germline stem cells segregate sister chromatids non-randomly, but such bias was limited to the sex chromosomes. moreover, we show that sister chromatid segregation is randomized in germline stem cell overproliferation and dedifferentiated germline stem cells. in particular, we summarize the theory and experimental evidence underlying non-random chromosome segregation-a mitotic asymmetry arising from the unequal partitioning of chromosomes according to the age of their template dna strands. additionally, we consider the possible consequences of non-random chromosome segregation, especially as they relate to both replicative and chronological ageing in stem cells. whereas sister chromatids appeared to be randomly distributed between daughter cells in cultured lung fibroblasts and embryonic stem cells, significant non-random sister chromatid segregation was observed in a subset of colon crypt epithelial cells, including cells outside positions reported for colon stem cells. sequential administration of 5-chloro-2-deoxyuridine and 5-iodo-2-deoxyuridine indicated that all hscs segregate their chromosomes randomly. after chromosome replication, sister chromatid copies are generally thought to segregate randomly to daughter cells. in contrast, the mesoderm, cardiomyocyte, and pancreatic cells exhibited a random mode of segregation. 
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are associated with increased risk for functional renal insufficiency. [SEP] when used judiciously, the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors may also contribute to improved renal function. although the renal protective effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are well recognized, their use in certain circumstances may actually contribute to renal dysfunction. the factors which may predispose an individual to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-induced renal dysfunction must be recognized by the clinician and appropriate interventions taken to prevent this potentially deleterious effect. this article reviews those factors which increase risk for angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor-induced renal dysfunction and provides recommendations for prevention. seven cases of neonatal renal failure have been reported in patients with exposure to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors that continued to the time of delivery. patients at greatest risk of declining renal function during therapy with ace inhibitors are those in whom maintenance of renal function is dependent on angiotensin ii. these observations suggest that the degree of sodium depletion plays an important role in the tendency for angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to induce renal failure in patients with congestive heart failure and moderate renal insufficiency. treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and statins can reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients with renal insufficiency. angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and β-blockers are associated with similar reductions in mortality in patients with and without renal insufficiency but usually are less often prescribed in patients with renal insufficiency. to review the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors on renal pathophysiology and the compensatory mechanisms involved in heart failure. 
Anthrax spores can be disposed of easily after they are dispersed. [SEP] a preliminary study was undertaken to evaluate the potential for a disposable respirator that has been contaminated with anthrax spores to release spores in handling after use. the model simulates aerosol dispersion in the case of intensive, small-scale convection, which equalizes the concentration of anthrax spores over the building volume. the analysis reveals that an aerosol release of even a relatively small volume of anthrax spores during a terrorist incident has the potential to quickly distribute concentrations that are infectious throughout the building. understanding the ecology of anthrax spores is essential if one hopes to control epidemics. bacillus anthracis has been identified as a potential military and bioterror agent as it is relatively simple to produce, with spores that are highly resilient to degradation in the environment and easily dispersed. results support composting for disposal of anthrax mortalities, provided long-term thermophillic heating is achieved. dry anthrax spore powder is readily disseminated as an aerosol and it is possible that passive dispersion when opening a letter containing anthrax spores may result in lethal doses to humans. the "spore concentration hypothesis" provides the most conservative explanation for the occurrence of anthrax under the observed conditions. the endospores of bacillus anthracis are the infectious particles of anthrax. spores are dormant bacterial morphotypes able to withstand harsh environments for decades, which contributes to their ability to be formulated and dispersed as a biological weapon. 
Antibiotic induced alterations in the gut microbiome reduce resistance against Clostridium difficile [SEP] antibiotics can have significant and long-lasting effects on the gastrointestinal tract microbiota, reducing colonization resistance against pathogens including clostridium difficile. here we show that antibiotic treatment induces substantial changes in the gut microbial community and in the metabolome of mice susceptible to c. difficile infection. our results indicate that antibiotic-mediated alteration of the gut microbiome converts the global metabolic profile to one that favours c. difficile germination and growth. antibiotics have significant and long-lasting effects on the intestinal microbiota and consequently reduce colonization resistance against pathogens, including clostridium difficile. the gut microbiome is believed to play a role in the susceptibility to and treatment of clostridium difficile infections (cdis). we compared the effects of the three different antibiotic classes on the intestinal microbiome and the effects of alterations of the gut microbiome on c. difficile infection at the dna (total microbiota) and rrna (potentially active) levels. we suggest that up- and down regulation of specific bacterial species may be involved in colonization resistance against c. difficile providing a potential therapeutic approach through specific manipulation of the intestinal microbiome. central to predisposition to c. difficile infection is disruption of the gut microbiome by antibiotics. antibiotics strongly disrupt the human gut microbiota, which in consequence loses its colonization resistance capacity, allowing infection by opportunistic pathogens such as clostridium difficile. here, we review recent efforts focused on the impact of antibiotics in the gut microbiome and their relationship with c. difficile colonization, as well as, in the identification of bacteria and mechanisms involved in the protection against c. difficile infection. 
Antiretroviral therapy reduces rates of tuberculosis across a broad range of CD4 strata. [SEP] antiretroviral therapy has substantial potential to prevent hiv-associated tuberculosis. we conducted a systematic review of studies that analysed the impact of antiretroviral therapy on the incidence of tuberculosis in adults with hiv infection. antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis in all baseline cd4 count categories: (1) less than 200 cells/µl (hazard ratio [hr] 0.16, 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.07 to 0.36), (2) 200 to 350 cells/µl (hr 0.34, 95% ci 0.19 to 0.60), (3) greater than 350 cells/µl (hr 0.43, 95% ci 0.30 to 0.63), and (4) any cd4 count (hr 0.35, 95% ci 0.28 to 0.44). antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis across all cd4 count strata. the initiation of antiretroviral therapy during tuberculosis therapy significantly improved survival and provides further impetus for the integration of tuberculosis and hiv services. systematic literature review and meta-analysis of tuberculosis incidence rates among hiv-infected individuals taking combination antiretroviral therapy. tuberculosis incidence rates decreased with increasing cd4 count at study entry and duration on combination antiretroviral therapy. summary estimates of tuberculosis incidence among individuals on combination antiretroviral therapy were higher for cohorts from high/intermediate burden settings compared to those from the low tuberculosis burden settings (4.17 per 100 person-years [95% confidence interval (ci) 3.39-5.14 per 100 person-years] vs. 0.4 per 100 person-years [95% ci 0.23-0.69 per 100 person-years]) with significant heterogeneity observed between the studies. at relatively high cd4-cell counts, ipt reduces tuberculosis risk by 64% (95% ci 39-78%) in patients with positive tuberculin skin tests, and is the key tuberculosis preventive intervention before patients are eligible for antiretroviral therapy. to determine the short-term and long-term risks of tuberculosis (tb) associated with cd4 cell recovery during antiretroviral therapy (art). 
Arginine 90 in p150n is important for interaction with EB1. [SEP] molecular dynamics simulations and (31)p nmr spectroscopy indicate that phosphorylated serines participate in intramolecular interactions with and sequester arginine residues required for eb1 binding. l-arginine, at a concentration of 0.1 mm in the growth medium, led to a reduction of the ebv capsid antigen content of the eb1 and eb3 cells lines as determined by indirect immunofluorescence, and m. arginini infection enhanced this reduction. the addition of arginine to a final concentration of 0.6 mm in the growth medium caused a dual effect: the eb1 and eb3 cell lines maintained the original level of ebv capsid antigens, even when infected with m. arginini; immune product synthesis was greatly reduced or completely inhibited by the addition of arginine, and m. arginini infection caused no further reduction of immune product synthesis. eb1 also interacts with the plus-ends of microtubules and targets apc to microtubule tips. we first showed that arl4d interacts with eb1 in a gtp-dependent manner. this interaction is dependent on the c-terminal eb homology region of eb1 and partially dependent on an sxlp motif of arl4d. in addition, arl4d binding to eb1 increased the association between the p150 subunit of dynactin and the eb1, which is important for mt stabilization. end-binding protein 1 (eb1) is a plus-end-tracking protein (+tip) that accumulates at growing microtubule ends and plays a pivotal role in the regulation of microtubule dynamics. eb1 family proteins use overlapping but different regions that contain the eb1-like c-terminal motif to associate with apc and p150glued. we also determined that the eb1 family protein-binding regions are amino acids 2781-2820 and 18-111 of apc and p150glued, respectively. 
Arterioles have a larger lumen diameter than venules. [SEP] we, therefore, conclude that lumen:vessel wall area is a more sensitive and preferred method for distinguishing cerebral arterioles from venules. the time required for the initiation of thrombus formation and complete occlusion of the vessel lumen was greater in arterioles than in venules. we assessed whether smaller retinal arterioles and larger venules predicted coronary heart disease (chd)- and stroke-mortality. we defined smaller arterioles as diameters within the narrowest quintile and larger venules as diameters within the widest quintile, with other quintiles as the reference. however, smaller arterioles [hazard ratio (hr) 1.34, 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.11-1.62] and larger venules (hr 1.24, ci 1.02-1.52), predicted increased risk of chd-mortality. smaller arterioles (hr 1.64, ci 1.00-2.67) and larger venules (hr 1.53, ci 0.94-2.47) were also associated with an increased risk of stroke-mortality among persons aged 43-69. lumen-to-lumen communication between arteriole and venule at 8 sites in 2 cadavers was identified in these clusters of glomera. these results, in contrast with conclusions drawn from indirect estimates of venous responses, show that venules, like arterioles, dilate actively in response to muscle contraction. the retinal arteriole and venule diameters increase as a person matures. in newborn infants, retinal venules are significantly larger than retinal arterioles. 
Articles published in open access format are less likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] as a result, we wondered whether articles published in fully open-access journals would be more likely to be cited than articles in other kinds of journals. we assessed the yearly number and proportion of poorly cited articles published in orthopaedic journals and compared the proportion of poorly cited articles that were published in subscription-model journals with the proportion of poorly cited articles that were published in open-access and hybrid journals. we compared the proportion of poorly cited articles in subscription-model journals with the proportion of poorly cited articles in open-access journals. the proportion of poorly cited articles in open-access journals decreased from 264 of 434 (61%) in 2002 to 296 of 801 (37%) in 2006, and then increased again to 1387 of 2259 (61%) in 2012. we found no difference in the likelihood that an article would be cited based on whether the article appeared was published in a subscription-model journal or an open-access journal. the published papers were collected from web of science or scopus and were analyzed according to the proportion of articles from open access journals. articles assigned to open access were associated with 89% more full text downloads (95% confidence interval 76% to 103%), 42% more pdf downloads (32% to 52%), and 23% more unique visitors (16% to 30%), but 24% fewer abstract downloads (-29% to -19%) than subscription access articles in the first six months after publication. open access articles were no more likely to be cited than subscription access articles in the first year after publication. logistic and negative binomial regression analysis of article citation counts confirmed no citation advantage for open access articles. no evidence was found of a citation advantage for open access articles in the first year after publication. 
Articles published in open access format are more likely to be cited than traditional journals. [SEP] open-access publishing may make articles more widely available because there is no financial barrier to a reader seeing the full-text version. as a result, we wondered whether articles published in fully open-access journals would be more likely to be cited than articles in other kinds of journals. we found no difference in the likelihood that an article would be cited based on whether the article appeared was published in a subscription-model journal or an open-access journal. citations of open access articles have increased since 2006 to 4.1% in 2011, although the increase in open access article citations was less than for open access publications. articles assigned to open access were associated with 89% more full text downloads (95% confidence interval 76% to 103%), 42% more pdf downloads (32% to 52%), and 23% more unique visitors (16% to 30%), but 24% fewer abstract downloads (-29% to -19%) than subscription access articles in the first six months after publication. open access publishing may reach more readers than subscription access publishing. the citation advantage from open access reported widely in the literature may be an artefact of other causes. the most mentioned articles were more frequently open-access articles, compared to the most downloaded articles. the most cited were more frequently older, the most downloaded were more frequently recent and educational, and the most mentioned were more frequently original and open-access articles. authors should also consider the citation advantage afforded by open access publishing when deciding where to publish. 
Aspirin inhibits the production of PGE2. [SEP] each concentration of aspirin and indomethacin effectively inhibited pge2 synthesis. concentrations of 2, 4, and 8 microm of aspirin significantly inhibited pge2 production at 6, 4, and 1 hour, respectively, and the inhibition persisted for more than 24 hours (p < 0.05). we show that low-dose aspirin inhibits systemic pge2 biosynthesis by 45% in healthy volunteers (p < 0.0001). in this study, we determined the effect of oral administration of aspirin on the production of the prostanoid prostaglandin e2 (pge2) in the intact human colonic mucosa. pge2 concentrations were decreased significantly in samples collected after 60 days of consumption of 325 mg aspirin. it appears that 325 mg of aspirin is sufficient to affect pge2 production and that increasing the dosage to 650 mg daily provides an additional decrease in pge2 synthesis. this study examined the effect of low-dose aspirin on skeletal muscle cox production of pge2 at rest and following resistance exercise. low-dose aspirin inhibited skeletal muscle pge2 production (p < 0.05). when the maximum suppression after aspirin consumption was examined for each individual, independent of time, pge2 levels in vivo (184 ± 17 and 104 ± 23pg/g wet wt at pre and post, respectively) and pge2 production ex vivo (2.74 ± 0.17 and 2.09 ± 0.11pg·mg wet wt-1·min-1 at pre and post, respectively) were reduced ( p < 0.05) by 44% and 24%, respectively. these results provide evidence that orally consumed aspirin can inhibit the cox pathway and reduce the inflammatory mediator pge2 in human skeletal muscle. 
Assembly of invadopodia is triggered by focal generation of phosphatidylinositol-3,4-biphosphate and the activation of the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Src. [SEP] phosphorylation of the invadopodium protein cortactin is a master switch that activates invadopodium maturation and function. our findings suggest a novel mechanism by which an egfr-src-arg-cortactin pathway mediates functional maturation of invadopodia and breast cancer cell invasion. in this study, we report that endogenous fak functions upstream of cellular src (c-src) as a negative regulator of invadopodia formation and dynamics in breast cancer cells. we show that depletion of fak induces the formation of active invadopodia but impairs invasive cell migration. fak-deficient mtln3 breast cancer cells display enhanced assembly and dynamics of invadopodia that are rescued by expression of wild-type fak but not by fak that cannot be phosphorylated at tyrosine 397. moreover, our findings demonstrate that fak depletion switches phosphotyrosine-containing proteins from focal adhesions to invadopodia through the temporal and spatial regulation of c-src activity. the phox homology (px)-src homology (sh)3 domain adaptor protein tks5 (also known as sh3pxd2a) cooperates with src tyrosine kinase to promote invadopodia formation but the underlying pathway is not clear. here we show that src phosphorylates tks5 at y557, inducing it to associate directly with the sh3-sh2 domain adaptor proteins nck1 and nck2 in invadopodia. conversely, src- and tks5-driven matrix proteolysis and actin assembly in invadopodia are enhanced by nck1 or nck2 overexpression and inhibited by nck1 depletion. collectively, our findings identify pyk2 as a unique mediator of invadopodium formation and function and also provide a novel insight into the mechanisms by which pyk2 mediates tumor cell invasion. 
Asymptomatic visual impairment screening in elderly populations does not lead to improved vision. [SEP] to assess whether population screening for impaired vision among older people in the community leads to improvements in vision. the inclusion of a visual screening component in the assessment did not result in improvements in self reported visual problems (pooled odds ratio 1.04:95% confidence interval 0.89 to 1.22). screening of asymptomatic older people in the community is not justified on present evidence. vision impairment is highly prevalent yet undetected in the elderly population. without screening and early detection age-related vision loss can lead to various adverse effects. the purpose of this review is to assess the methods of screening geriatric patients for visual impairment that can be employed by nurse practitioners in the primary care setting. no combination of tools is ideal for identifying age-related vision loss although implications for practice are implied. the objective of this review is to assess the effects on vision of mass screening of older people for visual impairment. there is no evidence that community-based screening of asymptomatic older people results in improvements in vision. asymptomatic cases raise concerns for acute stroke units where robust specialist vision screening is not routine. 
Auditory entrainment is strengthened when people see congruent visual and auditory information. [SEP] entrainment to the speech envelope may reflect mechanisms specialized for auditory perception. congruent audiovisual speech enhances our ability to comprehend a speaker, even in noise-free conditions. finally, our data suggest that neural entrainment to the speech envelope is inhibited when the auditory and visual streams are incongruent both temporally and contextually. specifically, we show that the brain's representation of auditory speech is enhanced when the accompanying visual speech signal shares the same timing. behaviorally, subjects exhibited audiovisual incongruency effects that increased with the variance of the visual and the reliability of the interfering auditory input. these results establish two distinct mechanisms by which the brain uses potentially predictive visual information to improve auditory perception. even when speech is intelligible based solely on auditory information, adding visual information may reduce the cognitive demands placed on listeners through increasing the precision of prediction. electrophysiological studies demonstrate that oscillatory cortical entrainment to speech in auditory cortex is enhanced when visual speech is present, increasing sensitivity to important acoustic cues. neuroimaging studies also suggest increased activity in auditory cortex when congruent visual information is available, but additionally emphasize the involvement of heteromodal regions of posterior superior temporal sulcus as playing a role in integrative processing. as we expected, l did show enhanced cueing effects following the audiovisual congruent cues that corresponded with her preferred auditory perspective, but that the visual perspective dominated when l was faced with both viewpoints simultaneously. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes a higher rate of opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of msc-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% ci, 0.20-0.85, p=.02) among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous mscs compared with anti-il-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. mesenchymal stem cells are a potential therapeutic agent in renal disease and kidney transplantation. autologous cell use in kidney transplantation is preferred to avoid anti-hla reactivity; however, the influence of renal disease on mesenchymal stem cells is unknown. early autologous stem cell transplantation has studies had high relapse rates but they demonstrated that mobilization and engraftment of autologous stem cells were possible in aids patients. recently, in less advanced aids lymphoma, autologous stem cell transplantation has resulted in low transplant-related mortality and durable remissions. with these advances in hiv therapy, it is possible for hiv-infected patients to mobilize an adequate number of stem cells for an autologous transplant. based on the evidence, application of some approaches like co-delivery of mesenchymal stem cells with the other useful cells, using the stem cells derived productions, administration of preconditioned and modified cells, and also using the anti-inflammatory agents besides the cell therapy are hypothesized as the primary developed safe and practical approaches for decreasing destructive effects of the inflammation on the implanted stem/progenitor cells. recent developments toward the successful clinical application of autologous and allogeneic mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) to organ transplantation are summarized with a focus on safety and efficacy. animal models indicate that autologous mscs are likely to be efficacious in preventing or treating early intragraft inflammation and may reduce the risk of acute rejection - observations that have been borne out in a randomized controlled trial of living-donor kidney transplantation. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells causes fewer opportunistic infections than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of msc-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% ci, 0.20-0.85, p=.02) among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous mscs compared with anti-il-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. with these advances in hiv therapy, it is possible for hiv-infected patients to mobilize an adequate number of stem cells for an autologous transplant. based on the evidence, application of some approaches like co-delivery of mesenchymal stem cells with the other useful cells, using the stem cells derived productions, administration of preconditioned and modified cells, and also using the anti-inflammatory agents besides the cell therapy are hypothesized as the primary developed safe and practical approaches for decreasing destructive effects of the inflammation on the implanted stem/progenitor cells. recent developments toward the successful clinical application of autologous and allogeneic mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) to organ transplantation are summarized with a focus on safety and efficacy. animal models indicate that autologous mscs are likely to be efficacious in preventing or treating early intragraft inflammation and may reduce the risk of acute rejection - observations that have been borne out in a randomized controlled trial of living-donor kidney transplantation. mesenchymal stem cells are a potential therapeutic agent in renal disease and kidney transplantation. autologous cell use in kidney transplantation is preferred to avoid anti-hla reactivity; however, the influence of renal disease on mesenchymal stem cells is unknown. these infections are 10-40 times commoner in recipients of stem cell transplantation than in the general population but they are 10 times less in stem cell transplantation recipients compared to solid organ transplant recipients. however, the introduction of linezolid, cellular immunotherapy, and immunomodulation in addition to autologous mesenchymal stem cell transplantation will ultimately have a positive impact on the overall management of infections caused by m. tuberculosis. 
Autologous transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells has lower rates of rejection than induction therapy with anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibodies. [SEP] reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of msc-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% ci, 0.20-0.85, p=.02) among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous mscs compared with anti-il-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. anti-interleukin-2 receptor monoclonal antibodies have been used successfully in the prevention of rejection in cardiac allografts in several animal models. anti-interleukin (il)-2 receptor antibody induction and no induction in combination with a cni, mmf or sirolimus, and prednisone have demonstrated excellent graft survival rates but are associated with a higher incidence of acute rejection. mesenchymal stem cells are a potential therapeutic agent in renal disease and kidney transplantation. autologous cell use in kidney transplantation is preferred to avoid anti-hla reactivity; however, the influence of renal disease on mesenchymal stem cells is unknown. autologous mesenchymal stem cell transplantation has been shown to improve myocardial function in ischaemic cardiomyopathy. allogeneic mesenchymal stem cells were injected in the peri-infarct area (1×10(6) cells kg(-1)) 2 weeks after myocardial infarction. however, cd68+ cell infiltration was more prominent after mesenchymal stem cell transplantation (4.7% vs 2% in myocardial infarction alone, p<0.01). allogeneic mesenchymal stem cell transplantation enhances angiogenesis after myocardial infarction. 
Autophagy declines in aged organisms. [SEP] special attention is paid to the implications of age-related autophagy decline for diseases and the possibility of dietary countermeasures. the activity of this intracytoplasmic degradation pathway decreases with age in many tissues and autophagy induction ameliorates ageing in many organisms, including mice. recent evidence suggests a unique role for autophagy in aging and age-related disease. this review summarizes the links between autophagy and aging in the whole organism and discusses the physiological and pathological roles of autophagy in the aging process in tissues such as skeletal muscle, eye, brain, and liver. accumulating evidence now indicates that autophagic degradation declines with age and this gradual reduction of autophagy might have a causative role in the functional deterioration of biological systems during ageing. in this article, we survey recent findings in invertebrates that contribute to advance our understanding of the molecular links between autophagy and the regulation of ageing. numerous links between autophagy and aging exist. autophagy declines with age, and increasing evidence suggests that this reduction plays important roles in both physiological aging and the development of age-associated disorders. studies in pharmacologically and genetically manipulated model organisms indicate that defects in autophagy promote age-related diseases, and conversely, that enhancement of autophagy has beneficial effects on both healthspan and lifespan. here, we review our current understanding of the role of autophagy in different physiological processes and their molecular links with aging and age-related diseases. 
Bariatric surgery has a positive impact on mental health. [SEP] psychological impact of bariatric surgery has been described mostly in terms of reduction of psychopathology. this exploratory study examines the impact of bariatric surgery in terms of positive psychological growth and development. positive impact of bariatric surgery should be taken into account as a therapeutic tool in positive oriented psychological interventions following bariatric surgery. bariatric surgery has a positive overall impact on weight and obesity-related comorbidities, as well as a positive short-term impact on mental health and psychosocial functioning. bariatric surgery is an effective intervention in the morbidly obese to achieve marked weight loss and improve physical comorbidities, yet its impact on psychological health has yet to be determined. a review of the literature identified a trend suggesting improvements in psychological health after bariatric surgery. a sound body of scientific literature demonstrates positive long-term outcome of bariatric surgery in decreasing mental and physical health morbidity. to understand the impact of bariatric surgery on the risk of adverse mental health outcomes, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials that compared surgical and non-surgical treatments and assessed mental health quality of life (qol). the impact varied considerably across studies with bariatric surgery showing a significantly greater positive influence on physical quality of life compared to mental quality of life. bariatric surgery is effective in improving quality of life, especially when looking at physical well-being. 
Basophils counteract disease development in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). [SEP] here, we summarize what we have learned about the deleterious role of basophils in lupus both in a mouse model and in sle patients. recent advances in the understanding of the immune regulatory role of basophils in several auto immune conditions, including sle and ln, have demonstrated their involvement in the amplification of auto-antibody production and ln pathogenesis in both human sle and lupus-like mouse models. the present review summarizes the currently available literature describing dysregulation of basophil counts, basophil activation status and basophil activating factors in patients with sle and the involvement of basophils in the pathogenesis of sle. these results enable further studies to decipher molecular mechanisms by which basophils contribute to lupus progression. this study aimed to investigate the role of basophil activation in the development of sle based on studies in patients with sle and spontaneous lupus-prone mrl-lpr/lpr mice. thereafter, the effect of basophils on autoantibody production by b cells and th17 differentiation in sle were evaluated in vitro. finally, the effect of basophil depletion on the development of autoimmune disorders in spontaneous lupus-prone mrl-lpr/lpr mice was examined. basophils were also present in the lymph nodes and spleen of subjects with sle. basophils have been reported to infiltrate skin lesions in various skin diseases, but not in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). increased activation and decreased numbers of peripheral basophils were observed in sle patients compared with controls. 
Birth-weight is positively associated with breast cancer. [SEP] most, but not all, studies report a positive association between birth weight, as an indirect marker of prenatal hormone exposure, and offspring breast cancer risk, particularly premenopausal breast cancer. a significant association between birth weight and breast cancer was found equivalent to an increase in risk of 9% per 1,000 g increase in birth weight (95% ci 2-17). birth weight is positively associated with risk of breast cancer, indicating that prenatal factors are important in the etiology of breast cancer. exploring whether the positive association between birth weight and breast cancer risk differs by other breast cancer risk factors may help inform speculation about biological mechanism. based on conditional logistic regression analysis, breast cancer risk was positively associated with birth weight and with birth length (p for trend=0.02). previous studies have shown that woman's risk of breast cancer in later life is associated with her infants birth weights. giving birth to an infant with high birth weight was associated with increased breast cancer risk in later life, independently of mother's own birth weight and breast cancer risk factors and was also associated with a hormonal environment during pregnancy favoring future breast cancer development and progression. there is considerable evidence that birth weight is positively associated with breast cancer risk, and seven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) have been conclusively associated with this risk. although that many studies concluded that birth weight is positively related with breast cancer reinforcing the theory that breast cancer may originate in utero, some studies found no association. our study trend to show that the increased neonatal birth weight may influence future risk of breast cancer. 
Blocking the interaction between TDP-43 and respiratory complex I proteins ND3 and ND6 leads to increased TDP-43-induced neuronal loss. [SEP] in mitochondria, wild-type (wt) and mutant tdp-43 preferentially bind mitochondria-transcribed messenger rnas (mrnas) encoding respiratory complex i subunits nd3 and nd6, impair their expression and specifically cause complex i disassembly. the suppression of tdp-43 mitochondrial localization abolishes wt and mutant tdp-43-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal loss, and improves phenotypes of transgenic mutant tdp-43 mice. thus, our studies link tdp-43 toxicity directly to mitochondrial bioenergetics and propose the targeting of tdp-43 mitochondrial localization as a promising therapeutic approach for neurodegeneration. in addition, mutations at s409/410 of tdp-43 could inhibit its phosphorylation, attenuate nuclear loss, and abolish the increase in neuronal apoptosis in the subcortex. pathological neuronal inclusions of the 43-kda tar dna-binding protein (tdp-43) are implicated in dementia and motor neuron disorders; however, the molecular mechanisms of the underlying cell loss remain poorly understood. in contrast, impairment of the respiratory chain attenuated the lethality upon tdp-43 expression with a stringent correlation between cytotoxicity and the degree of respiratory capacity or mitochondrial dna stability. these combined findings implicate ip3-gated ca(2+) as a key regulator of tdp-43 nucleoplasmic shuttling and proteostasis and suggest pharmacologic inhibition of itpr1 as a strategy to combat tdp-43-induced neurodegeneration in vivo. aggregates of tdp-43 in cortical and spinal motorneurons in als, or in neurons of the frontal and temporal cortices in ftld, are closely linked to neuron loss and atrophy in these areas. expression of mutant tdp-43 was toxic to neurons, and mutant-specific toxicity was associated with increased cytoplasmic mislocalization of tdp-43. cellular survival was unaffected by the total amount of exogenous tdp-43 in the nucleus, but the amount of cytoplasmic tdp-43 was a strong and independent predictor of neuronal death. 
Bone marrow cells contribute to adult macrophage compartments. [SEP] in conclusion, we have demonstrated that bone marrow-derived fibroblasts originate from the monocyte/macrophage population via a process of mmt. macrophages have many functions in development and homeostasis as well as innate immunity. based upon rna-sequencing comparison to bone marrow-derived macrophages grown in csf1, we show that embryonic macrophages contribute around 2% of the total embryo rna in day 7 chick embryos, and have similar gene expression profiles to bone marrow-derived macrophages. conversely, bone marrow egfp+ cells gave rise to tissue macrophages in all organs of adult birds, and regenerated csf1-responsive marrow macrophage progenitors. two of the major cell types in bone marrow stroma, macrophages and fibroblasts, have been shown to be important regulators of both myelopoiesis and lymphopoiesis. the capacity of fetal bone marrow to form stromal cell colonies, granulocyte-macrophage colonies, stromal cell monolayers and to produce granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating activity from these monolayers was evaluated in comparison to adult bone marrow. data are summarized suggesting an inherent heterogeneity of bone marrow macrophage precursor cells. a hypothesis suggesting that the bone marrow compartment is involved in the generation of macrophage heterogeneity is presented. the level of monocytes/macrophages in the bone marrow of recipient mice was dependent on the cell origin, i.e., the donor splenocytes gave rise to significantly more monocytes/macrophages than the donor bone marrow cells. cell culture studies showed that the phenotype of macrophages derived from spleen is different from those of bone marrow. 
Breast cancer development is determined exclusively by genetic factors. [SEP] breast cancer is a major health concern for women in the u.s. several factors determine a woman's risk for developing breast cancer including age, genetics, hormonal exposure and others. many factors determine a woman's risk of breast cancer. the discovery of the brca1 and brca2 genes has explained some of the genetic determinants of breast cancer risk, but these genes alone do not explain all of the familial aggregation of breast cancer. growing points molecular determinants of breast cancer behaviour. role of predisposition of genetic variants in determining breast cancer phenotypes. biological differences in breast cancer from different ethnic groups. germline mutations in the tumour suppressor genes breast cancer antigen gene (brca)1 and brca2 have been proven to portend a drastically increased lifetime risk of breast and ovarian cancers in the individuals who carry them. if the same mutation is present in all our cells, why do some families with a given mutation display predominantly breast cancer? one deficiency plagues any approach to predicting breast cancer based on historical risk factors--exclusion of the 70% majority of women who develop breast cancer without any identifiable risk factors. many factors, both genetic and non-genetic, determine a woman's risk of developing breast cancer and several breast cancer risk prediction models have been proposed. 
CCL19 is absent within dLNs. [SEP] ccl19 and ccl21 were expressed at significantly higher levels in the dlns of recipients with inflamed graft beds. this effect was abolished by neutralizing ccl19 or ccl21. ccl19 and its receptor ccr7 are essential molecules for facilitating the trafficking of mature dendritic cells (dcs) and helping to establish a microenvironment in lymphoid tissues to initiate primary immune responses, whereas ccl17 is required in the ccr7-ccl19-dependent migration of dcs. plasmids encoding ccl17 (pccl17/vax) and ccl19 (pccl19/vax) were constructed. co-administration of the ccl17 and ccl19 genes in mice caused a greater increase in the number of mature dcs in the spleen and dlns compared with administration of ccl17 or ccl19 genes alone. this correlated with decreased expression of ccl19/21 transcripts in dlns. ccl19 and ccl21 are thought to be critical for experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae) induction, but their precise role is unknown. exogenous ccl19/ccl21 induced il-23p19 expression and il-23 production by plt/plt or wild-type dcs. however, whether ccl19/ccr7/aim2 is involved in the progression of gc still remains unclear. the dlns sign was not more common in those with nodal calcification. 
CHEK2 is not associated with breast cancer. [SEP] the identification of a chek2 gene signature implies an unexpected biological homogeneity among the chek2 1100delc breast cancers. this work highlights the adverse prognosis associated with breast cancer in carriers of chek2 pathogenic variants. chek2 mutation carriers reported a family history of breast cancer 2.2 times more commonly than non-carriers (16.4% vs.8.1%; p = 0.05). the association between the chek2 and breast cancer risk in chinese women is unknown. we have recently shown that the chek2*1100delc mutation acts as a low penetrance breast cancer susceptibility allele. to investigate if other chek2 variants confer an increased risk of breast cancer, we have screened an affected individual with breast cancer from 68 breast cancer families. this study provides further evidence that sequence variation in chek2 is associated with an increased risk of breast cancer, and implies that tumorigenesis in association with chek2 mutations does not involve loss of the wild type allele. the frame-shifting mutation 1100delc in the cell-cycle-checkpoint kinase 2 gene (chek2) has been reported to be associated with familial breast cancer in families in which mutations in brca1 and brca2 were excluded. the chek2.1100delc mutation may be a rare variant in chinese populations and may not contribute to predisposition for familial breast cancer in china. all available relatives in these two families were genotyped, but there was no evidence of co-segregation between the chek2 variant and breast cancer. 
CR is associated with higher methylation age. [SEP] we therefore tested whether life long cr prevents age-related hippocampal dna methylation changes. of the ∼40,000 differentially methylated cg and ∼80,000 ch sites with aging, >1/3 were prevented by cr and were found across genomic regulatory regions and gene pathways. cr also caused alterations to cg and ch methylation at sites not differentially methylated with aging, and these cr-specific changes demonstrated a different pattern of regulatory element and gene pathway enrichment than those affected by aging. these findings demonstrate that cr attenuates age-related cg and ch hippocampal methylation changes, in combination with cr-specific methylation that may also contribute to the neuroprotective effects of cr. the prevention of age-related methylation alterations is also consistent with the prolongevity effects of cr working through an epigenetic mechanism. our results demonstrate an effect of cr on the genome-wide methylation profile. thus, these findings suggest that short-term cr could partially ameliorate age-related methylation changes in promoters in old rats. therefore, the cr-induced epigenetic changes that ameliorate age-dependent aberrant methylation may be important to cr's health- and life-prolonging effects. we explored the associations between cr(vi) exposure, methylation modification of dna repair genes and their expression levels, and genetic damage. additionally, the ratio between 5-mc and 5-hmc decreased with age and cr treatment, suggesting that cr has a stronger effect on dna methylation than dna hydroxymethylation. 
CRP is not predictive of postoperative mortality following Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery. [SEP] the results herein suggest acceptable in-hospital as well short-term mortality in octogenarians with impaired ef following coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) and are comparable to recent literature where the mortality of younger patients was up to 15% and short-term mortality up to 40%, respectively. this study aims to investigate the effect of body mass index (bmi) on mortality and morbidity in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) surgery. according to this study, obesity does not lead to an increased risk of mortality and other adverse outcomes after cabg surgery. to investigate the effects of statin use in preoperative period on the development of ventricular fibrillation (vf) following the removal of aortic cross-clamp (acc) and on the levels of inflammation biomarker c-reactive protein (crp) in patients who undergo elective isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). octogenarians are deemed a high-risk patient population with increased postoperative morbidity and mortality following conventional cabg using cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb). although short- and long-term outcomes after elective coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg) has improved, emergency cabg after acute myocardial infarction (ami) does not always bring satisfactory prognosis. in emergency cabg, cardiogenic shock before surgery was most likely to influence hospital mortality. the present study was performed to investigate whether preoperative c-reactive protein (crp) predicted aki and the long-term rate of mortality in cabg. this retrospective cohort study included 1,656 patients whose high-sensitivity crps were measured before cabg at two tertiary referral centers from 2004 to 2010. preoperative crp level is a predictor of postoperative aki and mortality in patients undergoing cabg. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells impairs T cell survival [SEP] cx3cr1 deficiency affected neither antigen presentation nor t cell proliferation in vivo upon skin sensitization, but cx3cr1 expression by both th2 and th1 cells was required to induce ad. surprisingly, unlike in allergic asthma, where cx3cl1 and cx3cr1 regulate the pathology by controlling effector cd4(+) t cell survival within inflamed tissues, adoptive transfer experiments established cx3cr1 as a key regulator of cd4(+) t cell retention in inflamed skin, indicating a new function for this chemokine receptor. therefore, although cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 act through distinct mechanisms in different pathologies, our results further indicate their interest as promising therapeutic targets in allergic diseases. several reports have demonstrated that mouse cx3cr1 signaling promotes monocyte/macrophage survival. herein, we hypothesized that cx3cr1-m280 impairs human monocyte survival. cx3cl1 is a chemokine that is upregulated in some inflammatory diseases including allergic pathologies and that was recently demonstrated to provide a survival signal upon binding to its unique receptor cx3cr1. furthermore, tgfβ induced cx3cr1 mrna expression in wild-type cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. cx3cr1, the chemoattractant cytokine cx3cl1 receptor, plays an important role in modulating inflammatory responses, including monocyte homeostasis and macrophage phenotype and function. however, the role of cx3cr1 in the regulation of the tumor inflammatory microenvironment is not fully understood. cx3cr1 was preferentially expressed in th1 compared with th2 cells. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes T cell survival [SEP] cx3cr1 deficiency affected neither antigen presentation nor t cell proliferation in vivo upon skin sensitization, but cx3cr1 expression by both th2 and th1 cells was required to induce ad. surprisingly, unlike in allergic asthma, where cx3cl1 and cx3cr1 regulate the pathology by controlling effector cd4(+) t cell survival within inflamed tissues, adoptive transfer experiments established cx3cr1 as a key regulator of cd4(+) t cell retention in inflamed skin, indicating a new function for this chemokine receptor. therefore, although cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 act through distinct mechanisms in different pathologies, our results further indicate their interest as promising therapeutic targets in allergic diseases. we investigated the expression of cx3cr1 in gastric cancer tissues and non‑neoplastic gastric tissues in vivo and in gastric cancer cell lines and a gastric epithelial cell line in vitro, and then the functional roles of cx3cr1 in cellular metastasis, proliferation and survival were explored. we found that cx3cr1 signaling promoted t(h)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (bcl-2)-transduced cx3cr1-deficient t(h)2 cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored asthma. cx3cr1-induced survival was also observed for t(h)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. cx3cl1 is a chemokine that is upregulated in some inflammatory diseases including allergic pathologies and that was recently demonstrated to provide a survival signal upon binding to its unique receptor cx3cr1. cx3cr1 is expressed on monocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages, subsets of t lymphocytes, and natural killer cells and functions in diverse capacities such as leukocyte adhesion, migration, and cell survival on ligand binding. several reports have demonstrated that mouse cx3cr1 signaling promotes monocyte/macrophage survival. therefore the role of the cx3cl1/cx3cr1 has attracted interest as to the development of potential therapeutic approaches. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells promotes airway inflammation. [SEP] in people with asthma, a fraction of cd4(+) t cells express the cx3cl1 receptor, cx3cr1, and cx3cl1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. transfer of wt cd4(+) t cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and cx3cr1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in cx3cr1-deficient recipients injected with wt t(h)2 cells. we found that cx3cr1 signaling promoted t(h)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (bcl-2)-transduced cx3cr1-deficient t(h)2 cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored asthma. cx3cr1-induced survival was also observed for t(h)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. therefore, cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma. membrane-bound chemokine cx3cl1 is markedly induced on endothelial cells by inflammatory cytokines, and cx3cl1 levels are elevated in the bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) of subjects with asthma. recently, cx3cr1 (the receptor for cx3cl1) has been proposed as a target for airway inflammation, and the paper proposing this was evaluated. the paper established a link between cx3cr1 and asthma, as reducing the availability of cx3cr1, or inhibiting the responses mediated by the cx3cr1, resulted in reduced asthma in a mouse model. subsequently, further consideration can be given to the development of cx3cr1 as a target for airway inflammation in humans. airway inflammation is mainly mediated by t helper 2 cells (th2) that characteristically produce interleukin (il)-4, il-5, and il-13. 
CX3CR1 on the Th2 cells suppresses airway inflammation. [SEP] in people with asthma, a fraction of cd4(+) t cells express the cx3cl1 receptor, cx3cr1, and cx3cl1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle, lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. here we found that untreated cx3cr1-deficient mice or wild-type (wt) mice treated with cx3cr1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. transfer of wt cd4(+) t cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma, and cx3cr1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in cx3cr1-deficient recipients injected with wt t(h)2 cells. we found that cx3cr1 signaling promoted t(h)2 survival in the inflamed lungs, and injection of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (bcl-2)-transduced cx3cr1-deficient t(h)2 cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored asthma. cx3cr1-induced survival was also observed for t(h)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. therefore, cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma. recently, cx3cr1 (the receptor for cx3cl1) has been proposed as a target for airway inflammation, and the paper proposing this was evaluated. the paper established a link between cx3cr1 and asthma, as reducing the availability of cx3cr1, or inhibiting the responses mediated by the cx3cr1, resulted in reduced asthma in a mouse model. this suggests that agents blocking the cx3cr1 may be useful in the treatment of asthma. subsequently, further consideration can be given to the development of cx3cr1 as a target for airway inflammation in humans. 
Carriers of the alcohol aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency mutation drink less that non-carries. [SEP] significant differences in the incidence of aldehyde dehydrogenase isozyme i deficiency were observed between healthy controls and alcoholics in japan. blood acetaldehyde level after alcohol drinking was also found significantly higher in deficient subjects than in individuals without deficiency. among alcoholics, deficient subjects showed relatively less elevated blood acetaldehyde levels. higher percentage of aldehyde dehydrogenase isozyme deficiency was associated with lower per capita alcohol consumption. thus, individuals deficient in aldehyde dehydrogenase isozyme may consume less alcohol. actively drinking alcoholics had significantly lower erythrocyte aldehyde dehydrogenase activity than controls (p less than 0.01) but abstaining alcoholic liver disease and non-alcoholic liver disorder subjects did not. oriental males carrying the inactive aldh2(-) allele drink two-thirds less alcohol (6.1 +/- 1.5 vs. 18.2 +/- 2.8 drinks/4 weeks; p < 0.001), show one-third the prevalence of binge drinking (15.2 vs. 42.2%; p < 0.01), and are three times more likely to be abstainers (39.4 vs. 13.3%; p < 0.01) than oriental aldh2(+) males carrying the gene for the active enzyme. it is concluded that a single mutation in the high-affinity aldehyde dehydrogenase (aldh2) gene predicts two-thirds of the alcohol consumption and excessive alcohol use by oriental males born in north america. carriers of adh2*2 reported significantly fewer drinking days per month. results suggest that ashkenazic jewish americans with adh2*2 alleles drink less frequently, which might contribute, in part, to the overall lower rates of alcoholism in this population. 
Cataract and trachoma are the primary cause of blindness in Southern Sudan. [SEP] blindness and low vision are thought to be common in southern sudan. the main causes of blindness were considered to be cataract (41.2%) and trachoma (35.3%), whereas low vision was mainly caused by trachoma (58.1%) and cataract (29.3%). blindness in southern sudan is thought to be highly prevalent due to the high prevalence of onchocerciasis and trachoma. this paper describes one approach to define the prevalence and causes of vision loss in southern sudan. trachoma is a major cause of blindness in southern sudan. recent surveys have shown trachoma to be a serious cause of blindness in southern sudan. the high prevalence of active trachoma and trichiasis confirms the severe burden of blinding trachoma found in other post-conflict areas of southern sudan. the major cause is cataract; trachoma and glaucoma are also important causes of blindness. we have previously documented blinding trachoma to be a serious public health problem in southern sudan, with an unusually high prevalence of trachomatous trichiasis (tt) among children. the prevalence of trachoma with normal vision, low vision and blindness in the republic of south sudan has been estimated previously. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells does not occur in Galliformes. [SEP] the elements forming the x:a ratio in the soma and the genes tra, tra2, dsx, and ix that determine the sex of somatic cells have no similar role in the germline. we also show that the primary target for the somatic signaling pathway in germ cells can not be the sex-lethal gene. this is in contrast to sex determination in mammals, which largely acts nonautonomously through cell-cell signaling. surprisingly, we find that sex determination in the pigment cell precursors, as well as the male-specific somatic gonadal precursors, is non-cell autonomous. in vertebrates that have been examined to date, the sexual identity of germ cells is determined by the sex of gonadal somatic cells. in vertebrates so far examined, the sex of germ cells is determined by gonadal somatic cells. in contrast, xy germ cells experimentally transferred to an ovary do not differentiate oogenic cells. here we report that such germ cells respond to both cell-autonomous and somatic sex-determining signals, depending on the developmental stage. in contrast to the outcome for mammalian mixed-sex chimaeras, in chicken mixed-sex chimaeras the donor cells were excluded from the functional structures of the host gonad. our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous. 
Cell autonomous sex determination in somatic cells occurs in Passeriformes. [SEP] in drosophila, the sex of germ cells is determined by autonomous and inductive signals. sex determination in drosophila is commonly thought to be a cell-autonomous process, where each cell decides its own sexual fate based on its sex chromosome constitution (xx versus xy). surprisingly, we find that sex determination in the pigment cell precursors, as well as the male-specific somatic gonadal precursors, is non-cell autonomous. in drosophila, the sex of germ cells is determined by cell-autonomous and inductive signals. in vertebrates that have been examined to date, the sexual identity of germ cells is determined by the sex of gonadal somatic cells. here, we report a novel mechanism by which sex chromosomes cell-autonomously confer sexually different characters upon germ cells prior to gonad formation in a genetically sex-determined species. in vertebrates so far examined, the sex of germ cells is determined by gonadal somatic cells. thus, somatic signals determine the sex of genetically female germ cells. here we report that such germ cells respond to both cell-autonomous and somatic sex-determining signals, depending on the developmental stage. our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous. 
Cells lacking clpC have a defect in sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis. [SEP] based on the amino acid sequences of the bacillus subtilis clpc and clpp genes, we identified one clpc gene and two clpp genes (designated clpp1 and clpp2) in bacillus thuringiensis. inactivation of clpc in b. thuringiensis impaired sporulation efficiency. microscopic examination of clpp1 mutant cells grown at 25 degrees c showed altered bacterial division, with cells remaining attached after septum formation. here, we describe the role of clpc operon in bacillus anthracis. until now, bacillus subtilis was the only spore-former shown to carry such an insertion, and the presence of the insertion is not required for efficient sporulation in this organism. importance there is only one spovs gene in b. subtilis, and its effects on sporulation have been reported. we found that these two homologous spovs genes are highly conserved in the bacillus cereus group, and therefore, the functional characterization of spovs is helpful to better understand the sporulation processes of members of the bacillus cereus group. a b. subtilis strain with an insertion mutation in the citb gene was devoid of aconitase activity and aconitase protein, required glutamate for growth in minimal medium, and was unable to sporulate efficiently in nutrient broth sporulation medium. we have isolated mutations that block sporulation after formation of the polar septum in bacillus subtilis. in bacillus subtilis, a proteolytic machine composed of meca, clpc and clpp degrades the transcription factor comk, controlling its accumulation during growth. 
Cells undergoing methionine restriction may activate miRNAs. [SEP] we undertook the present studies to clarify the molecular mechanisms by which methionine restriction inhibits prostate cancer cell growth. previous studies have demonstrated that methionine restriction causes tumor cell growth arrest and eventually apoptosis. methionine restriction induced caspase-independent cell death in pc3 cells, whereas it stimulated caspase-dependent cell death in hela cells. in order to identify mirnas involved in satellite cell differentiation, we used a methionine depletion/replenishment protocol to synchronize myogenic cell differentiation. we performed a mirna array analysis of myogenic cells under three conditions: presence of methionine for 72 h (control), absence of methionine for 72 h (meth-) and absence of methionine for 48 h followed by 24 h of methionine replenishment (meth-/+). numerous in vitro and animal studies demonstrate the effectiveness of dietary methionine restriction in inhibiting growth and eventually causing death of cancer cells. preliminary findings from this trial indicate that dietary methionine restriction is safe and feasible for the treatment of patients with advanced cancer. restriction of methionine may be an important strategy in cancer growth control particularly in cancers that exhibit dependence on methionine for survival and proliferation. a growing body of evidence indicates that methionine restriction inhibits cancer cell growth and may enhance the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents. this review summarizes the efficacy and mechanism of action of methionine restriction on hallmarks of cancer in vitro and in vivo. 
Cellular aging closely links to an older appearance. [SEP] in older patients, hf is closely linked to processes inherent to aging, which include cellular and structural changes to the myocardium, vasculature, and skeletal muscle. age-associated changes in immunity, which are manifested by a reduced immune response and a greater frequency of autoimmune events, are closely linked to the pathology of ageing. ageing of the immune system is accompanied by suppression of cellular and humoral elements of older individuals, as demonstrated clearly by experiments involving heterochronic parabiosis and heterochronic transplantation of cells and organs (thymus, spleen and bone marrow). organismal aging is classically viewed as a gradual decline of cellular functions and a systemic deterioration of tissues that leads to an increased mortality rate in older individuals. according to the prevailing theory, aging is accompanied by a continuous and progressive decline in mitochondrial metabolic activity in cells. to understand the effects of aging on cellular motility of human periodontal ligament (pdl) cells, and to determine the possible link between cell proliferation and migration in relation to cellular aging. organismal aging is accompanied by a host of progressive metabolic alterations and an accumulation of senescent cells, along with functional decline and the appearance of multiple diseases. this implies that the metabolic features of cell senescence may contribute to the organism's metabolic changes and be closely linked to age-associated diseases, especially metabolic syndromes. here, we review key metabolic features and regulators of cellular senescence, focusing on mitochondrial dysfunction and anabolic deregulation, and their link to other senescence phenotypes and aging. as these individuals become older, cellular senescence leads to a state of chronic inflammation. 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment increases whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] severe burn trauma is characterized by an elevated rate of whole-body energy expenditure. the effect of an infusion of norepinephrine (0.42 nmol.kg-1.min-1) on energy metabolism in the whole body (using indirect calorimetry and the arteriovenous forearm catheterization techniques in eight healthy young male adults. the activity of the triglyceride-fatty acid cycle increased fourfold after norepinephrine administration, having a marginal effect on resting energy expenditure (approximately 1.5%) but accounting for approximately 15% of the increase in whole body energy expenditure. uchl3(-/-) mice given both a normal chow and an hfd had an increased whole-body energy expenditure accounting for the reduction of adipose tissue mass. activation of amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) in skeletal muscle has been reported to increase fatty acid beta-oxidation, leading to the elevation of the whole-body energy expenditure. here we examined the effects of oral supplementation of the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid (cdca) on human bat activity. whole-body energy expenditure was also increased upon cdca treatment. hyperthyroidism increases energy expenditure, glucose turnover, lipolysis, and protein breakdown. either of the two treatments produces similar increases in rates of fatty acid oxidation in extrahepatic tissues, i.e., skeletal muscle, leading to an elevation of energy expenditure. the step at which hepatic glycolysis is enhanced dramatically influences overall whole-body energy balance and lipid profiles. 
Chenodeosycholic acid treatment reduces whole-body energy expenditure. [SEP] reducing obesity requires an elevation of energy expenditure and/or a suppression of food intake. here we show that enhancing hepatic glycolysis reduces body weight and adiposity in obese mice. either of the two treatments produces similar increases in rates of fatty acid oxidation in extrahepatic tissues, i.e., skeletal muscle, leading to an elevation of energy expenditure. however, only 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase overexpression causes a suppression of food intake and a decrease in hypothalamic neuropeptide y expression, contributing to a more pronounced reduction of body weight with this treatment. the meal-induced energy expenditure was significantly lower in patients given propranolol [15.0 +/- 18.9 vs. 67.0 +/- 26.1 kj/120 min (means +/- sd), p < 0.01]. propranolol reduces meal-induced whole body oxygen uptake and energy expenditure as well as splanchnic oxygen uptake. mice treated with anti-asp showed elevated energy expenditure (p < 0.0001), increased skeletal muscle glucose oxidation (+141%, p < 0.001), reduced liver glycogen (-34%, p < 0.05) and glucose-6-phosphate content (-64%, p = 0.08) compared to control mice. whole-body arhgap21-haplodeficient mice showed lower body weight and food intake associated with increased energy expenditure. these results indicate that reduced mitochondrial coupling is associated with positive residual energy expenditure and high rates of total energy expenditure in vivo. it was reported recently that 4 weeks of dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea) treatment [5.55 mmol/day (1600 mg/day), orally] reduced body fat and increased lean body mass in healthy men. 
Chronic aerobic exercise alters endothelial function, improving vasodilating mechanisms mediated by NO. [SEP] regular aerobic exercise is an effective lifestyle strategy for improving endothelial function and, in turn, reducing cardiovascular risk. we tested the hypotheses that regular aerobic exercise would 1) improve endothelial vasodilation and 2) decrease endothelin (et)-1-mediated vasoconstrictor tone in middle-aged adults who chronically sleep <7 h/night. exercise training preserved normal hemodynamics at rest, endothelium-mediated vasodilator function, and gene expression of ecnos (0.72+/-0.16 versus normal, p=ns). although the role of endothelium-derived no in acute exercise has not been fully resolved, exercise training involving repetitive bouts of exercise over weeks or months up-regulates endothelial no bioactivity. in humans, exercise training improves endothelium-dependent vasodilator function, not only as a localised phenomenon in the active muscle group, but also as a systemic response when a relatively large mass of muscle is activated regularly during an exercise training programme. the aim of this manuscript is to summarise hf studies evaluating the influence of exercise training on endothelial function as measured by flow mediated vasodilation as a primary outcome and to provide recommendations for future research studies designed to improve peripheral vascular function in hf. aerobic, resistance, or combined exercise training improved endothelium-dependent vasodilation as measured by ultrasound or plethysmography. aerobic exercise induces e-nos expression and improves the endothelial-dependent relaxation in normal as well as cardiac patients. the improved endothelial vasoreactivity is correlated with enhanced functional capacity after moderate aerobic exercise, suggesting an important pathophysiological role of oxygen transport in exercise tolerance. based on the results of the present study, aerobic exercises improve the endothelial function of coronary arteries and thereby the vascular vasomotion function, while the results of this meta-analysis showed no change in arterial smooth muscle's function by chronic aerobic exercises. 
Cold exposure increases BAT recruitment. [SEP] unexpectedly, prolonged exposure to cold restores the thermogenic profile and function of ebf2 mutant bat. adipocyte-specific deletion of both ebf1 and ebf2 abolishes bat recruitment during chronic cold exposure. acute cold exposure increased energy expenditure in humans with metabolically active bat, but not those without it. when individuals without active bat were exposed to cold every day for 6 weeks, bat was recruited in association with increased energy expenditure and decreased body fat. cold-induced increments of ee (cit) strongly correlated with bat activity independently of age and fat-free mass. daily 2-hour cold exposure at 17°c for 6 weeks resulted in a parallel increase in bat activity and cit and a concomitant decrease in body fat mass. human bat is activated by acute cold exposure, being positively correlated to cold-induced increases in ee. in fact, repeated cold exposure recruits bat in association with increased energy expenditure and decreased body fatness. human bat is activated by acute cold exposure, being positively correlated to cold-induced increases in energy expenditure. cold exposure activates and recruits bat in association with increased energy expenditure and decreased body fatness. 
Cold exposure reduces BAT recruitment. [SEP] acute cold exposure increased energy expenditure in humans with metabolically active bat, but not those without it. when individuals without active bat were exposed to cold every day for 6 weeks, bat was recruited in association with increased energy expenditure and decreased body fat. the stimulatory effect of cold exposure on glucose utilization in bat was prevented by sympathetic denervation. in denervated bat, cold exposure conversely decreased the number of glucose transporters in the plasma membranes. adipocyte-specific deletion of both ebf1 and ebf2 abolishes bat recruitment during chronic cold exposure. cold exposure is a physiological activator of bat. human bat is activated by acute cold exposure, being positively correlated to cold-induced increases in ee. cold-induced increments of ee (cit) strongly correlated with bat activity independently of age and fat-free mass. daily 2-hour cold exposure at 17°c for 6 weeks resulted in a parallel increase in bat activity and cit and a concomitant decrease in body fat mass. in fact, repeated cold exposure recruits bat in association with increased energy expenditure and decreased body fatness. 
Combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion lead to significantly higher long-term abstinence rates at 52 weeks than varenicline monotherapy. [SEP] the retrospective study displayed higher success rates (continuous abstinence rates at 52 weeks) with combination varenicline and bupropion (55.0%; compared to varenicline monotherapy (32.1%), p < 0.001). combination bupropion sr and varenicline displayed greater efficacy in smoking cessation than varenicline monotherapy, though further safety analysis is warranted to rule out additive psychiatric adverse effects. bupropion was combined in patients that did not achieve complete tobacco abstinence in 2 or 3 weeks after starting varenicline use or if the patient presented uncomfortable abstinent symptoms. in two well designed, phase iii trials, 12 weeks' treatment with varenicline was associated with significantly higher continuous abstinence rates at weeks 9-12 than placebo or bupropion sustained-release (sr). in the longer term, continuous abstinence rates for weeks 9 through 52 demonstrated that the odds of remaining abstinent were 2.7 to 3.1 times higher with 12 weeks of varenicline treatment than with placebo; the significant difference between varenicline and bupropion sr was also maintained in the longer term in one trial. this review compared the effect of high-dose nicotine replacement therapy (nrt) and combinations of nrt for increasing smoking abstinence rates compared to standard-dose nrt patch, varenicline, and bupropion on smoking abstinence. among cigarette smokers, combined use of varenicline and bupropion, compared with varenicline alone, increased prolonged abstinence but not 7-day point prevalence at 12 and 26 weeks. in the 2 smoking cessation studies, varenicline significantly increased the 4-week continuous abstinence rate during weeks 9 to 12 relative to placebo and bupropion. significantly higher abstinence rates were also found with varenicline in comparison to both placebo and bupropion sr at the end of a 40-week non-treatment follow-up period. in the two trials also including a group treated with bupropion, the one-year abstinence rate was significantly higher with varenicline than bupropion in one trial and also in a combined analysis of the two trials. 
Combining phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase and MEK 1/2 inhibitors is effective at treating KRAS mutant tumors. [SEP] we show that pd0325901, a small-molecule mek inhibitor, decreases mek/erk pathway signaling and destabilizes cyclin d1, resulting in significant anticancer activity in a subset of kras mutant tumors in vitro and in vivo. mutational activation of pik3ca, which commonly co-occurs with kras mutation, provides resistance to mek inhibition through reactivation of akt signaling. furthermore, the growth of kras mutant tumors with coexistent pik3ca mutations in vivo is profoundly inhibited with combined pharmacologic inhibition of mek and akt. these data suggest that tumors with both kras and phosphoinositide 3-kinase mutations are unlikely to respond to the inhibition of the mek pathway alone but will require effective inhibition of both mek and phosphoinositide 3-kinase/akt pathway signaling. collectively, feedback activation of mapk by fgfr1 signaling mitigates the effect of mek inhibitor in mesenchymal-like kras mutant lung tumors, and combinations of clinically available fgfr1 inhibitors and mapk inhibitors constitute a therapeutic approach to treat these cancers effectively. broad cell line profiling with raf/mek inhibitor combinations revealed synergistic efficacy in kras mutant and wild-type tumors, with krasg13d mutants exhibiting greater synergy versus krasg12 mutant tumors. therapeutically, the combination of a mek inhibitor (meki) and an fgfr inhibitor (fgfri) induced cell death in vitro and tumor regressions in vivo these data establish the rationale and a therapeutic approach to treat mesenchymal-like kras-mutant lung cancers effectively with clinically available fgfr1 and mapk inhibitors. combined mtor, igf1r, and mek inhibition inhibits the principal signaling pathways required for the survival of kras-mutant cells and produces marked tumor regression in three different kras-driven lung cancer mouse models. using a panel of non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) lines, we show here that map-erk kinase (mek) and raf inhibitors are selectively toxic for the kras-mutant genotype, whereas phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k), akt, and mtor inhibitors are not. kras is needed for both mek and pi3k pathway activity in kras-mutant, but not wild-type, lung cancer cells, whereas acute activation of kras causes stimulation of pi3k dependent upon igf1r kinase activity. 
Commelina yellow mottle virus' (ComYMV) genome consists of 7489 baise pairs. [SEP] we have characterized the viral transcript and determined the complete sequence of the genome of commelina mellow mottle virus (coymv), a member of this group. we have demonstrated that a construct containing 1.3 coymv genomes is infective when introduced into commelina diffusa, the host for coymv, using agrobacterium-mediated infection. it is very likely that cssv is a member of the commelina yellow mottle virus group. its genomic sequence indicates that it is a distinct member of the genus badnavirus, with 7932bp and seven orfs, the first three corresponding in size and location to the orfs found in the type member commelina yellow mottle virus. the viral genome of soybean yellow mottle mosaic virus (symmv) from infected soybean (glycine max) in korea was cloned and sequenced. the complete monopartite single-stranded rna genome of symmv consists of 4009 base pairs with six putative open reading frames and includes 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions of 39 and 229 nucleotides, respectively. the nucleotide and coat protein sequences of symmv share the highest sequence identity with those of cowpea mottle virus. tubular structures containing bacilliform virions were observed in cell-free extracts of commelina diffusa infected with commelina yellow mottle badnavirus (coymv). a complete episomal viral genome sequence in symptomatic m. japonica plants was identified, and the name "metaplexis yellow mottle-associated virus" is proposed for this virus. the commelina yellow mottle virus (coymv) infects the monocot weed commelina diffusa. 
Crossover hot spots are not found within gene promoters in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. [SEP] prdm9 directs human meiotic crossover hot spots to intergenic sequence motifs, whereas budding yeast hot spots overlap regions of low nucleosome density (lnd) in gene promoters. crossovers increased toward gene promoters and terminators, and hot spots were associated with active chromatin modifications, including h2a.z, histone h3 lys4 trimethylation (h3k4me3), lnd and low dna methylation. crossovers were asymmetric around promoters and were most frequent over ctt-repeat motifs and h2a.z nucleosomes. meiotic reciprocal recombination (crossing over) was examined in the outermost 60-80 kb of almost all saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosomes. thus, the distribution of crossovers in s. cerevisiae appears to resemble that found in several higher eukaryotes where the outermost chromosomal regions show increased crossing over. initiation of meiotic recombination in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae occurs by localized dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) at several locations in the genome, corresponding to hot spots for meiotic gene conversion and crossing over. deletion of the promoter in cis to m26 abolishes hot spot activity, while deletion in trans to m26 has no effect. homozygous deletion of the promoter also eliminates m26 hot spot activity, indicating that the heterology created through deletion of the promoter per se is not responsible for the loss of hot spot activity. this break is absent in strains in which the transcription factors rap1p, bas1p, and bas2p cannot bind to the region upstream of his4. crossovers at this hot spot are not obviously affected by a large insertion/deletion polymorphism near the hot spot. 
Crosstalk between dendritic cells (DCs) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) is important in the regulation of intestinal homeostasis. [SEP] our results outline the complex role of dcs and ilcs in the regulation of intestinal th17 cell homeostasis. dendritic cells (dcs) play an integral role in regulating mucosal immunity and homeostasis, but the signaling network mediating this function of dcs is poorly defined. recently, accumulating evidence supports that ilcs are vital regulators for gastrointestinal mucosal homeostasis through interactions with other structural and stromal cells in gut epithelial barriers. this review will explore the functions of ilcs and other cells in maintaining gut homeostasis and feature the crosstalk between ilcs with other cells and potential pharmacotherapy targeting ilcs applicable in intestinal innate immunity. innate lymphoid cells (ilcs) have emerged as important players, regulating the balance between protective immunity and immunopathology at mucosal surfaces. il-22-producing ilcs were predominantly located in lymphoid follicles in the colon and interacted closely with dendritic cells (dcs). recently, an emerging family of innate lymphoid cells (ilcs) has been identified at mucosal sites contributing to the maintenance of gut homeostasis and intestinal immunopathology. our findings reveal that commensal microbes promote a crosstalk between innate myeloid and lymphoid cells that leads to immune homeostasis in the intestine. innate lymphoid cells (ilcs) are a novel family of innate immune cells that act as key coordinators of intestinal mucosal surface immune defense and are essential for maintaining intestinal homeostasis and barrier integrity by responding to locally produced effector cytokines or direct recognition of exogenous or endogenous danger patterns. many studies have demonstrated the occurrence of crosstalk between ilcs and intestinal microbiota, and ilcs have recently been shown to be connected to the enteric nervous system (ens). 
Cytochrome c is released from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to cytosol during apoptosis. [SEP] the release of two mitochondrial proteins, cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (aif), into the soluble cytoplasm of cells undergoing apoptosis is well established. the bcl-2-sensitive release of proteins such as cytochrome c from the mitochondrial intermembrane space into the cytosol is a critical early event in apoptosis. we investigated the role of the mitochondrial inner membrane permeability transition and subsequent release of cytochrome c into the cytosol during oxidative stress-evoked apoptosis. an essential role of cytosolic cytochrome c in the execution of apoptosis was demonstrated by its direct microinjection into the cytosol, thus bypassing the need for cytochrome c release from the mitochondrial intermembrane space. translocation of proteins from the mitochondrial intermembrane space to the cytoplasm is a critical event during apoptosis. during apoptosis, an important pathway leading to caspase activation involves the release of cytochrome c from the intermembrane space of mitochondria. the release of mitochondrial intermembrane space proteins to the cytosol is a key event during apoptosis. in apoptosis the mitochondrial outer membrane becomes permeable, leading to release of apoptogenic factors into the cytosol. cytosolic cytochrome c is necessary for the initiation of the apoptotic program, suggesting a possible connection between bcl-2 and cytochrome c, which is normally located in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. cells undergoing apoptosis were found to have an elevation of cytochrome c in the cytosol and a corresponding decrease in the mitochondria. 
Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for DMT1. Cytosolic proteins bind to iron-responsive elements on mRNAs coding for proteins involved in iron uptake. [SEP] transferrin receptor (tfr1) and divalent metal transporter 1 (dmt1) are important proteins for cellular iron uptake, and both are regulated transcriptionally through the binding of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (hif-1) to hypoxia-responsive elements (hres) under hypoxic conditions. these proteins are also regulated post-transcriptionally through the binding of iron regulatory protein 1 (irp1) to iron-responsive elements (ires) located in the mrna untranslated region (utr) to control cellular iron homeostasis. in iron-deficient cells, irp1-ire interactions stabilize tfr1 and dmt1 mrnas, enhancing iron uptake. iron regulatory protein 1 (irp1) binds iron-responsive elements (ires) in messenger rnas (mrnas), to repress translation or degradation, or binds an iron-sulfur cluster, to become a cytosolic aconitase enzyme. the uv cross-linking rna immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that aco2 directly bound to the mrnas of iron uptake transporters. in low-iron conditions, the cytosolic iron-regulatory protein irp1 binds to iron-responsive elements (ires) in mrnas encoding iron-regulated proteins. divalent metal transporter 1 (dmt1) and transferrin receptor (tfr1) are vital proteins for cellular iron uptake. besides, iron regulatory protein 1 (irp1) regulates dmt1 and tfr1 by binding to iron-responsive elements (ires) present in their mrnas to control cellular iron homeostasis. divalent metal transporter 1 (dmt1) at the apical membrane of intestinal enterocyte brings in non-heme iron from the diet, whereas ferroportin 1 (fpn1) at the basal membrane exports iron into the circulation. inside the cells, iron regulatory proteins (irps) modulate the expressions of dmt1, tfr1, ferritin, and fpn1 via binding to the iron-responsive element (ire) in their mrnas. 
DMRT1 is a sex-determining gene that is epigenetically regulated by the MHM region. [SEP] gene expression profiles were obtained before, during, and after gonadal sex differentiation in females and males for dmrt1, sox3, sox9, dax1, scii, hintz, hintw, and the male hypermethylated (mhm) region. mhm was upregulated and dmrt1 was downregulated in females at the same developmental stage. this may indicate a regulation of dmrt1 by mhm ncrna. this study reports on the mhm expression profile during gonadal development and its correlation with the expression of genes involved in vertebrate sex determination. the male hypemethylated (mhm) region, associated with sex-specific dna methylation and histone acetylation, encodes non-coding rnas that are expressed exclusively on z chromosome in female chickens. the mhm (male hypermethylated) region on the chicken z chromosome is of interest in terms of sex determination both because hypermethylation of the promoter in males results in female-specific expression, and in females the non-coding transcripts accumulate in the region of a locus that encodes a key candidate gene for testis differentiation in birds - dmrt1. mhm is a chicken z chromosome-linked locus that is methylated and transcriptionally silent in male cells, but is hypomethylated and transcribed into a long non-coding rna in female cells. in males, mhm mis-expression impairs gonadal expression of the testis gene, dmrt1. in order to get insights into the role of dmrt1 in sex determination/differentiation, we have isolated dmrt1 mouse homologue (dmrt1) and analysed its expression pattern. nevertheless, dmrt1 localizes very close to the deletion breakpoint and has a pattern of expression compatible with a role in sex determination. 
De novo assembly of sequence data has more specific contigs than unassembled sequence data. [SEP] direct analysis of unassembled genomic data could greatly increase the power of short read dna sequencing technologies and allow comparative genomics of organisms without a completed reference available. localized de novo assembly of informative kmers greatly reduces the complexity of large comparative analyses by confining the analysis to a small partition of data and genomes relevant to the specific question, allowing direct analysis of next-gen sequence data from previously unstudied genomes and rapid discovery of informative candidate regions. de novo assembly is the best approach to achieve an accurate finished sequence, but multiple sequencing platforms or paired-end libraries are often required to achieve full genome coverage. in an effort to maximise the diversity and completeness of de novo assembled transcripts, we utilised four de novo transcriptome assemblers, transabyss, trinity, soapdenovo-trans, and oases, using a range of k-mer sizes and different input rna-seq read counts. to achieve a high quality transcriptome, it is advantageous to implement and combine the output from as many different de novo assemblers as possible. this study demonstrates that, in practice, de novo assembly of 36-nucleotide reads can generate reasonably accurate assemblies from about 40 x deep sequence data sets. de novo assembly of a eukaryotic genome with next-generation sequencing data is still a challenging task. multiple de novo assemblies and mappings against multiple related genomes, by optimizing a weighted combination of criteria. de novo assembly tools play a main role in reconstructing genomes from next-generation sequencing (ngs) data and usually yield a number of contigs. we performed de novo assembly after filtering the raw data. 
Deamination of cytidine to uridine on the minus strand of viral DNA results in catastrophic G-to-A mutations in the viral genome. [SEP] the g-->a mutations result either from c-->u deamination of the minus strand or deamination of both strands followed by repair of the plus strand. in the dna deamination model, aid converts cytidine bases in dna into uridine. it deaminates cytidine to uridine in nascent minus-strand viral dna, inducing g-to-a hypermutation in the plus-strand dna of hiv-1. g --> a hypermutated hbv genomes were recovered from transfection experiments involving apobec3b, -3c, -3f, and -3g indicating that all four enzymes were able to extensively deaminate cytidine residues in minus-strand dna. the apobec-aid family of cytidine deaminase prefers single-stranded nucleic acids for cytidine-to-uridine deamination. cytidine deaminases inhibit replication of a broad range of dna viruses by deaminating cytidines on single-stranded dna (ssdna) to generate uracil. in the present study, we found that in hbv-producing hepad38 and hepg2.2.15 cell lines, endogenous cytidine deaminases edited 10 to 25% of hbv rcdna genomes, asymmetrically with almost all mutations on the 5' half of the minus strand. our results show that pathogen-induced deamination of cytidine and the dna-damage response to virus-mediated repair of the incorporation of uridine enhance the recognition of hiv-infected cells by nk cells. one mechanism of this restriction is deamination of cytidines to uridines in (-) strand dna, resulting in hypermutation of guanosines to adenosines in viral (+) strands. apobec3g deaminates deoxycytidines in minus strand dna to deoxyuridines, resulting in g to a hypermutation and viral inactivation. 
Deleting Raptor reduces G-CSF levels. [SEP] endothelial cell-specific raptor deletion results in reduced relaxation responses evoked by acetylcholine in the aorta but not in the mesenteric artery. smooth muscle cell-specific conditional deletion of raptor reduces both endothelial- and smooth muscle-dependent relaxation responses as well as receptor-dependent and -independent contractility in the aorta. in this study, we first deleted raptor, a unique and essential component of mtorc1, in primary calvarial cells. deletion of raptor resulted in loss of mtorc1 but an increase in mtorc2 signaling without overtly affecting autophagy. qpcr analyses revealed that deletion of raptor reduced the expression of late-stage markers for osteoblast differentiation (bglap, ibsp, and col1a), while slightly increasing early osteoblast markers (runx2, sp7, and alpl). previously, we reported s6 kinase phosphorylation to be reduced by over-expression of the cterminally deleted raptor mutant (raptor-δct) not binding to mtor or lst8, while phosphorylation levels of akt were markedly enhanced with no alteration in irs-1 phosphorylation or pi 3-kinase activity. over-expression of raptor-δct abolished formation of the raptor, s6 kinase, mtor and lst8 complex, while the amount of lst8 in the rictor-mtor complex was increased. we found that myeloid-specific deletion of raptor, an essential component of the mammalian/mechanistic target of rapamycin complex (mtorc)1, resulted in a marked decrease of this population of cells accompanying altered phenotypic features and impaired phagocytosis activity. ki-67 and annexin v stainings revealed a faster turnover rate and increased apoptosis of raptor-deficient lcs, which might additionally affect the preservation of the lc network. systemic increases in g-csf contributed to the inflammatory responses, because deletion of the g-csf gene [colony stimulating factor 3, (csf3)] prevented neutrophilia and partially ameliorated the inflamed skin in prdm1-deficient mice. 
Deletion of αvβ8 does not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype. [SEP] treg-cell-specific deletion of integrin αvβ8 did not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype, suggesting that this pathway is not important in treg-cell-mediated maintenance of immune homeostasis. however, treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic t cell responses during active inflammation. to establish kidney αvβ8 function, mice with homozygous itgb8 deletion (itgb8(-/-)) were generated on outbred and c57bl/6 congenic backgrounds. immunohistochemistry for integrin αvβ8 in healthy and injured human liver demonstrated that human hepatocytes express integrin αvβ8. here we show that conditional deletion of αvβ8 from the central nervous system (itgb8δcns mice) blocks microglia in their normal stepwise development from immature precursors to mature microglia. th17 cells were nearly absent in the colons of mice lacking αvβ8 expression on dcs. importantly, mice lacking αvβ8 on dcs showed near-complete protection from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. our results therefore suggest that the integrin αvβ8 pathway is biologically important and that αvβ8 expression on dcs could be a therapeutic target for the treatment of th17-driven autoimmune disease. here, we examine αvβ8 for atypical binding to pro-tgf-β1. in contrast to αvβ6, αvβ8 has a constitutive extended-closed conformation, and binding to pro-tgf-β1 does not stabilize the open conformation of its headpiece. 
Dexamethasone decreases risk of postoperative bleeding. [SEP] to determine whether dexamethasone use in children undergoing tonsillectomy is associated with increased risk of postoperative bleeding. systematic reviews have shown that dexamethasone does not increase risk of posttonsillectomy bleeding. although perioperative administration of dexamethasone is common, recent data indicate a possible association between dexamethasone and increased risk of postoperative hemorrhage. the association between any dexamethasone dose and bleeding outcomes was quantified. to use meta-analytic techniques to examine the effect of dexamethasone on the risk of postoperative bleeding following tonsillectomy. the results of this meta-analysis indicate that perioperative dexamethasone does not confer an increased risk of postoperative bleeding in patients undergoing tonsillectomy. the aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the efficacy of dexamethasone with controlled hypotension on intraoperative bleeding and postoperative morbidity in rhinoplasty. three doses of dexamethasone with controlled hypotension considerably reduced postoperative morbidities of rhinoplasty with osteotomy as well as intraoperative bleeding. dexamethasone is a frequently administered intraoperatively as an adjunctive agent to decrease inflammation and pain, limit the potential for postoperative nausea and vomiting, and improve the overall postoperative course. the following manuscript reviews the use of dexamethasone to improve outcomes following tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy, discusses the controversies regarding its potential association with perioperative bleeding, and investigates options for dosing regimens which may maintain the beneficial physiologic effects while limiting the potential for bleeding. 
Diabetic patients with acute coronary syndrome experience increased short-term and long-term risk for bleeding events. [SEP] major bleeding in the setting of acute coronary syndromes and percutaneous coronary intervention has been associated with increased short-term and long-term risk for adverse cardiac events and mortality. not only does bleeding result in an immediate threat, but it is also associated with increased coronary artery disease mortality and reinfarction, both in the short and long term. older patients and women, as well as patients with anemia, renal dysfunction, high-risk acs, diabetes, hypertension and those undergoing invasive procedures, are at especially high risk for bleeding. major bleeding is associated with a 60% increased risk of in-hospital death, and a fivefold increase in one-year mortality and reinfarction. however, the causal link between bleeding and increased coronary artery disease events is unproven. continuation with dapt was greater among patients with additional cardiovascular risk factors, which suggests that treating physicians in spain prioritizes ischemic risk reduction over bleeding risk in patients with acs, according to patient's risk profile. in the subgroup of patients with acute coronary syndrome, there was no significant difference in the incidence of cardiac death, net adverse clinical and cerebral events (nacce) and major bleeding between short-term and long-term dapt. it was worth noting that in the subgroup of patients with diabetes mellitus, short-term dapt was associated with a higher incidence of myocardial infarction [or = 2.64, 95% ci (1.19, 5.88), p = 0.02] and nacce [or = 1.92, 95% ci (1.07, 3.43), p = 0.03]. bleeding complications of antithrombotic therapy are associated with a substantial increase in adverse short- and long-term outcomes. : patients experiencing an acute coronary syndrome are exposed to an increased residual risk of recurrent coronary events. 
Discrimination between the initiator and elongation tRNAs depends on the translation initiation factor IF3. [SEP] 70s ribosomes accept both initiator trna and elongator trnas on natural mrnas, much like 30s ribosomal subunits; if3 and if2 do not, however, select the initiator trna on 70s initiation complexes unless the initiation factor if1 is present. initiation factors are used by escherichia coli to select the initiator trna over elongator trnas during translation initiation. changes made in the anticodon stem, the anticodon loop, or the anticodon of an initiator trna fragment result in a loss of selection by if3 in an in vitro assay for translation initiation. however, extension inhibition experiments (toeprinting) showed that if3 retained its ability to discriminate between initiator and elongator trnas on mutated subunits. these results indicate that if3 ensures the accuracy of initiation by inspecting both the codon-anticodon pairing and unique features of the initiator trna as well as suppressing initiation from other potential start sites within the mrna. as the initiator trna participates both in the initiation and elongation of translation in a rit1 strain, we conclude that the 2'-o-ribosyl phosphate modification discriminates the initiator trnas from the elongator trnas during protein synthesis. initiation with an elongator trna may lead to frameshift and an aberrant n-terminal sequence in the nascent protein. using the escherichia coli model, we show that the change of r131 in if3 optimizes initiation with the au/gc/gu i-trnas. initiation of translation involves the assembly of a ribosome complex with initiator trna bound to the peptidyl site and paired to the start codon of the mrna. bacterial translation initiation factor 3 (if3) is involved in the fidelity of translation initiation at several levels, including start-codon discrimination, mrna translation, and initiator-trna selection. 
Downregulation and mislocalization of Scribble prevents cell transformation and mammary tumorigenesis. [SEP] here, we demonstrate that depletion of scribble in mammary epithelia disrupts cell polarity, blocks three-dimensional morphogenesis, inhibits apoptosis, and induces dysplasia in vivo that progress to tumors after long latency. loss of scribble cooperates with oncogenes such as c-myc to transform epithelial cells and induce tumors in vivo by blocking activation of an apoptosis pathway. like depletion, mislocalization of scribble from cell-cell junction was sufficient to promote cell transformation. interestingly, spontaneous mammary tumors in mice and humans possess both downregulated and mislocalized scribble. thus, we demonstrate that scribble inhibits breast cancer formation and that deregulation of polarity pathways promotes dysplastic and neoplastic growth in mammals by disrupting morphogenesis and inhibiting cell death. by utilizing a construct that carries a mutation in the lrr domain of scribble (scribble p305l) resulting in a cytosolic rather than the usual membrane-bound localization, we report that discrete tumor suppressive properties of scribble are differentially sensitive to the localization of scribble. the cell polarity protein scribble (scrib) is a crucial regulator of polarization, cell migration and tumorigenesis. thus, we demonstrate that high levels of mislocalized scrib functions as a neomorph to promote mammary tumorigenesis by affecting subcellular localization of pten and activating an akt/mtor/s6kinase signaling pathway. scribble (scrib) is a tumor-suppressor protein, playing critical roles in establishing and maintaining epithelial cell polarity. scrib is frequently amplified in human cancers but does not localize properly to cell-cell junctions, suggesting that mislocalization of scrib disrupts its tumor-suppressive activities. 
During the primary early antibody response activated B cells migrate toward the inner-and outer paracortical areas where oxysterol accumulation is generated by stromal cells. [SEP] after infection, the do11.10 t cells accumulated in the t cell-rich paracortical regions of the draining lymph nodes, proliferated there for several days, and then moved into the b cell-rich follicles before they slowly disappeared from the lymph nodes. it is suggested that t-nodules represent the paracortical counterparts of b-lymphoid follicles and are the in vivo equivalents of dc/t-cell clusters observed in vitro. according to their cellular composition and localization in the lymph node, "primary" and "secondary" t-nodules probably represent subsequent maturation stages of distinctive nodular paracortical structures, which play an important role in the presentation of antigens to helper/inducer t cells and in the proliferation of antigen-responsive t cells. activation of ebi2 by specific oxysterols leads to chemotaxis of b cells in lymphoid tissues. while the ligand gradient necessary for this critical process of the adaptive immune response is established by a stromal cells subset here we investigate the involvement of the oxysterol/ebi2 system in the innate immune response. therefore, it seems that macrophages first migrated tangentially along the inner retinal surface and then migrated from vitreal to scleral levels to gain access to the plexiform layers, where they differentiated into ramified microglia. migratory signals delivered by ebi2 were shown to control b cell organization within the spleen and to be particularly important for positioning activated b cells in the early stages of ab responses. it was concluded that 1) t cell areas in mouse lymph nodes are more resistant to exogenous cortisol than b cell areas, and 2) paracortical cords may be interpreted as basic tissue units of the paracortical area in the mouse lymph node. chemotaxis assays revealed that cxcr4-positive (but not cxcr4-negative) b-lymphoma cells migrated towards lymph node stromal cells, and this migration was almost completely inhibited by the addition of anti-cxcr4 monoclonal antibody to the lymphoma cells or of anti-sdf-1 neutralizing antibody to the culture supernatant of the stromal cells. immunohistology of lymph nodes showed a massive expansion of the paracortical area due to increased numbers of cd8+ cells. 
Enhanced early production of inflammatory chemokines improves viral control in the lung. [SEP] understanding the early innate immune mechanisms that participate in the development of chronic postviral lung disease may reveal new targets for therapeutic intervention. diminished expression of neutrophil-recruiting chemokines was also observed in cells infected with influenza virus, suggesting a key role of mda5 in driving the early accumulation of neutrophils at the infection site. we found that the response of memory, but not naive, cd4(+) t cells enhances production of multiple innate inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (iics) in the lung and that, during influenza infection, this leads to early control of virus. in non-obese mice, exercise treatment reduced lung viral load, increased type-i-ifn-related gene expression early during infection, but reduced bal inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. results showed that early innate immune cells and cytokine/chemokine dysregulation were observed with significantly decreased neutrophil infiltration and il-6, tnf-α, g-csf, kc, and mip-2 cytokine levels in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of infected il-1r1 -/- mice in comparison with that of wild type infected mice. together, these results suggest that il-1 signaling is associated with pulmonary anti-influenza immune response and inflammatory lung injury, particularly via the influence on neutrophil mobilization and inflammatory cytokine/chemokine production. cd8(+) t cell production of ifn-γ enhanced lung epithelial cell expression of chemokines and the subsequent recruitment of inflammatory cells into the airways. combined with in vitro experiments showing that pmn express cytokines and chemokines in response to rcov-infected alveolar epithelial cells, these findings support a role for pmn in eliciting an inflammatory response to rcov infection. it appears that inos affects the lung inflammatory response by regulating chemokine production. surprisingly, we found that the levels of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in the lungs of rsv-infected mice were also greatly reduced in the absence of ifnar signaling. 
Epidemiological disease burden from noncommunicable diseases is more prevalent in low economic settings. [SEP] demographic and epidemiological changes are shifting the disease burden from communicable to noncommunicable diseases in lower-income countries. within a generation, the share of disease burden attributed to noncommunicable diseases in some poor countries will exceed 80 percent, rivaling that of rich countries, but this burden is likely to affect much younger people in poorer countries. we project that the countries with the greatest increases in the share of disease burden attributable to noncommunicable disease over the next twenty-five years will also be the least prepared for the change, as they ranked low on our capacity index and are expected to have the smallest increases in national health spending. national governments and donors must invest more in preparing the health systems of lower-income countries for the dramatic shift to noncommunicable diseases and in reducing modifiable noncommunicable disease risks. the double burden of infectious diseases coupled with noncommunicable diseases poses unique challenges for priority setting and for achieving equitable action to address the major causes of disease burden in health systems already impacted by limited resources. this evaluation revealed the challenges that low income countries are grappling with in prioritizing noncommunicable diseases in the context of a double disease burden with limited resources. most of the global burden of chronic kidney disease (ckd) is occurring in low- and middle-income countries (lmics). low-income and middle-income countries (lmics) are undergoing an epidemiological transition, in which the burden of noncommunicable diseases (ncds) is rising and mortality will shift from infectious diseases to ncds. at the same time, the absolute rates of noncommunicable disease and injury burdens were highest in the southern region (105 dalys per 1,000 population versus 97 nationally for noncommunicable diseases; 22 versus 19 for injuries). the southern region is least advanced in the epidemiological transition and suffers from the largest burden of ill health in all disease and injury groups. 
Epigenetic modulating agents (EMAs) modulate antitumor immune response in a cancer model system. [SEP] epigenetic alterations are central to cancer cell biology and cancer immune evasion. accordingly, epigenetic modulating agents (emas) are being exploited as anti-neoplastic and immunomodulatory agents to restore immunological fitness. here we review several examples of epigenetic changes critical for immune cell functions and tumor-immune evasion and of the use of emas in promoting anti-tumor immunity. epigenetic mechanisms, including dna methylation, histone post-translational modifications, and chromatin structure regulation, are critical for the interactions between tumor and immune cells. thus, epigenetic targeting agents are attractive immunomodulatory drugs and will have major impacts on immuno-oncology. here, we discuss epigenetic regulators of the cancer-immunity cycle and current advances in developing epigenetic therapies to boost anticancer immune responses, either alone or in combination with current immunotherapies. this study highlights a mechanism by which epigenetic modifier agents can synergize with immune-checkpoint blockade for enhanced and long-lasting antitumor activity. collectively, our findings highlight the immunomodulatory effects of two epigenetic modifiers that, together, promote t cell-mediated antitumor immunity and demonstrate their therapeutic potential for treatment of nsclc.significance: selective inhibition of hdacs and bromodomain proteins modulates tumor-associated immune cells in a manner that favors improved t-cell function and reduced inhibitory cellular mechanisms. epigenetic alterations contribute to establishment of these barriers and other mechanisms of immune subversion; therefore, epigenetic modifying agents represent an opportunity to mount effective antitumor immune responses by disrupting this finely tuned tumor epigenetic framework. here, we discuss how epigenetic modifiers might permit and stimulate de novo antitumor immune responses in ovarian cancer, focusing largely on 2 common classes, dna methyltransferase and histone deacetylase inhibitors. 
Errors in peripheral IV drug administration are most common during bolus administration and multiple-step medicine preparations. [SEP] the most common errors include the vial tap not swabbed during prepreparation and injecting bolus doses faster than the recommended administration rate. intravenous (iv) medication errors are frequent events. the aim of this study was to determine the frequency of medication errors happened during the preparation and administration of intravenous (iv) drugs. medication errors occurred in the process of preparation and administration of iv drugs, were recorded by a pharmacist. from a total of 357 preparation and administration episodes, the most common type of error (%20.6) was the injection of bolus doses and infusion faster than the recommended rate. this study revealed that the errors happened in the preparation and administration of iv drugs is prevalent. medication errors were recorded during the observation times of iv drug administration and preparation. common errors included multiple step preparations and the co-administration of potentially incompatible drugs as intermittent infusions. most errors occurred when giving bolus doses or making up drugs that required multiple step preparation. this study showed a high rate of errors during stages of preparation and administration of injectable drugs. 
Ethanol stress decreases the expression of IBP in bacteria. [SEP] conditions for ibp expression by bacteria and their functional heterogeneity are considered. data on ibps of gram-negative bacteria are presented. the ibp biosynthesis was activated in the bacteria grown at 4 degrees c and markedly decreased in those grown at 37 degrees c. the ig-binding activity of lysates from the bacteria was caused by proteins with molecular weights of 7-20 kd. sequencing the algal genome and the transcriptomes of cells grown at 1 and 15°c revealed three isoforms of a type 1 ibp. in the ibp-stressed wetlands, the rhizobacterial diversity during plant development was adversely affected by ibp accompanied with a reduced evenness. in the liver, cat transcription increased after exposure to ibp at all concentrations (p<0.05). gpx expression in the liver increased at three higher concentrations of ibp. ibp exposure induced ub expression in the intestine and liver in a concentration-dependent manner. thus, the main goal of this minireview is to summarize the current information on bacterial ibps and their application in biotechnology, emphasizing the potential application in less explored fields such as agriculture. we also show that a consortium of ibp-producing bacteria living with the nostoc contribute to its ibp activity. 
Exposure to fine particulate air pollution is relate to anxiety prevalence. [SEP] exposure to fine-particulate air pollution has been associated with increased morbidity and mortality, suggesting that sustained reductions in pollution exposure should result in improved life expectancy. associations have been found between day-to-day particulate air pollution and increased risk of various adverse health outcomes, including cardiopulmonary mortality. to assess the relationship between long-term exposure to fine particulate air pollution and all-cause, lung cancer, and cardiopulmonary mortality. long-term exposure to combustion-related fine particulate air pollution is an important environmental risk factor for cardiopulmonary and lung cancer mortality. to determine whether higher past exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with prevalent high symptoms of anxiety. 71,271 women enrolled in the nurses' health study residing throughout the contiguous united states who had valid estimates on exposure to particulate matter for at least one exposure period of interest and data on anxiety symptoms. exposure to particulate matter was characterized using estimated average exposure to particulate matter <2.5 μm in diameter (pm2.5) and 2.5 to 10 μm in diameter (pm2.5-10) in the one month, three months, six months, one year, and 15 years prior to assessment of anxiety symptoms, and residential distance to the nearest major road two years prior to assessment. significantly increased odds of high anxiety symptoms were observed with higher exposure to pm2.5 for multiple averaging periods (for example, odds ratio per 10 µg/m(3) increase in prior one month average pm2.5: 1.12, 95% confidence interval 1.06 to 1.19; in prior 12 month average pm2.5: 1.15, 1.06 to 1.26). exposure to fine particulate matter (pm2.5) was associated with high symptoms of anxiety, with more recent exposures potentially more relevant than more distant exposures. research evaluating whether reductions in exposure to ambient pm2.5 would reduce the population level burden of clinically relevant symptoms of anxiety is warranted. 
Febrile seizures increase the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] the relationship between febrile seizures and later epilepsy is frequently genetic. this study was designed to investigate whether the intensity of experimental febrile seizures reduces the threshold to generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy and its effects on the development of generalized absence epilepsy in adulthood. our aim was to identify the risk of developing epilepsy subsequent to febrile seizure and the association between epilepsy risk factors and neurobehavioral disorders. the association of epilepsy was significantly higher (18.76-fold) in individuals that experienced febrile seizure compared to controls. increased recognition the association for epilepsy might be warranted in those febrile seizure children with certain characteristics. a history of complex febrile seizures can increase the risk of epilepsy, but the role of genetic factors is unclear. this analysis evaluated the relationship between febrile seizures and epilepsy. the risk of epilepsy increased progressively with the number of hospital admissions with febrile seizures. mortality was increased among children with recurrent febrile seizures (1.0%; 95% ci, 0.9%-1.0% at birth vs 1.9%; 95% ci, 1.4%-2.7% after the third febrile seizure), although this risk was associated primarily with children who later developed epilepsy. we confirmed the increased risk associated with traditionally accepted predictors of epilepsy following febrile seizures. 
Febrile seizures reduce the threshold for development of epilepsy. [SEP] this study was designed to investigate whether the intensity of experimental febrile seizures reduces the threshold to generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy and its effects on the development of generalized absence epilepsy in adulthood. the febrile seizure tendency may be a fundamental marker of an individual's seizure threshold. this analysis evaluated the relationship between febrile seizures and epilepsy. our aim was to identify the risk of developing epilepsy subsequent to febrile seizure and the association between epilepsy risk factors and neurobehavioral disorders. increased recognition the association for epilepsy might be warranted in those febrile seizure children with certain characteristics. prior neurologic and developmental status and characteristics of the first febrile seizure are important predictors of epilepsy after febrile seizures. although antiepileptic drugs can prevent recurrent febrile seizures, they do not alter the risk of subsequent epilepsy. although anti-epileptic drugs can prevent recurrent febrile seizures, they do not alter the risk of subsequent epilepsy. the rate of epilepsy and prognostic factors for epilepsy following first febrile seizure. the risk of having subsequent epilepsy was higher in children who were convulsing at a low-grade fever during their first febrile convulsion (p=.02). 
Female carriers of the Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele have increased risk for dementia. [SEP] the apolipoprotein e epsilon 4 (apoe4) allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disorder (ad) and is associated with semantic and episodic memory deficits. we hypothesized that the association between lld and dementia risk would be mediated by apoe4, specifically that apoe4 allele frequency would be associated with cognitive impairment and later age-of-depression-onset. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a genetic risk factor for developing alzheimer's disease (ad). these results indicate that the apoe4 allele could be a risk factor not only for certain primary degenerative, but also for vascular dementias. the risk of dementia related to alcohol drinking was modified by the presence of the apolipoprotein e4 allele. risk of dementia increased with increasing alcohol consumption only in those individuals carrying the apolipoprotein e4 allele. background apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a major genetic risk factor for late-onset alzheimer disease. genetic studies show a relation between the apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) allele and the common form of alzheimer's disease (ad), and altered functional brain activation has been observed in non-demented apoe4 carriers compared to non-carriers. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4), the most prevalent genetic risk factor for ad, also increases the risk for dementia in pure synucleinopathies. apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4) is a prominent genetic risk factor for alzheimer's disease. 
Flexible molecules experience greater steric hindrance in the tumor microenviroment than rigid molecules. [SEP] disc-shaped hexa-peri-hexabenzocoronenes (hbcs) peripherally substituted by flexible dodecyl chains (molecule 1) or rigid polyphenylene dendrons (molecules 2a,b and 3) were efficiently synthesized. we present a statistical model for solving and predicting the transport of large molecules through small flexible channels. however, the flexibility of the channel's cross section and that of the molecule's size have a significant effect on transport, especially when a large molecule goes through a narrow channel. the model is compared with the all-atom md simulations of the transport of hard spheres of various radii and of drug molecules through a biological nanochannel. for the case of gaussian fluctuations, we derived a simple analytical expression for the steric barrier, which can be quantified using average size and fluctuations of the channel and of the molecule. to test whether this steric hindrance could be overcome by introducing extra space and flexibility between the fab arms, these mabs were engineered to contain an extra ch1 immunoglobulin domain between the ch1 and hinge domains of their heavy chains. in this work, the long-time diffusion of a solute in a chemically crosslinked and flexible hydrogel is computed from a bead-spring model of a polymeric network to assess the effect of steric obstruction. the mathematical expression derived here can approximately predict the diffusivity in flexible gels if steric hindrance is the mechanism ruling diffusion. flexible molecules are treated as a set of rigid representative conformers. because of their flexible structures, aliphatic components-enriched disha molecules easily conformed to cnts leading to higher adsorption to cnts but weaker steric hindrance between cnts. 
FoxO3a activation in neuronal death is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). [SEP] foxo3a is required for hypoxic suppression of mitochondrial mass, oxygen consumption, and ros production and promotes cell survival in hypoxia. our findings define a novel mechanism by which foxo3a promotes metabolic adaptation and stress resistance in hypoxia. foxo3a overexpression suppressed ros production and p53 stabilization induced by a ck2α knockdown. in addition, hypoxia induced foxo3 activation, while mxi1-0 expression and apoptosis were inhibited by transfection with foxo3 sirna. these data also indicate that hif-1α-dependent ros production is required for foxo3a-mediated mxi1-0 up-regulation and apoptosis in hypoxic endothelial cells. foxo3a has been previously implicated in the detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ros) through induction of manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (sod2). foxo3a activation blocked the hypoxia-dependent increase in ros and prevented hif-1α stabilisation. one such antioxidant mechanism is the transcription factor forkhead box o3a (foxo3a), that has been shown to be activated in several animal models during oxidative stress. our studies found that transcript levels of foxo3a were upregulated significantly during reoxygenation with greater increases during chemical oxidative stress. induction of foxo3a by direct transfection significantly decreased cell death during chemical oxidative stress. 
Free histones are degraded by a Rad53-dependent mechanism once DNA has been replicated. [SEP] deletion of the major histone h3-h4 pair suppresses rad53-rep-cdc7-1 synthetic lethality, suggesting rad53's functions in degradation of excess cellular histone and in replication initiation are related. based on these observations, we hypothesize that the origin binding and the histone degradation activities of rad53 are central to its function in dna replication and are independent of its checkpoint functions. we propose a model in which rad53 acts as a "nucleosome buffer," interacting with origins of replication to prevent the binding of excess histones to origin dna and to maintain proper chromatin configuration. here, we show that rad53, but not mec1 mutants, are extremely sensitive to histone overexpression, as rad53 is required for degradation of excess histones. consequently, excess histones accumulate in rad53 mutants, resulting in slow growth, dna damage sensitivity, and chromosome loss phenotypes that are significantly suppressed by a reduction in histone gene dosage. rad53 monitors excess histones by associating with them in a dynamic complex that is modulated by its kinase activity. the ddr kinase rad53chk1/chk2 controls histone degradation to assist dna repair. although chromosomal histones are stable, excess (non-chromatin bound) histones are rapidly degraded in a rad53 (radiation sensitive 53) kinase-dependent manner in saccharomyces cerevisiae. here we demonstrate that excess histones associate with rad53 in vivo and seem to undergo modifications such as tyrosine phosphorylation and polyubiquitylation, before their proteolysis by the proteasome. here we report that rad53 interacts in a dynamic functional manner with asf1, a chromatin assembly factor recently shown to mediate deposition of acetylated histones h3 and h4 onto newly replicated dna. 
Functional consequences of genomic alterations due to Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are poorly understood due to the lack of an animal model. [SEP] the molecular pathogenesis of myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) is complex due to the high rate of genomic heterogeneity. seminal experimental studies have clarified the role of diverse gene mutations in the context of disease phenotypes, but the lack of faithful murine models and/or cell lines spontaneously carrying certain gene mutations have hampered the knowledge on how and why specific pathways are associated with mds pathogenesis. myelodysplastic syndromes (mdss) consist of a family of hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) disorders characterized by ineffective differentiation of hematopoietic progenitors, bone marrow dysplasia, genetic instability and a propensity to develop acute myeloid leukemia. myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) are a heterogeneous group of hemopathies that exhibit physical manifestations with clinical consequences of bone marrow failure and inherent risk of progression to acute myeloid leukemia. myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) is a malignant tumor of the hematological system characterized by long-term, progressive refractory hemocytopenia. this review summarizes the current status of animal models used to research myelodysplastic syndrome (mds). myelodysplastic syndromes (mdss) are clonal hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) malignancies that are characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and frequent progression to acute myeloid leukemia (aml). extensive fibrosis in myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) is distinctly infrequent. myelodysplastic syndromes (mdss) are a myeloid neoplasm with a propensity for natural evolution or transformation to acute leukemias (al) over time. myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) is a group of disorders involving hemopoietic dysfunction leading to leukemia. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of neuroectoderm cells during zebrafish neuralation [SEP] we show that they act in the same cell, r4, adjacent to that in which the fz/pcp pathway is required in the drosophila eye. to further test this hypothesis, we have identified two zebrafish homologs of the drosophila pcp gene prickle (pk) [8], both of which show discrete and dynamic expression patterns during gastrulation. pk1 localizes to both the cytoplasm and the cell membrane, and its normal localization is partially dependent on its c-terminal prenylation motif. like noncanonical wnts [9-10], overexpression of pk1 increases the frequency of calcium transients in zebrafish blastulae. the localization of the pcp proteins van gogh (vang) and frizzled (fz) define anterior and posterior apical membrane domains prior to sop division. a role for pk was proposed to mediate feedback amplification of asymmetric fz/dsh activity across cell boundaries, ensuring a single prehair initiates at each distal vertex. the frizzled/planar cell polarity (fz/pcp) signalling branch requires an asymmetric cortical localization of dsh, but this process remains poorly understood. we investigated the complex interactions between pcp proteins and the mt cytoskeleton in the polarized context of the floorplate of the zebrafish neural tube. in drosophila, planar cell polarity (pcp) signaling is mediated by the receptor frizzled (fz) and transduced by dishevelled (dsh). the pcp signal may selectively result in focal fz activation and asymmetric relocalization of dsh to the membrane, where dsh effects cytoskeletal reorganization to orient prehair initiation. 
Fz/PCP-dependent Pk localizes to the anterior membrane of notochord cells during zebrafish neuralation. [SEP] frizzled (fz) signaling regulates the establishment of planar cell polarity (pcp). we show that they act in the same cell, r4, adjacent to that in which the fz/pcp pathway is required in the drosophila eye. after c/e, there is a dynamic relocalization of pcp proteins in the notochord cells with dsh localized to the lateral edges of the membrane, and pk and strabismus (stbm) at the anterior edges. to further test this hypothesis, we have identified two zebrafish homologs of the drosophila pcp gene prickle (pk) [8], both of which show discrete and dynamic expression patterns during gastrulation. pk1 localizes to both the cytoplasm and the cell membrane, and its normal localization is partially dependent on its c-terminal prenylation motif. like noncanonical wnts [9-10], overexpression of pk1 increases the frequency of calcium transients in zebrafish blastulae. the localization of the pcp proteins van gogh (vang) and frizzled (fz) define anterior and posterior apical membrane domains prior to sop division. a role for pk was proposed to mediate feedback amplification of asymmetric fz/dsh activity across cell boundaries, ensuring a single prehair initiates at each distal vertex. the frizzled/planar cell polarity (fz/pcp) signalling branch requires an asymmetric cortical localization of dsh, but this process remains poorly understood. we investigated the complex interactions between pcp proteins and the mt cytoskeleton in the polarized context of the floorplate of the zebrafish neural tube. 
GATA-3 is important for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function. [SEP] three gata family transcription factors are involved in various aspects of hematopoiesis. using a retroviral vector, we introduced the gata-3 gene into primary murine hematopoietic stem cells (hsc) and examined their development in in vitro suspension culture and colony-forming assays as well as in vivo competitive repopulation studies. although gata-3 expression normally is restricted to lymphoid precursor and committed t cells, overexpression of gata-3 in hsc results in cessation of cell expansion followed by selective induction of megakaryocytic and erythroid differentiation and inhibition of myeloid and lymphoid precursor development in liquid suspension culture and in vitro colony-forming assays. hematopoietic development requires the transcription factor gata-2, and gata-2 mutations cause diverse pathologies, including leukemia. gata-2-regulated enhancers increase gata2 expression in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells and control hematopoiesis. transcription factor gata-3 is known to be vital for the development of t cells at multiple stages in the thymus and for th2 differentiation in the peripheral organs. although it is well documented that gata-3 is expressed in hscs, a role for gata-3 in any prethymic progenitor cell has not been established. therefore, gata-3 is required for the maintenance of a normal number of lt-hscs and for their entry into the cell cycle. we assigned the expression of gata-2, gata-3, and lmo2 to agm-hsc, whereas erythromyeloid progenitors express only gata-2. we demonstrated that gata-2 rescued hematopoiesis in +9.5(-/-) agms. 
Gene expression does not vary appreciably across genetically identical cells. [SEP] within-mouse variance captures variation due to heterogeneity of gene expression within tissues, rna-extraction, and array processing. the nature and extent of transcript variation differs across tissues. variation in gene expression observed between genetically identical mice can identify functional classes of genes that are likely to vary in the absence of experimental perturbations, can inform experimental design decisions, and provides a baseline for the interpretation of gene expression data in interventional studies. family studies of individual tissues have shown that gene expression traits are genetically heritable. our results indicate that the correlation in gene expression measurements across these tissues is primarily due to heritability at cis loci, whereas there is little sharing of trans regulation across tissues. finally, we obtained similar estimates of the cis components of heritability using ibd between unrelated individuals, indicating that transgenerational epigenetic inheritance does not contribute substantially to the "missing heritability" of gene expression in these tissue types. in this study, we compared differences in the expression levels of 44 mirnas in hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) of identical twins to that of fraternal twins as a controls. this treatment had no appreciable effect on frat levels in two other ra-sensitive cell lines that were not of germ cell tumor origin. by comparing the evolutionary rates that we report here with differences between species, we conclude that gene expression does not evolve according to strictly neutral models. although spontaneous mutations have the potential to generate abundant variation in gene expression, natural variation is relatively constrained. 
Glycolysis is one of the primary glycometabolic pathways in cells. [SEP] cancer cells utilize the glycolytic pathway to maintain cell growth even when adequate oxygen is present. glycolysis inhibition is a potential therapeutic modality. mrna abundance, protein expression and activity were measured for enzymes involved in glycometabolism and related pathways. glycometabolism, particularly mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos) and glycolysis, plays a central role in cell life activities. interestingly, glycolytic enzyme activities, glycolysis capacity, and glycolysis reserve were also upregulated at this time to match the powerful bioenergetic demands. tumor cells cultured in glucose undergo active aerobic glycolysis, but switch to oxidative phosphorylation for energy production when cultured in galactose. the differential expression of unigenes encoding enzymes involved in glycometabolism signifies that there was a greater aerobic glycolysis flux in k562/adm cells. tumor cell metabolism is characterized by abundant glucose consumption and aerobic glycolysis. moreover, the relative glycometabolic-related gene expression was measured. we confirm the vital role of glycometabolism in pca and provide essential resources for future exploration of metabolism in pca. 
Golli-deficient T-cells prefer to differentiate into an anergic phenotype in the adaptive immune response when there are increased levels of Ca2+ in the cytosol. [SEP] calcium influx is crucial for t cell activation and differentiation. we report here that golli protein, an alternatively spliced product of the myelin basic protein gene, plays a critical role in regulating calcium influx in t cells. golli-deficient t cells were hyperproliferative and showed enhanced calcium entry upon t cell receptor stimulation. we further found that golli regulates calcium influx in t cells through the inhibition of the store depletion-induced calcium influx. these results indicate that golli functions in a unique way to regulate t cell activation through a mechanism involving the modulation of the calcium homeostasis. previous work suggests that golli proteins may play a role in ca2+ homeostasis in oligodendrocytes (ols) and in t-cells. the results indicated that golli produced its effect through ca2+ influx, rather than ca2+ release from intracellular stores. the ca2+ results reported in this study complement previous results implicating golli proteins in modulating intracellular signaling in t-cells. interestingly, golli immunoreactivity varied with thymocyte stage of differentiation. these observations support the hypothesis that crt-dependent shaping of ca2+ signaling critically contributes to the modulation of the t cell adaptive immune response. 
HNF4A mutations can cause diabetes in mutant carriers by the age of 14 years [SEP] hnf4a is an established cause of maturity onset diabetes of the young (mody). we examined birthweight and hypoglycaemia in 108 patients from families with diabetes due to hnf4a mutations, and 134 patients from families with hnf1a mutations. hnf4a mutations are associated with a considerable increase in birthweight and macrosomia, and are a novel cause of neonatal hypoglycaemia. hnf4a mutations cause hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia in early life and maturity-onset diabetes of the young. maturity-onset diabetes of the young can develop as early as the first decade of life in persons with an hnf4a mutation. only 51.6% of hnf1a mutation carriers were diagnosed with diabetes by age 25 years; 11 of the mutation carriers were overweight and four were obese. we report two sisters with childhood onset diabetes who are both heterozygous for the most common mutation in each of two transcription factors, hnf1a, and hnf4a. mutations in the alternatively spliced hnf4a gene cause maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody). variants in hepatocyte nuclear factor (hnf)-4alpha cause maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type 1 (mody1) and may also be risk factors for type 2 diabetes. in conclusion, we have identified three novel hnf4a mutations and a 3.7-mb haplotype, including the hnf4a p2 promoter, which was linked with diabetes. 
Headaches are not correlated with cognitive impairment. [SEP] prior studies demonstrating age-related declines in headache prevalence have not accounted for the potentially confounding effects of cognitive impairment. current headaches were reported by 22.8%, 25%, and 27.1%, respectively, across normal, mild cognitive impairment, and dementia subgroups. a negative correlation was observed between age and average headache days in cognitively normal (ρ = -0.163, 95% confidence interval [ci] = -0.246 to -0.022, p = 0.004), mild cognitive impairment (ρ = -0.255, 95% ci = -0.274 to 0.229, p = 0.0475), and dementia groups (ρ = -0.295, 95% ci = -0.457 to 0.159, p = 0.068). we found no association between subjective and objective cognitive impairment. patients with self-perception of cognitive burden are no more likely to be cognitively impaired. the severity of cognitive impairment appears to be correlated with migraine history. we failed to detect cognitive impairment in lupus patients with chronic headaches including migrainous headaches. unlike patients with migraine, patients with cluster headache do not present with a loss of cognitive habituation as measured by erp. long-term observation revealed no progressive cognitive decline in cluster headache patients over the years. all changes in alterations of cognitive processing in cluster headache are demonstrated to be mild and do not relevantly contribute to the clinical picture of this disease. 
Healthcare delivery efficiency in crowded delivery centers is impaired by improving structural, logistical, and interpersonal elements. [SEP] healthcare system flow resulting in emergency departments (eds) crowding is a quality and access problem. ed capacity and efficiency improved via engineering principles application, addressing patient and staffing flows, and reinventing the delivery model. using operational data and staff input, patient and staff flow models were created, identifying bottlenecks (points of inefficiency). this article, a product of the breakout session on "interventions to safeguard efficiency of care," explores various elements of the research agenda on efficiency and quality in crowded emergency departments (eds). 4) how do ed design, patient flow structures, and use of technology affect efficiency? emergency department (ed) overcrowding adversely affects patients' health, accessibility, and quality of healthcare systems for communities. crowding of the eds adversely affected individual patients, healthcare delivery systems and communities. the identified issues concern organizational managers, leadership, and operational level actions to reduce crowding and improve emergency healthcare outcomes efficiently. despite various programs and assistance, they face numerous challenges using the healthcare system. the realization of big data applications that allow improving the quality and efficiency of healthcare care delivery is challenging. 
Helminths interfere with immune system control of macrophages activated by IL-4 favor Mycobacterium tuberculosis replication. [SEP] here, we review the current status of the literature on the impact of helminths on vaccine-induced and natural immunity to mtb with a focus on the alterations enforced on the capacity of macrophages to function as sensors of mycobacteria and effector cells to control their replication. we investigated the direct effect of helminth-derived antigens on human macrophages, hypothesizing that helminths would render macrophages less capable of controlling mtb. measuring cytokine output, macrophage surface markers with flow cytometry, and assessing bacterial replication and phagosomal maturation revealed that antigens from different species of helminth directly affect macrophage responses to mtb. we conclude that, independent of any adaptive immune response, infection with helminth parasites, in a species-specific manner can influence the outcome of tuberculosis by either enhancing or diminishing the bactericidal function of macrophages. tuberculosis and helminthic infections coexist in many parts of the world, yet the impact of helminth-elicited th2 responses on the ability of the host to control mycobacterium tuberculosis (mtb) infection has not been fully explored. helminth-infected individuals possess a higher risk of developing tuberculosis, but the precise immunologic mechanism of mycobacterium tuberculosis control remains unclear. this clarifies a relationship in which helminth-induced cd4(+) t cells disrupt m. tuberculosis control by macrophages, thereby providing a mechanism for the observation that helminth infection advances the progression of tuberculosis among patients with m. tuberculosis infection. currently, experimental evidence for an strong association between helminths and diminished t helper (th)1 immunity against mycobacterium tuberculosis infection is based on studies which show that helminth-induced th2, t regulatory (treg) responses and alternatively activated macrophages contribute to enhanced susceptibility to tb. previously we had reported that nippostrongylus brasiliensis, a helminth with a lung migratory phase, affected host resistance against mycobacterium tuberculosis infection through the induction of alternatively activated (m2) macrophages. this in vitro model shows how helminth infection directly affects the monocyte-macrophage axis at an early stage before cell-mediated immunity develops. 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell purification reaches purity rate of up to 50%. [SEP] roughly 50% of cd34+ cells, with 20-90% purity, are recovered from clinical samples using these methods. the purity of dr- cells increased from between 0.5% and 4.3% in the immuno-adsorbed fraction up to 99% in the dr- sorted fraction. as shown in a single experiment, the purity of cd34+, dr- cells immediately after thawing increased from 0.01% to 94.3% while losing 99% of those early progenitor cells during the multistep purification procedure. we describe the relation between the clamping time and blood volume collected, plus two enrichment systems for cd34+ stem cells from umbilical cord blood, to achieve an excellent recovery of cells with a high proliferative ability and bone marrow reconstitution. with the stem sep method, recovery of hematopoietic progenitors was 35 % (with 80 % purity). the authors describe the relation between clamping time and blood volume collected, and two enrichment systems of cd34+ stem cells from umbilical cord blood, to determine an excellent recovery with high proliferate ability and bone marrow reconstitution. an average purity of 74% and yield of 29% of cd34+/++ cells was achieved. hematopoietic stem cells with long-term repopulating activity can now be routinely obtained at purities of 40% to 50% from suspensions of adult mouse bone marrow. using on-line flow cytometry, efficient separation of the cell mixture was observed in less than 12 min, and cd34+ stem cell fractions with a purity >99.2% were obtained. further purification steps employing sephacryl s-200 and reverse-phase hplc raised the purity to over 99%. 
High cardiopulmonary fitness causes increased mortality rate. [SEP] high cardiorespiratory fitness and body mass index (bmi) are associated with decreased mortality in patients with coronary artery disease. fitness levels were determined by cardiopulmonary exercise testing. using low whr-high fitness group as reference, significantly increased mortality was noted in low whr-low fitness (hazard ratio 4.2, 95% ci, 1.8-9.8), centrally obese-high fitness (2.3, 1.0-5.4), and centrally obese-low fitness (6.1, 2.7-13.6) groups. low fitness and central obesity were independently and cumulatively associated with increased mortality in coronary artery disease patients attending cardiac rehabilitation. the association of bmi with mortality is complex and altered by fitness levels. cardiopulmonary fitness, a marker of morbidity and mortality, is abnormal in adults with t2d, yet the mechanisms are incompletely understood. cardiopulmonary fitness was measured by peak oxygen consumption (vo(2)peak) and oxygen uptake kinetics (vo(2)kinetics), ir by hyperinsulinemic clamp, cardiac function by echocardiography, vascular function by venous occlusion plethysmography, body composition by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, intramyocellular lipid by magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and inflammation by serum markers. given the strong relationship between decreased cardiopulmonary fitness and increased mortality, these findings in children are especially concerning and represent early signs of impaired cardiac function. cardiorespiratory fitness is inversely associated with a high risk of cardiovascular disease, all-cause mortality, and mortality attributable to various cancers. reduced aerobic fitness is associated with increased postoperative morbidity and mortality. 
High dietary calcium intakes are unnecessary for prevention of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects with 25(OH)D levels above 75 nmol/liter. [SEP] as long as 25(oh)d is greater than 75 nmol/liter, calcium intakes greater than 17.5 mmol/d are unnecessary to prevent elevations in pth levels. one goal in establishing a vitamin d requirement is to avoid secondary hyperparathyroidism. moderate vitamin d deficiency causes secondary hyperparathyroidism and bone loss, leading to osteoporosis and fractures. calcium and vitamin d therapy has been recommended for older persons, either frail and institutionalized or independent, with key risk factors including decreased bone mineral density (bmd), osteoporotic fractures, increased bone remodelling as a result of secondary hyperparathyroidism and increased propensity to falls. calcium and vitamin d supplementation is a key component of prevention and treatment of osteoporosis unless calcium intake and vitamin d status are optimal. to determine the relative importance of dietary calcium intake and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] concentration to calcium metabolism and bone mass in a population with low calcium intake, a total of 4662 adults (2567 men and 2095 women) ≥50 years of age from the 2009-2010 korea national health and nutrition examination survey (knhanes) were divided into groups according to dietary calcium intakes (quintiles means: 154, 278, 400, 557, and 951 mg/d) and serum 25(oh)d concentrations (<50, 50-75, and >75 nmol/l). serum intact parathyroid hormone (pth) and femoral neck and lumbar spine bmd were evaluated according to dietary calcium intake and serum 25(oh)d. mean calcium intake was 485 mg/d; mean serum 25(oh)d concentration was 48.1 nmol/l; pth was 68.4 pg/ml; femoral neck bmd was 0.692 g/cm(2) ; and lumbar spine bmd was 0.881 g/cm(2) . this finding indicates that low calcium intake cannot be compensated for with higher 25(oh)d levels alone. a calcium intake of at least 668 mg/d and a serum 25(oh)d level of at least 50 nmol/l may be needed to maintain bone mass in this calcium deficient population. vitamin d intake should be sufficient to maintain calcium absorption and prevent increased parathyroid secretion throughout the year. 
High levels of CRP reduces the risk of exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). [SEP] serum pct and crp levels were significantly higher in the pneumonia group compared to the copd group (p<0.001). chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is associated with evidence of systemic oxidative stress, activation of circulating inflammatory cells and increased plasma level of proinflamatory cytokines which include c-reactive protein (crp). crp is one biomarker of extrapulmonary or systemic consequences of copd that can be detected. the aim of this research is to determine whether the level of crp statistically significantly correlates with the level of bronchial obstruction and the accompanying co-morbidities in patients with copd. in 52 (65%) of the patients with exacerbation of copd we detected an increase of the mean value of crp. in 52 (65%) of the patients with exacerbation of copd, were detected an increase of the mean value of crp. the mean values of crp statistically significantly correlate with the level of bronchial obstruction and the number of co-morbidities in patients with copd. the hs-crp levels increased in accordance with the severity of the copd (p < 0.0001). the level of crp during copd exacerbation can be an independent predictor of the disease severity and paraclinical findings. high sensitive crp (hs-crp) is used as a marker of systemic inflammation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). 
High levels of copeptin decrease risk of diabetes. [SEP] copeptin has shown association with development of chronic kidney disease (ckd) in people with diabetes. there was a significant association between elevated copeptin concentrations and development of ckd stage 3 (or=1.78, 95% ci=1.01-3.16). determination of copeptin may early identify people with diabetes and high risk for ckd. in contrast, elevated copeptin levels were associated with an increased risk of stroke and cvd mortality in men with diabetes after these adjustments. higher levels of copeptin were associated with increased risk of chd in the diabetic and non-diabetic groups, but these associations were attenuated after exclusion of individuals with a previous stroke or mi. copeptin was independently associated with an increased risk of incident stroke and cvd mortality in men with diabetes, but not in men without diabetes. in consequence, high copeptin is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease and premature mortality in both diabetes patients and in the general population. because elevated copeptin, a marker of vasopressin, is linked to low water intake and high diabetes risk, we tested the effect of water supplementation on copeptin and fasting glucose. here, we studied whether copeptin predicts cardiovascular risk and mortality in esrd. in conclusion, copeptin levels strongly associate with stroke, sudden death, combined cardiovascular events, and mortality in hemodialysis patients with type 2 diabetes. 
High-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (HSCT-T) dosage may not be diagnostic if the onset of symptoms occurs less than 3 hours before acute myocardial injury (AMI). [SEP] algorithms integrate measurements of hs-ctn at onset of clinical symptoms of acute myocardial infarction (ami), and 1 or 3 h after onset, to rule-in and rule-out ami patients. cardiac troponin t has been shown to be highly sensitive for cardiac injury and not elevated in any other trauma, heavy exercise or skeletal muscle injury. prospective, observational study of consecutive patients presenting to emergency departments [derivation (n = 1647) and validation (n = 2198) cohorts], where high-sensitivity cardiac troponin i (hs-ctni) was measured on clinical indication. the negative predictive value (npv) and diagnostic sensitivity of an hs-ctni concentration <limit of detection (lod) at presentation was determined for acute myocardial injury and for ami or cardiac death at 30 days. in the derivation cohort, 27% had hs-ctni < lod, with npv and diagnostic sensitivity for acute myocardial injury of 99.1% (95% ci, 97.7-99.8) and 99.0% (97.5-99.7) and an npv for ami or cardiac death at 30 days of 99.6% (98.4-100). in the validation cohort, 22% had hs-ctni <lod, with an npv and diagnostic sensitivity for acute myocardial injury of 98.8% (97.9-99.7) and 99.3% (98.7-99.8) and an npv for ami or cardiac death at 30 days of 99.1% (98.2-99.8). a single hs-ctni concentration <lod rules out acute myocardial injury, regardless of etiology, with an excellent npv and diagnostic sensitivity, and identifies patients at minimal risk of ami or cardiac death at 30 days. thus, in patients with early reperfused ami, a marked peak in troponin t serum concentrations was found at 14 hours after the onset of pain. this early troponin t peak was absent in patients with ami reperfusion occurring greater than 5.5 hours after the onset of pain and in patients with nonreperfused ami. no test is both highly sensitive and highly specific for acute infarction within 6 hours following the onset of chest pain, the timeframe of interest to most emergency physicians in making diagnostic and therapeutic decisions. 
Histone demethylase recruitment and a transient decrease in histone methylation is necessary for ligand-dependent induction of transcription by nuclear receptors. [SEP] (2007) show that spurious transcriptional activation by unliganded nuclear receptors is inhibited by histone lysine methylation. this inhibitory histone modification code is efficiently countered by the ligand-dependent recruitment of histone lysine demethylases, including lysine-specific demethylase 1 (lsd1), which appear to be used for this purpose by a number of signal-regulated transcriptional activators. here we report an unexpected and general strategy that is based on the requirement for specific cohorts of inhibitory histone methyltransferases (hmts) to impose gene-specific gatekeeper functions that prevent unliganded nuclear receptors and other classes of regulated transcription factors from binding to their target gene promoters and causing constitutive gene activation in the absence of stimulating signals. this strategy, based at least in part on an hmt-dependent inhibitory histone code, imposes a requirement for specific histone demethylases, including lsd1, to permit ligand- and signal-dependent activation of regulated gene expression. ligand-erα dimers also recruit histone acetyltransferase to the ere promoter region. recent discoveries have revealed that histone demethylases take part in large multiprotein complexes synergizing with histone deacetylases, histone methyltransferases, and nuclear receptors to control developmental and transcriptional programs. here we review the emerging biochemical and biological functions of the histone demethylases and discuss their potential involvement in human diseases, including cancer. induction of nr target genes is accomplished through the assembly of hormone-bound nr complexes at target promoters and coincides with changes in histone modifications that promote transcription. this review discusses recent progress in our understanding of the role of methylation and demethylation of histones, nrs, and their coregulators in nr-mediated transcription. a regulatory role of histone demethylases in fine-tuning the function of steroid receptors, especially the androgen receptor and estrogen receptor, has emerged in recent years. 
Homozygous deletion of murine Sbds gene from osterix-expressing mesenchymal stem and progenitor cells (MPCs) prevents oxidative stress. [SEP] to compare osterix and nestin-cre/loxp system in studying the biological functions of murine osteoblastic cells including primary osteoblasts (obs) and osteolineage mesenchymal progenitor cells (mpcs). background recent findings suggest that a specific deletion of dicer1 in mesenchymal stromal cell-derived osteoprogenitors triggers several features of myelodysplastic syndrome in a murine model. in addition, mesenchymal stromal cells from myelodysplastic syndrome patients showed significant lower sbds (0.63±0.06 vs. 1.15±0.28; p=0.021) gene expression levels than mesenchymal stromal cells from healthy controls. deletion of cxcl12 from osterix-expressing stromal cells, which include cxcl12-abundant reticular cells and osteoblasts, results in constitutive hpc mobilization and a loss of b-lymphoid progenitors, but hsc function is normal. these data suggest that osterix-expressing stromal cells comprise a distinct niche that supports b-lymphoid progenitors and retains hpcs in the bone marrow, and that expression of cxcl12 from stromal cells in the perivascular region, including endothelial cells and mesenchymal progenitors, supports hscs. immuno-selected stro-1+ mesenchymal progenitor stem cells (mpcs) were prepared from human bone marrow aspirates and established in culture. building on our recent identification of mesenchymal progenitor cells (mpcs) in traumatically injured muscle, the goal of this study was to evaluate the osteogenic potential of the mpcs in order to assess the role of these cells in ho formation. compared to bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (mscs), a well-characterized population of osteoprogenitor cells, the mpcs exhibited several significant differences during osteogenic differentiation and in the expression of genes related to osteogenesis. examining gene expression altered in osteoprogenitors as a result of dicer1 deletion showed reduced expression of sbds, the gene mutated in schwachman-bodian-diamond syndrome-a human bone marrow failure and leukaemia pre-disposition condition. deletion of sbds in mouse osteoprogenitors induced bone marrow dysfunction with myelodysplasia. 
Human T-lymphotropic virus type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) patients produce Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which cross-react with an immunodominant epitope in Tax. [SEP] human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is associated with immunoreactivity to htlv-i tax. recent data indicate that molecular mimicry may play a role in the pathogenesis of human-t-lymphotropic virus type-1 (htlv-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp), an immune-mediated disease of the central nervous system (cns). as a model for molecular mimicry in neurological disease, we study people infected with human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) who develop htlv-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp), an immune-mediated disease of the central nervous system (cns). as a model for molecular mimicry, we studied patients with human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp), a disease that can be indistinguishable from ms (refs. infection with human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) have been associated with the development of the htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp). patients infected with human t-lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i) develop htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp), an immune-mediated disorder of the central nervous system (cns) that resembles some forms of ms. damage to neuronal processes in the cns of ham/tsp patients is associated with an activated cellular and antibody-mediated immune response. in this study, igg isolated from ham/tsp patients was immunoreactive with uninfected neurons and this reactivity was htlv-i specific. we, for the first time, analyzed the binding motifs of immunoglobulin g (igg) in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) of human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) patients with a phage library displaying 12-mer random peptides. human t cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) causes htlv-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp). in patients with human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1) associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp), we investigated the significance of htlv-1 specific antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf). 
Hyperfibrinogenemia decreases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] we found an increase in bypass graft thrombosis rates in patients who had undergone femoropopliteal bypass who had had occult cancer. this case report might help to design the regime for preventing postoperative bypass occlusion in patients with hyperlipidemia or hyperfibrinogenemia. epidemiologic studies have correlated elevated plasma fibrinogen (hyperfibrinogenemia) with risk of cardiovascular disease and arterial and venous thrombosis. we raised plasma fibrinogen levels in mice via intravenous infusion and induced thrombosis by ferric chloride application to the carotid artery (high shear) or saphenous vein (lower shear); hyperfibrinogenemia significantly shortened the time to occlusion in both models. using immunohistochemistry, turbidity, confocal microscopy, and elastometry of clots produced in cell and tissue factor-initiated models of thrombosis, we show that hyperfibrinogenemia increased thrombus fibrin content, promoted faster fibrin formation, and increased fibrin network density, strength, and stability. hyperfibrinogenemia also increased thrombus resistance to tenecteplase-induced thrombolysis in vivo. these data indicate that hyperfibrinogenemia directly promotes thrombosis and thrombolysis resistance and does so via enhanced fibrin formation and stability. these findings strongly suggest a causative role for hyperfibrinogenemia in acute thrombosis and have significant implications for thrombolytic therapy. we report a case of a femoropopliteal bypass graft entrapment causing a thrombus in the distal graft. adverse events occurred after 37·6 per cent of femoropopliteal and 49·7 per cent of femorodistal bypasses; diabetes and chronic renal failure were the main predictors of poor outcome. 
Hyperfibrinogenemia increases rates of femoropopliteal bypass thrombosis. [SEP] a retrospective review of femoropopliteal bypass procedures completed from 2001 to 2018 was performed. we found an increase in bypass graft thrombosis rates in patients who had undergone femoropopliteal bypass who had had occult cancer. epidemiologic studies have correlated elevated plasma fibrinogen (hyperfibrinogenemia) with risk of cardiovascular disease and arterial and venous thrombosis. we raised plasma fibrinogen levels in mice via intravenous infusion and induced thrombosis by ferric chloride application to the carotid artery (high shear) or saphenous vein (lower shear); hyperfibrinogenemia significantly shortened the time to occlusion in both models. using immunohistochemistry, turbidity, confocal microscopy, and elastometry of clots produced in cell and tissue factor-initiated models of thrombosis, we show that hyperfibrinogenemia increased thrombus fibrin content, promoted faster fibrin formation, and increased fibrin network density, strength, and stability. hyperfibrinogenemia also increased thrombus resistance to tenecteplase-induced thrombolysis in vivo. these data indicate that hyperfibrinogenemia directly promotes thrombosis and thrombolysis resistance and does so via enhanced fibrin formation and stability. these findings strongly suggest a causative role for hyperfibrinogenemia in acute thrombosis and have significant implications for thrombolytic therapy. this case report might help to design the regime for preventing postoperative bypass occlusion in patients with hyperlipidemia or hyperfibrinogenemia. we report a case of a femoropopliteal bypass graft entrapment causing a thrombus in the distal graft. 
Hypertension is frequently observed in type 1 diabetes patients. [SEP] hypertension is a common comorbid condition in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes when compared with the general population and occurs in 75% of patients with the more prevalent form of diabetes, type 2. nocturnal hypertension is also more frequent in people with diabetes compared with the nondiabetic population. capillary hypertension has been demonstrated in type 1 diabetic patients. diabetes mellitus and hypertension are both major public health problems in our country, which co-exist frequently resulting in significant morbidity and mortality. the reported prevalence of hypertension in diabetes varies widely but is probably 1.5-2 times higher than that reported in the general population. in type 2 diabetics many are hypertensives at the time of diagnosis, while in type 1 diabetes, hypertension is predominantly associated with the development of nephropathy. hypertension in diabetes is due to several pathophysiological mechanisms which include increased volume expansion, altered sodium homeostasis, increased peripheral vascular resistance, hyperinsulinaemia, insulin resistance, etc. treatment of hypertension in a diabetic has considerable therapeutic advantages and should be carried out vigorously. the aim of our study was to determine the prevalence of white coat hypertension (wch) in type 1 diabetic patients. therefore, ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (abpm) and 24-h urinary albumin excretion (uae) were determined in 47 patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (27 with new diagnosis of hypertension by office blood pressure (bp) measurement and 20 with normotension). 
Hypocretin neurones induce panicprone state in rats. [SEP] here we show that the mch but not the hypocretin neurons are strongly active during ps, evidenced through combined hypocretin, mch, and fos immunostainings in three groups of rats (ps control, ps deprived and ps recovery rats). hypocretin (hcrt) neurons are located only in the perifornical region of the posterior hypothalamus and heavily innervate pontine brainstem neurons, such as the locus coeruleus (lc), which have traditionally been implicated in promoting arousal. in this study, effects of hypocretins on sfo neurons were investigated electrophysiologically in slice preparations. these results suggest that hypocretin-1 excites sfo neurons via the activation of hcrtr1 on premembranes and postmembranes. these results suggest that orexin/hypocretin-containing neurones in the lateral hypothalamus are targeted by galp, and that galp-induced hyperphagia is mediated via orexin/hypocretin neurones in the rat hypothalamus. these results indicate that hypocretin neurons obtained from rat pups can be grafted into a host brain, and efforts should be made to increase survival of these neurons. hypocretin-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking was prevented by blockade of noradrenergic and corticotropin-releasing factor systems, suggesting that hcrt-1 reinstated drug seeking through induction of a stress-like state. these findings reveal a previously unidentified role for hypocretins in driving drug seeking through activation of stress pathways in the brain. in the lesioned rats microinjection of hypocretin-1 (0.0625, 0.125 or 0.25 nmol in 250 nl) to the basal forebrain increased waking and suppressed sleep (both non-rem and rem) in a concentration-dependent manner and to the same extent as in nonlesioned rats. our results suggest that the general activation of the immune system modulates the functions of hypocretin neurons. 
Hypoglycemia increases the risk of dementia. [SEP] the risk for dementia appears to be increased in patients with diabetes, and patients with dementia and diabetes appear to be at greater risk for severe hypoglycemia. in this article, we review the factors that contribute to the increased risk for dementia in older adults with diabetes and outline the complex relationships between hypoglycemia and dementia. thus, we evaluated whether hypoglycemia increases the risk for dementia in senior patients with t2dm. in the subgroup analysis, hypoglycemia was associated with an increased risk for dementia in both sexes with or without t2dm microvascular or macrovascular complications. our findings suggest that patients with a history of hypoglycemia have a higher risk for dementia. we evaluated an association of hypoglycemia with subsequent dementia in patients with type 2 diabetes. hypoglycemia is associated with a higher risk of dementia and may be responsible in part for the higher risk of dementia in patients with diabetes. in particular, hypoglycemia is a frequent clinical situation in the strict management of diabetes and is well known as an important factor that directly affects the risk of dementia and cognitive impairment. this article describes the occurrence of hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes, and summarizes the resultant risks of dementia and cognitive dysfunction. the purpose of this study was to investigate the association between hypoglycemia, dementia, and other cognitive dysfunctions. 
Hypothalamic glutamate neurotransmission is crucial to energy balance. [SEP] the hypothalamus is the crucial part of the brain that regulates homeostasis throughout the body. in contrast to the prevailing belief that hypothalamic neurons use peptides, neuromodulators, or other slow-acting agents as their principal neuroactive substances, we present data indicating that the primary excitatory transmitter released by medial hypothalamic neurons is glutamate. the recently described generation of new neurons in the adult hypothalamus, the center for energy regulation, suggests that hypothalamic neurogenesis is a crucial part of the mechanisms that regulate food intake. understanding how hypothalamic neurogenesis contributes to food intake control will change the paradigm on how we perceive energy-balance regulation. hypothalamic circuits play a crucial role in the control of feeding and energy expenditure, and within the hypothalamus, the arcuate nucleus (arc) functions as a gateway for hormonal signals of energy balance, such as leptin. here, we show that anorexia nervosa (an) patients, contrary to normal weight and constitutionally lean individuals, respond with a paradoxical reduction in hypothalamic levels of glutamate/glutamine (glx) upon feeding. energy metabolism supports both inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmission processes. indeed, in glutamatergic and gabaergic neurons, the primary energetic costs are associated with neurotransmission. thus, gaba release from agrp neurons is important in regulating energy balance. the role of gaba and glutamate in regulating energy balance has received less attention in comparison to neuropeptides. 
IFIT1 restricts viral replication by sequestrating mis-capped viral RNAs. [SEP] ifit1 is well-characterised to inhibit viral translation by sequestration of eukaryotic initiation factors or by directly binding to the 5' terminus of foreign rna, particularly those with non-self cap structures. nevertheless, knockout of ifit1 promoted viral replication in murine norovirus infected cells. instead, ifit1 stimulates the antiviral state following cytoplasmic rna sensing, contributing to restriction of norovirus replication. in this study, we found that ifit1 binds to hev rna to inhibit its translation. hev replication is also restricted in hepatoma cells with overexpressed ifit1. the presence of ifit1 imposes a requirement on viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm to maintain mechanisms to avoid its restrictive effects. ifit immunoprecipitation also showed that ifit1 bound to viral mrnas and cellular capped mrnas but not to uncapped rna or trimethylated rnas, suggesting that ifit1 may also inhibit viral mrna expression through direct binding. here, we analyzed the mechanisms by which ifit1 exerts antiviral responses. ifit1 inhibited the translation of mrna and thereby restricted the replication of jev mutated in 2'-o mtase. thus, ifit1 inhibits replication of mtase-defective jev by inhibiting mrna translation through direct binding to mrna 5' structures. 
IRG1 has antiviral effects against neurotropic viruses. [SEP] by transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (isgs; ifi27, irg1 and rsad2 (also known as viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. in addition, we observed that irg1 inhibited the hbv life cycle and that irg1 rs17385627 allele 'a' was more effective than rs17385627 allele 't' at eliminating hbv in hepg2.2.15 cells. the antiviral effect of irg1 was confirmed using hbv infection cell models. we also propose a novel antiviral immunomodulatory pathway controlled by interferon-β (ifn-β) and mediated by immune-responsive gene 1 (irg1) and itaconic acid, its product. recently, many studies reported that the immunoresponsive gene 1 (irg1) play an important role on innate immunity including reactive oxygen species (ros), antiviral effect and expression of inflammatory factors. we found that rsv infection induced irg1 expression in human a549 cells and in the lung tissues of rsv-infected mice. accordingly, knockdown of irg1 induction blocked rsv-induced ros production and proinflammatory cytokine gene expression. finally, we showed that suppression of irg1 induction reduced immune cell infiltration and prevented lung injury in rsv-infected mice. we found that irg1 was induced in a549 alveolar epithelial cells and in mouse lungs after rsv infection. this study links irg1 induction to oxidative damage and rsv disease. 
ITAM phosphorylation prevents the transfer of the T cell receptor (TCR) signal from the echo-domain to the cytoplasmic tail of the T cell receptor (TCR). [SEP] recruitment of signaling molecules to the cytoplasmic domains of the cd3 subunits of the t-cell receptor (tcr) is crucial for early t-cell activation. this indicates that nck performs an important regulatory function in t lymphocytes by inhibiting itam phosphorylation and/or removing cell surface tcr via cd3epsilon interaction. signal transduction by the t-cell antigen receptor (tcr) is initiated by phosphorylation of conserved motifs (itams) contained within the cytoplasmic domains of the invariant subunits. these structural transitions determine whether the tcr engages intracellular effectors or not, regulating tcr phosphorylation and signaling. (a) the itam and proline-rich sequence exposure model, in which the tcr's cytoplasmic tails shield each other and ligand binding exposes them for phosphorylation. limited and contradictory studies have examined the ability of subsets of the tcr's itams to signal into postthymic primary t lymphocytes. to study signaling by a restricted set of itams, we expressed in transgenic mice a chimeric construct containing the ias class ii mhc extracellular and transmembrane domains linked to the cytoplasmic domain of the tcr zeta-chain. conventional models posit that tcr signaling is initiated by the phosphorylation of receptor-associated immune receptor activation motifs (itams). these results indicate that tyrosine-phosphorylated itam is the target for the action of this dominant-negative mutant, suggesting that the assembly of a functional receptor signaling complex on itams is a critical proximal tcr signaling event leading to downstream activation. the role of cytosolic phosphotyrosine phosphatases (ptpase) in t cell receptor (tcr)-mediated signaling was investigated. 
IgA plasma cells that are specific for transglutaminase 2 accumulate in the duodenal mucosa on commencement of a gluten-free diet. [SEP] in coeliac disease, autoantibodies directed against transglutaminase 2 are produced in small-bowel mucosa, and they have been found to be deposited extracellularly. clinically and histologically verified gluten dependency was compared with existence of small-bowel mucosal transglutaminase 2-specific extracellular iga deposits and (coeliac disease-type) hla dq2 and dq8; 34 non-coeliac subjects and 18 patients with classical coeliac disease served as controls. ten of these 11 patients showed transglutaminase 2-targeted mucosal iga deposits, which were dependent on gluten consumption. mucosal transglutaminase 2-specific iga deposits can be utilized in detecting such patients with genetic gluten intolerance. this study investigates the gluten-responsiveness of intestinal tg3 and tg2 antibody-secreting plasma cells in 16 treated dh patients undergoing a gluten challenge. in coeliac disease, immunoglobulin (ig)a-class autoantibodies against transglutaminase-2 are produced in the small intestinal mucosa, where they are deposited extracellularly. it remains unclear whether positive intestinal transglutaminase-2-targeted iga deposits in subjects having normal small bowel mucosal morphology are signs of early-stage coeliac disease. the response of small bowel mucosal transglutaminase-2-specific iga deposits for dietary intervention was similar in overt and mild enteropathy coeliac disease. in this group, mucosal anti-transglutaminase-2 iga deposits were found in 24/25 (96%) bulb samples and 22/25 (88%) distal duodenal samples. serum iga-class tissue transglutaminase antibodies and endomysial antibodies were determined in 87 coeliac adults on a gluten-free diet. 
Immune complex triggered cell death leads to extracellular release of neutrophil protein HMGB1. [SEP] when present in an extracellular location, hmgb1 can activate the innate immune system and promote inflammation in conditions such as sepsis. with cell death, necrosis can lead to extracellular hmgb1 by a passive mechanism. during necrosis and following some instances of apoptosis (in particular in the absence of a proficient phagocytic system), the nonhistone chromatin component high-mobility group box 1 (hmgb1) is released in the extracellular space. recent results indicate that the release of hmgb1 is one of the key features for cell death to be perceived as immunogenic, i.e., to be capable of triggering a cognate immune response in vivo. hmgb1 is released during cell death, and in our previous studies we demonstrated that hmgb1 induces a distinct, necrosis-like cell death in glioblastoma. hmgb1-triggered cell death is associated with intracellular ros release, and overexpression of bcl-2 blocks both the increase of ros as well as hmgb1-dependent cell death. extracellular hmgb1 released from activated immune cells, necrotic or injured cells, becomes a proinflammatory mediator through binding to cell-surface receptors of responding cells. furthermore, hmgb1 triggered cell death in a dose-dependent fashion. hmgb1 is actively released by activated inflammatory cells or passively released by necrotic cells. then the released extracellular hmgb1 further induces monocytes/macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells to secrete inflammatory cytokines. 
Immune responses result in the development of inflammatory Th17 cells and anti-inflammatory iTregs. [SEP] while il-27 suppressed the development of proinflammatory th17 cells, a novel role for this cytokine in inhibiting the development of anti-inflammatory, inducible regulatory t cells (itreg) was identified. our data thus demonstrate that il-27 controls the development of th17 and itreg cells via differential effects on stat1. th17 cells and foxp3+ regulatory t cells (tregs) are thought to promote and suppress inflammatory responses, respectively. in contrast, colon inflammation induced by transfer of th17 cells, was augmented by the cotransfer of itregs. these results suggest that antigen-specific activation of itregs in a local environment stimulates the th17-mediated inflammatory response in a ctla4-dependent manner. it was reported recently that the differentiation of th17 cells was inhibited, while the generation of induced treg cells (itregs) was promoted, by tet treatment. accumulating evidence suggests that tregs can convert into th17 cells and acquire an inflammatory phenotype. in this study, we used an adoptive transfer model of ag-specific t cells to study the contribution of different factors to the reprogramming of in vitro-generated treg cells (itreg) into il-17-producing cells in a mouse model of gut inflammation in vivo. our results show that intestinal inflammation induces the reprogramming of itreg cells into il-17-producing cells and that vitamin a restrains reprogramming in the gut. therefore, selective targeting of these intracellular tgf-beta signaling pathways during itreg and th17 cell development might lead to the development of therapies in treating autoimmune and other chronic inflammatory diseases. 
In adult tissue, most T cells are memory T cells. [SEP] within days of infection, marked depletion of memory cd4+ t cells occurs primarily in mucosal tissues, the major reservoir for memory cd4+ t cells in adults. these experiments suggest that in adult life the thymus maintains a regulatory population of t cells in peripheral tissues which suppress early t cell differentiation to cytotoxic effector cells and potentiates the development of immune memory. we present here an analysis of lymphoid and mucosal tissue t cells derived from pediatric organ donors in the first two years of life, as compared to adult organ donors, revealing early compartmentalization of t cell differentiation and regulation. whereas adult tissues contain a predominance of memory t cells, in pediatric blood and tissues the main subset consists of naive recent thymic emigrants, with effector memory t cells (t(em)) found only in the lungs and small intestine. additionally, regulatory t (t(reg)) cells comprise a high proportion (30-40%) of cd4(+) t cells in pediatric tissues but are present at much lower frequencies (1-10%) in adult tissues. adult lti cells regulate adaptive immune responses by providing ltbetar signals to stromal cells to maintain secondary lymphoid tissue structure, and determine adaptive immune responses by providing ox40 and cd30 survival signals to activated t cells in memory t cell generation. in an examination of t cell expression of these two cd45 isoforms during human development, the ro+ra- "memory" t cells were infrequent in the newborn blood and spleen, but comprised approximately half of the t cells in adult tissues. in further contrast with their ro+ memory t cell counterparts in adults, the fetal t cells were unresponsive to mitogenic anti-cd2 and anti-cd3 antibodies. focusing on antiviral t cell immunity, we observed durable maintenance of resident memory t cells up to 450 days after infection. although resident memory indefinitely dominated most mucosal organs, surgical separation of parabiotic mice revealed a tissue-resident provenance for blood-borne effector memory t cells, and circulating memory slowly made substantial contributions to tissue immunity in some organs. 
In domesticated populations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, whole chromosome aneuploidy is very uncommon. [SEP] frequent loss of heterozygosity involved diverse, strain-specific chromosomal translocations, which differed from those observed in domesticated, aneuploid s. pastorianus brewing strains. in contrast to the extensive aneuploidy of domesticated s. pastorianus strains, the evolved isolates only showed limited (segmental) aneuploidy. this study indicates that fast acquisition of extensive aneuploidy is not required for genetic adaptation of s. cerevisiae × s. eubayanus hybrids to brewing environments. here, we describe a pcr-mediated chromosome duplication (pcdup) technology that enables the generation of segmental aneuploidy at any desired chromosomal region in saccharomyces cerevisiae. specifically, the induction of aneuploidy by ionizing radiation has been examined in diploids that had one chromosome iii replaced by a divergent chromosome from saccharomyces carlsbergensis. aneuploidy is considered a widespread genetic variation in such cell populations as yeast strains, cell lines and cancer cells, and spontaneous changes in the chromosomal copy number may have implications for data interpretation. in the absence of induced dna damage, these yeast strains had very high frequencies of aneuploidy (both trisomy and monosomy) in addition to elevated rates of chromosome rearrangements. chromosome missegregation leads to aneuploidy which is defined as the cellular state of having a chromosome count that is not an exact multiple of the haploid number. here we investigated within-species variation in aneuploidy prevalence and tolerance, using saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model for eukaryotic biology. the relationships between lineages with high aneuploidy frequencies suggest that increased aneuploidy prevalence emerged multiple times in s. cerevisiae evolution. 
In mice, P. chabaudi parasites are able to proliferate faster early in infection when inoculated at lower numbers than when inoculated at high numbers. [SEP] we divided mice into four groups: bcg-inoculation 4 weeks prior to p. c. chabaudi as infection (b-4w-pc); simultaneous bcg-inoculation and p. c. chabaudi as infection (pc+b); bcg-inoculation 3 days post p. c. chabaudi as (pc-3-b) infection; and mono-p. c. chabaudi as infection as control (pc). bcg inoculation prior to p. c. chabaudi as infection may contribute to overgrowth of parasites as well as mortality in mice. attenuation of the parasite was observed when mice were inoculated with p. chabaudi as infected red blood cells treated in vitro with [au(d2pype)2]cl (1 or 2 μm) or auranofin (2 μm) for 2 or 3 h. quantitative pcr data showed persistence of low levels of parasite dna up to 8 days post inoculation. mixed infections of different ratios of resistant and susceptible plasmodium chabaudi parasites were inoculated in laboratory mice and dynamics tracked during the course of infection using highly sensitive genotype-specific quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qpcr). experiments were performed with p. chabaudi chabaudi to investigate the relationship between the development of the parasite and the circadian rhythm of the host. a higher number of parasites were also present at 30 days of infection at the inoculation site of complement-depleted mice (78.5 +/- 24.9 vs 6.3 +/- 5.7). mice from the lc2 group showed a prepatent period of five days, parasitaemia lasted eight days, and the peak (30 % prbc) was of on the 11th day. l. casei enhanced nonspecific resistance to p. chabaudi, as indicated by longer prepatent periods, reduced parasitaemia, and reduction in the viability of the parasites recovered from the spleen of infected mice, along with high concentrations of no* in serum. during the early stages of the primary plasmodium chabaudi chabaudi as parasitaemia in cba/ca mice this parasite invaded normocytes, but as the parasitaemia developed increasing numbers of parasites were seen within reticulocytes. we previously reported that infection of balb/c mice with the parasite plasmodium chabaudi induces high production of natural autoantibodies. 
In mouse models, the loss of CSF1R facilitates MOZ-TIF2-induced leuekmogenesis. [SEP] the moz fusion proteins moz-tif2 and moz-cbp interacted with the transcription factor pu.1 to stimulate the expression of macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (csf1r, also known as m-csfr, c-fms or cd115). moreover, induction of aml was suppressed in csf1r-deficient mice and csf1r inhibitors slowed the progression of moz-tif2-induced leukemia. depletion of brpf1 decreased the moz localization on hox genes, resulting in loss of transformation ability induced by moz-tif2. we suggest that activation of brpf1/hox pathway through moz hat activity is critical for moz-tif2 to induce aml. moz-tif2 is a leukemogenic fusion oncoprotein that confers self-renewal capability to hematopoietic progenitor cells and induces acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) with long latency in bone marrow transplantation assays. in addition, stat5 signaling is essential for moz-tif2-induced leukemic transformation itself. moz-tif2 and moz-cbp are leukemogenic fusion proteins associated with therapy-induced acute myeloid leukemia. here we demonstrate that moz-tif2 has transforming properties in vitro and causes aml in a murine bone marrow transplant assay. these results indicate that nucleosomal targeting by moz and recruitment of cbp by tif2 are critical requirements for moz-tif2 transformation and indicate that moz gain of function contributes to leukemogenesis. we describe here that, indeed, moz-tif2 silences expression of the cdkn2a locus (p16(ink4a) and p19(arf)), inhibits the triggering of senescence and enhances proliferation, providing conditions favorable to the development of leukemia. 
In transgenic mice harboring green florescent protein under the control of the Sox2 promoter, less than ten percent of the cells with green florescent colocalize with cell proliferation markers. [SEP] enhanced green florescent protein (egfp)-expressing donor cells were used for the nuclear transfer. the green florescence proteins (gfp) gene of aquorea victoria, proved to be a vital marker to identify transformed cells in mixed populations. gfp2, a gfp variant that contains mammalianized codons and the folding enhancing mutation f64l, displays ~8-fold higher florescence compared to phluorin upon excitation at 395 nm. also, freshly isolated morulas were aggregated with es cells that were positive for the green florescent protein (gfp). after overnight culture, the blastocysts that exhibited gfp florescence were transferred to the pseudo-pregnant mothers to obtain chimeric animals. we have generated transgenic mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) under the control of the endogenous locus-regulatory regions of the sox2 gene to prospectively identify neural stem/progenitor cells in vivo and in vitro. fluorescent cells coexpress sox2 protein, and egfp fluorescence is detected in proliferating neural progenitor cells of the entire anterior-posterior axis of the cns from neural plate stages to adulthood. we developed a transgenic mouse line in which the surrogate markers secreted alkaline phosphatase (seap) and enhanced green florescent protein (egfp) can be used to monitor neurogenin-3 expression, and thus islet cell genesis. transgenic mice with enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) expression controlled by the sox2 gene were used in the study. immunostaining of myosin viia and egfp signals were used to track the fate of sox2-expressing supporting cells. 
In young and middle-aged adults, current or remote uses of ADHD medications do not increase the risk of serious cardiovascular events. [SEP] to examine whether current use of medications prescribed primarily to treat adhd is associated with increased risk of serious cardiovascular events in young and middle-aged adults. among young and middle-aged adults, current or new use of adhd medications, compared with nonuse or remote use, was not associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events. adverse-event reports from north america have raised concern that the use of drugs for attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (adhd) increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events. current users of adhd drugs were not at increased risk for serious cardiovascular events (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.75; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.31 to 1.85). this large study showed no evidence that current use of an adhd drug was associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events, although the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval indicated that a doubling of the risk could not be ruled out. the impact of these medications on serious cardiovascular events in healthy children is unknown, but serious cardiovascular events related to adhd medications are considered rare. identifying and managing underlying cardiovascular pathology may not eliminate the risk of serious cardiovascular events but may increase the safety of using medication frequently required for effective management of adhd. despite the well established efficacy and the good safety and tolerability profile, there is concern about the potential for rare but serious cardiovascular adverse events, as well as sudden cardiac death, with pharmacotherapies used for treating adhd in children, adolescents and adults. however, great caution is advised when considering stimulant and non-stimulant medications for patients of any age with a diagnosis of adhd and a personal or family history or other known risk factors for cardiovascular disease. the cardiovascular safety of pharmacotherapies used for treating individuals with adhd has raised particular concerns; however there is little evidence of serious cardiovascular adverse events, including no serious corrected qt (qtc) abnormalities associated with stimulants, atomoxetine or α2-adrenergic receptor agonists. 
Incidence of heart failure decreased by 10% in women since 1979. [SEP] the 30-day incidence of heart failure after mi rose from 10% in 1970 to 1979 to 23.1% in 1990 to 1999 (p for trend 0.003), whereas 30-day mortality after mi declined from 12.2% (1970 to 1979) to 4.1% (1990 to 1999). to test the hypothesis that the incidence of heart failure has declined and survival after heart failure diagnosis has improved over time but that secular trends have diverged by sex. this study tested the hypothesis that the incidence of post-mi heart failure was declining over time in a geographically defined mi incidence cohort. after adjustment for factors related to post-mi heart failure (age, hypertension, smoking, and biomarkers), the incidence of heart failure declined by 2% per year (relative risk = 0.98, 95% confidence interval: 0.96, 0.99; p = 0.01). the relative risk of developing heart failure among persons with mis occurring in 1994 versus 1979 was 0.72 (95% confidence interval: 0.55, 0.93), indicating a 28% reduction in the incidence of heart failure. heart failure occurred in 1075 subjects (51 percent of whom were women). as compared with the rate for the period from 1950 through 1969, the incidence of heart failure remained virtually unchanged among men in the three subsequent periods but declined by 31 to 40 percent among women (rate ratio for the period from 1990 through 1999, 0.69; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.51 to 0.93). overall, there was an improvement in the survival rate after the onset of heart failure of 12 percent per decade (p=0.01 for men and p=0.02 for women). over the past 50 years, the incidence of heart failure has declined among women but not among men, whereas survival after the onset of heart failure has improved in both sexes. between the time that mortality rates began to decline in the late 1960s and now, the age-adjusted incidence of all types of coronary heart disease in residents of rochester decreased 11% in men but increased 9% in women. 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have decreased. [SEP] after an early decrease of cervical cancer incidence and mortality following the introduction of opportunistic screening in croatia, no further decrease has been observed since the 1990s. while the incidence rate of cervical cancer (5.46 per 100,000) decreased by 2.41% annually (p = 0.004), the incidence rate of oropharyngeal cancer among males (7.85 per 100,000) increased by 2.82% annually (p = 0.0002). in the umbria region, over the period 1978-1998, the incidence rate of cervical cancer decreased, while those for endometrial and ovarian cancers rose. the incidence rate for cervical cancer decreased from 21.6/100 000 women in 1970 to 8.8/100 000 women in 1999. the incidence of cervical cancer and the incidence of cervical cancer-related deaths in manitoba both dropped between 1970 and 1999. deaths from cervical cancer showed a non-significant reduction over the study period. the trend analysis by period showed a decreasing trend in the incidence rate of cervical cancer in all the registries. the incidence of cervical cancer decreased from 32.8 per 100,000 in 1993 to 15.9 per 100,000 in 2012 (annual percent change [apc], -3.9%; 95% confidence interval [ci], -4.2% to -3.6%). recent decreases in the incidence and mortality rate of cervical cancer were due to decreases in the period and cohort effects, which reflect the implementation of a cancer screening program and changes in lifestyle. declining trends in cervical cancer incidence may be related to the screening practices which may have counteracted the increasing prevalence of several risk factors, although poor survival influenced the incidence/mortality differentials for cervical cancer. 
Incidence rates of cervical cancer have increased due to nationwide screening programs based primarily on cytology to detect uterine cervical cancer. [SEP] furthermore, the incidence and mortality rate of cervical cancer among the younger generation has been increasing. after hpv testing with cytology-based cervical cancer screening, the number of screenings done in women aged under 40 years has significantly increased. in addition, the number of women diagnosed with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 has increased (25 of 14,025 vs. 146 of 23,049 under 50 years: p < 0.001). these data suggested that the introduction of hpv testing with cytology-based cervical cancer screening as an adjunct to conventional cytology resulted in better efficiency and more accurate screening among the japanese population. this organized low-intensity cervical cytology programme showed a considerable increase in early carcinoma in situ and cin ii -iii cases and should reduce incidence of and mortality from cervical cancer in nakhon phanom province in the future. the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of nationwide screening programs on the incidence and mortality of breast and cervical cancers and to assess the role of primary care providers in this context. a questionnaire survey based on multiple questions was performed to evaluate awareness about uterine cervical cancer screening for women undergoing screening by cervical smear cytology. a potentially detectable 5% increase in cervical cancer incidence due to earlier detection is predicted for the year of transition. hpv-based cervical cancer screening is more effective than screening with cytology. otherwise, it is likely that hpv-based screening will increase the referral rate to colposcopy including more women with no detectable cervical lesion. 
Increased microtubule acetylation repairs LRRK2 Roc-COR domain mutation induced locomotor deficits. [SEP] lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease, but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c, y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules, and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila, causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro, increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules, and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. disease-causing familial mutations cluster within the roc-cor tandem and kinase domains of lrrk2, where they act to either impair gtpase activity or enhance kinase activity. here, we describe a direct interaction between lrrk2 and β-tubulin. lrrk2 selectively interacts with three β-tubulin isoforms: tubb, tubb4, and tubb6, one of which (tubb4) is mutated in the movement disorder dystonia type 4 (dyt4). consistent with this finding, endogenous lrrk2 displays a preferential localization to dynamic microtubules within growth cones, rather than adjacent axonal microtubule bundles. this interaction is functionally relevant to microtubule dynamics, as mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from lrrk2 knock-out mice display increased microtubule acetylation. taken together, our data shed light on the nature of the lrrk2-tubulin interaction, and indicate that alterations in microtubule stability caused by changes in lrrk2 might contribute to the pathogenesis of parkinson disease. 
Increased vessel density along with a reduction in fibrosis decreases the efficacy of chemotherapy treatments. [SEP] vash1a normalized the remaining tumor vessels, increased their rate of perfusion, decreased tumor hypoxia and enhanced the efficacy of anticancer chemotherapy, whereas vash1b pruned tumor vessels without causing normalization, increased tumor hypoxia and tumor necrosis and did not enhance the efficacy of anticancer chemotherapy. consistently, digital radiography data showed less chaotic vessel morphology and a decrease in microvessel density and mean vessel diameter in the combinational treatment. the results revealed that during regression, tumour cell proliferation ceased, apoptosis increased, leucocytes increased (with increased proportion of t lymphocytes), tumour parenchyma collapsed around intratumoral vessels, and fibrosis increased. in this study, we repurposed pirfenidone, a clinically approved anti-fibrotic drug for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, to investigate its possible role on tumor microenvironment normalization. using two orthotopic mammary tumor models we demonstrate that pirfenidone reduces collagen and hyaluronan levels and, as a result, significantly increases blood vessel functionality and perfusion and improves the anti-tumor efficacy of doxorubicin. to evaluate the relationship between physician-identified radiographic fibrosis, lung tissue physical density change, and radiation dose after concurrent radiation therapy and chemotherapy for limited small cell lung cancer. for doses of 30-55 gy and cisplatin and etoposide (pe) chemotherapy, fibrosis probability was 2.0 times greater for accelerated fractionation compared with conventional fractionation (p < .005) and was correlated to increasing dose for both fractionation schedules. furthermore, sorafenib-loaded plga nps significantly shrank the abnormal blood vessels and decreased microvascular density (mvd), leading to vessel normalization in the fibrotic livers. anti-angiogenic therapy provides transient tumor vascular normalization, which results in a window of opportunity for improvement of radio- or chemotherapy. tumor volume and vessel density were reduced, whereas pericyte coverage was increased, and hypoxia and vessel permeability were improved between days 6-9; however, these improvements decreased by day 14, revealing a time frame for tumor vascular normalization, namely days 4-9, during treatment with aunps in mice. 
Individuals with low serum vitamin D concentrations have increased risk of multiple sclerosis. [SEP] recent epidemiologic and experimental evidence supports a role of low environmental supplies of vitamin d in mediating an increased susceptibility to ms. we review available evidence suggesting that vitamin d status may influence ms risk and even modulate clinical disease activity. vitamin d is known to have immunomodulatory properties and its deficiency is identified as an environmental risk factor for the development of autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis. the aim of this study was to assess whether low-dose vitamin d supplementation could normalize the 25(oh)d serum levels in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (rrms) and vitamin d deficiency (serum 25(oh)d < 75 nmol/l), and whether it may impact serum levels of selected cytokines. vitamin d insufficiency is common, correctable, and influenced by genetic factors, and it has been associated with risk of several diseases. we sought to identify low-frequency genetic variants that strongly increase the risk of vitamin d insufficiency and tested their effect on risk of multiple sclerosis, a disease influenced by low vitamin d concentrations. epidemiological and experimental evidence suggest that a poor vitamin d status is associated with an increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis (ms), and also an unfavorable disease course. hla-drb1*15 genotype, previous infection with epstein-barr virus, and vitamin d insufficiency are susceptibility factors for multiple sclerosis, but whether they act synergistically to increase risk is unknown. risk of multiple sclerosis in children can be stratified by presence of hla-drb1*15 alleles, remote epstein-barr virus infection, and low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentrations. low vitamin d serum concentrations have been associated with rickets and other disorders in observational studies. vitamin d supplementation has no effect on the rate of multiple sclerosis relapses, but on the number of new lesions detected by mri. 
Infection of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 is most frequent in individuals of African origin. [SEP] human t-cell lymphotropic viruses type 1 and 2 are retroviruses that share the same routes of transmission as hiv-1. however, prevalence rates of coinfection differ for distinct populations and regions of the world or for each virus, with human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 being more prevalent among hiv-1-infected individuals in the southern hemisphere, while type 2 is more frequently found in the northern hemisphere. on the other hand, human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 seems to be a significant cofactor, with a potentially important role in hiv-1 infection. the highlights include the identification of human t-cell leukemia/lymphotropic virus types i and ii genotypic variants in remote human populations and the discovery of widely divergent simian t-cell leukemia virus in african and asian non-human primates. non-neuropathic type (ranging from 52.6% to 86.8%) was more frequent in human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis participants, and neuropathic pain was more common in human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 carriers (53.1%). we report on the subtyping of south african primate t-cell lymphotropic virus type i (ptlv-i) strains by investigating the ltr region using sequence analysis and restriction fragment length polymorphism (rflp) techniques. human t lymphotropic virus type 1 is associated with some neurologic diseases, mainly human t lymphotropic virus type 1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis. seroepidemiologic studies show that hiv-infected individuals are at an increased risk for human t lymphotropic virus infection and vice versa in comparison with the general population. in the context of recent evidence for interspecies transmission in central and west africa of htlv-i/simian t cell lymphotropic virus type i (stlv-i) strains, leading to the two major htlv-i african subtypes, we would like to suggest that some stlv-ii (closely related to htlv-ii subtype b) still exist or might have existed in central/east africa. the recent finding of quite divergent primate t cell lymphotropic viruses (ptlvs) in several pygmy chimpanzees of zairian origin (ptlv-pp1664 and stlv-pp) and in wild-caught baboons in eritrea, ethiopia (ptlv-l), also supports the complementary hypothesis of a yet to be discovered new htlv-ii-related virus in humans. 
Inositol lipid 3-phosphatase PTEN converts Ptdlns(3,4)P 2 into phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate. [SEP] the resulting 4-phosphatase hydrolyzed phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate with a first order rate constant 120-fold greater than that for inositol 3,4-bisphosphate and 900-fold greater than that for inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate. phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (ptdlns(3,4,5)p(3)) is linked to a variety of cellular functions, such as growth, cell survival, and differentiation. ptdlns(3,4,5)p(3) is primarily synthesized by class i phosphoinositide 3-kinases and its hydrolysis by two 3-phosphoinositide 3-phosphatases, pten and ship proteins, leads to the production of two other second messengers, ptdlns(4,5)p(2) and ptdlns(3,4)p(2), respectively. its physiological substrates, however, are primarily 3-phosphorylated inositol phospholipids, which are products of phosphoinositide 3-kinases. although pten can utilize both phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate [ptdins(3,4,5)p(3)] and its water-soluble headgroup, inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, as substrates, it displays classical features of interfacial catalysis, which greatly favour the lipid substrate (by as much as 1000-fold as judged by k(cat)/k(m) values). the sh2 domain containing inositol 5-phosphatase 2 (ship2) catalyzes the dephosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (ptdins(3,4,5)p(3)) to phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate (ptdins(3,4)p(2)) and participates in the insulin signalling pathway in vivo. enzymatic action on pi(4,5)p2 removes the phosphate at position 5 of the inositol ring, resulting in the production of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate [pi(4)p]. the levels and relative ratios of pi3k products, phosphatidylinositol (3,4) bisphosphate (pi(3,4)p(2)) and phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) trisphosphate (pip(3)), are regulated by inositol phosphatases such as pten and ship. molecular modeling suggested that pten 2 is a phospholipid phosphatase with potential specificity for the phosphate at the 3 position of inositol phosphates. binding of di-c8-phosphatidylinositol 4,5-p2 (pi(4,5)p2) to pten enhances phosphatase activity for monodispersed substrates, pi(3,4,5)p3 and pi(3,4)p2. 
Input from  mental and physical health care professionals is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] the aim of this paper is to assess current service provision and identify barriers to care for homeless people with mental health problems in 14 european capital cities. (ii) semi-structured interviews were conducted in each area with experts in mental health care provision for homeless people in order to determine the barriers to care and ways to overcome them. homeless-specific services are more responsive to the initial needs of homeless people with mental health problems, while generic services tend to be more conducive to long term care. this article discusses initiatives in which emergency nurses collaborate with other professionals to improve the care of homeless people in and outside eds. homelessness and mental illness together confer significant morbidity and mortality because of physical health problems. strategies for ending homelessness largely include resource-intensive, publicly supported housing and comprehensive physical and mental health services. intervention studies are needed to underpin policy; for instance, to decrease disparity in mortality associated with poor access to physical health care for people with mental illness compared with people without mental illness. the recommendations are (a) elimination or mitigation of most health problems of the homeless through safe, affordable housing; (b) reintegration into the community through job counselling, treatment of addictions and employment. nonetheless, exercise programmes for the homeless could provide a feasible and scalable intervention for providing beneficial effects on physical and mental health in this population. also, attention should be given to intervention models for complex and effective physical and psychiatric care as well as social support to address the homeless people's health vulnerabilities. 
Insomnia can be effectively treated with cognitive behavioral therapy. [SEP] cognitive behavioral therapy is the core treatment for insomnia. cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia is superior to sleeping pills for treating insomnia, and its accessibility is rapidly improving. established behavioral strategies for addressing insomnia such as adoption of good sleep habits and engagement in cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia have documented efficacy. this article discusses the leading behavioral treatment of insomnia, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, and its ability to be tailored to an individual's specific symptoms. although the efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia has been confirmed, dissemination depends on the balance of benefits and costs. adding cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is highly likely to be cost-effective for patients with residual insomnia and concomitant depression. women assigned to cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia experienced significantly greater reductions in insomnia severity (scores decreased from 15.4±4.3 to 8.0±5.2 in the cognitive behavioral therapy group vs from 15.9±4.4 to 11.2±4.9 in the control therapy group [p<.001, d=0.5]). women receiving cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia experienced faster remission of insomnia disorder, with a median of 31 days vs 48 days in the control therapy (p<.001). cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia led to significantly greater reduction in self-reported but not objective total wake time and a small but significantly greater decline in edinburgh postnatal depression scale scores vs the control group. over the past 30 years, cognitive-behavioral therapies have emerged as the treatment of choice for chronic insomnia. 
Insulin increases risk of severe kidney failure. [SEP] the metabolic mayhem of severe acute illness has many parallels with those induced by kidney failure itself, and patients with kidney failure are at increased risk from many of the complications potentially improved by insulin therapy. additionally, the risk for developing incident kidney disease and for rapid decline of kidney function is higher in patients with insulin resistance. insulin resistance is associated with subclinical vascular injury in the general population and patients with diabetes and kidney failure, being a strong cardiovascular risk factor in these population groups. diabetes mellitus is the commonest cause of end-stage kidney failure worldwide and is a proven and significant risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. renal impairment has a significant impact on the physiology of glucose homeostasis as it reduces tissue sensitivity to insulin and reduces insulin clearance. experimentally, insulin exerts detrimental effects on the heart, vasculature, kidneys, and adipose tissue that can lead to heart failure. persons with insulin-dependent diabetes (odds ratio, 33.7) and non-insulin-dependent diabetes (odds ratio, 7.0) were at greater risk for end-stage renal disease than were persons without diabetes. the population-attributable risk for kidney failure was 21% for insulin-dependent diabetes and 21% for non-insulin-dependent diabetes (42% overall). insulin-dependent diabetes had a relatively greater effect on the incidence of kidney failure in whites; in contrast, non-insulin-dependent diabetes had a relatively greater effect on kidney failure in blacks. even very slight levels of chronic kidney insufficiency are associated with increased cardiovascular risk, which may be explained at least in part by deficient acid excretory capacity of the kidney and consequent metabolic acidosis-induced insulin resistance. 
Integrating classroom-based collaborative learning with Web-based collaborative learning leads to subpar class performance [SEP] taken together, findings suggest that integrating interdependence-based tasks may foster collaborative engagement at both small-group and whole-classroom levels, but by itself may not be enough to promote increased student achievement. by combining traditional classroom instruction with web-based educational technologies, distance education has been a reality for many years. web-based learning tools are increasingly available for use and have been described in the pedagogical literature. students who completed the web-based module had higher mean knowledge scores (74%) compared with those who were provided the traditional learning material (68%) (p = .06). collaborative learning had been employed in classroom teaching, clinical education and online course teaching. of particular importance is research into novel integrative applications, to serve as the "glue" to bind the different forms of web-based collaborationware synergistically in order to provide a coherent wholesome learning experience. many educators have found successful integration requires an improved learning space that allows students to interact and work collaboratively. web-based instruction can impact student learning if the instructional strategies ensure coherence with all other instructional components, match the learning outcomes, facilitate self-directed and collaborative learning, and allow for practice and feedback. the web-based infrastructure can help the instructors effectively organize and coordinate student research projects, and the groupware features may support the interactive activities, such as interpersonal communications and data sharing. with the fruitful outcomes in recent years, it is positively thought that the web-based collaborative learning environment can perform an excellent shift away from the conventional instructor-centered teaching to community- centered collaborative learning in the undergraduate education. 
Ivermectin is used to treat lymphatic filariasis. [SEP] polynesiensis might represent an additional advantage of ivermectin in lymphatic filariasis control programs. lymphatic filariasis is targeted for elimination globally through mass drug administration (mda) with diethylcarbamazine or ivermectin monotherapy, or either drug in combination with albendazole. the elimination of lymphatic filariasis relies on drug administration using the three drugs currently available for treatment: diethylcarbamazine, albendazole, and ivermectin. even when given in total doses of 4.8 mg/kg, ivermectin appears to have no observable activity against adult w. bancrofti, although its ability to suppress microfilaraemia makes it potentially useful for the control of lymphatic filariasis. ivermectin has proven safe and effective at reducing levels of circulating microfilariae. our findings suggest that a single dose of ivermectin can reduce transmission of lymphatic filariasis for extended periods of time, thus eliminating the need for costly biannual treatment. this finding was made at a time when ivermectin, a drug recommended for the treatment of both onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis, had been distributed in this area since 2004 for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis. ivermectin and diethylcarbamazine (dec) are used in mass treatment programs for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis because of their strong effects on microfilaremia. while ivermectin has been used in the treatment of patients with onchocerciasis, it is also undergoing investigation against lymphatic filariae. annual mass treatment with ivermectin and albendazole is used to treat lymphatic filariasis in many african countries, including tanzania. 
Ivermectin is used to treat onchocerciasis. [SEP] wherever ivermectin is being distributed alone, for onchocerciasis control, its impact on other filarial infections, notably w. bancrofti, should be evaluated routinely. recent studies in mali, nigeria, and senegal have indicated that annual (or biannual) ivermectin distribution may lead to local elimination of human onchocerciasis in certain african foci. this finding was made at a time when ivermectin, a drug recommended for the treatment of both onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis, had been distributed in this area since 2004 for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis. faced with this situation, the aim of our study was to evaluate the effectiveness of ivermectin on the onchocerciasis parasite. ivermectin is a safe and effective drug for the mass treatment of onchocerciasis and when used on an individual basis, it reduces the ability of the treated person to transmit onchocerca volvulus infection. these findings suggest that ivermectin can be important in reducing the transmission of onchocerciasis. ivermectin (mectizan mk-933) is an efficient microfilaricidal drug used for mass treatment by the onchocerciasis control programme (ocp) in the savanna zones of west africa. the results showed a very high efficiency of ivermectin in the treatment of onchocerciasis in the forest zone. the recommended control option against onchocerciasis is repeated ivermectin treatment, which will need to be implemented for decades, and it remains unknown how repeated ivermectin therapy might affect immunity against onchocerca volvulus in the long term. ivermectin has been and continues to be extensively used to control onchocerciasis in areas of hyper and mesoendemicity within the african programme of onchocerciasis control. 
LDL cholesterol has no involvement in the development of cardiovascular disease. [SEP] elevated levels of low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol have been unequivocally demonstrated to play a causal role in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. (i) contemporary data highlighting the atherogenicity of ldl cholesterol and cardiovascular benefits of current lipid lowering therapies. effective lowering of ldl cholesterol plays a critical role in approaches to the prevention of cardiovascular disease. there is little debate that an elevated plasma cholesterol level, specifically an elevated plasma ldl cholesterol level, increases cardiovascular disease risk. irrespective of these uncertainties, the evidence that elevated plasma ldl cholesterol levels constitute an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease has been a major component in studying the genetic and environmental factors involved in hypercholesterolemia. hdl cholesterol raising and triglyceride lowering therapies have not yet shown unequivocal benefits for cardiovascular risk reduction. as expected, ldl cholesterol was positively related and hdl cholesterol was inversely related to cardiovascular disease mortality. while total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) were previously believed to play central roles, it has now become clear that neither in isolation is highly significant. for example, some people with very high ldl-c levels do not develop chd, while others with very low ldl-c levels do. it is known that the increased level of idl and oxidized ldl are associated with risk of cardiovascular disease, and the lipoprotein abnormalities accelerate atherosclerosis. 
Lack of clpC does not affect sporulation efficiency in Bacillus subtilis cells. [SEP] inactivation of clpc in b. thuringiensis impaired sporulation efficiency. microscopic examination of clpp1 mutant cells grown at 25 degrees c showed altered bacterial division, with cells remaining attached after septum formation. a collection of intergenic suppressors of the bacillus subtilis spoof221 mutation has been isolated. we observed that growth, cell division, sporulation and germination were severely affected in mcsb and clpc deleted strains, while none of deletions affected toxin secretion. in bacillus subtilis, a proteolytic machine composed of meca, clpc and clpp degrades the transcription factor comk, controlling its accumulation during growth. although the inhibitory effect on transcription requires meca's binding partner clpc, inhibition is not accompanied by the degradation of spo0a, pointing to a previously unsuspected regulatory mechanism involving these proteins. this demonstrates that meca and clpc do not act by preventing the binding of spo0a-p to its target promoters. the adapter protein meca targets the transcription factor comk for degradation by the clpc/clpp proteolytic complex, thereby negatively regulating competence in bacillus subtilis. a member of the clpc subfamily of stress response-related clp atpases was cloned from bacillus subtilis. during sporulation bacillus subtilis mfd couples transcription to nucleotide excision repair (ner) to eliminate dna distorting lesions. 
Less than 10% of the gabonese children with Schimmelpenning-Feuerstein-Mims syndrome (SFM) had a plasma lactate of more than 5mmol/L. [SEP] in some rare cases, the sebaceous nevus is part of a genetic disorder, the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome comprises a craniofacial nevus sebaceus, seizures, developmental delay, ocular and skeletal abnormalities. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims syndrome (sfm), characterized by linear nevus sebaceous and ocular and neurologic abnormalities, is a sporadic condition without known familial cases or etiology. we report the occurrence of sfm in only one of two monozygotic (mz) twins. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome is a rare phakomatosis which comprises a nevus sebaceous of jadassohn, seizures and developmental delay associated with a wide spectrum of extracutaneous abnormalities including neurological, skeletal, ocular, cardiovascular and urogenital defects. schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims (sfm) syndrome is a neurocutaneous disorder that can affect many body systems. few cases have been published on the association of sfm with lymphatic malformations. we report a case of an 18-year-old boy diagnosed with sfm syndrome associated with lymphatic malformation in the legs and agenesia of the inguinal lymph nodes. the schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims syndrome (sfm syndrome) is a rare and variable multisystem defect consisting of congenital, extensive linear nevus sebaceus and associated abnormalities in different neuroectodermal organ systems. schimmelpenning-feuerstein-mims syndrome is a congenital neurocutaneous disorder, comprising of organoid epidermal nevus with a broad spectrum of multiorgan dysfunction (neurologic, skeletal, cardiovascular, ophthalmic, and urologic) secondary to postzygotic mutation in the early embryonic period. 
Leukemia associated Rho guanine nucleotide-exchange factor represses RhoA in response to SRC activation. [SEP] from the gene and protein expression analyses, we found that the expression level of leukemia-associated rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (larg), which activates rho, was downregulated under clinorotation. guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) stimulate guanine nucleotide exchange and the subsequent activation of rho-family proteins in response to extracellular stimuli acting upon cytokine, tyrosine kinase, adhesion, integrin, and g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs). new crystal structures of the dh-ph domains from leukemia-associated rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (rhogef) and pdz-rhogef bound to rhoa reveal how dh-ph domains cooperate to specifically activate rho gtpases. rho gtpase-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factors (rhogefs) are regulated by various extracellular stimuli and activates rho gtpase such as rhoa, rac1, and cdc42. rho family guanosine triphosphatases (gtpases), such as rhoa, cdc42, and rac1, play a fundamental role in various cellular processes. we demonstrate that (i) these gefs are specific guanine nucleotide exchange factors for the rho isoforms (rhoa, rhob, and rhoc) and inactive toward other members of the rho family, including rac1, cdc42, and tc10. rho family gtpases are activated with precise spatiotemporal control by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs). this indicates a synergistic intersection between mt dynamics and src signaling in rhoa activation through gef-h1. inhibition of src kinase by the selective inhibitor of the src family tyrosine kinases pp2 totally blocked the early tgfβ-induced rhoa activation. similarly, vav2 silencing via sirna reduced the tgfβ-induced rhoa activation implying that the rapid src/vav2 stimulation was effective in regulating rhoa activation. 
Leuko-increased blood increases infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] however, a growing number of prospective randomized clinical trials are finding an association between rbc transfusion and an increased risk of morbidity and mortality even with the use of leuko-reduced blood. allogeneic blood transfusions in surgical patients have been associated with an increased risk of infectious complications and organ dysfunction. residual leukocytes contaminating units of packed red blood cells have been incriminated through the induction of anergy and/or a potentiated inflammatory response, leading to the possibility that leukoreduced red blood cell transfusion might mitigate these effects. we set out to evaluate the effect of leukoreduced red cell transfusion on the risk of infections complications in patients requiring transfusion following injury. rates of infectious complications were similar in subjects receiving leukoreduced transfusions (30%) or standard transfusions (36%) ([rr], 0.84 [0.55-1.3]) and there was no statistically significant effect of leukoreduced blood transfusion on mortality [rr, 1.20 (0.74-1.9)], febrile episodes [rr, 1.01 (0.89-1.2)], or organ dysfunction scores (5.9 vs. 6.6; p=0.29). thus, pre-storage leukoreduction of allogeneic red blood cells had a small, but non-significant effect on the rate of infectious complication in this high-risk population requiring transfusion. transfusion of each additional unit of red blood cells was associated with incrementally worse outcomes. similarly, each additional unit of red blood cell transfusion was associated with increasing postoperative septicemia (0% v 0.35% v 2.29%, p < 0.006) and postoperative pneumonia (0% v 0.70% v 2.29%, p < 0.013). each additional unit of intraoperative rbc transfusion also may increase postoperative infectious complications. these patients may be at increased risk for complications associated with transfusion. 
Leuko-reduced blood reduces infectious complications in red blood cell transfusion. [SEP] a danish clinical trial showed that transfusion with leucocyte-depleted red blood cells reduces postoperative infectious complications compared with cells without buffy-coat. several authors have suggested that filtered whole blood and/or red cell concentrate, or leucocyte- and buffy coat-reduced red cells in artificial medium or their own plasma, may reduce postoperative immunosuppression. advances in donor selection, infectious disease testing of donated blood, use of leukocyte reduction and irradiation of blood in defined situations have improved the safety of the blood supply in terms of infection transmission. he received blood components treated with universal pre-storage leuko-reduction. immunization was lower in patients who had received only leuko-reduced blood units. with universal leukoreduction of red blood cells (rbcs), selection of potential donors such as use of male donors only plasma and restriction of rbc storage, most of the non-infectious complications can be avoided. residual leukocytes contaminating units of packed red blood cells have been incriminated through the induction of anergy and/or a potentiated inflammatory response, leading to the possibility that leukoreduced red blood cell transfusion might mitigate these effects. we set out to evaluate the effect of leukoreduced red cell transfusion on the risk of infections complications in patients requiring transfusion following injury. rates of infectious complications were similar in subjects receiving leukoreduced transfusions (30%) or standard transfusions (36%) ([rr], 0.84 [0.55-1.3]) and there was no statistically significant effect of leukoreduced blood transfusion on mortality [rr, 1.20 (0.74-1.9)], febrile episodes [rr, 1.01 (0.89-1.2)], or organ dysfunction scores (5.9 vs. 6.6; p=0.29). thus, pre-storage leukoreduction of allogeneic red blood cells had a small, but non-significant effect on the rate of infectious complication in this high-risk population requiring transfusion. 
Localization of PIN1 in the Arabidopsis embryo does not require VPS9a [SEP] here, we show that myrosin cell development requires the endocytosis-mediated polar localization of the auxin-efflux carrier pin1 in leaf primordia. asymmetric localization of pin1 develops from a random distribution in arabidopsis early embryogenesis. coordinated polar localization of pin1 is defective in gnom embryos. yet, the arabidopsis genome contains a close homologue of vps9a, which potentially plays specific roles in innate immunity. the oligomerization of vps9a was mediated by a distinctive region consisting of 36 amino acids in the ctr that was conserved in plant rab5 gefs. here, we show that expression of several regulatory genes important in zygotic embryogenesis were up-regulated during somatic embryogenesis of arabidopsis. moreover, the auxin gradients appear to activate pin1 polar localization within the embryonic callus. proper localization of pin1 on the plasma membrane is essential to polar auxin transport and distribution, a key determinant of pattern formation during embryogenesis. here, we show that the arabidopsis thaliana escrt-related charged multivesicular body protein/chromatin modifying protein1a (chmp1a) and chmp1b proteins are essential for embryo and seedling development. pin1 is required for the establishment of auxin maxima, which induce and maintain organ primordia. 
Localization of PIN1 in the roots of Arabidopsis does not require VPS9a [SEP] here, we show that myrosin cell development requires the endocytosis-mediated polar localization of the auxin-efflux carrier pin1 in leaf primordia. asymmetric localization of pin1 develops from a random distribution in arabidopsis early embryogenesis. the vacuolar protein sorting- associated protein 9 (vps9a) encodes the single guanine nucleotide exchange factor (gef) that activates all three known rab5 proteins in arabidopsis thaliana. furthermore, vps9a-2 mutant displays reduced expression of auxin reporter, direct repeat-5 (dr5), and alterations in polarity and abundance of auxin efflux carrier pin- formed2 (pin2). in conclusion, our findings indicate that akt1 is required for an arabidopsis response to changes in external k+ , and subsequent regulation of k+ -dependent root growth by modulating pin1 degradation and auxin redistribution in the root. the trh1, pin2, axr2 and aux1 mutants, and transgenic plants overexpressing pin1, all showing impaired gravity response and root hair development, revealed ectopic pin1 localization. as a consequence of auxin imbalance in arabidopsis root apex, ectopic pin1 mislocalization could be a risk aversion mechanism to trigger root developmental responses ensuring root growth plasticity. our data suggest that fkd1 influences pin1 localization in an auxin-dependent manner, and we propose that it represents a key component of the auxin canalization pathway. auxin gradient establishment is mediated by polarly localized auxin transporters, including pin-formed (pin) proteins. we assessed the role of the early secretory pathway in establishing pin1 polarity in arabidopsis thaliana by pharmacological and genetic approaches. 
Low expression of miR7a does represses target genes and exerts a biological function in ovaries. [SEP] micrornas (mirnas) exert their functions by repressing the expression of their target genes, but most mirna target genes are unknown, and the degree to which a mirna differentially inhibits the expression of its targets is underappreciated. we selected human mir-1, mir-122, and mir-124 as representatives to investigate the reliability of mirna target predictions and examine how mirnas suppress their targets. we constructed mirna target gene reporter libraries based on prediction programs targetscan, miranda, and pictar, and performed large-scale reporter assays to directly evaluate whether and how strongly a predicted target gene is repressed by its mirna. we also identified parameters that could predict the degrees of mirna repression, and further showed that differential mir-124 repression might contribute to differential gene expression in vivo. our studies systematically investigated hundreds of mirna target genes, shed light on factors influencing mirna functions, and suggested a new mechanism by which differential target repression by mirnas regulates endogenous gene expression. micrornas (mirnas) play vital roles in several biological processes, including apoptosis, by negatively regulating the expression of target genes. we found that target genes exhibit differential sensitivity to mirna suppression and that only a small fraction of target genes are actually suppressed by a given concentration of mirna under physiological conditions. transgenic expression and deletion of the same mirna gene regulate largely distinct sets of target genes. mir-17~92 controls target gene expression mainly through translational repression and 5'utr plays an important role in regulating target gene sensitivity to mirna suppression. these findings provide molecular insights into a model in which mirnas exert their specific functions through a small number of key target genes. 
Low expression of miR7a exerts a biological function in testis. [SEP] smad4 is expressed in the mammalian testis and is believed to play an important role during testicular development and spermatogenesis. our study revealed that the smad4 was widely expressed in the fowl testis, mainly immunolocalized in the cytoplasm of sertoli cells, leydig cells and germ cells. the presence of smad4 protein in these testicular cells provides molecular and morphological evidence for tgf-β signal transduction during testicular development and spermatogenesis. the present study was designed to unravel the possible role of antioxidant proteins, peroxiredoxin i and ii (prx i and ii) in the testis. our results show that prx i and ii are constitutively expressed in the testis and their expression levels are decreased to some extent as the testis develops. here, we analyzed 3 relaxin family peptides (relaxin, relaxin-3, and insl3) and their receptors (rxfp1, rxfp2, and rxfp3) as potential spermatogenic factors involving their expression in the testis at different stages of its development. furthermore, correlations were observed between relaxin, relaxin-3, rxfp1, rxfp2 and rxfp3 messenger rna expression, and the relative numbers of haploid cells in testes. in the adult testis, messenger rna expression of relaxin, rxfp1, and rxfp3 predominantly occurs in the tubular testis compartment, whereas inls3 is mainly expressed in the interstitium. the identification of cells in testis capable of synthesizing pomc mrna was established by showing the presence of this mrna in mouse leydig cell lines (tm3 and i10a). the esr1 gene is highly expressed in the adult testis and in stages from viic-d to xiv. 
Low nucleosome occupancy correlates with low methylation levels across species. [SEP] the results demonstrated that increasing methylated cpg density is correlated with nucleosome occupancy in the total genome and within nearly all subgenomic regions. additionally, outside of cpg islands, the density of cpgs within nucleosomes was shown to be important for the nucleosomal location of dna methylation with low cpg frequencies favoring linker methylation and high cpg frequencies favoring core particle methylation. thus, the relationship between dna methylation and nucleosome occupancy is influenced by the density of methylated cpg dinucleotides and by other epigenomic components in chromatin. previously, nucleosome depleted regions were observed upstream of transcription start sites and nucleosome occupancy was reported to correlate both with cpg density and the level of cpg methylation. we find the observed correlation between nucleosome occupancy and cpg density, respectively cpg methylation, to be specific to promoter regions. rather, our results suggest that for organisms with cytosine methylation nucleosome occupancy might be primarily linked to gene expression, with no strong impact on methylation. genome-wide nucleosome occupancy is negatively related to the average level of transcription factor motif binding based on studies in yeast and several other model organisms. throughout the genome, nucleosome occupancy was correlated with certain histone methylation or acetylation modifications. the nucleosome occupancy and methylome sequencing (nome-seq) assay allows us to directly measure the relationship between dna methylation and nucleosome occupancy by taking advantage of the methyltransferase m.cvipi, which methylates unprotected gpc dinucleotides to create a footprint of chromatin accessibility. this assay generates dual nucleosome occupancy and dna methylation information at a single-dna molecule resolution using as little as 200,000 cells and in as short as 15 min reaction time. 
Lupus-prone mice infected with curliproducing bacteria have higher autoantibody titers compared to controls. [SEP] when given systemically, curli-dna composites triggered immune activation and production of autoantibodies in lupus-prone and wild-type mice. we also found that the infection of lupus-prone mice with curli-producing bacteria triggered higher autoantibody titers compared to curli-deficient bacteria. moreover, γhv68 infection led to reduced autoantibody titers, lymphoid activation, and glomerular inflammation whether lupus-prone females were infected before or during disease manifestation. finally, γhv68 infection also inhibited autoantibody production in the genetically distinct mrl/lpr lupus-prone mice. furthermore, lupus-prone mice immunized with this peptide dna mimic had higher autoantibody titers as well as more severe nephritis. anti-dna antibodies may contribute to lupus nephritis via cross-reactivity with renal antigen. we conclude that a pathogenic, lupus-like autoantibody response can be induced by a peptide antigen, and that alpha-actinin is a cross-reactive renal target for the pathogenic anti-dsdna autoantibody response in lupus mice. lupus-prone (nzw x bxsb)f1 (w/bf1) mice, and other strains were examined immunohistologically. the concurrent elevation of anticardiolipin autoantibody and development of vasculitis suggests that anticardiolipin autoantibodies, and their proposed thrombogenic and vascular injury consequences, contribute to development of microvasculitis in lupus-prone mice. lupus-prone female new zealand mixed (nzm)2328 mice develop high titers of anti-nuclear and anti-dsdna autoantibodies. 
Ly49Q directs the organization of neutrophil migration to inflammation sites by regulating membrane raft functions. [SEP] here, we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor, ly49q, was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state, ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation, likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however, in the presence of inflammatory stimuli, ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation, through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules. ly49q, an itim domain-bearing receptor expressed on different leukocytes, has been recently reported to impact neutrophil migration and polarization. utilizing a murine model of klebsiella pneumoniae-induced pulmonary infection in combination with additional in vivo and in vitro assays, we show that ly49q is critically involved in different steps of the leukocyte adhesion cascade. in summary, ly49q regulates integrin activation and neutrophil recruitment and is required for an adequate immune response in pulmonary infection. in this study, we showed that ly49q regulates tlr9 signaling by affecting endosome/lysosome behavior. our data highlight a novel mechanism by which tlr9 signaling is controlled through the spatiotemporal regulation of membrane trafficking by the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif-bearing receptor ly49q. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity compared to their Ly6C lo counterparts. [SEP] in a model of murine hindlimb ischaemia, both ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) monocyte circulating levels were increased after femoral artery ligation. ccl2/ccr2 activation enhanced blood ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) monocyte counts, although the opposite effect was seen in mice with ccl2 or ccr2 deficiency. cx3cl1/cx3cr1 strongly impacted ly6c(lo) monocyte levels, whereas ccl5/ccr5 had no role. moreover, adoptive transfer of ly6c(hi)-but not ly6c(lo)-monocytes enhanced vessel growth and blood flow recovery. altogether, our data demonstrate that regulation of proangiogenic ly6c(hi) monocytes systemic levels by ccl2/ccr2 controls post-ischaemic vessel growth, whereas ly6c(lo) monocytes have no major role in this setting. this demonstrates that ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) bm-derived monocytes have different fates in vivo and suggests that bm may be a reservoir of preinflammatory monocytes for rapid deployment as inflammatory dc during virus infection. in contrast, ly6c(hi) monocytes differentiated normally into ly6c(lo) cells in ifn-i receptor-deficient mice. the monocyte phenotype progressively changed by down-regulating ly6c, up-regulating f4/80, expressing low or intermediate levels of iba-1, and developing macrophage morphology. in addition, we found that cd11b(+)ly6c(hi) monocytes inhibited th1 differentiation but enhanced development of forkhead box p3(+)cd4(+) regulatory t cells. in addition, we found that cd11b(+)ly6c(hi) monocytes were also increased significantly in spleen and peripheral blood and showed immunosuppressive characteristics similar to their peritoneal counterparts. 
Ly6C hi monocytes have a lower inflammatory capacity than Ly6C lo monocytes. [SEP] in a model of murine hindlimb ischaemia, both ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) monocyte circulating levels were increased after femoral artery ligation. ccl2/ccr2 activation enhanced blood ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) monocyte counts, although the opposite effect was seen in mice with ccl2 or ccr2 deficiency. cx3cl1/cx3cr1 strongly impacted ly6c(lo) monocyte levels, whereas ccl5/ccr5 had no role. moreover, adoptive transfer of ly6c(hi)-but not ly6c(lo)-monocytes enhanced vessel growth and blood flow recovery. altogether, our data demonstrate that regulation of proangiogenic ly6c(hi) monocytes systemic levels by ccl2/ccr2 controls post-ischaemic vessel growth, whereas ly6c(lo) monocytes have no major role in this setting. in contrast, ly6c(hi) monocytes differentiated normally into ly6c(lo) cells in ifn-i receptor-deficient mice. this demonstrates that ly6c(hi) and ly6c(lo) bm-derived monocytes have different fates in vivo and suggests that bm may be a reservoir of preinflammatory monocytes for rapid deployment as inflammatory dc during virus infection. surprisingly, neutrophils, not ly6c(lo) monocytes, largely replaced ly6c(hi) cells in the central nervous system of these mice. we separated two main subtypes of cd11b(hi) monocytes according to their expression of the surface markers ly6c and cd43. a population of monocytes, known as ly6c(lo) monocytes, patrol blood vessels by crawling along the vascular endothelium. 
Lymphadenopathy is observed in knockin mouse lacking the SHP-2 MAPK pathway. [SEP] mice lacking functional shp-1 (me/me and me(v)/me(v)) develop systemic autoimmune disease with accumulation of macrophages, suggesting that shp-1 may be a negative regulator of hemopoietic cell growth. by using macrophages expressing dominant negative ras and the me(v)/me(v) mouse mutant, we show that shp-1 is activated in the course of mitogenic signal transduction in a ras-dependent manner and that its activity is necessary for the ras-dependent activation of the mapk pathway but not of the raf-1 kinase. coexpression of catalytically inactive, but not wild-type, shp-2 reduced lifr- and gp130-mediated activation of mapk up to 75%. conversely, coexpression of the wild-type, but not catalytically inactive, shp-1, a related phosphatase, reduced activity up to 80%, demonstrating that shp-2 and shp-1 have opposing effects on the mapk pathway. src-homology 2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase-2 (shp-2) is a ubiquitously expressed cytosolic tyrosine phosphatase implicated in many different signaling pathways involving cytokine receptors and t and b cell receptors; however, the precise functional role of shp-2 in t cell signaling is not entirely clear. in this study, we overexpressed a catalytically inactive form of shp-2 with a classic cysteine 459-to-serine mutation (dnshp-2) to elucidate the in vivo effects of shp-2 on t cells. we found that mice overexpressing dnshp-2 showed reduced t cell activation, presumably due to increased tyrosine phosphorylation of grb2-binding protein (gab2) and inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) activity. shp-2 appears to be a positive regulator of the mapk pathway in t cells, likely through coupling of the multimeric complex to the ras/mapk pathway. we discuss the idea that, with the exception of ls mutations that have been shown to exert a dominant negative effect, all disease-causing mutations involved in ras/mapk-mediated signaling, including shp-2, might lead to enhanced mapk activation. kinase activation assays suggested that shp-2 interacts with the mapk pathway to mediate these effects. 
Macrolides have no protective effect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] however, little is known about the effects of macrolides on cardiovascular diseases. in this article, we reviewed the roles of mmps in cardiovascular diseases and the effects of macrolides on the prevention of adverse tissue remodeling. we investigated the risk of all-cause and cardiac death, and cardiovascular outcomes, associated with macrolide use. a non-statistically significant trend towards increased risk of myocardial infarction during the first 30 days following macrolide prescription was observed. no statistically significant short- or long-term risks were observed for macrolide prescription. although not statistically significant, our best estimates suggest an increased short-term risk of myocardial infarction in patients with crs following macrolide prescription, supporting previous observational evidence. it was postulated that antibiotics including macrolides could be used for the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease but recent studies showed that macrolides increase the cardiovascular risk. we aimed to review the evidence of cardiovascular risk associated with macrolides regarding duration of effect and risk factors; and to explore the potential effect of statins for the prevention of cardiovascular events as a result of macrolide use. observational studies were found to have a short-term risk of cardiovascular outcomes including cardiovascular mortality, myocardial infarction, and arrhythmia associated with macrolides but no risk was found in randomized controlled trials. however, antibiotics for the treatment or prevention of ischemic heart disease must not be recommended yet. 
Macrolides protect against myocardial infarction. [SEP] we investigated the risk of all-cause and cardiac death, and cardiovascular outcomes, associated with macrolide use. a non-statistically significant trend towards increased risk of myocardial infarction during the first 30 days following macrolide prescription was observed. although not statistically significant, our best estimates suggest an increased short-term risk of myocardial infarction in patients with crs following macrolide prescription, supporting previous observational evidence. however, little is known about the effects of macrolides on cardiovascular diseases. in this article, we reviewed the roles of mmps in cardiovascular diseases and the effects of macrolides on the prevention of adverse tissue remodeling. it was postulated that antibiotics including macrolides could be used for the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease but recent studies showed that macrolides increase the cardiovascular risk. we aimed to review the evidence of cardiovascular risk associated with macrolides regarding duration of effect and risk factors; and to explore the potential effect of statins for the prevention of cardiovascular events as a result of macrolide use. preliminary evidence from clinical trials suggests that treatment with new macrolide antibiotics may improve outcome after ischemic events, and evidence from a large case-control analysis indicates that exposure to tetracyclines or quinolones may reduce the risk of developing a first-time myocardial infarction. some studies have found that antimicrobials, especially macrolides, increase the risk of cardiovascular death. in unadjusted analyses, macrolides and fluoroquinolones were associated with a risk of cardiac events. 
Macropinocytosis contributes to a cell's supply of amino acids via the intracellular uptake of protein. [SEP] in tumour cells, macropinocytosis functions as an amino acid supply route and supports cancer cell survival and proliferation. in this way, macropinocytosis represents a novel amino acid supply route that tumour cells use to survive the nutrient-poor conditions of the tumour microenvironment. scavenging of extracellular protein via macropinocytosis is an alternative to monomeric amino acid uptake. we elucidate that macropinocytosis has a dual function in cafs-it serves as a source of intracellular amino acids that sustain caf cell fitness and function, and it provides secreted amino acids that promote tumor cell survival. amino acids are essential nutrients for many cancer cells that can be obtained through the scavenging and catabolism of extracellular protein via macropinocytosis. in particular, macropinocytosis can be a nutrient source for pancreatic cancer cells, but it is not fully understood how the tumor environment influences metabolic phenotypes and whether macropinocytosis supports the maintenance of amino acid levels within pancreatic tumors. in addition, we find that intratumoral inhibition of macropinocytosis decreases amino acid levels. macropinocytic uptake of extracellular proteins, and their further degradation within endolysosomes, provides the much-needed amino acids that fuel cancer cell metabolism and tumor growth. we find that regional depletion of amino acids coincides with increased levels of macropinocytosis and that the scarcity of glutamine uniquely drives this process. macropinocytosis, a clathrin- and caveolin-independent endocytotic process that had previously been linked to the action of oncogenic ras and src, is now shown to contribute to amino acid uptake via enhanced delivery of extracellular proteins to lysosomes. 
Many proteins in human cells can be post-translationally modified at lysine residues via acetylation. [SEP] acetylation is one of the major post-translational protein modifications in the cell, with manifold effects on the protein level as well as on the metabolome level. the acetyl group, donated by the metabolite acetyl-coenzyme a, can be co- or post-translationally attached to either the α-amino group of the n-terminus of proteins or to the ε-amino group of lysine residues. in case of lysine acetylation, the reaction is enzymatically reversible via tightly regulated and metabolism-dependent mechanisms. this review gives a general overview of protein acetylation and the respective acetyltransferases, and focuses on the regulation of metabolic processes and physiological consequences that come along with protein acetylation. our data show that important ct antigens could be post-translationally modified by acetylation of lysine residues at multiple sites. here, we report biomolecular studies on epigenetic acetylation and related acylation reactions of lysine and γ-thialysine, a cysteine-derived lysine mimic, which can be site-specifically introduced to histone peptides and histone proteins. enzyme assays demonstrate that human kats catalyze an efficient acetylation and propionylation of histone peptides that possess lysine and γ-thialysine. here, we review several emerging targeted technologies to chart both n-terminal acetylation as well as acetylation at the lysine side chain, on a proteome-wide scale, highlighting in particular studies that have expanded the biological knowledge on the appearance and function of these common but functionally still less investigated co- and post-translational modifications. lysine residues can be post-translationally modified by various acyl modifications in bacteria and eukarya. acetylation and succinylation mostly targeted different lysine residues and showed a preference for different residues surrounding the modification sites, suggesting that the two modifications may depend on different factors such as characteristics of acyl-group donors, molecular environment of the lysine substrate, and/or the modifying enzymes. 
Mathematical models predict that using Artemisinin-based combination therapy over nongametocytocidal drugs have a dramatic impact in reducing malaria transmission. [SEP] a recent field study in an area of low seasonal transmission in south west cambodia demonstrated dramatic reductions in malaria parasite prevalence following both mass drug administration (mda) and high treatment coverage of symptomatic patients with artemisinin-piperaquine plus primaquine. a mathematical model fitted to the trial results was used to assess the effects of the various components of these interventions, design optimal elimination strategies, and explore their interactions with artemisinin resistance, which has recently been discovered in western cambodia. mda with artemisinin combination therapy (act) increased the proportion of artemisinin resistant infections, although much less than treatment of symptomatic cases with act, and this increase was slowed by adding primaquine. artemisinin-based combination therapies (acts) are currently considered the first-line treatments for uncomplicated plasmodium falciparum malaria. using epidemiological and clinical data on the efficacy of al and dp, we developed and parameterized a mathematical transmission model that we used to compare the population-level impact of al and dp for reducing p. falciparum malaria transmission in sub-saharan africa. artemisinin-based combination therapies provide high cure rates and substantially reduce gametocyte carriage. in addition to being effective, fast-acting, and well tolerated, artemisinin-based combination therapies (acts) are able to kill certain transmission stages of the malaria parasite. we observe a significant negative association between artemisinin use and malaria incidence, with a 10% absolute increase in the purchase proportion of artemisinin-containing regimens being associated with a 29.1% (95% confidence interval: 14.8-41.0%) reduction in slide-confirmed malaria incidence, after accounting for changes in urbanization, itn/irs coverage, and two indicators of health system capacity. our findings suggest that including an artemisinin component in malaria drug regimens was strongly associated with reduced malaria incidence in southern vietnam, whereas changes in urbanization and coverage with itn or irs were not. mass administration of artemisinin-piperaquine and low doses of primaquine can be an effective, safe, and affordable strategy for efficiently eliminating malaria parasites in human carriers and interrupting parasite transmission. 
Mercaptopurine is anabolized into the inactive methylmercaptopurine by thiopurine methyltrasnferase (TPMT). [SEP] thioguanine and mercaptopurine are prodrugs requiring conversion into thiopurine nucleotides to exert cytotoxicity. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt), an enzyme subject to genetic polymorphism, catabolizes thiopurines into inactive methylated bases, but also produces methylthioguanine nucleotides and methylmercaptopurine nucleotides from thioguanine and mercaptopurine nucleotides, respectively. we conclude that methylation of mercaptopurine contributes to the antiproliferative properties of the drug, probably through inhibition of de novo purine synthesis by methylmercaptopurine nucleotides, whereas thioguanine is inactivated primarily by tpmt. the conversion of 6-mercaptopurine to 6-methylmercaptopurine catalysed by tpmt is observed as it gives evidence for the enzyme activity. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt), which exhibits autosomal codominant polymorphism, plays an important role in the metabolism of thiopurine drugs such as mercaptopurine, thioguanine and azathioprine. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt) catalyzes methylation of thiopurine drugs (e.g. thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt), which exhibits a genetic polymorphism, plays an important role in the metabolism of thiopurine drugs such as mercaptopurine, thioguanine, and azathioprine. to determine the frequency distribution of tpmt activity in 157 japanese subjects with different tpmt genotypes, ie, tpmt*1/*1 and tpmt*1/*3, the authors measured levels of 6-methylmercaptopurine formed from 6-mercaptopurine in red blood cells lysates by hplc. one of them, thiopurine s-methyltransferase (tpmt), is responsible for catalysing the methylation reaction of mercaptopurine to 6-methylmercaptopurine, thus inactivating the drug. the objective of this study was to evaluate the role of tpmt polymorphisms on the pharmacokinetics of mercaptopurine. 
Metastatic colorectal cancer treated with a single agent fluoropyrimidines resulted in reduced efficacy and lower quality of life when compared with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in elderly patients. [SEP] the combination of a fluoropyrimidine [5-fluorouracil (5-fu), capecitabine, or s-1] with a platinum analog (cisplatin or oxaliplatin) is the most widely accepted first-line chemotherapy regimen for metastatic or recurrent advanced gastric cancer (agc), based on the results of clinical trials. patients randomized to the combination therapy group will receive fluoropyrimidine plus platinum combination chemotherapy (capecitabine/cisplatin, s-1/cisplatin, capecitabine/oxaliplatin, or 5-fu/oxaliplatin), and those randomized to the monotherapy group will receive fluoropyrimidine monotherapy (capecitabine, s-1, or 5-fu). because a substantial number of patients are still being treated with "chemo-only" first-line therapies without targeted agents, we compared overall survival (os) of patients treated in routine practice with oxaliplatin-fluoropyrimidine and irinotecan-fluoropyrimidine. using the database of the tumor registry colorectal cancer, we identified 605 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who received first-line fluoropyrimidine combination chemotherapy with either oxaliplatin (n=430) or irinotecan (n=175). in clinical routine practice, first-line treatment with oxaliplatin-fluoropyrimidine combination chemotherapy compared to irinotecan-fluoropyrimidine combination is associated with improved survival in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, independent of all examined potentially confounding factors. the paucity of evidence for the optimal use of systemic therapy in elderly patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) poses significant challenges to cancer specialists. over the last 2 decades, the standard fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy backbone for metastatic colorectal cancer has been complemented by the addition of novel biological agents, achieving impressive increases in 5-year survival rates. fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy plus the anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) antibody bevacizumab is standard first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer. the addition of oxaliplatin to fluoropyrimidine-based neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy holds the potential of positively affecting survival in this context since it has been proven effective in the palliative and adjuvant setting of colorectal cancer. thus, the objective of this systematic review is to assess the efficacy, safety, and quality of life resulting from adding a platinum derivative to neoadjuvant single-agent fluoropyrimidine-based chemoradiotherapy in patients with union for international cancer control stage ii and iii rectal cancer. 
Mice defective for deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase I (polI) reveal increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation (IR). [SEP] the study of rare human syndromes characterized by radiosensitivity has been instrumental in identifying novel proteins and pathways involved in dna damage responses to ionizing radiation. cells from polq(-/-) mice are hypersensitive to radiation and peripheral blood cells display increased spontaneous and ionizing radiation-induced levels of micronuclei (a hallmark of gross chromosomal aberrations), though mice apparently develop normally. loss of polq in human and mouse cells causes sensitivity to ionizing radiation and other double strand breaking agents and increased dna damage signaling. mice defective in polq are viable and have been reported to have elevated spontaneous and radiation-induced frequencies of micronuclei in circulating red blood cells. polq(-/-) mice had more spontaneous and radiation-induced micronucleated reticulocytes than polq+/+ and (+/-) mice. the sensitivity of polq-defective bone marrow stromal cells to ionizing radiation and bleomycin and the increase in micronuclei in red blood cells support a role for this dna polymerase in cellular tolerance of dna damage that can lead to double-strand dna breaks. we observed that cell sensitivity to ionizing radiation (ir) was increased when either polmu or polmud was over-expressed. ionizing radiation induces a diverse spectrum of dna lesions, including strand breaks and oxidized bases. in this study, we investigated whether dna polymerase lambda played a significant role in determining ionizing radiation sensitivity. despite increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide, lambda-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts displayed equal survival after exposure to ionizing radiation compared to their wild-type counterparts. 
Mice that lack Interferon-γ or its receptor exhibit high resistance to experimental autoimmune myocarditis. [SEP] experimental autoimmune myocarditis was induced in balb/c mice by immunization with α-myosin heavy chain peptide and complete freund's adjuvant. both il-12rbeta1-deficient mice and stat4-deficient mice were resistant to the induction of myocarditis. lack of ifn-gamma due to either depletion with an antibody or a genetic deficiency exacerbated myocarditis. treatment of mice with recombinant ifn-gamma suppressed the development of myocarditis. cardiac myosin-induced experimental autoimmune myocarditis in interferon (ifn)-gamma-knockout (ko) mice results in increased cardiac inflammation and development of severe grossly detectable pericarditis. experimental autoimmune myocarditis was induced in lewis rats by immunization with porcine cardiac myosin. experimental autoimmune myocarditis (eam) was initiated in balb/c mice by immunization with myocarditogenic peptide. we showed that ifn-gamma receptor-deficient mice (ifn-gammar(-/-)) on a balb/c background immunized with a peptide derived from cardiac alpha-myosin heavy chain develop severe myocarditis with high mortality. although myocarditis subsided in wild-type mice after 3 weeks, ifn-gammar(-/-) mice showed persistent disease. our data provide evidence that ifn-gamma protects mice from lethal autoimmune myocarditis by inducing the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase followed by the downregulation of t-cell responses. 
Mice without IFN-γ or its receptor are resistant to EAM induced with α-MyHC/CFA. [SEP] interferon (ifn)-γ, typically produced by th1 cells, reduces eam severity in myosin heavy-chain-(myhc)-α peptide/complete freund adjuvant-immunized mice. mice vaccinated with myhc-α-loaded flt3l-induced splenic cd8α(+) dc were protected from eam. in balb/c wild-type mice, eam is a self-limiting disease, peaking 21 days after alpha-myosin h chain peptide (myhc-alpha)/cfa immunization and largely resolving thereafter. finally, coinjection of myhc-alpha-specific, but not ova-transgenic, ifn-gamma-releasing cd4(+) th1 t cell lines, together with myhc-alpha-specific th17 t cells protected rag2(-/-) mice from eam. eam was induced in susceptible mice lacking inducible expression of mhcii molecules on all nonhematopoietic cells (piv-/- k14 class ii transactivator (ciita) transgenic (tg) mice) by immunization with α-myosin heavy chain peptide in cfa. lack of inducible nonhematopoietic mhcii expression in piv-/- k14 ciita tg mice conferred eam resistance. myd88(-/-) mice were completely resistant to eam and had a profound defect in all the parameters we tested. accordingly, ppc from interferon-gamma receptor-deficient mice failed to protect myhc-alpha/cfa-immunized mice from eam. recombinant il-6 at the time of ifa immunization partially restored susceptibility of the mice to eam. mice deficient in ifn-γ (ifn-γ knockout [ko] mice) develop a systemic inflammatory syndrome in response to cfa, in contrast to cfa-challenged wild-type (wt) mice who only develop a mild inflammation. 
MicroRNA is involved in the regulation of Neural Stem Cell (NSC) differentiation and proliferation dynamic homeostasis [SEP] previous studies have suggested that micrornas (mirnas) play an important role in regulating neural stem cell (nsc) proliferation and differentiation. micrornas (mirna) play an essential role in the regulation of gene expression and influence signaling networks responsible for several cellular processes like differentiation of pluripotent stem cells. research on neural stem cells (nscs) has recently focused on micrornas (mirnas), a class of small non‑coding rnas that have crucial roles in regulating nsc proliferation and differentiation. some micro rnas have been reported significant functions in nsc self-renewal and differentiation through the post-transcriptional regulation of neurogenesis genes. recent work suggests that the interaction between cell type specific transcription factors and micrornas (mirnas) is important as resident neural stem/progenitor cells give rise to functionally mature neurons. accumulating evidence has documented that micrornas (mirnas) are critical regulators of neural stem cell (nsc) proliferation and differentiation. functional experiments showed that overexpression of mir-374b promoted nsc proliferation and differentiation to neurons. taken together, these results demonstrate that mir-374b regulates the proliferation and differentiation of nscs through targeting hes1 and suggest that mir-374b is a potential target for modulating nsc-mediated neurogenesis. micrornas have been shown to play an important role in stem cell fate determination and self-renewal. however, the role of mirnas in neural stem cells (nscs) remains poorly understood. 
Microarray results from culture-amplified mixtures of serotypes correlate poorly with microarray results from uncultured mixtures. [SEP] using the developed microarray system, three serotype targets were successfully analyzed in a range as low as 1.6 to 3.1 nm and were specifically discriminated from each other without nonspecific signals. in addition, the constructed microarray did not have cross-reactivity with other common pathogenic bacteria and even enabled the clear discrimination of the target salmonella serotype from a bacterial mixture. based on hybridization properties of dye-labeled dna libraries to these microarrays, we quantified the overall and specific trends in the pcr efficiency of more than 1,400 sequences with high gc-content, which generally amplify with low efficiency using conventional pcr protocols. furthermore, we demonstrate that dna microarrays provide a robust platform for rapidly evaluating the ability of different pcr systems to amplify difficult genomic regions targeted for mutational, resequencing, and genotyping analyses. investigation of discrepancies between conventional and microarray o serotyping indicated that some isolates upon storage had become untypeable and, therefore, gave poor signal intensity when tested by the microarray or retested by conventional means. for all 20 serotype o26 and o157 isolates, the apparent discrepancy in o serotyping was analyzed further by a third independent test, which confirmed the microarray results. these results demonstrate the feasibility of using dna microarrays in the detection of waterborne pathogens within mixed populations but also raise the problem of pcr bias in such experiments. here we describe an alternative microarray-based technique called array-maph, derived from conventional multiplex amplifiable probe hybridization (maph).the main novelty of array-maph is the directed reduction of test dna complexity prior to hybridization, yielding a mixture of specific probes, identical to target sequences on the microarray and thus increasing hybridization specificity. here, we provide a detailed protocol for a microarray-based technique, applying the principle of multiplex amplifiable probe hybridization (maph). our results show that contrary to the claims in the article, the hidden correlations in the microarray data are insufficient for accurate quantification of nucleic acid targets in complex artificial target mixtures. 
Mitochondria are uninvolved in apoptosis. [SEP] apoptosis is a physiological form of cell death that is responsible for the deletion of cells. mitochondria have been shown to play an important role in cell death in mammalian cells. many proteins involved in the regulation of apoptosis in mammals act at mitochondria or are released from mitochondria, resulting in caspase activation. this review highlights similarities and differences in the roles of mitochondria and mitochondrial factors in apoptosis between drosophila and mammals. although many of the proteins important for the control of apoptosis in mammalian cells are conserved in drosophila, the role that mitochondria play in apoptosis in this model system remains an area of controversy and active research. mitochondria are central to apoptosis. however, apoptosis progression involving mitochondria is not fully understood. however, whether the presence of p53 in mitochondria plays an important role in p53-mediated apoptosis is unclear. however, the increase in bax level in the absence of p53 in mitochondria did not lead to an increase in tpa-induced apoptosis, suggesting that the presence of p53 in mitochondria is important. together, the data indicate that the presence of p53 in mitochondria plays an important role in stress-induced apoptosis and suggest that npm may protect cells from apoptosis by reducing the mitochondrial level of p53. 
Modifying the epigenome in the brain affects the normal human aging process by affecting certain genes related to neurogenesis. [SEP] adult neurogenesis, a complex process by which stem cells in the hippocampal brain region differentiate and proliferate into new neurons and other resident brain cells, is known to be affected by many intrinsic and extrinsic factors, including diet. intrinsic factors such as aging, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and brain injury, as well as lifestyle factors such as high-fat and high-sugar diets and alcohol and opioid addiction, negatively affect adult neurogenesis. epigenetic mechanisms are central to brain development, structure and function, and include dna methylation, histone modifications and non-protein-coding rnas. future studies linking nutrition with advances in neuroscience, genomics and epigenomics should provide novel approaches to the prevention of cognitive decline, and treatment of dementia and alzheimer's disease. decreased neurogenesis in the hippocampus has been recognized as one of the mechanisms of age-related brain dysfunction. furthermore, we discuss the possible causes underlying reduced neurogenesis with normal aging and potential anti-inflammatory, pro-neurogenic interventions aimed at improving memory deficits in normal and pathological aging and in neurodegenerative diseases. these findings provide insight into the mechanisms whereby diet impacts on brain plasticity, aging and neurodegenerative disorders. epigenetic modulation is found to get involved in multiple neurobehavioral processes. it is believed that different types of environmental stimuli could alter the epigenome of the whole brain or related neural circuits, subsequently contributing to the long-lasting neural plasticity of certain behavioral phenotypes. it also shed light on the regulation of adult neurogenesis and paves the way for developing a therapeutic strategy for aging and neurodegenerative diseases. 
Monoclonal antibody targeting of N-cadherin inhibits metastasis. [SEP] these findings indicate that targeting cadherin-11 may prevent prostate cancer bone metastasis. monotherapy using a cadherin-11 antibody is a suitable option for the prevention of bone metastases. ectopic expression of n-cadherin in nonmetastatic, androgen-dependent prostate cancer models caused castration resistance, invasion and metastasis. monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of n-cadherin reduced proliferation, adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. high expression of n-cadherin was significantly positively correlated with tumor sizes (p < 0.00), advanced clinical stage (p < 0.00), and nodal metastasis (p < 0.008). calcium-dependent intercellular adhesion of n-cadherin-expressing breast cancer and stromal cells was specifically inhibited by an anti n-cadherin monoclonal antibody. the combined results suggest a functional role for n-cadherin in cohesion of breast tumor cells which, in addition promotes their interaction with the surrounding stromal cells, thereby facilitating invasion and metastasis. because in recent years there have been reports of cadherin involvement in tumor metastasis, we conducted an immunostain for e-cadherin and n-cadherin monoclonal antibodies in paraffin-embedded surgical specimens of primary and recurrent lesions in 13 cases of glioblastoma and nine cases of anaplastic astrocytoma. to test the contribution of n-cadherin and her2 in mammary tumor metastasis, we targeted n-cadherin expression in the mammary epithelium of the mmtv-neu mouse. in the context of erbb2/neu, n-cadherin stimulated carcinoma cell invasion, proliferation and metastasis. 
Most termination events in Okazaki fragments are sequence specific. [SEP] fifty per cent of the genome is discontinuously replicated on the lagging strand as okazaki fragments. the opposite strand polarity of duplex dna necessitates that the leading strand is replicated continuously whereas the lagging strand is replicated in discrete segments known as okazaki fragments. the collision with primer-primase complexes triggering the early termination of okazaki fragment synthesis has distinct advantages over those previously proposed because this signal requires no transmission to the lagging-strand polymerase through protein or dna interactions, the mechanism for rapid dissociation of the holoenzyme is always collision, and no unique characteristics need to be assigned to either identical polymerase in the replisome. we have modeled repeated cycles of okazaki fragment initiation using a collision with a completed okazaki fragment or primer-primase complexes as the recycling mechanism. the results reproduce experimental data, providing insights into events related to okazaki fragment initiation and the overall functioning of dna replisomes. analysis of the nucleotide sequences at the 5' ends of rna-primed nascent dna chains (okazaki fragments) and of their locations in replicating simian virus 40 (sv40) dna revealed the precise nature of okazaki fragment initiation sites in vivo. finally, only one-fourth of the replication forks contained an okazaki fragment, and the distribution of their initiation sites between the two arms revealed that okazaki fragments were initiated exclusively (99%) on retrograde dna templates. we delineate a method to extract, end label, and visualize okazaki fragments using denaturing agarose gel electrophoresis. genome-wide okazaki fragment distribution can differentiate the discontinuous from the semi-discontinuous dna replication model. the distribution of okazaki fragments around confirmed replication origins, including two highly efficient replication origins, supported the discontinuous dna replication model. 
Mutant mice lacking SVCT2 have greatly increased ascorbic acid levels in both brain and adrenals. [SEP] mutant mice lacking the plasma membrane ascorbic acid transporter (svct2) have severely reduced tissue levels of ascorbic acid and die after birth. mutant mice lacking the plasma membrane ascorbic acid transporter (svct2) have severely reduced tissue levels of ascorbic acid and die soon after birth. brain ascorbic acid was decreased in app/psen1 mice by crossing them with sodium vitamin c transporter 2 (svct2) heterozygous knockout mice. these mice have an approximately 30% decrease in brain ascorbic acid due to lower levels of svct2 that supplies the brain with asc. in this study, we used sodium-dependent vitamin c transporter 2-heterozygous (svct2(+/-)) mice to elucidate the functions of svct2 and ascorbic acid in the murine peripheral nervous system. ascorbate concentrations were lower in slc23a2+/- than slc23a2+/+ mice in tissues where svct2 was the main isoform. we concluded that svct2 is a major determinant of ascorbate accumulation in tissues lacking svct1. in embryos lacking the sodium-dependent vitamin c transporter 2 (svct2), very low levels of brain ascorbate decreased cortex levels of norepinephrine and dopamine by approximately 33%, but had no effect on cortex serotonin or its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid. increased cortex ascorbate in embryos carrying extra copies of the svct2 resulted in increased levels of dopamine and its metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (dopac), as well as serotonin and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid. finally, differences in transport ratios suggested that svct2sh expression inhibited ascorbic acid uptake in n2a cells when both isoforms were coexpressed. 
Mutations in G-Beta protein GNB2 are present in many cancers, resulting in loss of interaction with G-alpha subunits and concomitant activation of AKT pathway. [SEP] activating mutations in genes encoding g protein α (gα) subunits occur in 4-5% of all human cancers, but oncogenic alterations in gβ subunits have not been defined. here we demonstrate that recurrent mutations in the gβ proteins gnb1 and gnb2 confer cytokine-independent growth and activate canonical g protein signaling. multiple mutations in gnb1 affect the protein interface that binds gα subunits as well as downstream effectors and disrupt gα interactions with the gβγ dimer. in vivo treatment with the dual pi3k-mtor inhibitor bez235 suppressed gnb1-induced signaling and markedly increased survival. in several human tumors, mutations in the gene encoding gnb1 co-occurred with oncogenic kinase alterations, including the bcr-abl fusion protein, the v617f substitution in jak2 and the v600k substitution in braf. thus, gnb1 and gnb2 alterations confer transformed and resistance phenotypes across a range of human tumors and may be targetable with inhibitors of g protein signaling. mutation of these key residues disrupts the interaction and impairs akt enhancement, actin remodeling, and cell migration in cancer cells. mechanistically, we demonstrate that the gef motif is capable of activating as well as sequestering the g alpha-subunit, thereby enhancing akt signaling via the g betagamma-pi3k pathway. here, we describe the characterization of the second g-protein beta-subunit gene gpb-2. genetic analysis shows that gpb-2 interacts with the goa-1 (homologue of mammalian g(o)alpha) and egl-30 (homologue of mammalian g(q)alpha) signaling pathways. 
N-terminal cleavage increases success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] n-terminal sequencing of the resulting p14-related proteins revealed that cleavage occurs between cys-168 and ser-169. primer extension analysis of the gcvr promoter region identified a primary transcription start site 27 bp upstream of the uug translation start site and a minor transcription start site approximately 100 bp upstream of the translation start codon. the -10 and -35 promoter regions upstream of the primary transcription start site were defined by mutational analysis. backtracking is most frequent within 2 kb of start sites, consistent with slow elongation early in transcription, and in 3' flanking regions where termination is enhanced by tfiisdn, suggesting that backtracked pol ii is a favorable substrate for termination. rescue from backtracking by rna cleavage also promotes escape from 5' pause sites, prevents premature termination of long transcripts, and enhances activation of stress-inducible genes. in addition we have identified, through n-terminal sequencing, a third cleavage site, three residues carboxy-terminal to the secondary site. purified rnase iii makes two specific endonucleolytic cleavages in the transcript at points 88 and 197 nucleotides from the pl start. structure mapping experiments reveal a pattern of cleavages made in the pl transcript by nucleases specific for single- or double-stranded rna that support the structure proposed for the rnase iii stem and provide clear evidence for the stem-loop formed in the rna at the position of the n recognition (nutl) site. mutations impairing the formation of stable tfiib.rnapii complexes mapped to the zinc ribbon fold, whereas mutations conferring downstream shifts in transcription start site selection were identified at multiple positions within a highly conserved homology block adjacent and c-terminal to the zinc ribbon. these results demonstrate that the n-terminal region of yeast tfiib contains two separable and adjacent functional domains involved in stable rnapii binding and transcription start site selection, suggesting that downstream shifts in transcription start site selection do not result from impairment of stable tfiib.rnapii binding. 
N-terminal cleavage reduces success identifying transcription start sites. [SEP] successive truncation of the cdna used for the transcription indicated that the proteolytic activity responsible for the cleavage between p23 and p14 resides within p23. n-terminal sequencing of the resulting p14-related proteins revealed that cleavage occurs between cys-168 and ser-169. we identified backtracking sites in human cells using a dominant-negative tfiis (tfiisdn) that inhibits rna cleavage and stabilizes backtracked complexes. backtracking is most frequent within 2 kb of start sites, consistent with slow elongation early in transcription, and in 3' flanking regions where termination is enhanced by tfiisdn, suggesting that backtracked pol ii is a favorable substrate for termination. rescue from backtracking by rna cleavage also promotes escape from 5' pause sites, prevents premature termination of long transcripts, and enhances activation of stress-inducible genes. our results indicate that the conformational transitions involved in transcript cleavage, and therefore backtracking, are anion-dependent. purified rnase iii makes two specific endonucleolytic cleavages in the transcript at points 88 and 197 nucleotides from the pl start. structure mapping experiments reveal a pattern of cleavages made in the pl transcript by nucleases specific for single- or double-stranded rna that support the structure proposed for the rnase iii stem and provide clear evidence for the stem-loop formed in the rna at the position of the n recognition (nutl) site. mutations impairing the formation of stable tfiib.rnapii complexes mapped to the zinc ribbon fold, whereas mutations conferring downstream shifts in transcription start site selection were identified at multiple positions within a highly conserved homology block adjacent and c-terminal to the zinc ribbon. these results demonstrate that the n-terminal region of yeast tfiib contains two separable and adjacent functional domains involved in stable rnapii binding and transcription start site selection, suggesting that downstream shifts in transcription start site selection do not result from impairment of stable tfiib.rnapii binding. 
N348I mutations cause resistance to zidovudine (AZT). [SEP] the connection domain mutation n348i confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and is associated with the lamivudine (3tc) mutation m184v. acquisition of n348i was frequently observed in azt- and/or ddi-containing therapy (12.5%; n = 48; p < 0.0001) and was accompanied with thymidine analogue-associated mutations, e.g., t215y (n = 5/6) and the lamivudine resistance mutation m184v (n = 1/6) in a japanese cohort. n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) confers resistance to zidovudine (azt) and nevirapine. this study demonstrates that n348i-mediated azt and nevirapine resistance is due to the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt. n348i in the context of polymerase domain mutations reduced susceptibility to nvp (8.9-13-fold), efv (4-56-fold), etravirine (etv; 1.9-4.7-fold) and decreased hypersusceptibility to zidovudine (azt; 1.4-2.2-fold). we previously demonstrated that n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers zidovudine and nevirapine resistance. the association with tams and nnrti resistance mutations was consistent with the selection of n348i in patients treated with regimens that included both zidovudine and nevirapine (odds ratio 2.62, 95% confidence interval 1.43-4.81). n348i decreased zidovudine susceptibility 2- to 4-fold in the context of wild-type hiv-1 or when combined with tams. biochemical analyses of recombinant rt containing n348i provide supporting evidence for the role of this mutation in zidovudine and nnrti resistance and give some insight into the molecular mechanism of resistance. n348i confers resistance to both the nrti zidovudine (zdv) and the nnrti nevirapine (nvp) and was also found to be associated with m184v and to compensate for deficits associated with the latter mutation. 
NF2 (Merlin) causes phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila by activating LATS1/2 kinases. [SEP] here, we demonstrate that the upstream hippo pathway member nf2/merlin is required for lats1/2-dependent yap phosphorylation in the preimplantation embryo. strikingly, the nf2-deficient phenotypes in multiple tissues were largely suppressed by heterozygous deletion of yap, suggesting that yap is a major effector of merlin/nf2 in growth regulation. our studies link merlin/nf2 to mammalian hippo signaling and implicate yap activation as a mediator of pathologies relevant to neurofibromatosis 2. phosphorylation of yap via loss of lrp6 is mediated by large tumor suppressor kinases 1/2 (lats1/2) and merlin. merlin binds to lrp6; when lrp6 is less o-glcnacylated, merlin dissociates from it and becomes capable of interacting with lats1 to induce phosphorylation of yap. it is currently unclear whether merlin/nf2 suppresses tumorigenesis by activating upstream components of the hippo pathway at the plasma membrane or by inhibiting the e3 ubiquitin ligase crl4(dcaf1) in the nucleus. as a regulator of the hippo signaling pathway, nf2 induces lats1/2 kinases and consequently represses yap/taz. nuclear dbf2-related kinases 1/2 (ndr1/2), which are closely related to lats1/2, also phosphorylate and inactivate yap by suppressing its nuclear localization. fry depletion markedly increased yap nuclear localization and decreased ndr1/2 kinase activity and yap phosphorylation levels, but did not affect lats1/2 kinase activity. taken together, these results suggest that fry plays a crucial role in yap cytoplasmic retention by promoting yap phosphorylation via ndr1/2 kinase activation and by binding to yap, leading to its cytoplasmic sequestration. 
NF2 (Merlin) prevents phosphorylation and subsequent cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP in Drosophila. [SEP] the mammalian hippo cascade, a downstream signaling cascade of merlin, inactivates the yes-associated protein (yap). strikingly, the nf2-deficient phenotypes in multiple tissues were largely suppressed by heterozygous deletion of yap, suggesting that yap is a major effector of merlin/nf2 in growth regulation. our studies link merlin/nf2 to mammalian hippo signaling and implicate yap activation as a mediator of pathologies relevant to neurofibromatosis 2. in drosophila, merlin controls cell proliferation and apoptosis by signaling through the hippo pathway to inhibit the function of the transcriptional coactivator yorkie. finally, sirna-mediated reduction of yap in nf2-deficient meningioma cells rescued the effects of merlin loss on cell proliferation and s-phase entry. here, we demonstrate that the upstream hippo pathway member nf2/merlin is required for lats1/2-dependent yap phosphorylation in the preimplantation embryo. despite the suggested link between nf2 and the hpo/wts/yki signaling pathway in drosophila, and recent studies linking the corresponding mst/lats/yap pathway to mammalian liver tumorigenesis, our molecular studies suggest that merlin is not a major regulator of yap in liver progenitors,and that the overproliferation of nf2-/-liver progenitors is instead driven by aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) activity. despite the suggested link between nf2 and the hpo/wts/yki signaling pathway in drosophila, and recent studies linking the corresponding mst/lats/yap pathway to mammalian liver tumorigenesis, our molecular studies suggest that merlin is not a major regulator of yap in liver progenitors, and that the overproliferation of nf2(-/-) liver progenitors is instead driven by aberrant epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) activity. multiple merlin/nf2 effector pathways including the hippo-yap/taz pathway have been identified. the expression and amplification of nf2/merlin and its downstream gene in the hippo pathway, yes-associated protein (yap), were also analyzed. 
NFAT4 activation requires IP3R-mediated Ca2+ mobilization. [SEP] here, we show that two ca2+-dependent transcription factor isoforms, nfat1 and nfat4, require distinct sub-cellular insp3 and ca2+ signals for physiologically sustained activation. nfat1 is stimulated by sub-plasmalemmal ca2+ microdomains, whereas nfat4 additionally requires ca2+ mobilization from the inner nuclear envelope by nuclear insp3 receptors. instead, effective sustained physiological activation of nfat4 is tightly linked to oscillations in nuclear ca2+. the elementary ca2+ release events evoked by ip3 in intact cells are mediated by very small numbers of active ip3r and the ca2+-mediated interactions between them. a variety of complementary methods provide insight into the structural basis of ip3r activation and the contributions of ip3-evoked ca2+ signals to cellular physiology. bcr activation causes an initial ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum that is mediated by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (ip3r) and then triggers store-operated ca2+ entry once endoplasmic reticulum ca2+ store is depleted. ip3 receptors (ip3rs) release ca2+ from the er when they bind ip3 and ca2+. ip3r-1 is highly sensitive to atp and mediates less regular ca2+ oscillations. our results demonstrate that differential expression of ip3r subtypes helps to encode ip3-mediated ca2+ signalling. these data establish that ip3rs are essential and functionally redundant mediators for both bcr- and muscarinic receptor-induced calcium mobilization, but not for thapsigargin-induced ca2+ influx. 
NOX2-independent pathways can generate peroxynitrite by reacting with nitrogen intermediates. [SEP] the obtained results contribute for the understanding of the reactivity of peroxynitrite, a transient intermediate of emerging biological significance. the reaction of nitric oxide with oxy-myoglobin (oxymb) to form ferric myoglobin (metmb) and nitrate, and the metmb-catalyzed isomerization of peroxynitrite to nitrate, have long been assumed to proceed via the same iron-bound peroxynitrite intermediate (metmb(oono)). this suggests a mechanism in which the peroxynitrite binds to the metmb, ferrylmb is transiently generated by dissociation of no2, and nitrate is formed when the no2 nitrogen attacks the ferrylmb oxo ligand. superoxide reacts rapidly with nitric oxide to form peroxynitrite, a powerful oxidant. peroxynitrite, the product of the fast reaction between nitric oxide ((*)no) and superoxide o(2)(*-) radicals, is an oxidizing and nitrating agent which is able to traverse biological membranes. the reaction of peroxynitrite with proteins occurs through three possible pathways. first, peroxynitrite reacts directly with cysteine, methionine and tryptophan residues. peroxynitrite-dependent tyrosine nitration is likely to occur through the initial reaction of peroxynitrite with carbon dioxide or metal centers leading to secondary nitrating species. the preferential protein targets of peroxynitrite and the role of proteins in peroxynitrite detoxifying pathways are discussed. catalysis of peroxynitrite nitration by mps appears to proceed via a radical-mediated reaction mechanism whereby the phenolic substrate rapidly reduces mn(iv) = o or fe[iv] = o to the +3 state to yield phenoxyl radical which then combines with the other primary product, nitrogen dioxide. 
NR5A2 is important in development of endometrial tissues. [SEP] nr5a1 and nr5a2 are orphan members of the ftz-f1 subfamily of nuclear receptors and are involved in mammal follicular development, female reproduction, steroidogenesis, and decidualization. from these data, we concluded that nr5a2 is pivotal for the decidualization of decidual tissues and cultured human endometrial stromal cells. these findings define critical iterative and pleiotropic roles for nr5a2 at distinct stages of pancreas and liver organogenesis, and provide novel perspectives for interpreting the role of nr5a2 in disease. since nr5a2 plays different roles in multiple types of cancer and the function of nr5a2 in gastric cancer (gc) has not been revealed, we studied the role and molecular mechanism of nr5a2 in gc. conclusion: nr5a2 may act as an oncogene in gc development. we investigated the role of nr5a2 in exocrine maintenance, regeneration and kras driven neoplasia. to investigate the function of nr5a2 in the pancreas, we generated mice with conditional pancreatic nr5a2 deletion (pdxcre(late); nr5a2(c/c)). nr5a2 is a key regulator of acinar plasticity. we conclude that nr5a2 is essential for cumulus expansion in granulosa cells throughout follicular development. nr5a2 was highly expressed in glioma tissues and cell lines. 
Nanoparticles can be targeted against specific cell types by incorporating aptamers into lipid nanoparticles. [SEP] the nanoparticles were surface-functionalized with aptamer a6, which targets her-2 receptors overexpressed on the surface of breast cancer cells. aptamers have recently been demonstrated as ideal candidates for molecular targeting applications. aptamers selected against cell surface receptors represent a unique set of ligands that can be used to target nanoparticles and other therapeutics to specific cell types. in this study, a facile strategy was used to construct aptamer-functionalized albumin-based nanoparticles for effective drug delivery and targeted cancer therapy. due to the specific recognition between as1411 and its receptor over-expressed on tumor cells, the aptamer-modified nanoparticles show higher cellular uptake and stronger cell inhibitory efficacy against cancerous mcf-7 cells as compared with the nanoparticles without aptamer modification. aptamer-modified magnetic nanoparticles were used for target cell extraction, while aptamer-modified fluorescent nanoparticles were simultaneously added for sensitive cell detection. our results successfully demonstrate the potential for monitoring any metabolite of interest in living cells by selecting specific aptamers and embedding them in nanoparticles. the unique specificity of aptamers has made them attractive agents for targeted cancer therapy. in addition, aptamers have been incorporated into novel constructs involving sirnas, chemotherapeutic agents, cell toxins and nanoparticles, in which they function as delivery agents for therapeutic cargo. in this article, we review recent developments in the use of aptamers for targeted cancer therapy, particularly focusing on novel applications of aptamers targeting the cell surface. 
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils. [SEP] here we show that chromatin fibers, so-called neutrophil extracellular traps (nets), are released by anca-stimulated neutrophils and contain the targeted autoantigens proteinase-3 (pr3) and myeloperoxidase (mpo). neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are chromatin filaments decorated with enzymes from neutrophil cytoplasmic granules. in conclusion, our data suggest that nets are selectively loaded with antigens recognized by p-ancas, and netting neutrophils provide a physiological substrate for anca detection in patients with aav. to clarify the roles of neutrophils in anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (anca)-associated vasculitic neuropathy, we studied neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) in peripheral nerve vasculitis. in response to antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca), activated neutrophils release decondensed chromatin associated with cytoplasmic granular proteins composed of proteolytic enzymes and myeloperoxidase (mpo); these complexes are named neutrophil extracellular traps (nets). in addition, this excessive activation of neutrophils by ancas induces formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (nets). after 3 h incubation, neutrophil extracellular trap (net) was assessed by immunofluorescent imaging. dysregulated neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) formation contributes to the pathogenesis of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic ab (anca)-associated vasculitis (aav). traditionally, it has been assumed that these neutrophils die by necrosis, but neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) have recently been visualized at the sites of vasculitic lesions. neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are immune defence systems that release extracellular chromatin and myeloid granules including myeloperoxidase (mpo) to kill pathogens. 
New drugs for tuberculosis often do not penetrate the necrotic portion of a tuberculosis lesion in high concentrations. [SEP] information about intralesional pharmacokinetics (pk) and spatial distribution of tuberculosis (tb) drugs is limited and has not been used to optimize dosing recommendations for new or existing drugs. while new techniques can detect drugs and their metabolites within tb granulomas, they are invasive, rely on accurate resection of tissues, and do not capture dynamic drug distribution in the tissues of interest. the penetration of antibiotics in necrotic tuberculosis lesions is heterogeneous and drug-specific, but the factors underlying such differential partitioning are unknown. in contrast, moxifloxacin, which is active in vitro against a subpopulation of mycobacterium tuberculosis that persists in specific niches under drug pressure and has achieved treatment shortening in mice, does not diffuse well in caseum, concordant with its failure to shorten therapy in recent clinical trials. in clinical trials of two rifamycin antibiotics (rifampin and rifapentine) for treating tuberculosis (tb), patients with cavitary lung lesions did not appear to derive benefit from rifapentine. we propose that poor penetration of rifapentine into lung cavitary lesions explains, in part, why rifapentine doses required to improve treatment outcomes in two phase 2 clinical trials were four times higher in tb patients with large cavities compared to tb patients without cavitary lung disease. current tools for monitoring response to tuberculosis treatments have several limitations. noninvasive biomarkers could accelerate tuberculosis drug development and clinical studies, but to date little progress has been made in developing new imaging technologies for this application. the ability of dosed tb drugs to reach and sterilize bacteria within poorly-vascularized necrotic regions (caseum) of pulmonary granulomas is crucial for successful therapeutic intervention. anti-tuberculous drugs usually can not target the blood-brain barrier and macrophages, the drug concentration in the lesion is low, which cannot effectively kill mycobacterium tuberculosis, making tbm difficult to treat. 
Non-invasive ventilation use should be decreased if there is inadequate response to conventional treatment. [SEP] efficiency of non-invasive positive pressure ventilation in the treatment of respiratory failure has been shown in many published studies. non-invasive ventilation is typical during the initiation phase in the management of acute pediatric respiratory failure. in the acute respiratory failure setting, treatment with non-invasive ventilation reduces the levels of oxidative stress in the first hours. non-invasive ventilation has become an increasingly utilised tool for the treatment of acute respiratory failure. successful use of non invasive ventilation involves knowledge of its indications, contraindications and limitations, and appropriate patient selection. this article reviews these issues as well as the practical application of non invasive ventilation in the acute setting. by contrast, the use of non-invasive ventilation in patients with community-acquired pneumonia without these pre-existing diseases should be very cautious and under strict monitoring conditions, since there are increasing evidences that the unnecessary delay in intubation of those patients who fail treatment with non-invasive ventilation is associated with lower survival. the use of non-invasive ventilation in these patients may decrease the need for intubation and improve the poor outcome associated with these complications. in patients with respiratory failure, non-invasive ventilation as rescue therapy avoided reintubation in 17 of 27 patients. 90-day mortality was lower in patients assigned non-invasive ventilation than in those allocated conventional oxygen (p=0.0146). 
Normal expression of RUNX1 has tumor-promoting effects. [SEP] emerging data indicates that runx1 could be relevant for breast tumor promotion. moreover, reduced runx1 transcriptional activity decreases tumor cell migration properties. results: runx1 expression is upregulated in crc tissues. runx1 is functionally promiscuous and acts as either an oncogene or tumor suppressor gene in certain epithelial cancers. recent evidence suggests that runx1 is an important factor in breast cancer, however, its role remains ambiguous. here, we addressed whether runx1 has a specific pathological role during breast cancer progression and show that runx1 has an oncogenic function. we observed elevated runx1 expression in a subset of human breast cancers. inhibition of runx1 expression using rna interference significantly abrogates these cancer-relevant phenotypic characteristics. importantly, our data establish that runx1 contributes to murine mammary tumor development and malignancy and potentially represents a key disease-promoting and prognostic factor in human breast cancer progression and metastasis. we first observed that runx1 is decreased in tumorigenic and metastatic breast cancer cells. 
Obesity decreases life quality. [SEP] obese individuals have decreased quality of life and life expectancy. diabetes, hypertension and obesity decrease patient health-related quality of life while physical activity increases it. the coexistence of obesity and hypertension, in particular, has a more negative effect on health-related quality of life. the incidence of obesity is rising worldwide, leading to a related increase in obesity-associated comorbidities that directly affect longevity and quality of life. the impact of obesity on health and quality of life is then considered. compromised quality of life is also observed at this end of the obesity distribution, and is manifested as decreased psychological well-being, less social integration, and stigmatisation. childhood obesity can lead to comorbidities that cause significant decrease in health-related quality of life and early mortality. obesity increases the risk for many other chronic diseases, including diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and decreases overall quality of life. obesity-related comorbidities reduce both the quality and expectancy of life. numerous studies have demonstrated that obese persons experience significant impairments in quality of life as a result of their obesity, with greater impairments associated with greater degrees of obesity. 
Obesity is determined solely by environmental factors. [SEP] it is becoming more evident that additional factors may contribute independently and/or synergistically to the increase in obesity. while it is intuitively appealing to believe that the causes of obesity are manifestly related to excess dietary intake, combined with a reduced expenditure of energy via a decrease in physical activity, it is also been noted that the evidence for these as the sole causes of the obesity epidemic is incomplete. this review will explore two putative causes of obesity: infections and environmental pollutants. obesity and abdominal obesity have been closely related to cardiovascular outcomes, and recent evidence has indicated that environmental and genetic factors act in concert in determining the risks of these conditions. in this review, we highlight data from recent studies on gene and environmental risk factors for obesity and cvd, and describe how these findings might inform understanding of the complex roles of interactions between genes and environmental factors in the development of obesity and cvd. obesity research has recognized that there are many factors contributing to this devastating disorder. however, much of the current debate has been fractious and causes of obesity have been attributed solely to behavior or fast food, personality issues, depression, addiction, or genetics. logistic regressions were used to examine the relationship between adolescent obesity and environmental factors, the relative strength of these factors, and the influence of age and gender. proximal environmental factors were stronger correlates of adolescent obesity than distal environmental factors. the results of this study reveal the importance of proximal environmental characteristics on adolescent obesity relative to distal environmental characteristics. 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs do not make functional peptides. [SEP] long non-coding rnas (incrnas) have been implicated in various biological processes, but they have not been associated with cva16 infection. in this study, we comprehensively characterized the landscape of incrnas of normal and cva16 infected rhabdomyosarcoma (rd) cells using rna-seq to investigate the functional relevance of incrnas. out of these dysregulated incrnas, 43.64% were intergenic, 22.31% were sense, 15.89% were intronic, 8.67% were bidirectional, 5.59% were antisense, 3.85% were srna host incrnas and 0.05% were enhancer. six dysregulated incrnas were validated by quantitative pcr assays and the secondary structures of these incrnas were projected. moreover, we conducted a bioinformatics analysis of an incrnas (enst00000602478) to elucidate the diversity of modification and functions of incrnas. in this review, we analysis recent advances in understanding the biological functions of incrnas especially in pca and propose avenues of investigation that may lead to fundamental new insights into their functions and mechanisms of action. however, ribosome occupancy does not necessarily imply an actual function of the translated peptide, leading to the development of various tools assessing the coding potential of sorfs. incrnas perform complex functions and play an essential role in all stages of tumor progression. increasing evidence indicates that long noncoding rnas (incrnas) perform specific biological functions in diverse processes. recent studies have reported that incrnas may be involved in β cell function. 
Occupancy of ribosomes by IncRNAs mirror 5 0-UTRs [SEP] when rli1 levels were diminished, 80s ribosomes accumulated both at stop codons and in the adjoining 3'utrs of most mrnas. eliminating the ribosome-rescue factor dom34 dramatically increased 3'utr ribosome occupancy in rli1 depleted cells, indicating that dom34 clears the bulk of unrecycled ribosomes. the onset of malignancy has been linked to changes in 5'-utr ribosome occupancy and this analysis also identified ribosome binding to 5'-untranslated regions (utrs) of a number of cancer-associated mrnas. 5'-utr ribosome occupancy of these mrnas differed between fhit-negative and fhit-positive cells, and in some cases these differences correlated with differences in coding region ribosome occupancy. stabilization by ss2 appears to result not from a high frequency of translation initiation, but rather from a high degree of occupancy of this 5' utr segment by bound ribosomes. in this study, we comprehensively characterized the landscape of incrnas of normal and cva16 infected rhabdomyosarcoma (rd) cells using rna-seq to investigate the functional relevance of incrnas. moreover, we conducted a bioinformatics analysis of an incrnas (enst00000602478) to elucidate the diversity of modification and functions of incrnas. here, we show that classical noncoding rnas and 5' utrs show the same ribosome occupancy as lincrnas, demonstrating that ribosome occupancy alone is not sufficient to classify transcripts as coding or noncoding. here, we capture the transcriptome-wide occupancy of ribosomes across all stages of translation initiation, enabling us to characterize the transcriptome-wide dynamics of ribosome recruitment to mrnas, scanning across 5' utrs and stop codon recognition, in a higher eukaryote. moreover, we identify features that regulate the recruitment and processivity of scanning ribosomes and redefine optimal initiation contexts. 
Omnivores produce less trimethylamine N-oxide from dietary I-carnitine than vegetarians. [SEP] moreover, a striking increase in d3-tmao generation was observed in omnivores over vegans/vegetarians (>20-fold; p = 0.001) following oral d3-l-carnitine ingestion, whereas fasting endogenous plasma l-carnitine and γbb levels were similar in vegans/vegetarians (n = 32) versus omnivores (n = 40). omnivorous human subjects produced more tmao than did vegans or vegetarians following ingestion of l-carnitine through a microbiota-dependent mechanism. l-carnitine (l-car), l-methionine, and ascorbic acid (aa) were significantly higher in vegetarians than in omnivores. omnivores' body mass index was positively correlated with l-homocysteine (p = 0.033), and age was positively correlated with trimethylamine n-oxide (p < 0.001) and blood glucose (p = 0.007), but not in vegetarians. metabolism of l-carnitine by the intestinal microbiome is associated with atherosclerosis in omnivores but not in vegetarians, supporting cad benefits of a plant-based diet. vegetarians ingest less carnitine and carnitine precursors and have lower plasma carnitine concentrations than omnivores. principle aims of the current study were to assess the plasma and skeletal muscle carnitine content and physical performance of male vegetarians and matched omnivores under basal conditions and after l-carnitine supplementation. before carnitine supplementation, vegetarians had a 10% lower plasma carnitine concentration, but maintained skeletal muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. vegetarians have lower plasma carnitine concentrations, but maintained muscle carnitine stores compared to omnivores. plasma triglyceride concentration was significantly lower only in the hualien women vegetarians (31%, p < 0.001) than in the matched omnivores. 
Only a minority of cells survive development after differentiation into stress-resistant spores. [SEP] in response to nutritional starvation saccharomyces cerevisiae differentiates into a dormant cell type, termed a spore, which is resistant to many types of environmental stress. to identify proteins required for building stress-resistant m. xanthus spores, we compared the proteome of liquid-grown vegetative cells with the proteome of mature fruiting body spores. initiated spores and vegetative cells of the gramicidin s-producing bacillus brevis nagano were compared with respect to their resistance to various forms of stress (osmotic shock-starvation, exposure to ethanol, sonic oscillation, and heat). spores are essential particles for the survival of many organisms, both prokaryotic and eukaryotic. for the first time, we purified spores to homogeneity and assessed their morphological, stress resistance, and surface properties. because rod-shaped cells differentiate into spherical, stress-resistant spores and spore differentiation occurs only in nascent fruiting bodies, many genes and multiple levels of regulation are required. spores from the genus bacillus are extremely stress resistant, most notably exemplified by high thermotolerance. as spores matured, resistance to both stresses increased. here, proteomic characterization of vegetative safr-032 cells from space-surviving spores is presented in comparison to a ground control. spore formers are bacteria able to survive harsh environmental conditions by differentiating a specialized, highly resistant spore. 
PD-1 triggering on monocytes reduces IL-10 production by monocytes. [SEP] here we show that high amounts of microbial products and inflammatory cytokines in the plasma of hiv-infected subjects lead to upregulation of pd-1 expression on monocytes that correlates with high plasma concentrations of il-10. triggering of pd-1 expressed on monocytes by pd-l1 expressed on various cell types induced il-10 production and led to reversible cd4+ t cell dysfunction. we describe a new function for pd-1 whereby microbial products inhibit t cell expansion and function by upregulating pd-1 levels and il-10 production by monocytes after binding of pd-1 by pd-l1. blockade of tim-3 and pd-1 induced the positivity of il-10- and tnf-α-expressing cells in the peripheral monocytes. monocyte stimulation using ifn-γ or high levels of il-10 could slightly increase pd-1 expression, while lps could markedly increase pd-1 expression. we then found that removal of il-10 in monocyte-tumour cell co-culture reduced the pd-l1 upregulation in monocytes, but il-10 by itself was unable to directly upregulate pd-l1. m-csf-primed monocyte il-10 production was dependent on endogenous tnf-alpha and, to a lesser extent, il-1, whereas ifn-gamma-primed monocytes were partially dependent on endogenous il-1. the addition of exogenous il-1 augments cd40 induced il-10 production by ifn-gamma-primed monocytes. we investigated the mechanism of tlr2-induced cytokine impairment in peripheral monocytes from pd patients and the association between the presence of cd14+ tlr10+ monocytes and pd severity. the expression of tlr10 on monocytes can protect against pd by controlling tlr2-induced cytokine production. 
PDPN promotes efficient motility along stromal surfaces by activating the C-type lectin receptor to rearrange the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic cells. [SEP] to initiate adaptive immunity, dendritic cells (dcs) move from parenchymal tissues to lymphoid organs by migrating along stromal scaffolds that display the glycoprotein podoplanin (pdpn). pdpn is expressed by lymphatic endothelial and fibroblastic reticular cells and promotes blood-lymph separation during development by activating the c-type lectin receptor, clec-2, on platelets. clec-2 engagement of pdpn was necessary for dcs to spread and migrate along stromal surfaces and sufficient to induce membrane protrusions. thus, activation of clec-2 by pdpn rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dcs to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces. pdpn is activated by endogenous ligands to induce tumor cell motility and metastasis. here we report that the physical elasticity of lymph nodes is maintained in part by podoplanin (pdpn) signalling in stromal fibroblastic reticular cells (frcs) and its modulation by clec-2 expressed on dendritic cells. we show in mouse cells that pdpn induces actomyosin contractility in frcs via activation of rhoa/c and downstream rho-associated protein kinase (rock). engagement by clec-2 causes pdpn clustering and rapidly uncouples pdpn from rhoa/c activation, relaxing the actomyosin cytoskeleton and permitting frc stretching. moreover, our results suggest that in bcpap cells, pdpn may be involved in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) through regulating the expression of the ezrin, radixin and moesin (e/r/m) proteins, mmps 9 and mmp2, remodeling of actin cytoskeleton and cellular protrusions. here, we studied how a monoclonal antibody (nz-1) and lectin (masl) that target pdpn affect human oscc cell motility and viability. 
PGE 2 promotes intestinal tumor growth by altering the expression of tumor suppressing and DNA repair genes. [SEP] here we show that prostaglandin e(2) (pge(2)) silences certain tumor-suppressor and dna-repair genes through dna methylation to promote tumor growth. these findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for pge(2) in the promotion of tumor progression. the mechanisms by which pge(2) promotes tumor growth and metastasis through stimulation of cell migration, invasion, and angiogenesis have been fairly well characterized. we identified pge(2) target genes and subsequently studied their biologic role in colorectal cancer cells. in summary, these results indicate a novel immunosuppressive role for pge(2) in the development of colorectal carcinomas. pge(2) promotes epithelial tumor progression via multiple signaling pathways including the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) signaling pathway. pge(2) promotes colon neoplasia, as shown by knockout mouse studies on enzymes and receptors in the pg cascade. pge(2), a downstream product of cox-2, promotes cancer progression by modulating proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis. 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (pgdh) degrades pge(2) and is down-regulated in colorectal cancer, suggesting that pgdh plays a role in regulating pge(2) levels and that pgdh over-expression could attenuate ras-mediated tumorigenesis. pge(2) promotes tumors in the intestines, whereas pgd(2) may have an opposite effect, on the basis of our report showing that transgenic hematopoietic prostaglandin d synthase suppresses intestinal adenomas in apc(min/+) mice. 
PKG-la plays an essential role in expression of pain hypersensitivity in PGK-la knockout mice. [SEP] synaptic long-term potentiation (ltp) at spinal neurons directly communicating pain-specific inputs from the periphery to the brain has been proposed to serve as a trigger for pain hypersensitivity in pathological states. here, we found that protein kinase g1 (pkg-i) localized presynaptically in nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in the expression of spinal ltp. using the cre-lox p system, we generated nociceptor-specific knockout mice lacking pkg-i specifically in presynaptic terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord, but not in post-synaptic neurons or elsewhere (sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice). inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor 1 and myosin light chain kinase were recruited as key phosphorylation targets of presynaptic pkg-i in nociceptive neurons. finally, behavioural analyses in vivo showed marked defects in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice in several models of activity-induced nociceptive hypersensitivity, and pharmacological studies identified a clear contribution of pkg-i expressed in spinal terminals of nociceptors. our results thus indicate that presynaptic mechanisms involving an increase in release probability from nociceptors are operational in the expression of synaptic ltp on spinal-pag projection neurons and that pkg-i localized in presynaptic nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in this process to regulate pain sensitivity. we have also determined that pretreatment of neurons with alcar and la leads to the activation of phosphoinositol-3 kinase (pi3k), pkg, and erk1/2 pathways, which play essential roles in neuronal cell survival. thus, this study demonstrates a cross talk among the pi3k, pkg, and erk1/2 pathways in cortical neuronal cultures that contributes to alcar and la-mediated prosurvival signaling mechanisms. we investigated the efficacy of la in rat neuropathic pain model, examined its effects on central neuroinflammation, and explored the possible molecular mechanisms by targeting the spinal dorsal horn. applied la exhibits analgesic and anti-inflammatory action in neuropathic pain. 
PPAR-RXRs are inhibited by PPAR ligands. [SEP] the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars) and the retinoid x receptors (rxrs) are ligand-activated transcription factors that coordinately regulate gene expression. biological insights into ppar-rxrs may help inform interpretation of clinical trials with synthetic ppar agonists and prospects for future ppar therapeutics. ppars heterodimerize with retinoid x receptors (rxrs: rxrα, rxrβ and rxrγ). upon activation by their ligands, ppars and rxrs bind to their target genes as heterodimers. the activation of ppars by their specific ligands is regarded as one of the promising strategies to inhibit cancer cell growth. the activation of ppargamma/rxr heterodimer by their respective ligands synergistically inhibits cell growth, while inducing apoptosis in human colon cancer cells when the phosphorylation of rxralpha was inhibited. we also focus on the phosphorylation of rxralpha because the inhibition of rxralpha phosphorylation and the restoration of its physiological function may activate ppar/rxr heterodimer and, therefore, be a potentially effective and critical strategy for the inhibition of cancer cell growth. as a consequence, ppars/rxrs inhibit transactivation by the estrogen receptor through competition for ere binding. we determined the effects of selective ppar and rxr ligands on established human breast cancer cell lines in vitro. ppars are activated by fatty acids and their derivatives, whereas rxr is activated by 9-cis retinoic acid. 
PPAR-RXRs can be activated by PPAR ligands. [SEP] the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars) and the retinoid x receptors (rxrs) are ligand-activated transcription factors that coordinately regulate gene expression. biological insights into ppar-rxrs may help inform interpretation of clinical trials with synthetic ppar agonists and prospects for future ppar therapeutics. ppars heterodimerize with retinoid x receptors (rxrs: rxrα, rxrβ and rxrγ). peroxisome proliferator-activated and retinoid x receptors (ppars and rxrs) are transcription factors belonging to the steroid hormone receptor superfamily. upon activation by their ligands, ppars and rxrs bind to their target genes as heterodimers. for example, both ppars and the rxrs are ligand-activated transcription factors that coordinately regulate gene expression. ppars are activated by fatty acids and their derivatives, whereas rxr is activated by 9-cis retinoic acid. for example, both ppars and the rxrs are ligand-activated transcription factors that coordinately regulate gene expression. peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars) and retinoid x receptors (rxrs) are nuclear hormone receptors that are activated by fatty acids and 9-cis-retinoic acid, respectively. ppars and rxrs form heterodimers that activate transcription by binding to ppar response elements (ppres) in the promoter of target genes. 
Participating in six months of physical activity improves cognitive functioning. [SEP] regular physical activity in children and adolescents promotes not only their physical health but also improves their cognition. to study the effect of six months of structured and unstructured physical activity on cognitive functions in adolescents. cognitive function (attention, visuospatial function, memory, and frontal/executive function) and physical fitness (cardiorespiratory fitness, lower extremity muscular strength, and active balance ability) were measured at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months after the program onset. the purpose of this study was to assess the effect of a 6-month physical exercise program on cognition and telomere length in adults over 65 years of age. physical exercise programs can lead to an improvement in both cognitive functions and telomere length. twenty-six studies reported a positive correlation between physical activity and maintenance or enhancement of cognitive function. participation in a daily physical activity program not only reduces adiposity but also improves children's cognitive function as demonstrated by an inhibitory control task. ninety-six patients with mild cognitive impairment were placed in an exercise program for six months. based on these results, we conclude that participation in an exercise program can improve patients' cognitive function, physical abilities, and body movement capacity. in this study, it was observed changes in cognitive function and physical functions of elderly people who participated in a community-based exercise program for 6 months, and examined changes in physical functions that took into account changes in cognitive functions. 
Patients in stable partnerships have a faster progression from HIV to AIDS. [SEP] to explore the association between a stable partnership and clinical outcome in hiv infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart). in an analysis stratified by previous antiretroviral therapy and clinical stage when starting haart (us centers for disease control and prevention group a, b, or c), the adjusted hazard ratio for progression to aids or death was 0.79 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.98) for participants with a stable partnership compared with those without. a stable partnership is associated with a slower rate of progression to aids or death in hiv infected patients receiving haart. we concluded that hiv-infected patients with haemophilia a with inhibitors and patients with haemophilia b show a significantly faster progression to aids than do hiv-infected patients with haemophilia a without inhibitors. compared with men who have sex with men (msm) without stable partnership, msm in a stable partnership appeared less likely to present late (or 0.50, p = 0.034), whereas heterosexual men in a stable partnership had a 2.72-fold increased odds to present late (p = 0.049). it has been suggested that superinfection of hiv positive individuals with heterologous hiv strains could lead to faster progression to aids, generating concern over the risks of exposure to new infections in those already infected. it was also found that only superinfection with a fitter strain leads to faster progression to aids, rather than superinfection per se. non-progressing individuals have the potential to transmit pathogenic variants, which in other host can lead to faster hiv disease progression. this was evident from our study and the accelerated disease progression in the recipient members of he cohort correlated with faster evolutionary rate of hiv-1, which is a unique aspect of this study. in multivariate models, high hiv rna levels remained independently associated with faster disease progression [relative hazard (rh), 1.86; p = 0.01 for aids; rh, 1.66; p = 0.05 for death). 
Peroxynitrite is required for nitration of TCR/CD8. [SEP] nitration of tcr-cd8 is induced by mdscs through hyperproduction of reactive oxygen species and peroxynitrite during direct cell-cell contact. peroxynitrite (onoo-) is a potent oxidizing and nitrating agent produced by the reaction of nitric oxide with superoxide. formation of peroxynitrite from no and o-(*2) is considered an important trigger for cellular tyrosine nitration under pathophysiological conditions. the present results demonstrate that very high fluxes (>2 microm/s) of no/o-(*2) are required to render peroxynitrite an efficient trigger of tyrosine nitration and that dityrosine is a major product of tyrosine modification caused by low steady-state concentrations of peroxynitrite. peroxynitrite is a cytotoxic oxidant formed from nitric oxide (no) and superoxide. delineation of the pathogenetic role of peroxynitrite in disease conditions requires the use of potent, in vivo active peroxynitrite decomposition catalysts. fp15, a potent porphyrinic peroxynitrite decomposition catalyst, potently inhibited tyrosine nitration and peroxynitrite-induced cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. it has been proposed that the bimolecular heme/peroxynitrite interaction results in both peroxynitrite inactivation (scavenging) and catalysis of tyrosine nitration. ferrous cytochrome c was an efficient scavenger of peroxynitrite, but in the ferric form did not show either scavenging or isomerization activities. conversely, nitration of beta tyr 130 was comparable in oxyhb, methb, and co-hb, suggesting a mechanism involving only nitrating species formed during peroxynitrite decay. 
Pleiotropic coupling of GLP-1R to intracellular effectors promotes distinct profiles of cellular signaling. [SEP] the glp-1r can initiate signaling through several intracellular pathways upon activation by glp-1. glp-1r ligands that preferentially stimulate subsets among the natural signaling pathways ("biased agonists") could be useful as tools for elucidating the consequences of specific pathways and might engender therapeutic agents with tailored effects. the glp-1r system is complex, with multiple endogenous and clinically used peptide ligands that exhibit different signaling biases at this receptor. the glp-1r undergoes agonist mediated receptor internalisation that may be associated with spatiotemporal control of signalling and biased agonism, although to date, this has not been extensively explored. here, we investigate glp-1r trafficking and its importance with regard to signalling, including the localisation of key signalling molecules, mediated by biased peptide agonists that are either endogenous glp-1r ligands or are used clinically. thus, this study implicates a role of receptor internalisation in spatiotemporal control of erk1/2 signalling that may contribute to glp-1r biased agonism. ligand-specific differences in membrane trafficking of the glp-1r influence its signalling properties and therapeutic potential in type 2 diabetes. these observations provide insights into how ligand- and genotype-specific factors can influence glp-1r trafficking. the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (glp-1r) is a prototypical family b g protein-coupled receptor that exhibits physiologically important pleiotropic coupling and ligand-dependent signal bias. therefore, we examined the cellular trafficking of the glp-1r and the relation between receptor localization and signaling activity. 
Podocytes are motile and migrate in the presence of injury. [SEP] here, by wound healing, transwell, and cell migration assays, we confirmed that il-6 accelerates the motility of podocyte. podocyte motility was observed by transwell migration assay and wound healing assay. movement and retraction of podocyte foot processes, which accompany podocyte injury, suggest focal adhesion disassembly. permeability of podocytes largely depends on their capacity to migrate which involves the contractile apparatus in their foot processes. an in vitro scratch assay revealed that fgf2 enhanced migration of podocytes. it has long been discussed whether podocytes in vivo are motile and can laterally migrate in a coordinated way along the capillaries until they reach the position of naked glomerular basement membrane often found in podocytopathies. such motility would also be the prerequisite for the replacement of lost podocytes by progenitor cells. since the actin cytoskeleton is expressed in podocytes in vitro and in vivo and the morphology of podocytes is highly dependent on actin, actin-associated, and actin-regulating proteins, it was assumed that podocytes are dynamic and motile. recent in vivo microscopic studies in different model organisms suggest that lateral migration of podocytes in situ is a very unlikely event and only dynamic apical cell protrusions can be observed under pathological conditions. this review discusses recent findings concerning different forms of motility (like lateral translocative (ltm), apical translocative (atm), and stationary motility (sm)) and their role for podocytopathies. 
Polymeal nutrition reduces cardiovascular mortality. [SEP] in the early 70's major activities were started to change national nutritional habits, particularly in view of reducing the high mortality of cardiovascular diseases. dietary intervention can directly address nutritional risk factors in lipid management, calcium-phorphorus balance, and body composition to reduce risk of cardiovascular disease. nutrient intake can also indirectly address less overt risks of dental health, nutritional supplements, and compliance issues. the role of nutritional supplements and dietary interventions in preventing mortality and cardiovascular disease (cvd) outcomes is unclear. to examine evidence about the effects of nutritional supplements and dietary interventions on mortality and cardiovascular outcomes in adults. english-language, randomized controlled trials (rcts) and meta-analyses of rcts that assessed the effects of nutritional supplements or dietary interventions on all-cause mortality or cardiovascular outcomes, such as death, myocardial infarction, stroke, and coronary heart disease. there was moderate-certainty evidence that reduced salt intake decreased the risk for all-cause mortality in normotensive participants (risk ratio [rr], 0.90 [95% ci, 0.85 to 0.95]) and cardiovascular mortality in hypertensive participants (rr, 0.67 [ci, 0.46 to 0.99]). low-certainty evidence showed that omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (lc-pufa) was associated with reduced risk for myocardial infarction (rr, 0.92 [ci, 0.85 to 0.99]) and coronary heart disease (rr, 0.93 [ci, 0.89 to 0.98]). reduced salt intake, omega-3 lc-pufa use, and folate supplementation could reduce risk for some cardiovascular outcomes in adults. among hospitalized patients with chronic heart failure at high nutritional risk, individualized nutritional support reduced the risk for mortality and major cardiovascular events compared with standard hospital food. 
Pretreatment with the Arp2/3 inhibitor CK-666 affects lamelliopodia formation. [SEP] small molecule inhibitors ck-666 and ck-869 bind to arp2/3 complex and inhibit nucleation, but their modes of action are unknown. inhibition of arp2/3, involved in actin filament branching and neuronal morphogenesis, in lateral amygdala (la) with the specific inhibitor ck-666 during fear conditioning impaired long-term, but not short-term, fear memory. here we demonstrate that local lack of vascular endothelial (ve)-cadherin at established cell junctions causes actin-driven and actin-related protein 2/3 complex (arp2/3)-controlled lamellipodia to appear intermittently at those sites. inhibition of the arp2/3 complex by expression of the n-wasp (v)ca domain or application of two arp2/3 inhibitors, ck-548 and ck-666, blocks ve-cadherin dynamics and causes intercellular gaps. furthermore, expression of carboxy-terminal-truncated ve-cadherin increases the number of arp2/3-controlled lamellipodia, whereas overexpression of wild-type ve-cadherin largely blocks it and decreases cell motility. the data demonstrate a functional interrelationship between ve-cadherin-mediated cell adhesion and actin-driven, arp2/3-controlled formation of new ve-cadherin adhesion sites via intermittently appearing lamellipodia at established cell junctions. two types of arp2/3 complex inhibitors, ck-666/636 and ck-548/869, are commonly used to study arp2/3 complex-dependent actin assembly both in vitro and in vivo. human anterior segments were perfused with shmyo10 or ck-666, an arp2/3 inhibitor. the lamellipodium is an important structure for cell migration containing branched actin nucleated via the arp2/3 complex. gmf is implicated in both arp2/3 debranching and inhibition of arp2/3 activation. 
Primary cervical cancer screening with HPV detection has higher longitudinal sensitivity than conventional cytology to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2. [SEP] hpv test of cure offers an improved sensitivity compared to cytology for women with persistent cervical precancer after treatment. hpv-based cervical cancer screening is more effective than screening with cytology. hpv testing was more sensitive than cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or greater, but strategies that depended on cytology for triage of hpv-positive women decreased this sensitivity. detection of high risk human papillomaviruses (hpv) has a high potential value for secondary prevention of cervical cancer. hpv testing can augment the sensitivity of conventional cytologic screening and can be used for triaging patients with a history of mild cytological abnormalities or low grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin). we compared the age-specific performance of primary hpv dna screening with that of conventional cytology screening in the setting of an organized population-based cervical cancer screening program in finland. primary hpv dna screening with cytology triage is more sensitive than conventional screening. to evaluate the sensitivity and efficiency of hpv dna testing in comparison with conventional cytology for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) and cancer. depending on the patient's age and the grade of the cervical lesion, hpv dna testing proved to be significantly more sensitive than cytology for the primary detection of cervical abnormalities (p <.001). testing for high-risk types of human papillomavirus (hpv) has been consistently more sensitive than cervical cytology for high-grade precancers and cancers of the cervix (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or higher) but less specific. 
Primary pro-inflammatory cytokines induce secondary pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. [SEP] pro-inflammatory mediators, such as prostaglandin e2 (pge2) and nitric oxide (no), and pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (il)-1beta, il-6, and tnf-alpha, play pivotal roles in brain injuries. the major pro-inflammatory cytokines include tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha), interleukin-1beta (il-1beta), il-6, and il-8. these cytokines are predominantly produced by monocytes and macrophages, they mediate overlapping effects, and their actions can be additive. tnf-alpha and il-1beta are early regulators of the immune response, and both induce the release of secondary pro-inflammatory cytokines. il-10 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine which reduces the synthesis of pro-inflammatory mediators. rvd1 suppressed production of pro-inflammatory mediators by primary human cells in a dose-dependent manner. cytokines play a crucial role in the modulation of inflammatory response in the gastrointestinal tract. pro-inflammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, interleukin-1beta?il-1beta?, and interleukin-12 are essential in mediating the inflammatory response, while anti-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-beta are important in the attenuation or containment of inflammatory process. suppressors of cytokine signaling (socs) exhibit diverse anti-inflammatory effects. since ros acts as a critical mediator of inflammation, we have investigated the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of socs via ros regulation in monocytic/macrophagic cells. 
Proteins synthesized at the growth cone are ubiquitinated at a higher rate than proteins from the cell body. [SEP] here we show that local protein synthesis and degradation are linked events in growth cones. we find that growth cones exhibit high levels of ubiquitination and that local signalling pathways trigger the ubiquitination and degradation of rhoa, a mediator of sema3a-induced growth cone collapse. in addition to rhoa, we find that locally translated proteins are the main targets of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in growth cones. this study investigates the capacity of neuronal growth cones to synthesize protein locally and independently of their cell body. ultrastructural analyses of growth cones demonstrated the presence of polyribosomes, the machinery for protein synthesis. that different types of growth cones possess differing capabilities for protein synthesis is suggested in autoradiograms of 3h-leucine incorporation by the growth cones of axonal and nonaxonal neurites; incorporation was radically reduced in axonal growth cones in comparison with non-axonal growth cones. the synthesis of proteins in growth cones could afford a mechanism for the alteration of growth cone structure or function. the kinase activities were 3- to 4-times higher in growth cones than in cell bodies. beta-actin protein was highly enriched within growth cones and filopodia, in contrast to gamma-actin protein, which was distributed uniformly throughout the cell. in this study we show, by metabolic labeling of isolated growth cones, that local protein synthesis occurred in these structures. 
Pseudogene PTENP1 regulates the expression of PTEN by functioning as an miRNA decoy. [SEP] long non-coding rna ptenp1, the pseudogene of pten tumor suppressor, has been reported to exert its tumor suppressive function via modulation of pten expression in many malignancies. transcripts derived from the pten pseudogene (ptenp1) function as decoys to adsorb mirnas targeting the pten tumor suppressor for degradation, and ptenp1 upregulation is known to inhibit growth in preclinical cancer models. ptenp1 therefore functions as a competitive endogenous rna (cerna), competing with pten for binding of micrornas (mirna) and thereby modulating pten cellular abundance. ptenp1 is a pseudogene of the pten tumor suppression gene (tsg). ptenp1 and pten are direct targets of mirna mir21 and their expression is suppressed by mir21 in ccrcc cell lines. mir-106b inhibited the expression of pten. pseudogene ptenp1 and pten were significantly down-regulated and mir-214 was up-regulated in osteoporosis patients. pseudogene ptenp1 sponged mir-214 to regulate the expression of pten. ptenp1 is the pseudogene of pten. mechanistically, rna pull-down assay and a series of luciferase reporter assays using mir-21 mimics or inhibitors identified ptenp1 as a molecular sponge for mir-21 to endogenously compete for the binding between mir-21 and the pten transcript, releasing pten expression. 
Pyridostatin destabilizes the G - quadruplex in the telomeric region. [SEP] telomere was destabilized or damaged by g-quadruplex ligand pyridostatin (pds) and bleomycin. with a force jump approach, we observe that pyridostatin promotes the folding of telomeric g-quadruplexes. g-quadruplexes play important roles in dna recombination, replication, telomere maintenance, and regulation of transcription. we discovered that pyridostatin, a small molecule that specifically stabilizes g-quadruplex dna complexes, induced neurotoxicity and promoted the formation of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) in cultured neurons. quadruplex formation can inhibit telomere maintenance, transcription and translation, especially when enhanced by quadruplex-binding small molecules, and quadruplex targeting is currently of considerable interest. ligands that selectively promote the formation of g-quadruplexes in human telomeres have great potential for cancer treatment by inhibiting the telomere extension by telomerase. the prolonged unraveling time of the telomeric dna g-quadruplex after pds binding demonstrated the potent stabilization effect of ligand on g-quadruplex structure. our data emphasize the potential of a senescence-mediated anticancer therapy through the use of g-quadruplex targeting small molecules based on the molecular framework of pyridostatin. here, we demonstrate that three of the most potent g-quadruplex ligands (360a, phen-dc3, and pyridostatin) induce conformational changes of telomeric dna g-quadruplexes to an antiparallel structure (as determined by circular dichroism) containing only one specifically coordinated k(+) (as determined by electrospray mass spectrometry) and, hence, presumably only two consecutive g-quartets. up1 has been reported to bind and destabilize telomeric dna g-quadruplexes and thereby participate in dna telomere remodeling. 
Radioiodine treatment of non-toxic multinodular goitre reduces thyroid volume. [SEP] conventional (131)i therapy [without recombinant human thyroid-stimulating hormone (rhtsh)] has been used for more than a decade in symptomatic non-toxic multinodular goitre, and although it does lead to significant thyroid volume reduction, relatively high activities of radioiodine are needed because of a frequent finding of a low thyroid radioiodine uptake. many textbooks claim that radioiodine (131i) treatment should be given with care to a goitre with substernal extension, for fear of acute swelling of the gland and thus respiratory problems. 131i treatment of non-toxic as well as toxic multinodular goitre does not seem to increase thyroid volume. autoimmune hyperthyroidism (graves' disease), solitary hyperfunctioning thyroid nodules and toxic multinodular goitre (plummer's disease) constitute a clear indication for radioiodine treatment in many cases. this review provides an update on recombinant human tsh (rh-tsh) augmented radioiodine (¹³¹i) therapy and outlines its potential role in the treatment of symptomatic benign multinodular non-toxic goitre. based on a two-fold increase in thyroid ¹³¹i uptake, superiority studies have convincingly demonstrated that the absorbed thyroid ¹³¹i dose can be increased without increasing the administered ¹³¹i activity, resulting in a 35-56% amplification of goitre reduction at one-year post radioiodine compared to conventional (without rh-tsh) ¹³¹i therapy. to investigate the long term effect of radioactive iodine on thyroid function and size in patients with non-toxic multinodular goitre. consecutive patients with multinodular non-toxic goitre selected for radioactive iodine treatment and followed for a minimum of 12 months (median 48 months) after an intended dose of 3.7 mbq/g thyroid tissue corrected to a 100% uptake of iodine-131 in 24 hours. a substantial reduction in thyroid volume accompanied by a low incidence of hypothyroidism and few side effects makes the use of radioactive iodine an attractive alternative to surgery in selected cases of non-toxic multinodular goitre. in the case of radioiodine treatment in graves' disease and multinodular goitre, the appropriate therapeutic dose of 131i can calculated according to the functional volume of the thyroid estimated from 124i tomographic images. 
Rapamycin decreases the concentration of triacylglycerols in fruit flies. [SEP] downregulation of bds6k activity by rapamycin treatment in larval stage resulted in the developmental defects of larvae, pupae, and adults, with a reduced yolk protein (yp) expression in the fat body throughout the first reproductive cycle with a substantial reduction in ovary size, and also repressed the egg development in female fruit fly. rapamycin, an inhibitor of tor, extends lifespan in yeast, fruit flies and genetically heterogeneous mice. rapamycin inhibited age-related weight gain, decreased aging rate, increased lifespan (especially in the last survivors) and delayed spontaneous cancer. the predominant neutral lipid carried by lipophorin from insects belonging to the infraorder culicomorpha was triacylglycerol. the fat body, from one day sugar-water-fed flies incorporated more label into triacylglycerol than those from flies fed on blood. the present study indicates that fat body from sugar-water-fed stable flies retains a high lipogenic ability and that availability of proper precursors may be a limiting factor in lipogenesis. in addition, the lipids isolated from starved flies showed reduced specific activities. the fruit fly drosophila melanogaster is an emerging model system in lipid metabolism research. the vital importance of lipid droplets as energy resources and storage compartments for lipoanabolic components has recently attracted research attention to the basic enzymatic machinery, which controls the delicate balance between triacylglycerol deposition and mobilization in flies. this review aims to present current insights in experimentally supported and inferred biological functions of lipogenic and lipolytic enzymes as well as regulatory proteins, which control the lipid droplet-based storage fat turnover in drosophila. 
Rapid phosphotransfer rates govern fidelity in two component systems [SEP] using system-wide profiling methods, we determined that the hk-ntrc rr pairs display a kinetic preference during both phosphotransfer and phosphatase functions, thereby defining cognate signaling systems in m. xanthus. in the subsequent reactions, phosphotransfer from ypd1 to ssk1-r2 is very rapid (160 s(-)(1)) and is strongly favored over phosphotransfer to skn7-r3. this is the first report of a kinetic analysis of a eukaryotic "two-component" histidine-aspartic acid phosphotransfer system, enabling a comparison of the transfer rates and binding constants to the few bacterial systems that have been studied this way. there was rapid phosphotransfer from hpt2-6 to chparec and from hpt3 to pilh, whereas transfer to pilg was slower. these systems use a unique phosphotransfer chemistry to regulate many aspects of bacterial physiology. despite their common mechanism of phosphotransfer, the two-component systems display an extensive diversity in the arrangement of their domains, and flexibility in their roles in different signal transduction circuits. in two-component signal transduction systems (tcss), responses to stimuli are mediated through phosphotransfer between protein components. the catalytic efficiency (kcat/km) has been determined for phosphotransfer from the phosphohistidyl form of vans to both its homologous partner vanr and the heterologous (escherichia coli) response regulator phob. using phob in excess of p-vans, a pseudo-first-order rate constant (kxfer) of 0.2 min-1 for phosphotransfer and a km for phob of 100 microm were readily determined. in the phosphotransfer from p-vans to phob and vanr, there was evidence of competition between water, to give pi, and the specific aspartyl beta-coo- moiety of either phob or vanr with about 25% of the initial flux generating inorganic phosphate. 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes increase survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] using a combination of ectopic expression and gene silencing approaches in cell culture, we previously identified ifi27l2a as a candidate antiviral isg within neuronal subsets of the central nervous system (cns) that restricts infection by west nile virus (wnv), an encephalitic flavivirus of global concern. prior studies in cell culture suggested an antiviral role for ifi27l2a during infection by west nile virus (wnv). we used recombinant interferon-λ and mice lacking the interferon-λ receptor (ifnlr1) to evaluate the effect of interferon-λ on infection with west nile virus, an encephalitic flavivirus. we detected increased west nile virus infection in the brain and spinal cord of ifnlr1(-/-) mice, yet this was not associated with a direct antiviral effect in mouse neurons. treatment of mice with pegylated interferon-λ2 resulted in decreased blood-brain barrier permeability, reduced west nile virus infection in the brain without affecting viremia, and improved survival against lethal virus challenge. in the present study, we showed that interferon-alpha had the ability to modulate west nile virus infection in mouse. in vitro, interferon-alpha protected mouse neuroblastoma cells against west nile virus infection if cells have been pretreated with the cytokine for several hours. our data illustrate the notion that interferon-alpha and oas genes may be critical for west nile virus pathogenesis. to address this and determine how irf-3 coordinates an antiviral response, we infected irf-3(-/-) mice and two primary cells relevant for west nile virus (wnv) pathogenesis, macrophages and cortical neurons. previous studies have demonstrated that type i interferon (ifn-i) restricts west nile virus (wnv) replication and pathogenesis in peripheral and central nervous system (cns) tissues. 
Rapid up-regulation and higher basal expression of interferon-induced genes reduce survival of granule cell neurons that are infected by West Nile virus. [SEP] using a combination of ectopic expression and gene silencing approaches in cell culture, we previously identified ifi27l2a as a candidate antiviral isg within neuronal subsets of the central nervous system (cns) that restricts infection by west nile virus (wnv), an encephalitic flavivirus of global concern. we used recombinant interferon-λ and mice lacking the interferon-λ receptor (ifnlr1) to evaluate the effect of interferon-λ on infection with west nile virus, an encephalitic flavivirus. we detected increased west nile virus infection in the brain and spinal cord of ifnlr1(-/-) mice, yet this was not associated with a direct antiviral effect in mouse neurons. treatment of mice with pegylated interferon-λ2 resulted in decreased blood-brain barrier permeability, reduced west nile virus infection in the brain without affecting viremia, and improved survival against lethal virus challenge. in the present study, we showed that interferon-alpha had the ability to modulate west nile virus infection in mouse. in vitro, interferon-alpha protected mouse neuroblastoma cells against west nile virus infection if cells have been pretreated with the cytokine for several hours. our data illustrate the notion that interferon-alpha and oas genes may be critical for west nile virus pathogenesis. previous studies have demonstrated that type i interferon (ifn-i) restricts west nile virus (wnv) replication and pathogenesis in peripheral and central nervous system (cns) tissues. these data identify essential mechanisms of immune control that can inform therapeutic efforts against west nile virus, with potential efficacy against other neuroinvasive viruses. to address this and determine how irf-3 coordinates an antiviral response, we infected irf-3(-/-) mice and two primary cells relevant for west nile virus (wnv) pathogenesis, macrophages and cortical neurons. 
Recurrent mutations occur frequently within CTCF anchor sites adjacent to oncogenes. [SEP] ctcf binding sites are frequently mutated in cancer, but how these mutations accumulate and whether they broadly perturb ctcf binding are not well understood. ctcf binding site mutations form independently of replication timing and are enriched at sites of ctcf/cohesin complex binding, suggesting a role for cohesin in stabilizing ctcf-dna binding and impairing ner. both ctcf-bound and non-ctcf anchor points harbour an excess of sv breakpoints in multiple tumour types and are prone to double-strand breaks in cell lines. the ctcf anchor regions we identified are conserved across species, influence gene expression, and are a frequent site of mutations in cancer cells, underscoring their functional importance in cellular regulation. because ctcf targets include oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes, we screened over 100 human tumor samples for mutations that might disrupt ctcf activity. these observations suggest that ctcf may represent a novel tumor suppressor gene that displays tumor-specific "change of function" rather than complete "loss of function." polymorphisms in the genome that redistribute ctcf/cohesin occupancy rewire dna cleavage sites to novel loop anchors. ctcf is a haploinsufficient tumour suppressor gene with diverse normal functions in genome structure and gene regulation. ctcf is frequently mutated in endometrial cancer. conversely, we identified a recurrent ctcf mutation k365t, which alters a dna binding residue, and acts as a gain-of-function mutation enhancing cell survival. 
Reduced responsiveness to interleukin-2 in regulatory T cells is associated with greater resistance to autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 Diabetes. [SEP] regulatory t (treg) cells are important in the maintenance of self-tolerance, and the depletion of treg cells correlates with autoimmune development. in a number of animal models of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes, pathogenesis has been highly correlated with autoreactive t-cell production of the type 1 cytokine interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma), while protection from disease was associated with type 2 cytokines such as interleukin (il)-4. there is increasing evidence that dysregulated immune responses play key roles in the pathogenesis and complications of type 1 but also type 2 diabetes. indeed, chronic inflammation and autoimmunity, which are salient features of type 1 diabetes, are now believed to actively contribute to the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. moreover, these dysregulated immune responses can also mutually influence the prevalence of both type 1 and 2 diabetes. in this review article, we discuss the central role of immune responses in the patho-physiology and complications of type 1 and 2 diabetes, and provide evidence that regulation of these responses, particularly through the action of regulatory t cells, may be a possible therapeutic avenue for the treatment of these disease and their respective complications. type 1 diabetes is a t cell-mediated organ-specific autoimmune disease. type 1 diabetes is a t-cell-mediated autoimmune disease, resulting in destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. enhancing regulatory t-cell responses, therefore, has become an area of intense focus as a means of treating autoimmune diseases like type 1 diabetes. in type 1 diabetes, the lowered expression of adhesion proteins within the intestinal epithelium favours a greater immune response that may result in destruction of pancreatic β cells by cd8+ t-lymphocytes, and increased expression of interleukin-17, related to autoimmunity. 
Replacement of histone H2A with H2A.Z slows gene activation in yeasts by stabilizing +1 nucleosomes. [SEP] the evolutionarily conserved histone variant h2a.z has an important role in the regulation of gene expression and the establishment of a buffer to the spread of silent heterochromatin. swr1 is required for the deposition of histone h2a.z at stereotypical promoter locations in vivo, and swr1 and h2a.z commonly regulate a subset of yeast genes. the system demonstrates atp- and swr1-complex-dependent replacement of histone h2a for histone h2a.z on a preassembled nucleosome array. the histone variant h2az marks nucleosomes flanking the promoters of most genes of budding yeast. histone variant h2a.z-containing nucleosomes exist at most eukaryotic promoters and play important roles in gene transcription and genome stability. here, we show that yeast ino80 facilitates these diverse processes at least in part by controlling genome-wide distribution of the histone variant h2a.z. the conserved histone variant h2az has an important role in the regulation of gene expression and the establishment of a buffer to the spread of silent heterochromatin. swr1 is required for the deposition of histone h2az at specific chromosome locations in vivo, and swr1 and h2az commonly regulate a subset of yeast genes. the incorporation of variant histone h2a.z within chromatin is important for proper gene expression and genome stability. replacement of canonical histone h2a for h2a.z has been shown to modify nucleosome dynamics, although discrepancies still exist in the literature regarding the mechanisms. 
Ribosomopathies have a low degree of cell and tissue specific pathology. [SEP] despite the general nature of their underlying defects, the clinical manifestations of ribosomopathies differ. we review current molecular models to explain ribosomopathies and attempt to reconcile the tissue specificity of these disorders with the ubiquitous requirement for ribosomes in all cells. ribosomopathies, inherited diseases with mutations in ribosomal factors, show tissue specific defects and cancer predisposition. ribosomopathies are a group of rare diseases in which genetic mutations cause defects in either ribosome biogenesis or function, given specific phenotypes. the present manuscript will review our knowledge of ribosomopathies, discuss current treatments, and introduce the new therapeutic perspectives based on recent research. it might thus be possible to treat certain ribosomopathies without using multiple treatments such as surgery and transplants. ribosomopathies are a diverse subset of diseases caused by reduced expression of, or mutations in, factors necessary for making ribosomes, the protein translation machinery in the cell. despite the ubiquitous need for ribosomes in all cell types, ribosomopathies manifest with tissue-specific defects and sometimes increased cancer susceptibility, but few treatments target the underlying cause. ribosomopathies, which occur due to mutations in proteins involved in the global process of ribosome biogenesis, result in tissue-specific defects. ribosomopathies are characterized by tissue-specific phenotypic abnormalities and higher cancer risk later in life. 
S-nitrosylated GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates histone deacetylases. [SEP] glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gapdh) is physiologically nitrosylated at its cys 150 residue. nitrosylated gapdh (sno-gapdh) binds to siah1, which possesses a nuclear localization signal, and is transported to the nucleus. here, we show that sno-gapdh physiologically transnitrosylates nuclear proteins, including the deacetylating enzyme sirtuin-1 (sirt1), histone deacetylase-2 (hdac2) and dna-activated protein kinase (dna-pk). s-nitrosylation of gapdh was assessed using a biotin-switch assay. in hepatocytes, cholate promoted s-nitrosylation of gapdh and its translocation to the nucleus, accompanied by s-nitrosylation of histone deacetylase 2 (hdac2) and sirtuin 1 (sirt1), deacetylases that participate, respectively, in the formation of cyp7a1 and shp repressor complexes. s-nitrosylated gapdh is now shown to function within signal transduction cascades as a nuclear nitrosylase. histone deacetylases) and alternative mechanisms of s-nitrosylation (e.g. gapdh-mediated trans-nitrosylation) are thought to play a role in nos-dependent transcriptional regulation. an increased abundance of no facilitated the s-nitrosylation (sno) of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gapdh). s-nitrosylated gapdh (gapdh-sno) promoted the acetylation and activation of the acetyltransferase p300 and facilitated the nitrosylation and inactivation of the deacetylase sirtuin 1 (sirt1). 
Sildenafil improves erectile function in men who experience sexual dysfunction as a result of the use of SSRI antidepressants. [SEP] patients with erectile dysfunction receiving sildenafil and concomitant serotonergic antidepressants had significantly greater improvements in ability to achieve and maintain an erection, frequency of ejaculation, and orgasm frequency than did patients receiving placebo, without increased sexual desire. sildenafil significantly improved erectile dysfunction in patients taking concomitant serotonergic antidepressants. in our study, sildenafil effectively improved erectile function and other aspects of sexual function in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of sri antidepressants. sildenafil citrate is effective for erectile dysfunction and appears to be safe at doses up to 200 mg. we enrolled men who were in remission from depression according to dsm-iv criteria and who reported that they had developed new-onset ejaculatory delay in the setting of ssri treatment. sildenafil can be a cost-effective add-on therapy to control ssri-induced erectile dysfunction. meta-analysis of two trials involving 113 men with erectile dysfunction found that the addition of sildenafil resulted in less sexual dysfunction at endpoint on rating scales including the international index of erectile function (iief) (wmd 19.36, 95% ci 15.00 to 23.72). in the present study, we examined the efficacy of sildenafil, a potent phosphodiesterase inhibitor, in the treatment of elderly men (n = 10; 70-81 years) with erectile dysfunction induced by antidepressant treatment for major depressive disorder. it appears that sildenafil coadministration improves erectile dysfunction associated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ongoing treatment in elderly patients. meta-analysis of two trials involving 113 men with erectile dysfunction found that the addition of sildenafil resulted in less sexual dysfunction at endpoint on rating scales including the international index of erectile function (iief; wmd 19.36, 95% ci 15.00 to 23.72). sildenafil has demonstrated effectiveness in men with erectile dysfunction associated with prostatectomy, radiation therapy, diabetes mellitus, certain neurologic disorders, and drug therapy (eg, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [ssris]). 
Silencing of Bcl2 is important for the maintenance and progression of tumors. [SEP] these rig-i-mediated activities synergized with sirna-mediated bcl2 silencing to provoke massive apoptosis of tumor cells in lung metastases in vivo. the therapeutic activity required natural killer cells and ifn, as well as silencing of bcl2, as evidenced by rescue with a mutated bcl2 target, by site-specific cleavage of bcl2 messenger rna in lung metastases and downregulation of bcl-2 protein in tumor cells in vivo. mir-140-3p may act as a tumor suppressor by targeting bcl2 and regulating downstream becn1-induced autophagy and metastasis in gc progression. silencing becn1 and overexpression of bcl2 abrogated the effects of mir506. the knockdown of rrm2 leads to apoptosis via bcl2 in cancer. both bcl2 and e2f are critical in the progression of cancer, hence a gene that can affect both in regulating dna replication is essential for cancer therapy. the anti-apoptotic protein bcl2 has been proposed as a therapeutic target, but its role in lsc biology has not been investigated. in order to understand the role of bcl2 in lsc generation and maintenance, we have taken advantage of our sca1-bcrablp210 mouse model of human chronic myeloid leukemia and bcl2 gene-targeted mice. this study provides genetic evidence that the inhibition of bcl2 is not critical for the generation, selection or maintenance of the tumor initiating and maintaining cells in mice. the pro-survival bcl2 homology (bh) proteins critically regulate apoptosis, and may represent important therapeutic targets for restoring drug sensitivity in nb. 
Smc5/6 engagment drives the activation of SUMO E3 ligase Mms21 by ATP-dependent remolding. [SEP] the mms21 sumo ligase docks to the arm region of the smc5 protein in the smc5/6 complex; together, they cooperate during recombinational dna repair. here we show that the sumo ligase and the chromosome disjunction functions of mms21 depend on its docking to an intact and active smc5/6 complex, indicating that the smc5/6-mms21 complex operates as a large sumo ligase in vivo. in spite of the physical distance separating the e3 and the nucleotide-binding domains in smc5/6, mms21-dependent sumoylation requires binding of atp to smc5, a step that is part of the ligase mechanism that assists ubc9 function. the communication is enabled by the presence of a conserved disruption in the coiled coil domain of smc5, pointing to potential conformational changes for sumo ligase activation. our results demonstrate that the atp-binding activity of the smc5/6 complex is coordinated with its sumo ligase, through the coiled coil domain of smc5 and the physical remodeling of the molecule, to promote sumoylation and chromosome disjunction during dna repair. its mms21 subunit supports both functions by docking to the arm region of smc5 and providing sumo ligase activity. our structure revealed two distinct structural and functional domains of the smc5-bound mms21: its n-terminal half is dedicated to smc5 binding by forming a helix bundle with a coiled-coil structure of smc5; its c-terminal half includes the sumo ligase domain, which adopts a new type of ring e3 structure. mms21 (nse2), the relatively well-studied subunit in smc5/6, contains a sp-like-ring finger motif on the c-terminus and was identified as a sumo e3 ligase. the sumo ligase activity of mms21/nse2, a conserved member of the smc5/6 complex, is required for resisting extrinsically induced genotoxic stress. one target of mms21-dependent sumoylation is the cohesin- and condensin-related smc5-smc6 complex (smc5/6). 
Statins decrease blood cholesterol. [SEP] statins lower blood pressure by cholesterol-independent mechanisms, and the reduction is larger in individuals with higher blood pressure and those with low hdl-c. statins may be beneficial in preventing hypertension and may contribute to better blood pressure control in hypertensive patients. the preventive effect of statins on coronary events is not only associated with the cholesterol-lowering effect of these drugs, but also various direct effects on the vascular wall, which include improvement of endothelial function, antioxidant activity, and anti-inflammatory activity. we investigated whether short-term statin therapy could improve arterial stiffness and assessed its mechanism of action in patients with hypercholesterolemia. these results suggest that the preventive effect of statins on coronary events is partly associated with the various actions of these drugs on the vascular wall, and that statins are not only cholesterol-lowering agents but also antiatherosclerotic agents. statins modify cholesterol metabolism by inhibiting the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis, producing greater decreases in plasma cholesterol levels than previously realized with hypolipidemic therapy. with an increase in use and popularity, a number of beneficial actions of the statins unrelated to their cholesterol-lowering ability have been reported. we explore recent data that suggests that statins may provide substantial reduction of blood pressure in the hypertensive, hypercholesterolemic patient independent of their lipid-lowering effect. statins decrease the level of cholesterol in the blood by inhibiting 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme a reductase. these results suggest that future studies evaluating the cholesterol-lowering effects of statin may lead to new approaches to the prevention and treatment of prostate cancer. statin treatment for three months significantly reduced blood fos mrna and ldl cholesterol levels. 
Statins increase blood cholesterol. [SEP] statin treatment for three months significantly reduced blood fos mrna and ldl cholesterol levels. the effect of statins on systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased with higher blood pressure and changed little with adjustment for total cholesterol. statins lower blood pressure by cholesterol-independent mechanisms, and the reduction is larger in individuals with higher blood pressure and those with low hdl-c. statins may be beneficial in preventing hypertension and may contribute to better blood pressure control in hypertensive patients. cholesterol lowering by both statins reduced the increased blood reactivity and endothelial dysfunction present under hypercholesterolemia. statins lower cholesterol levels and reduce the progression of atherosclerotic plaque formation in carotid arteries, and the incidence of emboli from cardiac, aortic and carotid sites. statins modify cholesterol metabolism by inhibiting the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis, producing greater decreases in plasma cholesterol levels than previously realized with hypolipidemic therapy. with an increase in use and popularity, a number of beneficial actions of the statins unrelated to their cholesterol-lowering ability have been reported. we explore recent data that suggests that statins may provide substantial reduction of blood pressure in the hypertensive, hypercholesterolemic patient independent of their lipid-lowering effect. the beneficial effects of statins to lower serum cholesterol translate into significant reductions in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. from the available results, it appears consistent that statins may be useful in hypertensives with high serum total cholesterol, in those whose hypertension is not well controlled with antihypertensive agents even without high serum total cholesterol, in hypertensive subjects well controlled with antihypertensives without high serum cholesterol when they have high polymerase chain reaction levels, in those who require preventive measures because of other concomitant cardiovascular risk factors, or when they require secondary prevention. 
Stroke patients with prior use of direct oral anticoagulants have a lower risk of in-hospital mortality than stroke patients with prior use of warfarin. [SEP] prior warfarin treatment was associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 3 months compared with no prior anticoagulation ( inr <2: adjusted odds ratio: 0.58; 95% ci, 0.42-0.81; p=0.001; inr ≥2: adjusted odds ratio: 0.40; 95% ci, 0.16-0.97; p=0.043) but was not associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 2 years. conclusions prior warfarin treatment was associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 3 months but was not associated with a lower risk of death or disability at 2 years in ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. lower risks of ischemic stroke, major bleeding, and the composite outcome were associated with noac use than with warfarin use (weighted hazard ratio, 0.608 [95% ci, 0.543-0.680]; hazard ratio, 0.731 [95% ci, 0.642-0.832]; and hazard ratio, 0.661 [95% ci, 0.606-0.721], respectively). noacs were associated with lower risks of ischemic stroke and major bleeding than warfarin among atrial fibrillation patients with prior gib. comparing 237 warfarin users and 948 propensity-matched nonusers over 2287 person-years of follow-up, the occurrence of ischemic stroke was similar (hr = 0.92; 95% ci, 0.61 to 1.37), whereas warfarin users experienced twice the risk of hemorrhagic stroke (hr = 2.38; 95% ci, 1.15 to 4.96). warfarin and other vitamin k antagonists are conventionally used for anticoagulation, and demonstrably reduce the risk of stroke and all-cause mortality in patients with af. importantly, some of these drugs are also associated with a significantly lower incidence of major haemorrhage, and all result in lower rates of intracranial haemorrhage and haemorrhagic stroke than warfarin. a systematic review and meta-analysis was performed to compare the efficacy and safety of new oral anticoagulants (noacs) to warfarin in patients with af and previous stroke or transient ischemic attack (tia). noacs may not be more effective than warfarin in the secondary prevention of ischemic stroke in patients with a prior history of cerebrovascular ischemia, but have a lower risk of intracranial bleeding. for patients with prior-stroke history, low-dose noacs showed equivalent efficacy, but reduced risk of major bleeding [rr 0.58 (0.48-0.70), p<0.001, i2=0%] and all-cause mortality [rr 0.76 (0.66-0.88), p<0.001, i2=0%] compared to warfarin. 
Subcutaneous fat depots undergo extensive browning processes after cold exposure. [SEP] during cold-induced 'browning' of subcutaneous fat, most 'beige' adipocytes stem from de novo-differentiated adipocytes. during cold exposure or β-3 agonist-induced "browning" of subcutaneous fat depot, most of the beige adipocytes arise from de novo adipogenesis. in the mammalian adipose organ cold exposure not only activates typical brown adipose tissue, but also induces browning, that is the formation of thermogenic multilocular adipocytes in white, or predominantly white, adipose depots such as subcutaneous fat. we explored the plasticity of different white adipose tissue depots in acquiring a brown phenotype by cold exposure. in mice, exercise, cold exposure and fasting lead to the differentiation of inducible-brown adipocytes, called beige adipocytes, within white adipose tissue and have beneficial effects on fat burning and metabolism, through heat production. we investigated browning remodeling in a depot-specific manner by comparing the response of c57bl/6j, 129/sv and fvb/nj mouse strains to cold. rodent genetic background determines the brown remodeling of different white fat depots. in addition, short-term cold-expose (4 °c, 4 hours) led to alterations in brown adipose tissue attributed to a reduction in triglyceride content that can be visualized as an increase in hounsfield units by ct imaging. the growing understanding of adipose tissue as an important endocrine organ with multiple metabolic functions has directed the attention to the (patho)physiology of distinct fat depots. white adipose tissue (wat) depots, however, also possess the capacity to acquire brown fat characteristics in response to thermogenic stimuli. 
Suboptimal nutrition is not predictive of chronic disease [SEP] inadequate nutrition can affect the oral health including dental caries, periodontal diseases, diseases of oralmucosa and infectious diseases. compromised oral health can alter food choices and negatively impact food intake leading to suboptimal nutritional status which can lead to chronic systemic diseases. the concept of vitamin deficiency has evolved from obvious deficiency states to the subtle effects that suboptimal intake may have on chronic disease prevalence or progression. chronic disease accounts for 70% of u.s. deaths, with suboptimal nutrition an important, preventable risk factor. food insecurity is a contributor to poor nutrition. appropriate micronutrient intake is of particular importance but is often suboptimal. the nutritional status and prevalence of nutrition-related problems in 192 adult and child allogeneic marrow transplant recipients were evaluated 1 year after transplant in a retrospective chart review. nutrition-related problems, changes in anthropometric indexes indicative of suboptimal nutritional status, and inadequate energy intake were observed more frequently in patients with extensive chronic gvhd than in patients without gvhd or in those with limited gvhd. nutrition is one of the most important but often forgotten aspect of care of patients with chronic disorders and there have been emerging concern in literature on increased nutritional needs of scd patients. children with scd have been shown to exhibit suboptimal status with respect to both macronutrients and micronutrients. 
Synaptic activity enhances local release of brain derived neurotrophic factor from postsynaptic dendrites. [SEP] we show that high-frequency activation of glutamatergic synapses triggers the release of bdnf-gfp from synaptically localized secretory granules. it was found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor facilitated the asynchronous release, but had no effect on the probability of evoked release, the size of the readily releasable pool, and the paired-pulse behavior of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents. together, these findings indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment induces pre- as well as postsynaptic changes. what effect predominates will depend on the presynaptic activity pattern: at low activation rates brain-derived neurotrophic factor-treated synapses display a pronounced postsynaptic depression, but at high frequencies this depression is fully compensated by an enhancement of asynchronous release. this novel mode of synaptic regulation conferred by dendritic mtorc1 is locally implemented, requires downstream synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor as a retrograde messenger, and is engaged in an activity-dependent fashion to support homeostatic trans-synaptic control of presynaptic function. this "state-dependent" modulation of presynaptic function requires postsynaptic release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) as a retrograde messenger, which is locally synthesized in dendrites in response to ampar blockade. brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) is known to modulate synapse development and plasticity, but the source of synaptic bdnf and molecular mechanisms regulating bdnf release remain unclear. during the last decade, a major role has emerged for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) in the translation of intrinsic or sensory-driven synaptic activities into the neuronal network plasticity that sculpts neural circuits. bdnf is released from dendrites and axons in response to synaptic activity and modulates many aspects of synaptic function. local application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) to the xenopus laevis optic tectum, which induced persistent potentiation of retinotectal synapses, led to a rapid modification of synaptic inputs at the dendrites of retinal ganglion cells (rgcs), as shown by a persistent enhancement of light-evoked excitatory synaptic currents and spiking activity of rgcs. 
T regulatory cells (tTregs) lacking αvβ8 are more adept at suppressing pathogenic T-cell responses during active inflammation. [SEP] regulatory t (treg) cells play a pivotal role in suppressing self-harmful t cell responses, but how treg cells mediate suppression to maintain immune homeostasis and limit responses during inflammation is unclear. treg-cell-specific deletion of integrin αvβ8 did not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype, suggesting that this pathway is not important in treg-cell-mediated maintenance of immune homeostasis. however, treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic t cell responses during active inflammation. thus, our results identify a mechanism by which treg cells suppress exuberant immune responses, highlighting a key role for effector treg-cell-mediated activation of latent tgf-β in suppression of self-harmful t cell responses during active inflammation. activated t regulatory cells (tregs) express latent tgf-β1 on their cell surface bound to garp. tregs from itgb8 conditional knockouts exhibited normal suppressor function in vitro and in vivo in a model of colitis but failed to provide tgf-β1 to drive th17 or induced treg differentiation in vitro. in addition, itgb8 knockout tregs expressed higher levels of latent tgf-β1 on their cell surface consistent with defective processing. regulatory cd4+ t cells (tregs) are pivotal for prevention of autoimmunity. foxp3-expressing regulatory t (treg) cells safeguard immunological tolerance. gpa33 identifies treg cells in human blood that lack the ability to produce effector cytokines (il-2, ifn-γ, il-17), regardless of differentiation stage. 
TCR/CD3 microdomains are a required to induce the immunologic synapse to activate T cells. [SEP] engagement of the tcr by mhc-bound ag triggers the formation of the immunological synapse by recruiting detergent-resistant membrane microdomains, termed lipid rafts. productive t cell activation depends on the assembly of a highly ordered and compartmentalized immunological synapse or supramolecular activation complex (smac). the formation of this synapse is ag independent, but the recognition of ag by the tcr induces accumulation of tyrosine phosphorylated proteins in the synapse as well as redistribution of the microtubule organization center toward the cell contact site. the immunological synapse (is) is a specialized signaling area formed at the contact site between t-cells and antigen-presenting cells (apc), where sustained engagement and signaling of tcr and accessory molecules occur. in this study, we investigated the functional involvement of cd28 costimulation in the t cell receptor (tcr)-mediated immunologic synapse formation with respect to protein kinase c (pkc)theta; localization. finally, by using tcr-transgenic t cells from either wild-type or cd28-deficient mice, we showed that cd28 expression was required for the formation of the mature immunologic synapse, because antigen stimulation of cd28(-) t cells led to a diffuse pattern of localization of pkc theta; and lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 in the immunologic synapse, in contrast to the central supramolecular activation cluster localization of pkc theta; in cd28(+) t cells. this, in turn, increased the dissociation of bystander tcr-cd3 cytoplasmic domains from the plasma membrane and enhanced tcr-dependent signaling and consequently t cell activation. confocal microscopy revealed that tc induced a redistribution of tcr/cd3 but not cd2 towards the immunological synapse. thus, redistribution of cd2 towards the immunological synapse appears to be essential for full t cell activation. although signals through the t cell receptor (tcr) are essential for the initiation of t helper cell activation, it is unclear what function such signals have during the prolonged t cell-antigen-presenting cell contact. 
TNFAIP3 is a tumor suppressor in glioblastoma. [SEP] most genes classically associated with the inflammatory compartment are part of the nf-kappab signaling pathway including tnfaip3 and birc3 that have been shown to be involved in resistance to chemotherapy.our results associate hypoxia-driven tumor response with inflammation in glioblastoma, hence underlining the importance of tumor-host interaction involving the inflammatory compartment. a prediction model based on the resistance signature enabled the subclassification of an independent, validation cohort of 31 glioblastomas into two outcome groups (p = .037) and revealed tnfaip3 as part of an optimized four-gene predictor associated significantly with patient survival (p = .022). our results offer strong evidence for tnfaip3 as a key regulator of the cytoplasmic signaling to activate nf-kappab en route to o6-alkylating agent resistance in glioblastoma cells. gene expression and loss of heterozygosity analyses of tnfaip3 were carried out in a subset of tumors to assess its role as a tumor suppressor in crc. tnfaip3 mrna levels were significantly decreased in tumors compared with adjacent non-neoplastic mucosa (p < 0.0001) and loss of heterozygosity of 6q23.3 (tnfaip3) was detected in 17% of cases, whereas only 2.5% of the investigated specimens displayed tnfaip3 gene mutations. experimental results indicate that tnfaip3 may act as a tumor suppressor in crc. our study confirms the involvement of the tnfaip3 tumor suppressor gene in chl. here, we identified non-synonymous alterations in the tnfaip3 tumor suppressor gene in 3 of 39 t-lgl. we determined that a20 (tnfaip3), a regulator of cell survival and the nf-kappab pathway, is overexpressed in gscs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mrna and protein levels. this report identifies tnfaip3 (a20), a key regulator of nf-kappab activity, as a novel tumor suppressor gene in chl and pmbl. 
Taking 400mg of α-tocopheryl acetate helps to prevent prostate cancer. [SEP] in the alpha-tocopheryl acetate study, skin cancers developed in 70% of uvb-irradiated control mice and in 90%, 73%, and 90% of mice receiving topical applications of 12.5, 25, and 50 mg of dl-alpha-tocopheryl acetate, respectively. at 12.5 and 25 mg/treatment, alpha-tocopheryl acetate and alpha-tocopheryl succinate, respectively, enhanced photocarcinogenesis (p = 0.0114 and 0.0262, respectively, log rank test). thus alpha-tocopheryl acetate or alpha-tocopheryl succinate not only failed to prevent photocarcinogenesis, but may have enhanced to process. considering that alpha-tocopherol esters are included in many skin lotions, cosmetics, and sunscreens, further studies are needed to determine the conditions under which topical alpha-tocopheryl acetate and alpha-tocopheryl succinate enhance photocarcinogenesis. in this study, we examined the ability of 2 vitamin e isoforms [α-tocotrienol (γ-tt) and δ-tocotrienol (δ-tt)] and 4 synthetic derivatives [γ- and δ-tocotrienol succinate (γ-ts, δ-ts), α-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol succinate (tpgs), and α-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol ether (tpgs-e)] of vitamin e to induce cell death in ar- (du145 and pc-3) and ar+ (lncap) prostate cancer cell lines. α-tocopheryl succinate is one of the most effective analogues of vitamin e for inhibiting cell proliferation and inducing cell death in a variety of cancerous cell lines while sparing normal cells or tissues. the cytoprotective role of nrf2 downstream genes/proteins prompted us to investigate whether and how α-tocopheryl succinate increases resistance of pc3 prostate cancer cells to pro-oxidant damage. the activity of α-tocopheryl phosphate was greater than that of α-tocopheryl acetate. the alpha-tocopherol, beta-carotene cancer prevention (atbc) study, a randomized controlled cancer prevention trial, showed a 32% reduction in prostate cancer incidence in response to vitamin e supplementation. for pigs fed the diet supplemented with 200 mg α-tocopheryl acetate/kg feed, α-tocopherol levels increased with increasing supplementation time up to day 126 in all tissues studied. 
Taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages had no effect on the incidence rate of type II diabetes in India. [SEP] five countries levied excise taxes on all soft drinks, but most did not exclusively target sugar-sweetened beverages, and taxation rates were well below the world health organization's recommended 20%. taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages holds substantiated potential for decreasing its consumption. existing taxes on soft drinks are lower than the world health organization's recommended rate of 20% and do not target sugar content. taxation of sugar-sweetened beverages dis-incentivize consumption of unhealthy products. however, this did not prevent the introduction of a differential sugar tax on sugar-sweetened beverages. sugar-sweetened beverage taxation can help to reduce the number of overweight and obese, and prevent over a million cases of diabetes in indonesia. potential sources of heterogeneity or bias were not evident for sugar sweetened beverages. habitual consumption of sugar sweetened beverages was associated with a greater incidence of type 2 diabetes, independently of adiposity. potential sources of heterogeneity or bias were not evident for sugar sweetened beverages. habitual consumption of sugar sweetened beverages was associated with a greater incidence of type 2 diabetes, independently of adiposity. 
Teaching hospitals do not provide better care than non-teaching hospitals. [SEP] however, costs might still be higher at teaching hospitals than non-teaching hospitals because of differences in case mix, medical techniques, or quality of care. because teaching hospitals face increasing pressure to justify their higher charges for clinical care, the quality of care in teaching and nonteaching hospitals is an important policy question. the physician workforce at teaching hospitals differs compared to non-teaching hospitals, and data suggest that patient outcomes may also be dissimilar. the suggestion that teaching standards are inferior in non-teaching hospitals has been studied and refuted. to compare the quality of care in teaching hospitals with that in nonteaching hospitals. the teaching hospitals studied had better-quality measures than did nonteaching hospitals in the predominant number of studies reviewed. in nonmortality outcomes, teaching hospitals were better in one study using that measure; there were no significant differences in five other such studies. hospitals with lower costs are not necessarily superior to those that are more expensive, because the more costly institutions might offer better outcomes. nonetheless, because teaching hospitals are more expensive than non-teaching hospitals, a relatively small cut in the overall cost of care at teaching hospitals could dramatically decrease the marginal cost of each life saved. among multiresidency teaching hospitals, there was no difference between mean costs for inpatients associated with family practice training and non-teaching patients. 
Tetraspanin-3 is a causative factor in the development of acute myelogenous leukemia [SEP] there was one case of chronic myelogenous leukemia, one of acute myeloblastic leukemia, and one of granulocytic hyperplasia among 40 cd-1 mice exposed to 300 ppm benzene; and one case of chronic myelogenous leukemia among 40 rats exposed to 100 ppm benzene. here, we show that tetraspanin 3 is a target of the rna binding protein musashi 2, which plays a key role in aml. however, tspan3 deletion impaired leukemia stem cell self-renewal and disease propagation and markedly improved survival in mouse models of aml. additionally, tspan3 inhibition blocked growth of aml patient samples, suggesting that tspan3 is also important in human disease. these identify tspan3 as an important regulator of aggressive leukemias and highlight a role for tspan3 in oncogenesis. preleukemia refers to the syndrome of hematopoietic dysfunction seen in some patients before typical features of acute myelogenous leukemia develop. overexpression of an acute myelogenous leukemia-1 repressor protein inhibited parathyroid hormone activation of the promoter, indicating a requirement of acute myelogenous leukemia-related factor(s) for this activity. in summary, we conclude that there is a cooperative interaction of acute myelogenous leukemia/polyomavirus enhancer-binding protein-2-related factor(s) binding to the runt domain binding site with members of the activator protein-1 transcription factor family binding to the activator protein-1 site in the rat collagenase-3 gene in response to parathyroid hormone in osteoblastic cells. the interleukin-3 receptor α-chain (cd123) is highly expressed on the surface of acute leukemia cells compared with normal hematopoietic stem cells. six continuous acute myelogenous leukemia xenografts established from patient explants and characterized by cell and molecular criteria, produced progressively lethal disease 42-202 days after transplantation. 
The DdrB protein from Deinococcus radiodurans is an alternative SSB. [SEP] overall, the results establish ddrb as the prototype of a new bacterial ssb family. the genome of the extremely radiation resistant bacterium deinococcus radiodurans contains genes for two ssb homologs: the homodimeric, canonical ssb, encoded by the gene ssb, and a novel pentameric protein encoded by the gene ddrb. these genes include an ssb-like protein called ddrb. moreover, ssb in d. radiodurans stimulated the drrecj exonuclease activity, whereas ddrb inhibited it and provided protection to ssdna. the published genomic sequence from deinococcus radiodurans includes a putative single-stranded dna-binding protein gene (ssb; dr0100) requiring a translational frameshift for synthesis of a complete ssb protein. the correct deinococcus radiodurans ssb gene is a contiguous open reading frame that codes for the largest bacterial ssb monomer identified to date. the deinococcus radiodurans ssb protein includes two ob folds per monomer and functions as a homodimer. the identification and purification of deinococcus radiodurans ssb protein not only allows for greater understanding of the ssb protein family but provides an essential yet previously missing player in the current efforts to understand the extraordinary dna repair capacity of deinococcus radiodurans. here, we report the 2.8 a structure of ddrb, a single-stranded dna (ssdna) binding protein unique to deinococcus spp. unexpectedly, the crystal structure reveals that ddrb comprises a novel fold that is structurally and topologically distinct from all other single-stranded binding (ssb) proteins characterized to date. 
The PPR MDA5 has two N-terminal CARD domains. [SEP] although rig-i and mda5 have similar molecular structures, these two receptors have distinct features during activation. further, the signaling domains of the n terminal card domains (cards) in rig-i and mda5 share poor similarity. therefore, we wonder whether the cards of rig-i and mda5 play similar roles in signaling and antiviral function. nevertheless, both rig-i and mda5 cards exert comparable antiviral function against several viruses. transcriptome analysis showed that mda5 cards are more effective in regulating downstream genes. the location of the two polar areas on ips-1/mavs/visa/cardif card suggest possible types of associations that this domain makes with the two card domains of mda5 or rig-i. the n-terminal card domains of rig-i and mda5 share greatest sequence similarity with ips-1/mavs/visa/cardif card and this has allowed modelling of their structures. melanoma differentiation associated gene 5 (mda5), which consists of card and a helicase domain, functions as a positive regulator, similarly to rig-i. rlrs are comprised of n-terminal caspase-recruitment domains (cards) and a dexd/h-box helicase domain. rnf123 interacts with the n-terminal card domains of rig-i/mda5 and competes with the downstream adaptor visa/mavs/ips-1/cardif for rig-i/mda5 card binding. 
The PRR MDA5 has a central DExD/H RNA helices domain. [SEP] the dexd/h domain containing rna helicases such as retinoic acid-inducible gene i (rig-i) and melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (mda5) are key cytosolic pattern recognition receptors (prrs) for detecting nucleotide pathogen associated molecular patterns (pamps) of invading viruses. the dexd/h containing rna helicases including rig-i, mda5 and lgp2 were analysed in silico in a wide spectrum of invertebrate and vertebrate genomes. in the cytoplasm, viral genomic rna or transcriptional intermediates are recognized by dexd/h-box helicases rig-i and mda5. mda5 recognizes long dsrna by cooperatively assembling into helical filaments. rlr consists of rig-i, mda5, and lgp2, which are dexd/h helicases. the cytoplasmic card-containing dexd/h box rna helicases rig-i and mda5 act as sensors of viral infections through recognition of viral double-stranded (ds) rnas. rig-i contains a domain that belongs to a dexd/h-box helicase family and exhibits an n-terminal caspase recruitment domain (card) homology. melanoma differentiation associated gene 5 (mda5), which consists of card and a helicase domain, functions as a positive regulator, similarly to rig-i. melanoma differentiation associated gene 5 (mda5) is an important cytoplasmic receptor that recognizes long molecules of viral double-stranded rna and single-stranded rna with 5' triphosphate and mediates type i interferon secretion. this challenging task is taken on by the homologous cytosolic dexd/h-box family helicases rig-i and mda5, which control the innate immune response to most rna viruses. 
The PRR MDA5 is a sensor of RNA virus infection. [SEP] mda5 is a cytoplasmic viral double-stranded rna (dsrna) sensor and triggers type i interferon (ifn) production. our data revealed a regulatory mechanism underlying the activation of the cytoplasmic viral rna sensor mda5 in both uninfected and virus-infected cells. mda5 is a cytosolic sensor of double-stranded rna (ds)rna including viral byproducts and intermediates. the proteins retinoic acid-inducible gene-i (rig-i) and melanoma differentiation associated gene 5 (mda5) function as cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptors that are involved in the elimination of actively replicating rna viruses. in order to identify which rna species triggers mda5 activation during infection, we isolated viral ssrna and replicative intermediates of rna from positive sense ssrna viruses. furthermore, using fluorescent imaging we present the first report of the visualisation of dsrna and mda5, which provides unique evidence of the relationship between viral dsrna and mda5 and proves without a doubt that mda5 is the key sensor for the dsrna replicative intermediate form of positive sense ssrna viruses. mda5 is one such sensor of virus presence and is activated by rna. mda5 is required for immunity against several classes of viruses, including picornaviruses. new data indicate that rna length and secondary structure are features sensed by mda5. rig-i and mda5, two related pathogen recognition receptors (prrs), are known to be required for sensing various rna viruses. 
The US health care system can save up to $750 million if 7% of patients waiting for kidney transplants participate in the optimized national kidney paired donation program. [SEP] even if only 7% of patients awaiting kidney transplantation participated in an optimized national kpd program, the health care system could save as much as $750 million. our proposal leverages the cost savings achieved through earlier transplantation over dialysis to fund the cost of kidney exchange between developed-world patient-donor pairs with immunological barriers and developing-world patient-donor pairs with financial barriers. here we describe different successful ways to increase living donor kidney transplantation through kidney paired donation. live kidney donation involves a delicate balance between saving the most lives possible and maintaining a transplant system that is fair to the many thousands of patients on the transplant waiting list. in this paper we have estimated the cost savings for the health care system and quality-of-life improvement for patients from an increased number of kidney transplants in chile. our estimates suggested that a kidney transplant showed an expected savings value of us$28,000 for the health care system. these results imply that increasing donation rate by 1 donor per million population would achieve an estimated cost saving of us$827,000 per year, or near us$3 million per year considering the effect on the quality of life. these results demonstrated that kidney transplantation along with a better quality of life for patients are a cost-saving decision for developing countries. continued innovations are needed to preserve kidney function for patients with chronic kidney disease and to promote and increase donation rates in canada to improve the quality of life and survival of thousands of patients, as well as save hundreds of millions of dollars to healthcare systems in canada. transplantation results in a gain of 1.99 qalys and a cost savings of can$104,000 over the 20-year time frame compared with waiting on dialysis. 
The YAP1 and TEAD complex tanslocates into the nucleus where it interacts with transcription factors and DNA-binding proteins that modulate target gene transcription. [SEP] nuclear localization of yap1-mamld1 protein is mediated by mamld1 and independent of yap1-ser127 phosphorylation. in the hippo pathway, transcriptional enhanced associate domain (tead) which is a transcription factor is activated by forming a complex with yes-associated protein 1 (yap1) or transcriptional coactivator with pdz-binding motif (taz, also called wwtr1). here we introduce teadi, a genetically encoded inhibitor of the interaction of yap1 and taz with tead, as a tool to characterize the transcriptional networks and biological effects regulated by tead transcription factors. tead-2/tef-4 protein purified from mouse cells was associated predominantly with a novel tead-binding domain at the amino terminus of yap65, a powerful transcriptional coactivator. therefore, the carboxy-terminal acidic activation domain in yap is the transcriptional activation domain for tead transcription factors. because tead-dependent transcription was limited by yap65, and yap65 also binds src/yes protein tyrosine kinases, we propose that yap65 regulates tead-dependent transcription in response to mitogenic signals. when the hippo pathway is turned off, yap (which lacks a dna-binding domain) is dephosphorylated and translocates to the nucleus, where it associates with the transcription factor tead to form a functional heterodimeric transcription factor and to promote the expression of the hippo-responsive genes. recently, structures of the yap-binding domain of tead alone or in complex with yap have revealed the atomic details of the tead-yap interaction. in nih3t3 cells, cell density and hippo signaling regulated the activity of endogenous tead proteins by modulating nuclear localization of a yki homolog, yap1, and the resulting change in tead activity altered cell proliferation. our results revealed the essential role of yap1 and the yap1-teads complex in regulating osteoclastogenesis and related gene expression. 
The amount of publicly available DNA data doubles every 10 years. [SEP] currently, we are experiencing an unprecedented rate of novel bacteriophage discovery, which can be seen from the fact that the amount of complete bacteriophage genome entries in public sequence repositories has more than doubled in the past 3 years and is steadily growing without showing any sign of slowing down. the amount of publicly available phage genome-related data can be overwhelming and has been summarized in literature before but quickly becomes out of date. genome data have accumulated rapidly in recent years, doubling roughly after every 6 months due to the influx of next-generation sequencing technologies. a plethora of plant genomes are available in comprehensive public databases. in the past few years, many gene families have been published using these public datasets. manual curation of the human genome will be a long-term project as experimental data are continually produced to confirm or refine the predictions, and new features such as noncoding rnas and enhancers have not been fully identified. such a highly curated human gene-set made publicly available will be a great asset for the experimental community and for future comparative genome projects. thus, an enormous amount of dna sequence data is available and even more will be forthcoming in the near future. this is the fifth listing replacing and increasing the former listings substantially. dna is also finding increasing use as a material due to its rather unusual structural and physical characteristics as well as its ready availability. 
The arm density of TatAd complexes is due to structural rearrangements within Class1 TatAd complexes such as the 'charge zipper mechanism'. [SEP] we have studied the structure of the tatad complex from bacillus subtilis using electron microscopy to generate the first 3d model of a tata complex from a gram-positive bacterium. we observe that tatad does not exhibit the remarkable heterogeneity of escherichia coli tata complexes but instead forms ring-shaped complexes of 7.5-9nm diameter with potential pores of 2.5-3nm diameter that are occluded at one end. in aqueous solution, tatad formed homo-multimeric micelle-like complexes. we show that mutations in the c-terminal half of the transmembrane span and the subsequent fgp 'hinge' motif are critical for tatad function with its partner tatcd subunit, and the same determinants are required for complementation of either tata or tatb mutants in escherichia coli. here, we show that tatad was found beside its membrane-integrated localization in the cytosol were it interacted with prephod. substitution of the binding motif demonstrated the pivotal role of basic amino acid residues for tata binding. second, we have identified and characterized two distinct tat complexes that are novel in key respects: a tatadcd complex of approximately 230 kda that is significantly smaller than the analogous e. coli tatabc complex (approximately 370 kda on bn gels) and a separate tatad complex. tata heterogeneity has been linked to the varying size of tat substrates being translocated, but the singular nature of the b. subtilis tatad complex suggests that discrete tatac and tata complexes may form a single form of translocon. these consist of the tatad-tatcd and tatay-tatcy subunits. here, we show that tatac can form active protein translocases with tatcd and tatcy. 
The availability of safe places to study is effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] research suggests that subsidized housing combined with mental health services may be an effective intervention for successfully placing individuals who have a mental illness and a history of homelessness into community housing. the study presented here examined the risk and predictors of returning to homelessness after successful housing in a sample of 392 formerly homeless veterans involved in an experimental trial of case management plus rent subsidy vouchers, case management only, or standard care. subsidized housing vouchers, combined with intensive case management, are advantageous both for facilitating the initial transition from homelessness to being housed and for reducing the risk of discontinuous housing, even among individuals with more severe substance abuse problems. housing distress is a problem for schools because students have difficulties achieving academic success when they have no consistent, safe place to live. homeless patients suffer disproportionately from medical disease and from barriers to healthcare, affecting their likelihood of presentation, severity of disease, long-term outcomes, and mortality. in the hospital, homeless patients are frequently cared for by hospitalists. with few dissimilarities, these characteristics also predicted victimization among homeless men. this paper reviews characteristics of persons who become acutely homeless during a hospital admission and suggests approaches which may be used to identify and prevent this perplexing syndrome. the results highlight several benefits of the intervention and show that homelessness can be reduced by connecting housing support, income support, and psychiatric care. in this article, the authors examine responses from 28 qualitative interviews conducted with 16 residents of a safe haven shelter serving chronically homeless people, at 3 and 9 months after entry. 
The availability of safe places to study is not effective at decreasing homelessness. [SEP] although homelessness is a worldwide problem also present in poland and the małopolska region, the data about it are not sufficient. basic needs of homeless people remain unsatisfied which decreases the possibility of transitioning out of homelessness. research suggests that subsidized housing combined with mental health services may be an effective intervention for successfully placing individuals who have a mental illness and a history of homelessness into community housing. evidence regarding the homelessness experiences and available supports to transgender people remains sparse. the word "homelessness" is not a useful term to explain housing problems experienced by high school-aged youths. housing distress is a problem for schools because students have difficulties achieving academic success when they have no consistent, safe place to live. homeless patients suffer disproportionately from medical disease and from barriers to healthcare, affecting their likelihood of presentation, severity of disease, long-term outcomes, and mortality. further, there is certainly a lack of suitable places to deliver palliative and eol care for people who are homeless. few studies that have gathered information on homeless persons have reported results separately for women or have compared them directly with men. despite national efforts, the number of people who are chronically homeless in our cities remains high. 
The benefits of colchicine were achieved with effective widespread use of secondary prevention strategies such as high-dose statins. [SEP] colchicine is a widely available, inexpensive drug with a range of antiinflammatory properties that may make it suitable for the secondary prevention of atherosclerosis. no serious adverse effect was associated with the combined use of colchicine and high-intensity statin therapy in large trials. in patients already fully treated with statins and antiplatelet agents following acute coronary syndromes or stable coronary disease, adding low-dose colchicine achieved secondary prevention of major cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death) with pooled risk reduction 0.75. preliminary evidence demonstrating that adding 0.5 mg of colchicine per day to statin and antiplatelet therapy reduced the risk of acute coronary events in patients with stable coronary artery disease has raised the hope that it may prove effective for the long-term secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. trials exploring the role of colchicine in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes would also be of special interest but may require the use of doses higher than those used for long-term secondary prevention. the widespread use of statins for both primary and secondary cv disease prevention is based on the evidence from large randomized controlled trials. statins are one of the most commonly used drugs in secondary prevention as a part of medical therapy. in widespread clinical use, statins have proven safe and effective for both primary prevention of chd and secondary prevention of coronary events. statin therapy has also proven successful in the primary prevention of cad. clinical trials have demonstrated that statins are gaining widespread acceptance as a principal therapy for the primary and secondary prevention of atherosclerosis and cvd. 
The binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML2 is different from the binding orientation of the ML-SA1 activator at hTRPML1. [SEP] ml-sa1, a synthetic agonist, binds to the pore region and phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate (ptdins(3,5)p2), a natural lipid, stimulates channel activity to a lesser extent than ml-sa1; moreover, ptdins(4,5)p2, another natural lipid, prevents trpml1-mediated calcium release. here we report the structures of human trpml1 at ph 5.0 with ptdins(3,5)p2, ptdins(4,5)p2, or ml-sa1 and ptdins(3,5)p2, revealing a unique lipid-binding site. we show here that in both inside-out patches excised from the plasma membrane and whole-lysosome recordings from enlarged endolysosome vacuoles, ml-sa1 failed to activate trpml unless exogenous phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate [pi(3,5)p2] was applied. at 1 μm ml-sa1, the sensitivity of trpml to pi(3,5)p2 increased approximately by 10-fold and at 10 μm ml-sa1, the deactivation of pi(3,5)p2-evoked trpml currents was markedly slowed. on the other hand, constitutive activation of trpml by a mutation that mimics the varitint-waddler (va) mutation of mouse trpml3 rendered the insect channel sensitive to activation by ml-sa1 alone. moreover, different from the insect trpml, mouse trpml1 was readily activated by ml-sa1 independent of pi(3,5)p2. thus, our data reveal that while ml-sa1 acts as a true agonist at mouse trpml1, it behaves as an allosteric activator of the drosophila trpml, showing dependence on and the ability to stabilize open conformation of the insect channels. ml-si3 binds to the hydrophobic cavity created by s5, s6, and ph1, the same cavity where the synthetic agonist ml-sa1 binds. consequently, this work provides molecular insight into how ml-si3 and native lipids regulate trpml1 activity. consistently, the channel activities of both trpml2 and trpml3 were also found to be associated with the antiviral activity of ml-sa1 on denv2 and zikv, but sn-2 relied only on trpml3 channel activity. 
The center of the granuloma in an immune cell induces a pro-inflammatory immune response. [SEP] granulomas sit at the center of tuberculosis (tb) immunopathogenesis. granulomas represent the characteristic host tissue response to tb, controlling the bacilli while concentrating the immune response to a limited area. tuberculosis (tb) granulomas are organized collections of immune cells comprised of macrophages, lymphocytes and other cells that form in the lung as a result of immune response to mycobacterium tuberculosis (mtb) infection. using our model, we then demonstrated that the organization of immune cells within a tb granuloma as well as tnf/tnf receptor binding and intracellular trafficking are two important factors that control tnf availability and may spatially coordinate tnf-induced immunological functions within a granuloma. cytokine expression in stage iii and iv granulomas was significant, with predominance of immunoreactivity to ifn-γ, thus suggesting a strong, longstanding local immune response mediated by macrophages and epithelioid cells. granulomatous immune responses are interesting models for the effector phase of immunity, in that granulomas can be part of both immune protection and disease pathology during the course of various infectious and autoimmune diseases. focusing mainly on granulomas induced by schistosoma or mycobacterium infection, this article reviews t-cell recruitment, local cytokine networks and the regulation of cytokine networks by neuropeptides in granulomas. in addition, different activation pathways for macrophages residing in granulomas are discussed. granulomas are unique inflammatory sites that offer a challenging and rewarding model to study immunity. studies demonstrate that in addition to sustaining a systemic anti-mycobacterial response, the inflammatory dendritic cell subset present in mycobacterium-induced granulomas also influences local immune regulation within the granuloma over the course of infection. 
The combination of H3K4me3 and H3K79me2 is found in quiescent hair follicle stem cells. [SEP] in the resting phase of the hair cycle, hair follicle stem cells are maintained in a quiescent state until they receive signals to proliferate. we found that the forkhead transcription factor foxp1 is crucial for maintaining the quiescence of hair follicle stem cells. as fgf18 controls the length of the quiescent phase and is a key downstream target of foxp1, our data strongly suggest that foxp1 regulates the quiescent stem cell state in the hair follicle stem cell niche by controlling fgf18 expression. our data indicate that quiescent bulge stem cells are dispensable for hair follicle regeneration and epidermal injury in the short term and support the hypothesis that quiescent and cycling stem cell populations are equipotent. actively cycling, transit-amplifying cells and quiescent cells including stem cells are found in the layer of the epidermis and hair follicles. in mouse hair follicles, a group of quiescent cells in the bulge is believed to have stem cell activity. in mammalian tissues, notably hair follicles, blood, and muscle, stem cells acquire quiescence and infrequently divide for self-renewal. quiescent and dividing epithelial stem cells located in hair follicle are conspicuously organized in a spatiotemporally specific manner, allowing them to be studied at a considerable depth. recent advancements in mouse genetics, genomics, and imaging have revealed unprecedented insights into establishment, maintenance, and regulation of quiescent hair follicle stem cells. in addition, pss injection into the skin activated quiescent hair follicles and induced k15+ hair follicle stem cell proliferation in k14-h2b-gfp mice. 
The composition of myosin-II isoform switches from the polarizable B isoform to the more homogenous A isoform during hematopoietic differentiation. [SEP] different isoforms of non-muscle myosin ii have different distributions in vivo, even within individual cells. in order to understand how these different distributions arise, the distribution and dynamics of non-muscle myosins iia and myosin iib were examined in cultured cells using immunofluorescence staining and time-lapse imaging of fluorescent analogs. however, the a isoform was preferentially located toward the leading edge of migrating cells when compared with myosin iib by double immunofluorescence staining. when fluorescent analogs of the two isoforms were co-injected into living cells, the injected myosins distributed with the same disparate localizations as endogenous myosins iia and iib. these observations suggest that the different localizations of myosins iia and iib reflect different rates at which the isoforms transit through assembly, movement and disassembly within the cell. the relative proportions of different myosin ii isoforms within a particular cell type may determine the lifetimes of various myosin ii-based structures in that cell. these data demonstrate unique histochemical and biochemical homogeneity in the myosin composition of the pectoralis muscle of myotis lucifugus. at elver stage vi a1 the myosin isoforms pattern was characterized by at least two isoforms, fm3 and fm2. comparison of myosin heavy chains and myosin isoforms patterns showed the comigration of different myosin isoforms during white muscle development. three isoforms of nonmuscle myosin ii (iia, iib and iic) are expressed in mammalian cells. 
The deregulated and prolonged activation of monocytes has deleterious effects in inflammatory diseases. [SEP] however, a dysregulated cytokine response can promote excessive infiltration and robust pro-inflammatory activity of neutrophils and monocyte-macrophages, leading to fatal disease. monocytes and macrophages are critical effectors and regulators of inflammation and innate immune response, which appear altered in different autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). pf from voo also prevented the deregulation of human monocyte subset distribution by lps and blocked the genetic signature of m1 macrophages while favouring the phenotype of m2 macrophages upon canonical polarisation of naïve human macrophages. particularly monocytes have been implicated in als pathogenesis. therefore, we hypothesize that circulating blood exosomes are putative mediators of monocytic deregulation in als. we found the pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion by als monocytes upon exosomal stimulation to be impaired compared with control monocytes. therefore, this study underlines the functional deregulation of als monocytes and the impact of circulating blood exosomes on monocyte activation. excessive and prolonged activity of inflammatory monocytes is a hallmark of many diseases with an inflammatory component. efficient degradation of ccr2 mrna in monocytes prevents their accumulation in sites of inflammation. determined by specific cytokine blockade, m1 macrophages exerted their deleterious effect mainly through tnf-α, whereas monocyte-mediated damage was driven by the inflammasome effector cytokines, interleukin-1β and interleukin-18. 
The extracellular domain of TMEM27 is cleaved in human beta cells. [SEP] here, we report the identification and characterization of transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27, collectrin) in pancreatic beta cells. tmem27 forms dimers and its extracellular domain is glycosylated, cleaved and shed from the plasma membrane of beta cells. transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27) is a membrane protein cleaved and shed by pancreatic beta cells that has been proposed as a beta cell mass biomarker. we aimed to characterise the function of tmem27 in islets and its potential use as a beta cell mass biomarker. to elucidate its utility as a beta cell mass biomarker, we studied tmem27 cleavage in a beta cell line, islets and primary proximal tubular cells. tmem27 overproduction in a beta cell line and islets significantly enhanced glucose-induced insulin secretion, with modest or no effects on proliferation. finally, tmem27 is cleaved and shed by renal proximal tubular cells and pancreatic islets. the pancreatic β-cell surface protein tmem27 is promotes the preservation of functional β-cell mass. transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27), which is expressed in pancreatic β-cells, plays an important role in insulin secretion and pancreatic β-cell proliferation. we generated a monoclonal antibody, 8/9-mab, targeting transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27; a surface n-glycoprotein that is highly expressed on beta cells), compared its expression in human and mouse pancreas, and demonstrated beta cell-specific binding in both. 
The genomic aberrations found in matasteses are very similar to those found in the primary tumor. [SEP] they show that genomic aberrations in tumor cells disseminated in the bone marrows of patients with no clinical evidence of metastasis generally do not resemble the aberrations in the primary tumors from which they arose. patterns of chromosomal aberrations in primary breast tumors and brain metastases were compared with array-comparative genetic hybridization (cgh). the array cgh results showed that brain metastases, in general, display similar chromosomal aberrations as do primary tumors, but with a notably higher frequency. we then compared the genetic profiles of metastatic primary tumors (mpts) with their paired lymph node metastases (lnms), and also those of lnms with non-metastatic primary tumors (nmpts). firstly, we found that although there were some distinctive differences in the patterns of genomic profiles between mpts and their paired lnms, the paired samples shared similar genomic aberration patterns in each case. in conclusion, our data suggest that in osccs showing metastasis, the primary and metastatic tumors share similar genomic profiles, and that cells in the primary tumor may tend to metastasize after acquiring metastasis-associated cnas. comparison of these svs shows very similar and largely overlapped mutated segments between primary and metastatic tumors. copy number alterations between primary and metastatic pairs were also found to be closely related. we found very similar genomic alterations between primary and metastatic tumors, with a few mutations found specifically in lung metastases, which may explain the clinical observation that both primary and metastatic tumors are usually sensitive or resistant to the same systemic treatments. we also compared chromosomal aberrations in primary crc lesions with those of the corresponding liver metastasis and found that the allelic genome imbalance status of a metastatic lesion is similar to that of the primary cancer, which suggests that chromosomal aberrations are largely maintained on hematogenous spread. 
The locus rs647161 is associated with colorectal carcinoma. [SEP] a genetic locus for hpncc was recently determined by linkage analysis to exist on chromosome 2p; both sporadic and hnpcc-associated colorectal carcinomas exhibit a "replication error" phenotype, characterized by instability of dinucleotide repeat sequences throughout the genome. colorectal carcinomas with moderate or strong bmi-1 expression were more likely to have low levels of the ink4 locus proteins (p16ink4a/p14arf) (p<0.07). to clarify the role of the klf6 (kruppel-like factor 6) locus in multistep colorectal carcinogenesis, we analyzed loss of heterozygosity (loh) at 10p15 (klf6 locus) and mutations of the klf6gene in 298 colorectal tumors at various pathological stages of sporadic and familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) and hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (hnpcc) patients. mutation analysis of the klf6 gene in 298 colorectal tumors detected no somatic mutations. the present data suggest that loh of the klf6 locus at chromosome 10p15 contributes to the invasion step from an intramucosal carcinoma to an invasive carcinoma specifically in sporadic colorectal carcinogenesis, but is rarely involved in the carcinogenesis of fap and hnpcc cases. associations of 20q11.21-amplified cancers with other molecular lesions commonly observed in colorectal cancer were explored. amplification of genes at locus 20q11.21, representing the most frequently amplified locus in colorectal cancers, is associated with specific molecular characteristics and may have therapeutic implications. the mutation of tumor suppresser genes of colorectal cancer was evaluated to clarify its significance in the clinical management of colorectal cancer patients. to study the candidate tumor suppressor genes (tsg) on chromosome 4p by detecting the high frequency of loss of heterozygosity (loh) in sporadic colorectal carcinoma in chinese patients. seven fluorescent labeled polymorphic microsatellite markers were analyzed in 83 cases of colorectal carcinoma and matched normal tissue dna by pcr. 
The loss of the TET protein functions may have dire biological consequences, such as myeloid cancers. [SEP] even in the absence of tet coding region mutations, tet loss-of-function is strongly associated with cancer. here we show that acute elimination of tet function induces the rapid development of an aggressive, fully-penetrant and cell-autonomous myeloid leukaemia in mice, pointing to a causative role for tet loss-of-function in this myeloid malignancy. we also describe diverse tet loss-of-function mutations that are recurrently found in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies and their potential roles in hematopoietic transformation. lastly, we address non-mutational mechanisms that lead to suppression or inactivation of tet proteins in cancers. tet2 is frequently mutated in diverse lymphoid and myeloid cancers, and tet loss of function is often observed in the absence of coding region mutations in tet genes. despite our understanding of the biochemical activities of tet proteins, how tet loss of function promotes the onset and progression of hematopoietic malignancies is largely unknown. here, we review recent advances in our understanding of the role of tet enzymes in lymphoid and myeloid neoplasms and highlight the importance of metabolic alterations that decrease tet activity in cancer initiation and progression. there is a strong correlation between loss of 5hmc and cancer development but research to date indicates that loss of tet activity is associated with the cancer phenotype but it is not clear whether tet proteins function as tumor suppressors or oncogenes. loss-of-function tet2 mutations (tet2mt) are common in myeloid neoplasia. tet genes have been reported to be frequently mutated in hematopoietic malignancies and are associated with the malignant transformation of cells. 
The minor G allele of FOXO3 is related to more severe symptoms of Crohn's Disease. [SEP] we identify a noncoding polymorphism in foxo3a (rs12212067: t > g) at which the minor (g) allele, despite not being associated with disease susceptibility, is associated with a milder course of crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis and with increased risk of severe malaria. thus, we uncover a shared genetic contribution to prognosis in distinct diseases that operates via a foxo3-driven pathway modulating inflammatory responses. it has also been reported that the minor g allele from the rs12212067 polymorphism (t>g) in foxo3 is associated with milder cd. recent research has shown that the foxo3 genetic variants are associated malaria infection. foxo3 gene variant rs12212067 has been associated to differential severity of infectious diseases like malaria. we aimed to study possible associations of a non-coding polymorphism in intron 2 of the foxo3a gene (rs12212067t>g) that was shown earlier to modulate the foxo3 expression and to be associated with the prognosis of distinct inflammatory and infectious diseases. the foxo3a variant rs12212067t>g was associated with the phenotype of severe malaria, but not with asymptomatic/mild malaria (allelic model: or = 1.54, 95 % ci = 1.15-2.05, p = 0.0028; dominant model: or = 1.94, 95 % ci = 1.36-2.77, p = 0.0002). the foxo3a variant rs12212067t>g is associated with increased inflammatory responses to plasmodium falciparum malaria, indicating a role of the foxo3-dependent pathway in malaria. we have previously shown that bacterial infection regulates foxo3 in intestinal epithelial cells and increases cytokine levels. consistent with a role for foxo3 in colitis, foxo3-deficient mice treated with dss developed more severe colonic inflammation with an increased number of intraepithelial lymphocytes and pmns infiltrated in the epithelia, than wild-type mice. 
The myocardial lineage develops from cardiac progenitors of mesodermal origin. [SEP] during embryonic development, the heart arises from various sources of undifferentiated mesodermal progenitors, with an additional contribution from ectodermal neural crest cells. mesodermal cardiac progenitors are plastic and multipotent, but are nevertheless specified to a precise heart region and cell type very early during development. taken together, these studies emphasize that the endocardium is a unique cardiac lineage and provides further evidence that endocardium and myocardium are derived from a common precursor. during early embryogenesis, heart and skeletal muscle progenitor cells are thought to derive from distinct regions of the mesoderm (i.e. our results demonstrate that cells within the cranial paraxial mesoderm play a vital role in cardiogenesis, as a new source of cardiac progenitors that populate the cardiac outflow tract in vivo. a deeper understanding of mesodermal lineage specification in the vertebrate head is expected to provide insights into the normal, as well as pathological, aspects of heart and craniofacial development. altogether, these studies provide a regulatory framework for the differentiation of the cardiac mesoderm, beginning at the 110-cell stage, and extending through the fusion of cardiac progenitors during tail elongation. we propose that germ-line determinants influence the specification of the cardiac mesoderm, both by inhibiting inductive signals required for the development of noncardiac mesoderm lineages, and by providing a localized source of wnt-5 and other signals required for heart development. current challenges concern defining where and when such common progenitor cells exist in mammalian embryos and how alternative myogenic derivatives emerge in cardiopharyngeal mesoderm. csa elicited specific induction of cardiac lineage from mesoderm in a novel mesoderm-specific, nfat independent fashion. 
The one-child policy has been successful in lowering population growth. [SEP] we found that the average annual attack rate is reduced by 6.08% (sd 2.21%) in the presence of the one-child policy compared to a population in which no demographic changes occurred. there was no discernible difference in the secondary attack rate, -0.15% (sd 1.85%), between the populations with and without a one-child policy. this study found that the average annual attack rate is slightly lowered in a population with a one-child policy, which may have resulted from a decrease in household size and the proportion of children in the population. it reduced china's population growth within a short period of time and promoted economic development. to both sustain china's economic development and limit population growth, it is essential for the government to reform the one-child policy and provide a comprehensive support system for the families who have lost their only children, including financial relief and elderly care, and work to reduce stigma against these families. china's one-child policy has been quite successful in bringing down the country's fertility level but has produced a large number of one-child families. the results suggest that the least desirable strategy is to retain the present policy; all the two-child alternatives perform better than the current one-child policy in achieving the policy goals considered. the policy has been beneficial in terms of curbing population growth, aiding economic growth, and improving the health and welfare of women and children. it aims to limit population to around 1200 million by the year 2000. in order to achieve this goal, birth rates will need to decrease dramatically. 
The relationship between a breast cancer patient's capacity to metabolize tamoxifen and treatment outcome is dependent on the patient's genetic make-up. [SEP] cyp2d6 is a key enzyme in this metabolic activation and it has been suggested that the genetic polymorphisms of cyp2d6 influence the plasma concentrations of active tamoxifen metabolites and clinical outcomes for breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen. this review summarizes current knowledge on the roles of polymorphisms in the drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters in tamoxifen pharmacogenomics. in breast and colorectal cancer, polymorphisms in metabolic enzymes involved in tamoxifen and irinotecan therapies has led the u.s. food and drug administration to address genetic factors relevant to patient consideration of treatment with these compounds. breast cancer treatment outcome with adjuvant tamoxifen relative to patient cyp2d6 and cyp2c19 genotypes. we review the study by schroth and colleagues, evaluating the correlation between genotype for cyp2d6 and other enzymes involved in tamoxifen metabolism and breast cancer outcome. this study adds to the growing body of literature suggesting that genetic differences in patients can determine the effectiveness of tamoxifen and highlights the need for studies evaluating how genotype can best guide selection of endocrine therapy for breast cancer. this article reviews the pharmacology of tamoxifen, the genetics and physiology of the cyp2d6 enzyme system that has important effects on tamoxifen metabolism, and subset data analyses from large controlled, clinical trials that cast new light on previously held beliefs about the utility of cyp2d6 genotyping for predicting tamoxifen effectiveness and improved breast cancer outcomes in women with early-stage, hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. in this study, the inter-relationships among endocrine symptoms, drug adherence, and genetic polymorphisms in chinese breast cancer patients receiving tamoxifen therapy will be examined. the aim of this study was to characterize genetic polymorphisms in tamoxifen metabolism-associated genes in chinese women with breast cancer and to explore the inter-relationships between genetic polymorphisms, endocrine symptoms, and adherence to tamoxifen. genetic factors of the host that affect the metabolism of tamoxifen, a widely used drug for the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer, have received particular attention. 
The repair of Cas9-induced double strand breaks in human DNA is error-prone. [SEP] one of the major concerns, especially for clinical applications, is mutations resulting from error-prone repairs of crispr/cas9-induced double-strand dna breaks. in this review, we discuss the mechanisms of various error-prone dna double-strand break repair processes and the cellular conditions that regulate them, with a focus on alternative end joining. precise genome editing/correction of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) induced by crispr-cas9 by homology-dependent repair (hdr) is limited by the competing error-prone non-homologous end-joining (nhej) dna repair pathway. the repair outcomes at site-specific dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) generated by the rna-guided dna endonuclease cas9 determine how gene function is altered. dna double-strand breaks are highly detrimental to all organisms and need to be quickly and accurately repaired. crispr-cas genome editing creates targeted dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) that are processed by cellular repair pathways, including the incorporation of exogenous dna via single-strand template repair (sstr). the efficacy of precision editing at crispr/cas9-induced double-strand breaks is dependent on the relative activities of nuclear dna repair pathways, including the homology-directed repair and error-prone non-homologous end-joining pathways. however, with directly ligatable ends, cas9-induced dna double strand breaks may be repaired preferentially by accurate nhej. in the repair of two adjacent double strand breaks induced by paired cas9-grnas at 71 genome sites, accurate nhej accounts for about 50% of nhej events. nhej is inherently accurate in repair of cas9-induced dna double strand breaks and can be harnessed to improve crispr/cas9 genome editing requiring precise deletion of a defined length. 
The risk of breast cancer among parous women increases with placental weight of pregnancies, and this association is strongest for premenopausal breast cancer. [SEP] placental weight may be regarded as an indirect marker of hormone exposures during pregnancy. there is epidemiological evidence that breast cancer mortality in premenopausal women increases with placental weight in the most recent pregnancy. using cox regression models, we estimated hazard ratios for the association between placental weight and risk of premenopausal breast cancer mortality. compared with women with placental weight less than 600 g, women with a placental weight between 600 and 699 g were at a 50 % increased risk of mortality, however, not significant change in risk was observed for women with placental weight ≥ 700 g. mortality risks associated with higher placental weight were more pronounced among er(-) and pr(-) breast cancer tumors, where both a placental weight 600-699 g and ≥ 700 g were associated with a more than doubled mortality risks compared with tumors among women with placental weight less than 600 g. moreover, stratified analyses for joint receptor status revealed that a consistent increased mortality risk by placental weight was only apparent in women with er(-)/pr(-) breast cancer. the increased mortality risk in premenopausal breast cancer associated with higher placental weight was most pronounced among er(-) and pr(-) tumors. these results provide evidence that preeclampsia is associated with a decreased risk of premenopausal and her2-enriched breast cancer and that hyperemesis, although not associated with breast cancer risk overall, may be associated with raised risk of her2-enriched tumours. many reproductive factors are associated with breast cancer risk, potentially through a hormonal pathway. after adjustment for parity, age at first delivery, and other risk factors for breast cancer, lactation was associated with a slight reduction in the risk of breast cancer among premenopausal women, as compared with the risk among women who were parous but had never lactated (relative risk, 0.78; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.66 to 0.91); the relative risk of breast cancer among postmenopausal women who had lactated, as compared with those who had not, was 1.04 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.95 to 1.14). pooling data for nearly 6,000 parous hispanic women from four population-based studies conducted between 1995 and 2007 in the united states and mexico, we examined the association of breastfeeding with risk of breast cancer overall and subtypes defined by estrogen receptor (er) and progesterone receptor (pr) status, and the joint effects of breastfeeding, parity, and age at first birth. among parous hispanic women, older age at first birth was associated with increased breast cancer risk, whereas parity was associated with reduced risk. 
The risk of male prisoners harming themselves is ten times that of female prisoners. [SEP] self-harm rates were more than ten times higher in female prisoners than in male inmates. 109 subsequent suicides in prison were reported in individuals who self-harmed; the risk was higher in those who self-harmed than in the general prison population, and more than half the deaths occurred within a month of self-harm. risk factors for suicide after self-harm in male prisoners were older age and a previous self-harm incident of high or moderate lethality; in female inmates, a history of more than five self-harm incidents within a year was associated with subsequent suicide. the burden of self-harm in prisoners is substantial, particularly in women. the rate of completed suicides in overcrowded prisons was about ten times higher than in non-overcrowded ones. attempted suicides were about ten times higher than completed suicides, with females being significantly more likely to attempt to take their own lives and males being more likely to complete suicide. in the total population, among females and males the relative risk of self-harm was statistically significantly (fdr p < 0.05) consistently associated with: involvement in prison misconduct, violent behavior, and verbal threats of self-harm. both types of self-injury are common in prisons, which have a predominantly male population; however, most studies of nonlethal self-injury have been done with female subjects. male prisoners that have suffered multiple aces are substantially more likely to have lifetime mental illness diagnosis, self-harm or suicide attempt, and to have current low mental wellbeing whilst in prison. background: in england and wales, women in prison make up a minority (<5%) of the total custodial population, yet acts of self-harm are around five times more common among incarcerated women. 
The severity of cardiac involvement in amyloidosis can be described by the degree of transmurality of late gadolinium enhancement in MRI. [SEP] typical aspects of cardiac amyloidosis have been described at echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging (mri). cardiac involvement is not rare in systemic amyloidosis and is associated with poor prognosis. cmr examination showed a typical circular subendocardial type of late gadolinium enhancement, which is a classic pattern of cardiac amyloidosis. cardiovascular magnetic resonance with late gadolinium enhancement (lge) is a reference standard for the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis, but its potential for stratifying risk is unknown. cardiac mri is known to be diagnostically valuable in cardiac amyloidosis. global subendocardial late gadolinium enhancement (lge) has been reported as typical of al amyloidosis, whereas different patterns have been noted in attr amyloidosis. the aim is to study the nulling pattern of myocardium and blood at varying times in tis and assess its relationship with lvm and late gadolinium enhancement (lge) in amyloidosis. late gadolinium enhancement cmr was performed in 30 patients with cardiac amyloidosis. global subendocardial late gadolinium enhancement was found in 20 amyloid patients (69%); these patients had greater lv mass (126+/-30 versus 93+/-25 g/m2; p=0.009) than unenhanced patients. in cardiac amyloidosis, cmr shows a characteristic pattern of global subendocardial late enhancement coupled with abnormal myocardial and blood-pool gadolinium kinetics. 
The single flash-evoked ERG b-wave is generated by activity of ON-bipolar cells. [SEP] these findings indicate that activation of na(v) channels in on cone bipolar cells affects the b-wave of the rat erg and must be considered when analysing results of erg studies of retinal function. marked attenuation of the single-flash electroretinographic (erg) b-wave in the presence of a normal-amplitude or less-attenuated a-wave is commonly referred to as the "negative erg." all three models produced markedly attenuated single-flash erg b-waves. simultaneous extracellular erg and intracellular recordings from horizontal and on-bipolar cells were obtained from the dark-adapted retina of the dogfish. the light intensity-peak response relation (ir) and time course of on-bipolar cell responses closely resembled that of the erg b-wave, but only at low light intensities [<10 rhodopsin molecules bleached per rod (rh*)]. the d.c. component of the erg arises as a result of sustained depolarization of on-bipolar cells in response to long (>0.5 s) dim light stimuli, or following bright light flashes. a typical erg curve can be subdivided into three components: a small initial a-wave originating in photoreceptor activity, a large positive b-wave reflecting mainly on bipolar cell depolarization, and a d-wave occurring at light offset. the results of this experiment suggest that b-wave responses to flash pairs separated by < 100 ms are electrophysiologically similar to those obtained with single flashes of double intensity. the la erg b-wave amplitudes, which arise primarily from activity of retinal bipolar cells, show an amplitude peak followed by a nonzero plateau (the "photopic hill" phenomenon). the amplitude of b-wave was decreased in flash ergs. 
The sliding activity of kinesin-8 protein Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly. [SEP] here, we report an antiparallel microtubule-sliding activity of the budding yeast kinesin-8, kip3. in conjunction with cin8, a kinesin-5 family member, the sliding activity of kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly and the maintenance of genome stability. now kip3 is shown to also crosslink and slide antiparallel microtubules, providing additional insights into how kinesin-8 motors control spindle integrity. in a screen of yeast mutants with altered spindle length, we identified the kinesin-8 kip3 as essential to scale spindle length with cell size. we show that the primary function of kif15 is to promote spindle elongation and to ensure maintenance of spindle bipolarity. in most animal cells, spindle bipolarity requires sustained outward forces to push the spindle poles apart, an activity that is provided by eg5, a conserved homotetrameric plus-end-directed kinesin that crosslinks and slides antiparallel microtubules apart [5]. we show here that the kinesin hklp2 participates in the assembly and stabilization of the bipolar spindle. ubiquitous to the mechanism of spindle assembly and stability are balanced kinesin-5 promoting and kinesin-14 opposing forces. distinct kinesin-14 roles in bipolarity in eukaryotes have not been shown, but are suggested by gamma-tubulin-based pole interactions that affect establishment and by microtubule cross-linking and sliding that maintain bipolarity and spindle length. deletion of kip3 increases inter-kinetochore distances and increases the variability in the position of sister kinetochores along the spindle axis during metaphase. 
The tip of the inner tube of the toxic type VI secretion system (T6SS) antibacterial effector in Escherichia coli (E. coli) carries toxic effector proteins. [SEP] the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a dynamic macromolecular organelle that many gram-negative bacteria use to inhibit or kill other prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a dynamic organelle expressed by many gram-negative bacteria, which use it to inject toxic effector proteins into eukaryotic and bacterial prey cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a bacterial nanoscale weapon that delivers toxins into prey ranging from bacteria and fungi to animal hosts. the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) system is a contractile secretion apparatus that delivers proteins to neighboring bacterial or eukaryotic cells. the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) secretes many toxic effectors to gain advantage in inter-bacterial competition and for eukaryotic host infection. among this, the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is utilized to deliver effectors into eukaryotic host as well as target bacteria. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a widespread antibacterial weapon capable of secreting multiple effectors for inhibition of competitor cells. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is used by many gram-negative bacteria as a molecular weapon to modulate neighbouring bacterial and eukaryotic cells, thereby affecting the dynamics of community structure in multiple species environments. the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a macromolecular machine that delivers protein effectors into host cells and/or competing bacteria. each of the t6ss toxic effectors could kill escherichia coli when produced in trans unless the cognate immunity protein was coproduced. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade does not cause any adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] also, the recent success of immune checkpoint blockade in cancer therapy illustrates the importance of the co-inhibitory receptors in cancer immunotherapy. together, immune checkpoint regulators represent viable immunotherapeutic targets for the treatment of both autoimmunity and cancer. the most common immune checkpoint blockers (icb) targeting co-inhibitory receptors such as anti-ctla4 (ipilimumab and tremelimumab) and anti-pd1 (pembrolizumab and nivolumab)/anti-pd-l1 (atezolizumab) have achieved unprecedented success in cancer treatment by facilitating an effective anti-tumor immune response, at least in part, by blocking treg mediated immunosuppression. while icbs have shown remarkable success in cancer immunotherapy, immune-related adverse events (iraes) arising from icb have forced consideration of ways to maintain immune homeostasis post icb treatment. herein, we discuss 1) the critical role of key co-inhibitory receptors on treg homeostasis and tumor tolerance; 2) how co-receptor blockade by cancer immunotherapy can lead to autoimmune adverse events; and 3) recently emerging management strategies to minimize autoimmune adverse events arising from icb. additionally, biologics used for treatment of cancer using checkpoint blockade and rheumatologic disease using cytokine blockade can result in autoimmunity. to analyze immune-related adverse events (ir-aes) in patients treated with radiation and immune checkpoint blockade. there were no associations between site irradiated and specific ir-aes. our data suggest the combination of focal palliative radiation and ctla-4 and/or pd-1 inhibitors is well tolerated, with manageable ir-aes that did not seem to be associated with the particular site irradiated. furthermore, we discuss the autoimmune adverse events arising upon targeting these co-signaling receptors to augment anti-tumor immune responses. 
The treatment of cancer patients with co-IR blockade precipitates adverse autoimmune events. [SEP] herein, we discuss 1) the critical role of key co-inhibitory receptors on treg homeostasis and tumor tolerance; 2) how co-receptor blockade by cancer immunotherapy can lead to autoimmune adverse events; and 3) recently emerging management strategies to minimize autoimmune adverse events arising from icb. also, the recent success of immune checkpoint blockade in cancer therapy illustrates the importance of the co-inhibitory receptors in cancer immunotherapy. moreover, immune checkpoint blockade could result in substantial immune-related adverse events that mimic autoimmune diseases, including lupus. autoimmunity is emerging as the nemesis of immunotherapy. understanding the pathophysiology of immune-related adverse events could make cancer immunotherapy both more effective and safer. immune-related adverse events are a common mechanism by which biologics can cause on-target immune-related toxicities and both immediate and delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions. additionally, biologics used for treatment of cancer using checkpoint blockade and rheumatologic disease using cytokine blockade can result in autoimmunity. despite many successes, a large proportion of patients treated with icb agents experience immune-related adverse events (iraes) in the form of clinical autoimmunity, ranging from mild to life threatening, that can limit cancer treatment. herein we describe the mechanism of action and toxicities associated with immune checkpoint blockade in patients with lung cancer and provide a framework for management of adverse events. furthermore, we discuss the autoimmune adverse events arising upon targeting these co-signaling receptors to augment anti-tumor immune responses. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster encodes urease maturation proteins : UreD/UreH, UreE, UreF, and UreG. [SEP] nucleotide sequencing analysis revealed that the urease gene complex consists of nine genes, which were designed urea, ureb, urec, uree, uref, ureg, ured, ureh, and urei in order of arrangement. the structural genes urea, ureb, and urec encode the 11-, 12-, and 61-kda subunits, respectively. ured, uref, and ureg were essential for expression of urease activity in e. coli and are suggested to play important roles in the maturation step of the urease in a co- and/or posttranslational manner. within the operon, seven closely spaced and putative open reading frames for ureg, ureh(d), urea, ureb, urec, uree, and uref were detected in order. of the nine urease genes identified, urea, ureb, uref, ureg, and ureh were shown to be required for urease expression in e. coli, as mutations in each of these genes led to negative phenotypes. the urec, ured, and urei genes are not essential for urease expression in e. coli, although they belong to the urease gene cluster. in h. pylori, this maturation process involves four urease accessory proteins as follows: uree, uref, ureg, and ureh. the crystal structure of the uref-ureh complex reveals conformational changes in two distinct regions of uref upon complex formation. substitution of r250a or y48a in uref abolishes the formation of the heterotrimeric complex of ureg-uref-ureh and abolishes urease maturation. mass spectrometry of intact protein species revealed a pathway for synthesis of the urease pre-activation complex in which individual hetero-trimer units of the (mbp-ured:uref:ureg)2 complex bind to urease. 
The ureABIEFGH gene cluster is induced by nickel (II) ion. [SEP] analysis of gene expression showed that the r. leguminosarum dmerf genes are organized as a transcriptional unit whose expression is strongly induced by nickel and cobalt ions, likely by alleviating the repressor activity of dmer on dmerf transcription. it is concluded that the ability of nickel(ii) peptide complexes to participate in active oxygen biochemistry suggests a possible role for nickel as a chemical promoter of cancer, whereas the capacity of the nickel(ii) ion to induce conformational changes in dna could, in principle, affect gene expression. the two genes can also be activated by provision of nickel or cobalt ions in the medium. nickel deficiency correlated with a low level of the nickel-containing hydrogenase activity, a slow rate of nickel transport, and reduced activity of urease. this study is the first to show that nickel compounds increase histone ubiquitination in cells. here, we report that nickel ion exposure increases global h3k9 mono- and dimethylation, both of which are critical marks for dna methylation and long-term gene silencing. exposure to nickel ions also increased h3k9 dimethylation at the gpt locus in g12 cells and repressed the expression of the gpt transgene. collectively, our data strongly indicate that nickel ions induce transgene silencing by increasing histone h3k9 dimethylation, and this effect is mediated by the inhibition of h3k9 demethylation. the investigations of the pathogenic effects of nickel greatly benefit from the understanding of the chemical basis of ni(ii) interactions with intracellular targets/ligands and oxidants. research in this field allows for identification of putative ni(ii) targets relevant to carcinogenesis and prediction of pathogenic effects caused by exposure to nickel. 
Therapeutic use of the drug Dapsone to treat pyoderma gangrenous is based on anecdotal evidence. [SEP] the therapies used for pyoderma gangrenosum include systemic corticosteroids, azathioprine, dapsone, mercaptopurine, sulphasalazine, sulphapyridine, thalidomide, cyclophosphamide, clofazimine, isotretinoin, immunoglobulins and cyclosporin. treatment with topical application of crushed dapsone resulted in improvement of his pyoderma gangrenosum. crushed dapsone may be an efficacious treatment with minimal systemic side effects. this appears to be the first case of pyoderma gangrenosum treated with crushed dapsone. the treatment of choice for sweet syndrome and idiopathic pyoderma gangrenosum is systemic corticosteroids; however, for subcorneal pustular dermatosis, dapsone is the drug of choice. steroid therapy is the most widely published effective therapy for achieving resolution of pyoderma gangrenosum, although there is growing evidence for the efficacy of infliximab in refractory cases. other therapies such as dapsone and clofazamine should be left as third-line agents for refractory pyoderma gangrenosum, while novel treatments such as granulocyte apheresis should only be used under trial conditions, to gain an objective evaluation of their efficacy. this article reviews the published treatment strategies in current use, and aims to guide the effective management of pyoderma gangrenosum. the utility of dapsone as a non-immunosuppressive treatment for pg has been reported in case reports and series. systemic dapsone therapy may represent an effective and tolerable non-immunosuppressive adjuvant treatment for pg wound healing. 
There is an inverse relationship between hip fractures and statin use. [SEP] the odds ratio (or) and 95% confidence interval (ci) for hip fracture associated with statin use was estimated using the logistic regression model.the logistic regression analysis demonstrated that the odds of current statin use in cases with hip fracture were lower than the odds of current statin use in subjects without hip fracture (adjusted or 0.73, 95% ci 0.65, 0.82).the odds of current statin use in cases with hip fracture were lower than the odds of current statin use in subjects without hip fracture in elderly people in taiwan. in some epidemiological studies, statins have been associated with a reduced fracture risk. our objective was to examine associations between statin treatment and risk of hip fracture in a population-based case-control study. we found that risk of hip fracture decreased with the number of statin prescriptions. our findings support an association between statin treatment and a reduced hip fracture risk. while early epidemiologic studies showed lower risk for hip fracture among statin users than nonusers, subsequent studies have produced mixed results. to examine the association of statin use with incidence of hip, lower arm or wrist, and other clinical fractures and with baseline levels of bone density. the results of our study support an inverse relationship between hip fractures and hip oa. clinical studies suggest that statin use may reduce the risk of hip fractures in the general population. the results of our study support an inverse relationship between hip fracture and hip osteoarthritis. 
There is no association between HNF4A mutations and diabetes risks. [SEP] we examined birthweight and hypoglycaemia in 108 patients from families with diabetes due to hnf4a mutations, and 134 patients from families with hnf1a mutations. birthweight and prevalence of neonatal hypoglycaemia were not increased in hnf1a-mutation carriers. mutations in hnf4a cause a form of monogenic beta-cell diabetes. we screened families with a clinical suspicion of hnf4a monogenic beta-cell diabetes for mutations in the hnf4a p2 promoter. we identified two novel hnf4a p2 promoter mutations that co-segregate with diabetes in two families, -136a>g and -169c>t. two novel mutations identified here and the previously identified late-onset diabetes mutation, -192c>g, impair the function of the hnf4a p2 promoter in vitro. our results show that mutations in hnf4a and hnf1a genes might account for this early-onset inherited type 2 diabetes. hnf4a mutations cause increased birth weight, transient neonatal hypoglycemia, and maturity onset diabetes of the young (mody). seven of the 11 probands with a heterozygous hnf4a mutation did not have a parent affected with diabetes, and four de novo mutations were confirmed. dominant inactivating mutations in hnf1a and hnf4a have been described to cause hyperinsulinism (hi) before evolving to diabetes. 
Thigh-length graduated compression stockings (GCS) did not reduce deep vein thrombosis in patients admitted to hospital who are immobile because of acute stroke. [SEP] we assessed the effectiveness of thigh-length gcs to reduce dvt after stroke. graduated compression stockings (gcs) are routinely prescribed for deep vein thrombosis (dvt) prophylaxis in acute stroke patients. graduated compression stockings may help reduce dependant oedema in stroke patients with reduced mobility, although there have been no studies looking at this question in stroke patients. the low-pressure, knee-length graduated compression stockings are as effective as the other graduated compression stockings of different pressures and sizes in the postoperative deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis, and the patients have fewer problems while using these graduated compression stockings with a high satisfaction. since graduated compression stockings (gcs) reduce the risk of deep venous thrombosis (dvt) in both hospital and ambulant patients, we checked the compressive efficiency of 20-30 mmhg gcs in the standing position. when both varieties of compression stockings are compared, thigh-length stockings offer a risk reduction in deep vein thrombosis development when compared with knee-length (odds ratio 1.197, confidence interval 0.983-1.458). we aimed to estimate the effects of graduated compression stockings on venous thromboembolism events, survival, and functional status at 6 months after stroke. in clots trial 1, 2518 immobile stroke patients were allocated thigh-length graduated compression stockings or not, and in clots trial 2, 3014 to thigh-length or below-knee graduated compression stockings. to compare the effectiveness of thigh-length stockings with that of below-knee stockings for preventing proximal dvt in immobile, hospitalized patients with stroke. the clots in legs or stockings after stroke (clots) trial 1 randomised 2518 immobile patients with acute stroke to thigh-length graduated compression stockings (gcs) or no gcs and clots trial 2 randomised 3114 to thigh-length or below-knee gcs. 
Tirasemtiv has no effect on fast-twitch muscle. [SEP] tirasemtiv binds selectively and strongly to fast skeletal troponin, slowing the rate of calcium release and sensitizing muscle to calcium. tirasemtiv is a novel small molecule activator of the fast skeletal muscle troponin complex that produces sensitization of the sarcomere to calcium. we conclude that tirasemtiv influences the structure of the skeletal muscle fiber in this model of muscular dystrophy but does not impact muscle function, as evaluated in this study. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal troponin activator that sensitizes the sarcomere to calcium and increases muscle force following subtetanic nerve input. the results of this study suggest that tirasemtiv may improve muscle function in mg and will be used to support further development of tirasemtiv in neuromuscular diseases. tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases efficiency of muscle contraction. abstract tirasemtiv is a fast skeletal muscle activator that increases the sensitivity of the sarcomere to calcium, increasing the efficiency of muscle contraction when the muscle is stimulated at submaximal contraction frequencies. load-clamp experiments on diaphragm muscle showed that tirasemtiv increased the shortening velocity, and reduced the deficit in mechanical power by 33%. the data confirm that tirasemtiv amplifies the response of skeletal muscle to nerve input in humans. tirasemtiv did not alter the decline of svc or significantly impact secondary outcome measures. 
Transferred UCB T cells acquire a memory-like phenotype in recipients. [SEP] ucb-derived t cells cultured with interleukin (il)-12 and il-15 generated >150-fold expansion with a unique central memory/effector phenotype. 1928z/il-12 ucb t cells retained a central memory-effector phenotype and had increased antitumor efficacy in vitro. both in vitro and in vivo memory-like t cells retained the capacity to efficiently control tumor growth in non-lymphopenic hosts upon adoptive cell transfer. our data reinforce the idea that in vitro-generated memory-like t cells could benefit adoptive cell transfer therapies. in addition, transferred naive t cells acquired a memory-like phenotype that remained stable with time. following transfer into lymphopenic hosts, naive cd8 t cells proliferate and acquire memory phenotype. injected naive t cells acquired a memory-like phenotype that was stable with time, despite the absence of foreign antigenic stimulation. during the first 6 months to 1 year after transplant, ucb recipients had slower t-cell subset recovery, with lower numbers of cd3+, cd8+, cd8+ naive, cd4+ naive, cd4+ effector memory t, regulatory t, and cd3+cd56+ t cells than msd recipients. longitudinal studies of immune monitoring reported peculiar patterns of t- and b-cell recovery in the peripheral blood of ucb recipients during the first months post-transplantation. such delayed t-cell recovery may increase susceptibility of ucb recipients for developing opportunistic infections and viral reactivations. 
Transplanted human glial cells can differentiate within the host animal. [SEP] grafted glial cells can form myelin within the cns. following transplantation, donor astrocytes were labeled with an antiserum directed against human glial fibrillary acidic protein. ventral mesencephalon transplanted animal demonstrated positive astrocytes within the transplant, with processes (very few cell bodies) extending into white matter of adjacent host striatum. these results confirm and extend previous investigations on glial cell migration following transplantation in the brain. after transplantation to rd nude and to nih nude rats, hesc-derived neural progenitor cells differentiated to neuronal and glial cells, and migrated extensively from the transplant sheets throughout the host retina. in addition, host glial cells extended processes into the transplants. this new rat model is useful for testing the effect of human cell transplantation on the restoration of vision without interference of immunosuppression. here we transplanted human glial-restricted progenitor (hgrp) cells into the spinal cord of adult rats with inflammatory demyelination, and monitored cell fate in chemically immunosuppressed animals. here, we transplanted sod1(g93a) glial-restricted precursor cells--glial progenitors capable of differentiating into astrocytes--into the cervical spinal cord of wt rats to reveal how mutant astrocytes influence wt mns and other cells types (microglia and astrocytes) in an in vivo setting. transplanted sod1(g93a) glial-restricted precursor cells survived and differentiated efficiently into astrocytes. 
Transplanted human glial progenitor cells are incapable of forming a neural network with host animals' neurons. [SEP] therefore, glial transplantation would be a potentially interesting approach for the cell-based therapy for glia-related disorders. there are multiple cell sources for glial transplantation, including neural stem cells, glial progenitors, and pluripotent stem cells. humanized glial chimeric mice with the brain and spinal cord being colonized by human glial cells have been successfully generated. here we created humanized neuronal chimeric mouse brains by neonatally engrafting the distinct and highly neurogenic human induced pluripotent stem cell (hipsc)-derived rosette-type primitive neural progenitors. in studies using different neurodegenerative disease models, transplanted human neural progenitor cells (hnpc) protected dying host neurons within both the brain and spinal cord. wild type and genetically modified human neural progenitor cells survive for prolonged periods, migrate extensively, secrete growth factors and rescue visual functions following subretinal transplantation in the royal college of surgeons rat. here, we examine whether neurons differentiated from transplanted stem cells can integrate into the host neural network and function in awake animals, a goal of transplanted stem cell therapy in the brain. studies in different animal models have raised the possibility that transplantation of human cortical neuronal progenitors, generated from pluripotent stem cells, might be developed into a novel therapeutic strategy for disorders affecting cerebral cortex. whether these neurons can integrate also into adult human brain circuitry is unknown. our findings provide the first evidence that pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons can integrate into adult host neural networks also in a human-to-human grafting situation, thereby supporting their potential future clinical use to promote recovery by neuronal replacement in the patient's diseased brain. 
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are pro-inflammatory cytokines that inhibit IL-6 and IL-10. [SEP] pro-inflammatory cytokines and anti-inflammatory cytokines are important mediators that regulate the inflammatory response in inflammation-related diseases. the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-α), interleukin-1 beta (il-1β), interleukin-6 (il-6), interleukin-8 (il-8), and anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-10 (il-10), and transforming growth factor beta-1 (tgf-β1), were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). the mammalian nuclear transcription factor nf-kappab is responsible for the transcription of multiple cytokines, including the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) and interleukin 6 (il-6). serum concentrations of the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha), interleukin (il)-1beta, and il-6, and the anti-inflammatory cytokine il-10, and il-1 receptor antagonists (il-1ra) and soluble tnf receptors (stnfrs) were measured in 65 patients with severe sepsis. elevated serum il-10 and tnf-alpha levels and a high il-10 to tnf-alpha ratio were associated with death, whereas higher levels of tnf-alpha, il-6, il-1ra, and stnfr were detected in patients with an early hemodynamic deterioration. the results showed that the proliferation ability was suppressed by interferon-γ (ifn-γ), tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α), and interleukin-1β (il-1β). interleukin-6 (il-6) was increased by tnf-α and il-1β, and hepatocyte growth factor (hgf) was inhibited by all inflammatory cytokines. in response to pathogen infection, pro-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-6 (il-6), il-8, il-18 and tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α)] and anti-inflammatory cytokine (il-10) increased in patients with sepsis. the anti-inflammatory cytokines il-4 and il-10 potently suppressed il-1 beta plus ifn-gamma-stimulated no, while transforming growth factor-beta preferentially inhibited il-1 beta plus tnf-alpha-stimulated production of no. interleukin-1 beta (il-1β), il-8, il-10, interferon gamma (if-γ), tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-α), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1) serum levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay at baseline, 4, and 8 months. 
UCB T cells maintain high TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] significantly lower levels of cd3+, cd4+, and cd8+ t cells were observed in ucb recipients until 6 months after transplantation. in a subset of patients 1 year after transplantation with similar levels of circulating t cells and tcr rearrangement excision circle, there was no difference in tcr diversity. the tcr diversity and antigen specificity of cmv-specific t cells remained remarkably stable in the first year after transplant, suggesting that later control of virus replication results from improved function of t cells primed early after transplant and not from de novo responses derived from later thymic emigrants. ex vivo expansion and adoptive transfer of cmv-specific t cells isolated from ucbt recipients early after transplant could augment immunity to cmv. ucb transplant is associated with comparatively reduced incidence of graft-versus-host disease, robust graft versus leukemia effect, and relatively high incidence of opportunistic infections, three processes in which donor-derived t lymphocytes are known to be predominantly involved. these properties of ucb-derived cd8(+) t cells could contribute to the reduced incidence of graft-versus-host disease and heightened incidence of opportunistic infections observed following ucb transplant. altogether, this study uncovers substantial interdonor and analysis-induced variability in the frequency of ucb cd34+ clones that contribute to post-transplant hematopoiesis. ex vivo expanded cd34(+) human ucb cells have the capacity to generate multiple hematopoietic lineages and a functional human immune system upon transplantation into tnfalpha-treated nod-scid il2rgamma(null) mice. using the vbeta/cbeta primers, we observed limited tcr diversity only in recipients of a t-cell-depleted graft, whereas the tcr diversity of patients transplanted with an unmanipulated graft seemed to be indistinguishable from the one of a normal individual. this demonstrates that when high numbers of t cells are cotransfused with marrow, the tcr repertoire is more complete but still not as complete as in normal individuals, thereby emphasizing the important role of coinfused mature t cells in the restoration of the t-cell compartment after bone marrow transplantation. 
UCB T cells reduce TCR diversity after transplantation. [SEP] umbilical cord blood (ucb) transplantation in adult recipients is associated with slow and often inadequate immune recovery. significantly lower levels of cd3+, cd4+, and cd8+ t cells were observed in ucb recipients until 6 months after transplantation. in a subset of patients 1 year after transplantation with similar levels of circulating t cells and tcr rearrangement excision circle, there was no difference in tcr diversity. our findings demonstrate conclusively that a diverse polyclonal cmv-specific t-cell response derived from the ucb graft is primed to viral antigens as early as day 42 after ucbt, but these t cells fail to achieve sufficient numbers in vivo to control cmv reactivations. the tcr diversity and antigen specificity of cmv-specific t cells remained remarkably stable in the first year after transplant, suggesting that later control of virus replication results from improved function of t cells primed early after transplant and not from de novo responses derived from later thymic emigrants. ex vivo expansion and adoptive transfer of cmv-specific t cells isolated from ucbt recipients early after transplant could augment immunity to cmv. ucb transplant is associated with comparatively reduced incidence of graft-versus-host disease, robust graft versus leukemia effect, and relatively high incidence of opportunistic infections, three processes in which donor-derived t lymphocytes are known to be predominantly involved. these properties of ucb-derived cd8(+) t cells could contribute to the reduced incidence of graft-versus-host disease and heightened incidence of opportunistic infections observed following ucb transplant. since ucb is increasingly used as a hematopoietic stem cell source in allogeneic transplantation, it is important to determine whether csa sensitivity in ucb differs from that of adult t cells. ex vivo expanded cd34(+) human ucb cells have the capacity to generate multiple hematopoietic lineages and a functional human immune system upon transplantation into tnfalpha-treated nod-scid il2rgamma(null) mice. 
Ubiquitin ligase UBC13 generates a K63-linked polyubiquitin moiety at PCNA K164. [SEP] ubiquitin ligase traf6, together with ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme ubc13/uev1, catalyzes processive assembly of unanchored k63-linked polyubiquitin chains for tak1 activation in the il-1r/tlr pathways. our results reveal that the cc oligomerization primes its interaction with ubc13/ub~ubc13 to confer processivity to traf6 ubiquitin ligase activity.ubiquitin ligase traf6 catalyzes assembly of free polyubiquitin chains for tak1 activation in the il-1r/tlr pathways, but the mechanism underlying its processivity is unclear. at least seven ubiquitin ligases have been reported to be involved in either k63- or k48-linked polyubiquitination of rig-i and mda5, and these ubiquitin ligases are further regulated by other factors. thus far, ubc13 is the only known ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (e2) specialized in k63-linked polyubiquitination. previous identification of arabidopsis genes encoding ubc13 as well as its interacting partner uev1 indicates that the ubc13-mediated ubiquitination pathway is conserved in plants; however, little is known about functions and signaling mediated through k63-linked polyubiquitination in plants. the heterodimeric ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (e2), ubc13-mms2, catalyses k63-specific polyubiquitylation in genome maintenance and inflammatory signalling. both ubc13s form heterodimers with uevs from other species, which are capable of catalyzing k63 polyubiquitination in vitro. these results suggest that ubc13-uev-promoted k63-linked polyubiquitination is highly conserved in eukaryotes including b. distachyon. we find that traf6, a ring domain protein, functions together with ubc13/uev1a to catalyze the synthesis of unique polyubiquitin chains linked through lysine-63 (k63) of ubiquitin. these results unveil a new regulatory function for ubiquitin, in which ikk is activated through the assembly of k63-linked polyubiquitin chains. 
Ultrasound guidance significantly raises the number of traumatic procedures when attempting needle insertion. [SEP] to determine whether ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed lumbar punctures or epidural catheterisations, when compared with standard palpation methods, and whether ultrasound imaging can reduce traumatic procedures, insertion attempts, and needle redirections. ultrasound imaging also significantly reduced the risk of traumatic procedures (risk ratio 0.27 (0.11 to 0.67), p=0.005), the number of insertion attempts (mean difference -0.44 (-0.64 to -0.24), p<0.001), and the number of needle redirections (mean difference -1.00 (-1.24 to -0.75), p<0.001). ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed or traumatic lumbar punctures and epidural catheterisations, as well as the number of needle insertions and redirections. we describe a case series constituting the first clinical trial by intravenous (iv) team nurses using the sonic flashlight (sf) for ultrasound guidance of peripherally inserted central catheter (picc) placement. we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used for paracentesis to reduce the risk of serious complications, the most common being bleeding. we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used with paracentesis to improve the success rates of the overall procedure. we recommend that a needle insertion site should be marked with ultrasound immediately before performing the procedure, and the patient should remain in the same position between marking the site and performing the procedure. more recently, ultrasound has seen widespread use in guiding spinal needle interventions. when ultrasound equipment is available, along with providers who are appropriately trained to use it, we recommend that ultrasound guidance should be used for site selection of lumbar puncture to reduce the number of needle insertion attempts and needle redirections and increase the overall procedure success rates, especially in patients who are obese or have difficult-to-palpate landmarks. we suggest using ultrasound for selecting and marking a needle insertion site just before performing lumbar puncture in either a lateral decubitus or sitting position. 
Up-regulation of the p53 pathway and related molecular events casues cancer resistance and results in a significantly shortened lifespan marked by senescent cells and accelerated organismal aging. [SEP] in an oversimplified scenario, p53, an inducer of cellular senescence and apoptosis, may thus unfavorably contribute to aging and favorably suppress tumorigenesis. however, besides inducing cell growth arrest and apoptosis, p53 activation also modulates cellular senescence and organismal aging. in this review, we focus on the recent advances on the contribution of p53 to cellular senescence and its implication for cancer therapy, and we will discuss p53's impact on animal lifespan. moreover, we describe p53-mediated regulation of several physiological pathways that could mediate its role in both senescence and aging. p53 is a transcriptional regulator that responds to cellular stresses to suppress oncogenesis, but some of these responses can have unintended consequences that influence non-cancer-related aging processes. p53 has the potential to both accelerate and hinder cellular aging processes, which would likely have antithetical biological outcomes with regard to organismal aging. to accelerate aging, p53 induces apoptosis or cell cycle arrest as a prerequisite to cellular senescence; both can impair the mobilization of stem and progenitor cell populations. the p53 tumor suppressor plays a key role in organismal aging. increasing evidence suggests that p53 may also influence aspects of organismal aging. these p53 mutants exhibit increased cancer resistance, yet have a shortened longevity and display a number of early aging-associated phenotypes, suggesting a role for p53 in the aging process. 
Upregulation of mosGCTL-1 is induced upon infection with West Nile virus. [SEP] west nile virus emerged recently in north america as a serious human and animal pathogen. this review summarizes the use of experimental infections with west nile virus in diverse vertebrate species that have been used to answer fundamental questions about the host response, pathogenesis of west nile virus infection and virus evolution. experimental infection with west nile virus has assisted in delineating those hosts important and not important to the transmission cycle, in understanding how the virus induces disease in susceptible hosts, and in validating the efficacy of vaccines used for control of disease. west nile virus causes epidemic outbreaks in humans and infected patients may exhibit severe neurological symptoms. a nonsense mutation in gene encoding the 1b isoform of the 2'-5'oligoadenylate synthetase (oas1b) was constantly associated with the susceptibility of mouse strains to experimental west nile virus infection. in the present study, we showed that interferon-alpha had the ability to modulate west nile virus infection in mouse. our data illustrate the notion that interferon-alpha and oas genes may be critical for west nile virus pathogenesis. intrauterine transmission of west nile virus infection was reported. the identification of west nile virus igm in csf is the recommended test to document cns infection. west nile virus is an emerging pathogen that can cause fatal neurological disease. 
Varenicline monotherapy is more effective after 12 weeks of treatment compared to combination nicotine replacement therapies with varenicline or bupropion. [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of varenicline in monotherapy or in combined therapy with bupropion and/or serotonin reuptake inhibitors (sris) in a specific cardiovascular smoking cessation service. the retrospective study displayed higher success rates (continuous abstinence rates at 52 weeks) with combination varenicline and bupropion (55.0%; compared to varenicline monotherapy (32.1%), p < 0.001). combination bupropion sr and varenicline displayed greater efficacy in smoking cessation than varenicline monotherapy, though further safety analysis is warranted to rule out additive psychiatric adverse effects. during the last 4 weeks of treatment, carbon monoxide-confirmed continuous abstinence rates were generally significantly higher with varenicline than with placebo, bupropion sustained release (sr) or nicotine replacement therapy. with regard to the incremental costs per qaly or life-year gained, 12 weeks' treatment with varenicline consistently dominated bupropion sr and nicotine replacement therapy and was dominant over or considered cost effective relative to unaided cessation, regular brief counselling or nortriptyline in analyses based on markov models. lower dose varenicline which does not by itself reduce nicotine self-administration, significantly augmented bupropion effects. the 0.3 mg/kg varenicline dose combined with the 25 and 75 mg/kg bupropion doses caused greater reductions of nicotine self-administration than either dose of bupropion given alone. these results demonstrate that combination therapy with varenicline and bupropion may be more beneficial than monotherapy with either drug alone. when the data of the two trials were pooled, varenicline use was associated with significant improvements in the four-week carbon-monoxide-confirmed continuous quit rate (44.2% at weeks 9-12 compared with bupropion (29.7%) and placebo (17.7%) (p < 0.0001 for each comparison). varenicline with bt increased abstinence more than other combinations of a pharmacotherapy with bt (varenicline versus bupropion: or=1.56, 95% credible interval [cri]=1.07, 2.34; varenicline versus nicotine patch: or=1.65, 95% cri=1.10, 2.51; varenicline versus short-acting nicotine-replacement therapies: or=1.68, 95% cri=1.15, 2.53). 
Venules have a larger lumen diameter than arterioles. [SEP] we, therefore, conclude that lumen:vessel wall area is a more sensitive and preferred method for distinguishing cerebral arterioles from venules. the time required for the initiation of thrombus formation and complete occlusion of the vessel lumen was greater in arterioles than in venules. we assessed whether smaller retinal arterioles and larger venules predicted coronary heart disease (chd)- and stroke-mortality. we defined smaller arterioles as diameters within the narrowest quintile and larger venules as diameters within the widest quintile, with other quintiles as the reference. however, smaller arterioles [hazard ratio (hr) 1.34, 95% confidence interval (ci) 1.11-1.62] and larger venules (hr 1.24, ci 1.02-1.52), predicted increased risk of chd-mortality. smaller arterioles (hr 1.64, ci 1.00-2.67) and larger venules (hr 1.53, ci 0.94-2.47) were also associated with an increased risk of stroke-mortality among persons aged 43-69. lumen-to-lumen communication between arteriole and venule at 8 sites in 2 cadavers was identified in these clusters of glomera. these results, in contrast with conclusions drawn from indirect estimates of venous responses, show that venules, like arterioles, dilate actively in response to muscle contraction. the retinal arteriole and venule diameters increase as a person matures. in newborn infants, retinal venules are significantly larger than retinal arterioles. 
Venules have a thinner or absent smooth layer compared to arterioles. [SEP] during this stage, there was little ultrastructural distinction between cam arterioles, capillaries, and venules. the interstitial space of the venules displayed an increase in cell and fibril densities but to a lesser extent than that observed in the arterioles. larger vertical cup-to-disc ratios and cup-to-disc-area ratios were associated with narrower venules but not arterioles (p = .01 and p = .003, respectively). a thinner average rnfl measurement was associated with narrower arterioles and venules, and smaller total macular volume was associated with narrower venules. venules had a discontinuous layer of flat, smooth surfaced pericytes. in arterioles of the lung the intravascular blood pressures are lower than in comparable vessels in the systemic circulation and the arteriole walls are thinner. therefore, it is very difficult to distinguish between arterioles and venules of the same size using scanning electron microscopy. furthermore, the nuclei of the arteriolar endothelial cells were significantly (p = 0.019) narrower than those of endothelial cells in venules of equal diameter. finally, it was observed that the differences between arteriole and venule endothelial cells persisted distally to the capillaries. capillaries and venules, which have a higher permeability, received weaker innervation by the vasomotor nerves than did arterioles. 
Vitamin D deficiency effects the term of delivery. [SEP] we aimed to assess the association of 25(oh) vitamin d levels in mothers with term and preterm delivery with their neonates. to determine the association between low maternal vitamin d levels and preterm delivery among parturients in lagos, nigeria. 24 (23.3%) women with preterm delivery had low serum vitamin d (<30 ng/ml) as compared with only 5 (4.9%) women with term delivery (p<0.001). compared with normal serum vitamin d levels, low maternal vitamin d had an approximately nine-fold higher likelihood of preterm delivery (adjusted odds ratio 9.41, 95% confidence interval 2.42-36.54; p<0.001). the prevalence of serum vitamin d deficiency was higher among women with preterm delivery than among those with term delivery. the potential role of prenatal vitamin d supplementation in the prevention of preterm delivery should be further investigated. maternal weight right before delivery negatively correlated with maternal serum vitamin d level (p = .04). vitamin d deficiency is more prevalent in mothers who deliver a male infant (p = .03). vitamin d deficiency/insufficiency is prevalent among pregnant women. this paper provides a brief review of potential health outcomes recently linked to gestational vitamin d deficiency, including preterm birth, cesarean delivery, and gestational diabetes. 
Vitamin D deficiency is unrelated to birth weight. [SEP] maternal weight right before delivery negatively correlated with maternal serum vitamin d level (p = .04). maternal serum vitamin d levels did not correlate with maternal or neonatal serum glucose or insulin levels or newborns' birth weight. studies showed that maternal vitamin d deficiency during pregnancy is a risk factor for low birth weight (lbw) in neonates. results correlating neonatal birth weight with maternal vitamin d level during pregnancy was statistically insignificant for both full-term neonates and preterm neonates. however, mean maternal vitamin d levels were higher in mothers with normal birth weight neonates. when compared with vitamin d sufficiency, maternal vitamin d deficiency was not associated with preterm birth [odds ratio (or)=2.69, 95% confidence interval (95% ci)=0.57-12.80], small for gestation age (or=0.99, 95% ci=0.29-3.46), and low birth weight (or=1.69, 95% ci=0.34-8.51). similarly, no significant relationships were found between maternal vitamin d concentrations and anthropometric indices (such as weight, length, bmi) during 0 to 3 years old. maternal vitamin d deficiency may not be related to adverse pregnancy outcomes as well as offspring growth. maternal and neonatal vitamin d status influences newborn size. placental and birth weights were unrelated to the intake of any macronutrient. 
Women with a higher birth weight are more likely to develop breast cancer later in life. [SEP] previous studies have shown that woman's risk of breast cancer in later life is associated with her infants birth weights. giving birth to an infant with high birth weight was associated with increased breast cancer risk in later life, independently of mother's own birth weight and breast cancer risk factors and was also associated with a hormonal environment during pregnancy favoring future breast cancer development and progression. it is a global fact that the birth weight is increasing during the years around the world and for this reason it is very important to be examined as a potential risk factor for breast cancer. in our cohort, women who had birth weight more than 3500 grams are more likely to develop breast cancer in their life. our study trend to show that the increased neonatal birth weight may influence future risk of breast cancer. high birth weight has been proposed to increase the risk of breast cancer. the risk of breast cancer increased with birth weight. compared with women with birth weight of less than 2,000 g, women with birth weight of at least 3,000 g had a nonsignificant increase in risk of developing breast cancer (or = 3.5; 95% ci 0.7-18.5). birth weight has been identified as a birth-related factor associated with the risk of breast cancer. women with their own birth weight >4000 g or 8.5 lb had a higher risk for developing breast cancer than those with birth weight <2500 g or 3000 g (or = 1.20, 95% ci 1.08, 1.34). 
aPKCz causes tumour enhancement by affecting glutamine metabolism. [SEP] over the past 30 years, increasing evidence has shown that many tumours require glutamine as well as glucose for their proliferation and survival. by contrast, cancer cells showed the highest uptake of glutamine. these properties suggest that glutamine concentration might be a determinant of cell viability in tumours, especially in regions that are deficient in other metabolites. glutaminase had no effect on cell survival in the lewis lung tumour or in mgh-u1 xenografts, with or without radiation; glutaminase caused dose-dependent growth delay of the kht tumour, which was additive to that caused by radiation. we find that, while inhibition of both glutaminase isoforms (gls1 and gls2) in tumours considerably delays tumourigenesis, glutamine catabolism continues, owing to the action of amidotransferases. synergistic inhibition of both glutaminases and compensatory amidotransferases is required to block glutamine catabolism and proliferation of mouse and human tumour cells in vitro and in vivo. finally, inhibition of glutamine uptake significantly reduced in vivo tumour growth in a tnbc patient-derived xenograft model using nsg (non-obese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency with a complete null allele of the il-2 receptor common gamma chain) mice. glutamine metabolism is, with its many links to oncogene expression, considered a crucial step in cancer metabolism and it is thereby a key target for alteration in cancer development. this mitochondrial enzyme, which is responsible for the deamidation of glutamine to form glutamate, is overexpressed in many tumour tissues. in animal models, glutaminase expression is correlated with tumour growth rate and it is readily possible to limit tumour growth by suppression of glutaminase activity. 
cSMAC formation enhances weak ligand signalling. [SEP] one model suggests that the role of the csmac depends on antigen quality and can both enhance signaling and receptor downregulation, whereas a second model proposes that the sole function of the csmac is to downregulate signaling. additionally, we show that csmac formation enhances the stimulatory potency of weak agonists for the tcr. combined with previous studies showing that csmac formation decreases the signaling by strong agonists, our data support a model proposing that signaling and receptor degradation both occur in the csmac and that the balance between signaling and degradation in the synapse is determined by antigen quality. this conclusion was supported by experiments that showed that enhancing csmac formation reduced stimulatory capacity of the weak peptide. a µm scale signaling assembly, the central supramolecular signaling cluster (csmac), forms at the center of the interface of t cells activated by antigen-presenting cells. to determine csmac function, we have systematically manipulated the localization of three adaptor proteins, lat, slp-76, and grb2. our data suggest that the csmac enhances early signaling by facilitating signaling interactions and attenuates signaling thereafter through sequestration of a more limited set of signaling intermediates. csmac formation depends on stimulation strength and regulates t cell activation. t cells with impaired csmac formation exhibited enhanced cellular activation including protein phosphorylation and interleukin-2 production. cd28 initially colocalizes with the tcr-mc but then migrates to a distinct region of the csmac called the signaling csmac, where it recruits and associates with pkcθ, carma1, and rltpr to induce sustained co-stimulation signals leading to nf-kb activation. 
mTORC2 regulates intracellular cysteine levels through xCT inhibition. [SEP] using an unbiased proteomic screen, we identified mtorc2 as a critical regulator of amino acid metabolism in cancer via phosphorylation of the cystine-glutamate antiporter xct. mtorc2 phosphorylates serine 26 at the cytosolic n terminus of xct, inhibiting its activity. genetic inhibition of mtorc2, or pharmacologic inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) kinase, promotes glutamate secretion, cystine uptake, and incorporation into glutathione, linking growth factor receptor signaling with amino acid uptake and utilization. although several cystine/cysteine transporters have been identified, our findings demonstrate that, in vitro, xct plays the major role in intracellular cysteine balance and gsh biosynthesis. as a consequence, both xct-ko cell lines exhibited amino acid stress with activation of gcn2 and subsequent induction of atf4, inhibition of mtorc1, proliferation arrest, and cell death. tumor xenograft growth was delayed but not suppressed in xct-ko cells, which indicated both the key role of xct and also the presence of additional mechanisms for cysteine homeostasis in vivo. in conclusion, our findings strongly support that inhibition of xct, by its dual induction of nutritional and oxidative cellular stresses, has great potential as an anticancer strategy. these results suggest that hd inactivates mtor and promotes lysosomal degradation of xct, leading to improved glioblastoma cell viability under glucose-limited conditions. these results suggest that intracellular cysteine supplied by xct contributes to nitric oxide production and the reduction of oxidative stress in macrophages. our findings suggest that a reciprocal regulation exists between xct and the transsulfuration pathway, which is a targetable metabolic vulnerability. 
p16INK4A accumulation is  linked to an abnormal wound response caused by the microinvasive step of advanced Oral Potentially Malignant Lesions (OPMLs). [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the immunohistochemical expressions of pd1, cd4+, and cd8+ in premalignant lesions (opml) that were transformed into oral squamous cell carcinoma oscc (opml-oscc), in oscc and also in premalignant lesions that were not transformed into oscc (opml-nossc). carcinoma is more infiltrated by cd8+ cells than its associated opml. understanding immunological factors associated with malignant transformation of oral premalignant lesions can open a new way to treat this disease. screening and early detection of oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) are of great significance in reducing the mortality rates associated with head and neck malignancies. non-invasive strategies that can identify oral malignant and dysplastic oral potentially-malignant lesions (opml) are necessary in cancer screening and long-term surveillance. oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) with dysplasia and aneuploidy are thought to have a high risk of progression into oral squamous cell carcinomas (osccs). non-dysplastic "oral distant fields" (odfs), characterized by clinically normal appearing mucosa sited at a distance from co-existing opmls, and non-dysplastic opmls may also represent an early pre-cancerous state. oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) is the most common oral cancer, and major efforts is being made to identify molecular markers capable to differentiate oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) with indolent course from lesions with aggressive behavior. it is believed that the majority of oral cancers develop from oral potentially malignant lesions (opml). complete excision of oral potentially malignant lesions (opmls) could result in improved and earlier detection of more severe grades of oral epithelial dysplasia and/or frank malignancy. 
