Do mitochondria play a role in remodelling lace plant leaves during programmed cell death? [SEP] results indicate that antioxidants and ros are key regulators of pcd during the remodelling of lace plant leaves. the role of mitochondria during pcd has been recognized in animals; however, it has been less studied during pcd in plants. this treatment resulted in lace plant leaves with a significantly lower number of perforations compared to controls, and that displayed mitochondrial dynamics similar to that of non-pcd cells. results depicted mitochondrial dynamics in vivo as pcd progresses within the lace plant, and highlight the correlation of this organelle with other organelles during developmental pcd. overall, our findings implicate the mitochondria as playing a critical and early role in developmentally regulated pcd in the lace plant. lace plant leaves utilize programmed cell death (pcd) to form perforations during development. lace plant (aponogeton madagascariensis) leaves are remodeled via developmental programmed cell death (pcd) to produce perforations located equidistantly between longitudinal and transverse veins. in conclusion, this study exemplifies the suitability of the lace plant for live cell imaging and detached leaf experiments to study cell death and provides insight into the importance of ca2+ in developmentally regulated pcd in planta. the use of programmed cell death (pcd) to remodel plants at the cellular, tissue, and organ levels is particularly fascinating and occurs in such processes as tracheary element differentiation, lysigenous aerenchyma formation, development of functionally unisexual flowers from bisexual floral primordia, and leaf morphogenesis. we sought to characterize differentially expressed genes (degs) that mediate lace plant leaf remodelling and pcd. 
Landolt C and snellen e acuity: differences in strabismus amblyopia? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to evaluate the strength of the association between fixation preference and strabismic amblyopia. eighty patients (3 to 8.3 years) with manifest strabismus and the capability to cooperate with a snellen acuity test were prospectively examined. visual acuity levels were measured using a snellen e-chart. amblyopia was defined as a difference of two or more snellen lines between the two eyes. the usual clinical investigation of the visual acuity of amblyopes involves discrimination of the high contrast letters of a snellen chart; however, there are other aspects of acuity, for example, grating acuity (the high spatial frequency limit of vision) and vernier acuity (the smaller perceptible misalignment). in an effort to understand the nature of the neural abnormalities which cause the reduced acuity of amblyopes, we have measured here the vernier acuity of amblyopic observers using an extended vernier grating stimulus, and compared these results with their snellen acuity and grating acuity. the results showed that different acuity losses are associated wih anisometropic versus strabismic amblyopia. snellen letter acuity showed a similar deficit relative to grating acuity in strabismic but not in anisometropic amblyopes. both shape optotypes (snellen e and kolt test) must be approximately 15% smaller than the diameter of the landolt ring in order to obtain comparable visual acuity scores. aim: to compare visual acuity using the lea symbol chart with snellen e test chart in preschool children of age 3-5 years. 
Syncope during bathing in infants, a pediatric form of water-induced urticaria? [SEP] we reviewed those paroxysmal disorders of infancy and of the newborn in which the normal process of bathing may be an important trigger. the paroxysmal episodes previously attributed to aquagenic urticaria may have been examples of bathing epilepsy with a genetic component. despite suggestions in the literature to the contrary, no convincing reports of bath-induced infantile syncope have been found. an 11-yr-old girl presented with a history of urticaria induced by warm or cool showers, exercise, and emotional stimuli. the size of the wheals, the failure to develop an attack with a warm bath or shower or a fever, and the prominence of syncope rule against the diagnosis of conventional cholinergic urticaria. we describe the case of a 25-year-old atopic woman who presented to our unit with a 4-year history of recurrent urticarial rashes, highly pruritic, confined to the neck and lower part of the face, occurring solely on contact with sea water. our case supports the existence of a distinct salt-dependent subtype of aquagenic urticaria (sdau), which seems to be triggered mostly by sea bathing, affects young women and has a characteristic localization on the inferior facial contours and neck. here, we present three atypical cases of syncope: a young judo player with recurrent syncope and dizziness, a teenage boy with syncopal episodes always preceded by stretching, and a child who experienced urticaria before losing consciousness. herein, we review the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of syncope in children and adolescents. aquagenic urticaria is a very unusual form of physical urticaria caused by contact with water. 
Are the long-term results of the transanal pull-through equal to those of the transabdominal pull-through? [SEP] this study examined the long-term outcome of terpt versus conventional transabdominal (abd) pull-through for hd. our long-term study showed significantly better (2-fold) results regarding the continence score for the abdominal approach compared with the transanal pull-through. a short follow-up of children submitted to tept reveals results that are similar to the classic transabdominal pull-through procedures. we propose that these surgical approaches are compared in a randomized controlled trial before solely transanal endorectal pull-through is performed as a routine procedure. the aim of this paper was to evaluate the role of transanal pull-through in the management of recto-sigmoid hd in our institution. previous studies have reported decreased continence in patients undergoing transanal endorectal pull-through (terp) for hirschsprung's disease compared to the older transabdominal approach (taa). transanal endorectal pull-through was associated with fewer complications and fewer episodes of enterocolitis. long-term functional outcome of patients having transanal pull-through is unclear, but short-term function is reported to be very similar to that after open or laparoscopic procedures. the aim of this study was to ascertain the feasibility and safety of transanal pull-through in the neonatal period. transanal endorectal pull-through in neonatal patients is as feasible and safe as in older children or in those with a levelling colostomy. 
Can tailored interventions increase mammography use among HMO women? [SEP] a health maintenance organization (hmo)-based program designed to increase breast cancer screening was evaluated, focusing on changes in mammography utilization. this report examines the effect of the intervention on mammography utilization. a clear increase in self-reported mammography utilization was associated with the intervention. the absolute increase in mammography use due to the intervention was 4.9% (or 1.3, 95% ci 1.0-1.6) in one hmo and 3.1% (or 1.2, 95% ci 1.0-1.3) in the other. data were from a baseline survey of 1323 women between the ages of 50 and 74 years who were recruited through a staff- model hmo for an intervention study to increase rates of mammography. this information can be used to develop more effective tailored interventions to increase the percentage of women receiving mammograms on a regular schedule. a multicomponent program in an ipa-model hmo resulted in significant increases in the proportion of hmo women who had mammograms. this study was conducted among 395 women who were members of a network model health maintenance organization (hmo) in philadelphia in order to determine which of three methods was most effective in increasing mammography rates: (1) a birthday card reminder only (the standard method); (2) a personalized letter from the medical director and materials promoting mammography; and (3) a multicomponent phone call incorporating a reminder, counseling, and scheduling of appointments. these results indicate that a multicomponent phone intervention is significantly effective in promoting mammography in managed health care plan members. this study evaluated the impact of two interventions designed to encourage mammography use among hmo women aged 65-74 who had not had a mammogram within the past year and had not used their referral for a free mammogram. 
Double balloon enteroscopy: is it efficacious and safe in a community setting? [SEP] double balloon enteroscopy has gained worldwide acceptance as an endoscopic technique that can be used safely and effectively to provide complete examination of the small bowel, offer therapeutic intervention, and favorably affect clinical outcomes. single balloon enteroscopy seems to have utility similar to that of the double balloon system. double-balloon enteroscopy was safe and effective to access small bowel stricture with direct visualization and tissue sampling or for therapeutic balloon dilation. spiral enteroscopy appears as safe as double-balloon enteroscopy for small bowel exploration with a similar diagnostic and therapeutic yield. double-balloon enteroscopy is a newly developed endoscopic method allowing non-surgical full-length exploration of the small bowel, biopsies sample and endoscopic treatment of previously inaccessible lesions. oral and anal route double-balloon enteroscopies were performed in 54 and 28 patients, respectively, while 18 patients underwent a combination of both approaches. our prospective analysis shows that double-balloon enteroscopy is a useful, safe and well-tolerated new method with a high diagnostic and therapeutic impact for the management of suspected or documented small bowel diseases. double-balloon enteroscopy is a safe, reliable modality for determining bleeding lesion of small intestine. the double balloon enteroscopy is an important method for the endoscopic approach of the small bowel that provides diagnosis and therapy of this segment's disorders, with low complication rate. analysis of patients undergoing double balloon enteroscopy. 
30-Day and 1-year mortality in emergency general surgery laparotomies: an area of concern and need for improvement? [SEP] the aim of this study was to analyse the 30-day mortality, age-related 30-day mortality and 1-year mortality following emergency laparotomy. we sought to examine whether the emergency surgery score predicts 30-day morbidity and mortality in a high-risk group of patients undergoing emergent laparotomy. multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed to measure the correlation (c-statistic) between the emergency surgery score and (1) 30-day mortality, and (2) 30-day morbidity after emergent laparotomy. 24,291 emergency laparotomies were performed with an associated 30-day postoperative mortality of 11.7%. mortality following emergency laparotomy is improved when performed under the care of gastrointestinal surgeons. emergency laparotomy is a considerable component of a colorectal surgeon's workload and conveys substantial morbidity and mortality, particularly in older patients. the aim of this study was to compare mortality following emergency laparotomy between populations from new york state and england. comparison of the all-cause 30-day mortality following emergency laparotomy between populations from new york state and england might identify factors that could improve care. patients undergoing emergency laparotomy in england had significantly higher risk of mortality compared with those in new york state (odds ratio 2.35, confidence interval 2.24-2.46, p < 0.001). the risk of mortality at 30 days is higher following emergency laparotomy in england as compared with new york state despite similar patient groups. 
Is adjustment for reporting heterogeneity necessary in sleep disorders? [SEP] this research uses vignettes to elucidate factors associated with sleep disorders in adult japanese before and after adjustment for reporting heterogeneity in self-reports. this study also evaluates the need for adjusting for reporting heterogeneity in the management of sleep and energy related problems in japan. without correction of cut-point shifts, age, sex, and the number of comorbidities were significantly associated with a greater severity of sleep-related problems. sleep disorders are common in the general adult population of japan. correction for reporting heterogeneity using anchoring vignettes is not a necessary tool for proper management of sleep and energy related problems among japanese adults. to evaluate the efficacy of music therapy for acute and chronic sleep disorders in adults. sleep disorders associated factors are under explored in schizophrenia while the literature suggests high and heterogeneous frequency. the objective of the present study was to determine the prevalence and risk factors of sleep disorders in the real-world face-sz national cohort. after adjustment, sleep disorders were significantly associated with migraine (adjusted odds ratio aor = 2.23, p = 0.041), major depressive disorder (aor 1.79, p = 0.030), poor adherence to treatment (aor = 0.87, p = 0.006), akathisia (aor = 1.29, p = 0.042) and verbal aggressiveness (aor = 1.09, p = 0.002). patient heterogeneity is problematic for the accurate assessment and effective treatment of hypersomnolence disorder. 
Do mutations causing low HDL-C promote increased carotid intima-media thickness? [SEP] carotid intima-media thickness had a significant correlation with increased ldl-c and low hdl-c, blood pressure, lv mass, and posterior wall thickness. an increase in carotid intima-media thickness was observed with 2 vs 0 coronary artery disease risk factors for left carotid intima-media thickness (p < .001). with 3+ vs 0 coronary artery disease risk factors, increases in left (p < .001) and combined left and right carotid intima-media thickness (p < .05) were observed. bmi independently predicted carotid intima-media thickness (r = 0.410; p < .01), but hdl-c did not. combining bmi and hdl-c provided the strongest prediction of carotid intima-media thickness (r = 0.451; adjusted r2 = 0.190). carotid intima-media thickness is negatively influenced by 2+ coronary artery disease risk factors. older age, high bmi and low levels of hdl-c are related to echolucency of the carotid intima-media. in the present study, low serum apoprotein a-i, a major protein component of hdl, was found to be related to increased carotid intima-media thickness. in polycystic ovary syndrome women carotid intima-media thickness was positively correlated with serum total cholesterol, triglyceride and ldl-c and negatively correlated with serum hdl-c. our study suggests that even young polycystic ovary syndrome women are prone to atherosclerosis from early age. carotid intima-media thickness and serum high-density lipoprotein (hdl) levels were significantly different between the groups (p=0.0001 and p=0.001 respectively), being respectively higher and lower in the leiomyoma group than in controls. 
A short stay or 23-hour ward in a general and academic children's hospital: are they effective? [SEP] we evaluated the usefulness of a short stay or 23-hour ward in a pediatric unit of a large teaching hospital, westmead hospital, and an academic children's hospital, the new children's hospital, to determine if they are a useful addition to the emergency service. the short stay ward increased hospital efficiency with an average length of stay of 17.5 hours (westmead hospital) compared to 20.5 hours (new children's hospital). the users of the short stay ward were children of young age less than 2 years, with stay greater than 23 hours reported in only 1% of all admissions to the short stay ward. in 2011 a team at a city district general hospital in england recognised that children were being admitted to the general children's ward and often only staying for short periods of time. thirty children (13%) had brief hospitalizations <36 hours, and the median hospital length of stay for the entire study group was 70 hours (iqr 46-108 h; range 6-428 h). to review the records of children admitted to hospital for less than 24 hours to assess the appropriateness of the admission and subsequent discharge, and the suitability of these patients for admission to a short stay area rather than the hospital wards. a significant number of children require brief hospitalisation for relatively minor illness, but unnecessary delays caused by administrative aspects of hospital admission and relatively infrequent inpatient review by medical staff often lengthen the period of admission. 15% of paediatric admissions stayed less than 24 hours, which meant that much work was done unnecessarily on these patients who would be better regarded as outpatients. many children admitted to hospital can stay for 24 hours or less. short stay facilities are efficient and cost-effective for children with acute illness who can be rapidly stabilised with early discharge without critical incident. 
Did Chile's traffic law reform push police enforcement? [SEP] the objective of the current study is to determine to what extent the reduction of chile's traffic fatalities and injuries during 2000-2012 was related to the police traffic enforcement increment registered after the introduction of its 2005 traffic law reform. independent variables were: (1) presence of new national traffic law; (2) police officers per population; (3) number of traffic tickets per police officer; and (4) interaction effect of number of traffic tickets per police officer with traffic law reform. empirical estimates from instrumental variables suggest that the enactment of the traffic law reform in interaction with number of traffic tickets per police officer is significantly associated with a decrease of 8% in traffic fatalities and 7% in severe injuries. piecewise regression model results for the 2007-2012 period suggest that police traffic enforcement reduced traffic fatalities by 59% and severe injuries by 37%. findings suggest that traffic law reforms in order to have an effect on both traffic fatality and injury rates reduction require changes in police enforcement practices. the objective of the current study is to determine the contribution of chile's 2005 traffic law reform, police enforcement, and road investment infrastructure to the reduction of traffic fatalities and severe injuries from 2000 to 2012. independent variables were (1) traffic law reform, (2) police enforcement, and (3) road infrastructure investment. results suggest that traffic law reform, police enforcement, and road infrastructure investment have complex interwoven effects that can reduce both traffic fatalities and severe injuries. though traffic reforms are ultimately designed to change road user behaviors at large, it is also important to acknowledge that legislative changes may require institutional changes--that is, intensification of police enforcement--and be supported by road infrastructure investment, in order to effectively decrease traffic fatalities and injuries. this socioeconomic impact can be divided into: (a) the direct costs arising from infractions to chile's drug law, and the indirect costs originated by crimes linked only partially to drug consumption and trafficking; (b) is measured in productivity losses, as well as in costs to the three branches of chile's criminal justice system (police, judiciary, and prisons); and (c) is attributed to the three illicit drugs most prevalent in chile: cannabis, cocaine hydrochloride (ch) and cocaine base paste (cbp). 
Therapeutic anticoagulation in the trauma patient: is it safe? [SEP] trauma patients who require therapeutic anticoagulation pose a difficult treatment problem. the purpose of this study was to determine: (1) the incidence of complications using therapeutic anticoagulation in trauma patients, and (2) if any patient factors are associated with these complications. an 18-month retrospective review was performed on trauma patients >or= 15 years old who received therapeutic anticoagulation using unfractionated heparin (uh) and/or fractionated heparin (fh). one-hundred-fourteen trauma patients were initiated on therapeutic anticoagulation. we sought to determine the incidence and characteristics of complications occurring secondary to therapeutic anticoagulation in adult spine trauma patients. therapeutic anticoagulation in the geriatric trauma population is increasingly common. prothrombin complex may be used safely and effectively to reverse emergently anticoagulation in geriatric trauma patients. it is crucial to ensure a safe anticoagulant therapy for trauma patients, but a series of clinical issues need to be answered first, for example, what are the risk factors for traumatic venous thromboembolism? this study evaluated the efficacy of oral anticoagulants for preventing vte in ambulatory trauma patients who required temporary lower limb immobilization for non-operative management of their ankle fractures. this study shows that an oral anticoagulant was a safe alternative to injectable lmwh as a thromboprophylactic agent for ambulatory trauma patients requiring temporary lower limb immobilization for non-operative management of an ankle fracture. 
Differentiation of nonalcoholic from alcoholic steatohepatitis: are routine laboratory markers useful? [SEP] we report here the use of the biochemical marker desialylated transferrin to aid in the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. conventional biochemical tests used for the detection of chronic alcohol consumption fail to differentiate nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients from alcoholic subjects. in this study we have examined two new markers of excessive alcohol intake, desialylated transferrin and mitochondrial ast in subjects with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and in patients consuming excessive amounts of alcohol. all nonalcoholic steatohepatitis patients consumed minimal or no alcohol and were diagnosed by morphological criteria based on liver biopsy specimens. nash and alcoholic steatohepatitis share similar histologic features, but some subtle differences may help their distinction. specific markers for differentiation of nonalcoholic (nash) from alcoholic steatohepatitis (ash) are lacking. nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is a rare complication of obesity with laboratory and histological features indistinguishable from alcoholic hepatitis. in the setting of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, ck18 fragments may distinguish nonalcoholic steatohepatitis from simple fatty liver. although variability in sampling and pathologist interpretation are of some concern, liver biopsy remains the gold standard for distinguishing between steatohepatitis and noninflammatory histologic patterns of injury that can also cause the clinical syndrome of alcohol-related hepatitis. further studies are needed to establish a suitable scoring system that can distinguish steatohepatitis from simple steatosis. 
Prompting Primary Care Providers about Increased Patient Risk As a Result of Family History: Does It Work? [SEP] further studies should examine physicians' perception of the utility of prompts for family history risk. the results show that (1) family cancer events, doctors' advice and reaching the age of cancer-affected relatives were more salient in raising awareness of the added cancer risk due to family history than media and publicity, and knowledge of the genetics services; (2) knowledge of family medical history and its clinical value is not easy to ascertain; (3) the inter-relationships with other causal beliefs are of interest and could provide insights to understand the factors motivating patients to discuss family history or cancer risk; (4) the belief that 'cancer runs in the family' or is 'a family thing' may not be sufficient to heighten perceived cancer risk and motivate patients to seek medical advice; and (5) understanding of the medical concept and clinical value of family history is poor even in this group of patients who initiated the gp consultations. in conclusion, because most primary care practitioners are likely to rely on patient initiated discussion to identify individuals at an increased risk of cancer because of their family history, these findings are therefore important to help doctors and health providers understand the reasons influencing asymptomatic patients to self-refer themselves in primary care and discuss cancer risk in order to provide appropriate care. among participants who were not communicating at baseline, intervention participants had higher odds of communicating with family members about family history risk (or=1.24, p=0.042) and actively collecting family history information at follow-up (or=2.67, p=0.026). efforts are needed to identify approaches to encourage greater sharing of family history information, particularly with health care providers. family health history can predict a patient's risk for common complex diseases. systematic collection of family health history and decision support may improve guideline-concordant screening for patients at increased risk of colorectal cancer. our aim was to describe primary care physician perceptions of their role in managing cancer risk based on family history. some primary care physicians appeared to make effective use of family history information for cancer risk management, but many in this sample did not. family history is increasingly important in primary care as a means to detect candidates for genetic testing or tailored prevention programs. 
Do emergency ultrasound fellowship programs impact emergency medicine residents' ultrasound education? [SEP] ultrasound guidance has become an integral component to procedural and diagnostic practice for the emergency physician. not only the utilization, but also the teaching of ultrasound has become an essential aspect of emergency medicine residency training. the objective was to describe the current state of ugra education, trends, and barriers in emergency medicine residency and ultrasound fellowship programs in the united states. as ultrasound devices become smaller, more portable, and more user friendly, there is now widespread use of this technology by physicians of all specialties, yet there are currently few structured opportunities for ultrasound education outside of emergency and critical care medicine. emergency medicine residency programs offer ultrasound-focused curricula to address accreditation council for graduate medical education (acgme) milestones. to compare emergency medicine resident performance on an ultrasound-oriented, american board of emergency medicine-styled written examination with the following variables in resident education: number of ultrasound scans performed, presence of a formal, structured ultrasound rotation, presence of a mandatory ultrasound rotation, number of hours of didactic ultrasound education, and percentage of ultrasound education taught by emergency physicians. the presence of an ultrasound rotation at an emergency medicine residency program also produced a statistically significant increase in test score (or 1.82; 95% ci = 1.29 to 2.55). increasing the amount of resident ultrasound teaching by emergency physicians improved the score, but this did not reach significance (p = 0.357). to describe our experience with implementation of a novel team-based emergency ultrasound (eus) fellowship training program. emergency ultrasound (eus) has been recognized as integral to the training and practice of emergency medicine (em). 
Patient-Controlled Therapy of Breathlessness in Palliative Care: A New Therapeutic Concept for Opioid Administration? [SEP] to investigate whether intravenous opioid pct can be an effective therapeutic method to reduce breathlessness in patients with advanced disease. eighteen of 815 patients (advanced cancer; median age = 57.5 years [range 36-81]; 77.8% female) received breathlessness symptom control with opioid pct; daily morphine equivalent dose at day 1 was median = 20.3 mg (5.0-49.6 mg); day 2: 13.0 mg (1.0-78.5 mg); day 3: 16.0 mg (8.3-47.0 mg). opioid pct is a feasible and acceptable therapeutic method to reduce refractory breathlessness in palliative care patients. this article presents the current understanding of opioids for treating breathlessness, what is still unknown as priorities for future research, and highlights methodological issues for consideration in planned studies. while it is important to manage the breathlessness using non-pharmacological management, persistent breathlessness may be treated with opioids. the aim of this review is to report the views, attitudes and barriers (if any) of healthcare professionals towards using opioids to manage chronic breathlessness in copd. opioids are commonly used to treat breathlessness: the mechanisms underlying their effectiveness are not completely clear and there have been few good-sized trials in this area. to determine the effectiveness of opioid drugs given by any route in relieving the symptom of breathlessness in patients who are being treated palliatively. opioids are commonly used to treat breathlessness: the mechanisms underlying their effectiveness are not completely clear and there have been few good-sized trials in this area. to determine the effectiveness of opioid drugs given by any route in relieving the symptom of breathlessness in patients who are being treated palliatively. 
Is there still a need for living-related liver transplantation in children? [SEP] living donor liver transplantation was developed in response to a shortage of full-size grafts for children. a major benefit of pediatric live donor liver transplantation is the grafting of children without using livers from the cadaver donor pool. new surgical procedures such as split-liver transplantation and living-related liver transplantation have evolved over the last decade to maximize donor utilization in pediatric patients. in this article we review the current indications and contraindications for liver and intestinal transplantation in children, the surgical innovations to expand an exceedingly small cadaveric liver pool, postoperative management, and the impact on patient and graft survival. the use of living-related and split-liver transplantation has dramatically reduced the waiting periods for children and improved survival. through the technical evolution and excellent results in living related liver transplantation in children, living related/unrelated liver transplantation in adults has come into reality. liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for end-stage liver disease in children, but donor shortage is still a main problem in this age group. thanks to these procedures, living related liver transplantations have now become an acceptable transplant method, however, a transplantation from a cadaver that is brain dead but still has a beating heart is still absolutely necessary for adult recipients. this paper reports the first series of living related liver transplantation in europe. when performed by a team experienced in pediatric liver transplantation and in adult liver resection, living related liver transplantation is an excellent modality for the treatment of end-stage liver disease in children. 
Do patterns of knowledge and attitudes exist among unvaccinated seniors? [SEP] to examine patterns of knowledge and attitudes among adults aged > 65 years unvaccinated for influenza. surveyed medicare beneficiaries in 5 areas; clustered unvaccinated seniors by their immunization related knowledge and attitudes. to examine differences in knowledge, attitudes, and related practices among adopters and nonadopters of the human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccine, the researchers conducted 83 in-depth interviews with 18- to 26-year-old women. salient findings included similarities between vaccinated and unvaccinated women's lack of knowledge and uncertainties about hpv and cervical cancer. among unvaccinated women, unsupportive vaccination attitudes included low perceived personal risk of hpv. adult influenza and pneumococcal vaccination rates in singapore are low, and factors influencing knowledge and attitudes of seniors towards influenza, pneumonia and their respective vaccines are not well-known. our study aims to understand the barriers and facilitators towards getting influenza and pneumococcal vaccinations among seniors in singapore, and subsequently inform the conduct of a relevant community-based educational intervention, as well as evaluate the intervention outcomes. our formative research identified knowledge gaps among community-dwelling seniors which affected their attitudes towards vaccination uptake. the aims of this study were to (a) assess knowledge of official vaccination recommendations and attitudes towards vaccinations among adults and (b) examine their association with vaccination uptake among adults. a negative attitude towards hpv vaccination was associated with an older age, whereas a correct knowledge that both sexes are at risk of hpv infection, and the knowledge that vaccine protects against cervical cancer were confirmed to be associated to a willingness to receive hpv vaccination. 
Is there a model to teach and practice retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy? [SEP] we report our experience with the establishment of retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy as the standard of care for benign nonfunctioning kidneys. to determine the benefits of nephrectomy in children performed via a retroperitoneoscopic approach compared to the laparoscopic route. retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy appears to be a safe technique in children, with reduced intraoperative physiological effects compared to the laparoscopic approach. we present our experience of training novices in retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy with a good outcome, making it a standard of care for nephrectomy at our institute. the aim of this study was to report the initial experience, learning curve, and outcome of retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy by novices under a mentored approach. the present series represents the effectiveness of training in retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy of novices by a responsible team and with the standard protocol and surgical steps. through effective mentoring, the steep learning curve associated with retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy has been overcome, making it standard of care for nephrectomy at our institute. to evaluate the surgical outcomes and morbidity of retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy compared with open nephrectomy for dialysis dependent patients. retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy is a viable alternative for simple nephrectomy and has the benefits of minimal invasiveness, more rapid convalescence and better quality of life for patients. retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy, although technically challenging, is becoming a gold standard for patients with nonfunctioning kidneys caused by benign conditions. 
Cardiovascular risk in a rural adult West African population: is resting heart rate also relevant? [SEP] we investigated the association between temporal changes in resting heart rate in young adults and early adult risk factors, subsequent cardiac function, and the risk of heart failure and cardiovascular by middle age. higher alcohol consumption (β = 0.03, p <0.001), lower physical activity (β = 0.002, p = 001), smoking (β = 1.58, p <0.001), men (p <0.001), african americans (p <0.001), impaired left ventricular relaxation (e´,β = -0.13, p = 0.002), and worse diastolic function (e/e´, β = 0.1, p = 0.01) were associated with longitudinal increases in resting heart rate. baseline and temporal changes in resting heart rate in young adults were associated with incident heart failure and cardiovascular disease by midlife. this review provides an overview of the current knowledge of resting heart rate as cardiovascular risk factor. elevated resting heart rate (rhr) is a neglected marker in cardiovascular risk factor studies of sub-saharan african populations. this study aimed to determine the prevalence of elevated rhr and other risk factors for cardiovascular disease (cvd) and to investigate any associations between rhr and these risk factors in a rural population in ghana. prospective studies are needed in sub-saharan african populations to establish the potential value of rhr in cardiovascular risk assessment. to analyze cardiovascular risk according to demographic factors and anthropometric status of rural workers under the pardo river valley regional development council (corede-vrp). cardiovascular diseases (cvd) pose a major threat to public health in sub-saharan african communities, where the burden of these classes of illnesses is expected to double by 2030. there is a growing prevalence of cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk factors in west africa and among its migrants to industrialized countries. 
Israeli hospital preparedness for terrorism-related multiple casualty incidents: can the surge capacity and injury severity distribution be better predicted? [SEP] 15 years ago the emergency and disaster medicine division in the israeli ministry of health defined a key of 20 percent of each hospital's bed capacity as its readiness for multiple casualties. the aim of this modeling study was to examine how casualty load affects the level of trauma care in multiple casualty incidents and to define the surge capacity of the hospital trauma assets. this model defines the quantitative relationship between an increasing casualty load and gradual degradation of the level of trauma care in multiple casualty incidents, and defines the surge capacity of the hospital trauma assets as a rate of casualty arrival rather than a number of beds. during a 33 month period, maxillofacial injuries resulting from terrorist attacks in israel were compared with non-terror trauma maxillofacial injuries. preparedness and awareness to the unique pattern of injuries are needed when terrorists strike. these findings have implications for treatment and for preparedness of hospital resources to treat patients after a terrorist attack in any region of the world. to review and analyze the cumulative two-year, israeli experience with medical care for children victims of terrorism during the prehospital and hospital phases. this study focuses on four aspects of terrorism-related injuries: (1) tending to victims in the prehospital phase; (2) triage, with a description of a modified, pediatric triage algorithm; (3) characteristics of trauma-related injuries in children; and (4) utilization of in-hospital resources. the modifications in the management of pediatric casualties from terrorism in israel may contribute to the level of preparedness of medical and paramedical personnel to cope with future events. quantitative studies on hospital surge capacity for trauma injuries were used as the framework for our model. 
Acute respiratory distress syndrome in children with malignancy--can we predict outcome? [SEP] intubated children with acute respiratory distress syndrome between 2011 and 2019. most of the children with acute lung injury develop acute respiratory distress syndrome. invasively ventilated children with acute respiratory distress syndrome. children with acute respiratory distress syndrome. specific viral etiologies are associated with differential outcomes in pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome and should be accounted for in future studies. children enrolled in published investigations of pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome. three-hundred ten critically ill children meeting pediatric acute lung injury consensus conference "at-risk for pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome" criteria. subsequent pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome was associated with increased mortality (21.2% vs 3.3%; p < 0.001) and longer durations of invasive ventilation and picu care. the pediatric acute lung injury consensus conference "at-risk for pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome" criteria identify critically ill children at high risk of pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome and poor outcomes. the epidemiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome in adults and children, lung morphogenesis, and postnatal lung growth and development are reviewed. 
Secondhand smoke risk in infants discharged from an NICU: potential for significant health disparities? [SEP] secondhand smoke exposure (shse) threatens fragile infants discharged from a neonatal intensive care unit (nicu). smoking practices were examined in families with a high respiratory risk infant (born at very low birth weight; ventilated > 12 hr) in a houston, texas, nicu. the impact of secondhand smoke exposure (shse) in medically fragile infants born prematurely is likely to be much higher. mothers (n = 360) were recruited for a secondhand smoke prevention intervention during infants' nicu hospitalizations and followed for ~6 months after infant discharge. one-quarter of infants admitted to nicus will be discharged to households where individuals who smoke live; we demonstrated that smoking-related factors were associated with mothers' breastfeeding practices. to examine the feasibility and efficacy of a hospital-based, motivational intervention to reduce secondhand smoke exposure (shse) with mothers of infants in a neonatal intensive care unit (nicu). one-hundred and forty-four mothers with infants ( ≤ 1500 g at birth or ≥ 12 h ventilation) in a nicu who reported a smoker in the household were randomized to two sessions of motivational interviewing (mi) conducted in the hospital, usual care (uc) or usual care-reduced measurement (uc-rm); follow-up occurred at 1- and 6-months post discharge. the authors assessed the effects of prenatal and postnatal secondhand smoke exposure on the neurodevelopment of 6-month infants. prenatal and postnatal exposures to secondhand smoke were determined using maternal self-reports. non-smoking policies are strictly enforced in neonatal intensive care units (nicus), which may still become contaminated by thirdhand smoke (ths), posing potential health risks to medically fragile infants. 
Do nomograms designed to predict biochemical recurrence (BCR) do a better job of predicting more clinically relevant prostate cancer outcomes than BCR? [SEP] to examine the ability of various postoperative nomograms to predict prostate cancer-specific mortality (pcsm) and to validate that they could predict aggressive biochemical recurrence (bcr). a previous study showed that several nomograms could predict aggressive bcr (prostate-specific antigen doubling time [psadt] <9 months) more accurately than bcr. we performed cox analyses to examine the ability of 4 postoperative nomograms, the duke prostate center (dpc) nomogram, the kattan postoperative nomogram, the johns hopkins hospital (jhh) nomogram, and the joint center for prostate disease research(cpdr)/cancer of the prostate strategic urologic research endeavor (capsure) nomogram to predict bcr and pcsm among 1778 men in the shared equal access regional cancer hospital (search) database who underwent rp between 1990 and 2009. to develop and validate a nomogram to predict the probability of pcsm from the time of bcr among men with rising psa levels after radical prostatectomy. we constructed and validated a nomogram to predict the risk of pcsm at 10 yr among men with pca bcr after radical prostatectomy. to re-calibrate the previously published duke prostate center (dpc) nomogram for the prediction of biochemical recurrence (bcr) after radical prostatectomy (rp) to not only predict overall bcr but also the clinically more relevant endpoint of an aggressive recurrence (i.e. we investigated whether the inclusion of psa density or prostate volume in the memorial sloan kettering cancer center nomograms improves the prediction of biochemical recurrence (bcr) after radical prostatectomy (rp). due to the protracted natural history of the clinical progression of prostate cancer, biochemical recurrence (bcr) is often used to compare treatment modalities. to analyze prostate cancer-specific mortality (pcsm) according to treatment-specific nomogram-predicted risk of bcr for men treated by radical prostatectomy (rp), external-beam radiation therapy (ebrt), and brachytherapy. prognostic tools, such as the cancer of the prostate risk assessment (capra) score and the 1998 kattan and 2006 stephenson nomograms, predicting biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy are widely used for treatment decision making and counselling patients. 
Are reports of mechanical dysfunction in chronic oro-facial pain related to somatisation? [SEP] (i) to examine the association between self-reported mechanical factors and chronic oro-facial pain. the study examined the association of chronic oro-facial pain with a variety of self-reported mechanical factors: teeth grinding, facial trauma, missing teeth and the feeling that the teeth did not fit together properly. self-reported mechanical factors associated with chronic oro-facial pain are confounded, in part, by psychological factors and are equally common across other frequently unexplained syndromes. aims of the current study were to test the hypotheses that self-reported mechanical factors would predict onset of chronic oro-facial pain and that any observed relationship would be independent of the confounding effects of psychosocial factors and reporting of other unexplained symptoms. about 1735 subjects who had completed a baseline questionnaire were assessed at 2year follow-up for the presence of chronic oro-facial pain, psychosocial factors (anxiety and depression, illness behaviour, life stressors and reporting of somatic symptoms), mechanical dysfunction (facial trauma, grinding, phantom bite and missing teeth) and reporting of other unexplained symptoms (chronic widespread pain, irritable bowel syndrome and chronic fatigue). the findings from this prospective study support the hypothesis that psychosocial factors are markers for onset of chronic oro-facial pain. in the total group of chronic oro-facial pain patients, the present pain intensity explained 16·9% of the variance in magnitude of the perceptual distortions (r(2) = 16·9, f(31) = 6·3, p = 0·017). the implications of the findings of these studies for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of idiopathic oro-facial pain conditions are discussed. recent findings provide new insights that help our understanding of the etiology of chronic injury-induced oro-facial pain. the interim results of an ongoing study of chronic oro-facial pain of psychogenic origin are described in this presentation. 
Amblyopia: is visual loss permanent? [SEP] amblyopia is a preventable cause of visual loss in children that may be permanent unless it is detected and treated early. amblyopia is a common reason for permanent visual loss in this disease and needs to be treated aggressively as well. amblyopia is an alteration in the visual neural pathway in a child's developing brain that can lead to permanent vision loss in the affected eye. the uspstf concluded that the benefits are moderate because untreated amblyopia results in permanent, uncorrectable vision loss, and the benefits of screening and treatment potentially can be experienced over a child's lifetime. if undetected, eye disorders such as amblyopia and strabismus may result in permanent vision loss. amblyopia is one of the most common causes of visual impairment in adults and children, and visual loss may be permanent if not treated in time. with increasing emphasis on paediatric eye diseases, amblyopia is at last getting its due importance as a cause of treatable correctable paediatric visual impairment which can have lifelong repercussions, both in terms of individual disability and financial burden to the society if not treated in time. amblyopia results from degradation of the retinal image during a sensitive period of visual development. amblyopia is the most common cause of visual loss in children. because of the failure in detection and in treatment, amblyopia is still an important cause of visual loss in adults. 
Implementation of epidural analgesia for labor: is the standard of effective analgesia reachable in all women? [SEP] the goal is to evaluate the epidural acceptance and penetration into hospital practice by women and care givers and safety and efficacy during childbirth. this audit cycle measured epidural analgesia performance against 4 standards: (1) implementation of epidural analgesia for labor to all patients; (2) acceptance and good satisfaction level reported by patients and caregivers. present audit shows that the process of implementation of labor analgesia was quick, successful and safe, notwithstanding the identification of one cluster of women with suboptimal response to epidural analgesia that need to be further studies, overall pregnant womens'adhesion to labor analgesia was satisfactory. the purpose of this study was to compare the effect of early epidural with the use of early intravenous analgesia on labor progression. the intended and unintended effects of epidural labor analgesia are reviewed. lumbar epidural analgesia is widely considered as the most effective method of providing pain relief in labor. between november 1, 1993, and november 3, 2000, 2,703 nulliparous women (2,188 healthy parturients and 515 women with pregnancy-induced hypertension) in spontaneous labor at term were randomized to receive either epidural analgesia or intravenous opioid analgesia in the five studies. in this study, the authors compared epidural analgesia to intravenous meperidine analgesia using patient-controlled devices during labor to evaluate the effects of labor epidural analgesia, primarily on the rate of cesarean deliveries while minimizing limitations attributable to study design. women who received epidural analgesia reported lower pain scores during labor and delivery compared with women who received intravenous meperidine analgesia. to evaluate the effect of epidural analgesia on cesarean deliveries, independent of other factors influencing the use of epidural analgesia, we used propensity scores to create five subgroups (quintiles) of women who, based on characteristics discernible at admission, appeared equally likely to receive epidural analgesia. 
Does HER2 immunoreactivity provide prognostic information in locally advanced urothelial carcinoma patients receiving adjuvant M-VEC chemotherapy? [SEP] to evaluate the impact of her2 immunoreactivity on clinical outcome in locally advanced urothelial carcinoma patients who received surgery alone, or methotrexate, vinblastine, epirubicin, and cisplatin (m-vec) as adjuvant chemotherapy. the authors evaluated her2 immunoreactivity using immunohistochemical staining and explored the influence of pathological parameters and her2 immunoreactivity on progression-free survival (pfs) and disease-specific overall survival (os) using univariate and multivariate cox's analyses. urothelial carcinoma of the bladder had a significantly higher frequency of her2 immunoreactivity than that of the upper urinary tract (60.7 vs. 20.7%, p < 0.0001). the her2 immunoreactivity was significantly associated with pfs (p = 0.02) and disease-specific os (p = 0.005) in advanced urothelial carcinoma patients. as for patients with adjuvant m-vec, her2 immunoreactivity was a significant prognostic factor for pfs (p = 0.03) and disease-specific os (p = 0.02) using univariate analysis, but not multivariate analysis, and not for patients receiving watchful waiting. her2 immunoreactivity might have a limited prognostic value for advanced urothelial carcinoma patients with adjuvant m-vec. thus, the authors evaluated a possible correlation between her2 expression in patients with high-grade, muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder and outcome in patients who received paclitaxel-based chemotherapy. archival tumor tissues from patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma who were enrolled on two clinical trials of paclitaxel-based chemotherapy regimens were analyzed for her2/neu expression by immunohistochemistry (ihc). when her2 status was used as a dichotomous variable, tumors with positive her2 expression did not have any association with response or with progression free survival; however, positive her2 status was associated significantly with a decreased risk of death (p = 0.03). further research is warranted on the possible association of her2 expression with chemosensitivitiy in urothelial carcinoma as well as the efficacy of her2-targeted therapies (such as trastuzumab) for patients with high-grade, muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. 
Is halofantrine ototoxic? [SEP] halofantrine is a newly developed antimalarial drug used for the treatment of plasmodium falciparum malaria. the halofantrine therapeutic dose group showed loss and distortion of inner hair cells and inner phalangeal cells, and loss of spiral ganglia cells. in the halofantrine double therapeutic dose group, the inner and outer hair cells were distorted and there was loss of spiral ganglia cells. halofantrine has mild to moderate pathological effects on cochlea histology, and can be considered an ototoxic drug. grapefruit juice should be contraindicated during administration of halofantrine. this possible interaction has been investigated by examining the effects of halofantrine and mefloquine alone and in combination. halofantrine is an orally administered blood schizontocide which is active against both chloroquine-sensitive and chloroquine-resistant plasmodia. halofantrine is generally well tolerated in both adults and children, the most common drug-associated effects being abdominal pain, pruritus, vomiting, diarrhoea, headache and rash, although it is difficult to distinguish between disease- and treatment-related events. halofantrine can cause a prolongation of the cardiac qt interval, leading to serious ventricular arrhythmias. hyperlipidaemia elevates plasma concentration of halofantrine and may influence its tissue uptake. 
Visceral adipose tissue area measurement at a single level: can it represent visceral adipose tissue volume? [SEP] the visceral adipose tissue area at five axial imaging levels within abdomen and pelvis were determined. we developed and validated a method to accurately, rapidly, and robustly measure visceral adipose tissue volume using ct images. visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue volumes are calculated by counting the numbers of voxels corresponding to adipose tissue in the region of interest. we have developed and validated a robust method of accurately and quickly determining visceral adipose tissue volume in any defined region of interest using ct imaging. visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue depots were manually separated and quantified using a multimodality image-processing software program. visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue was measured by computerized tomography. in this article, epicardial adipose tissue's localization on the heart, function, method of assessment and reliability as a marker of visceral adiposity is briefly reviewed. the visceral adipose tissue and subcutaneous adipose tissue volumes were measured at the level of umbilicus on single-slice magnetic resonance imaging. visceral adiposity index was calculated. pericardial adipose tissue and visceral adipose tissue were measured using a 3-dimensional analysis technique. 
Necrotizing fasciitis: an indication for hyperbaric oxygenation therapy? [SEP] hyperbaric oxygen therapy has significantly improved the management of necrotizing fasciitis of the extremities and trunk. this report discusses our experience with cervical necrotizing fasciitis in six patients treated from 1986 to 1993 who received hyperbaric oxygen therapy. the presentation, course, differential diagnosis, and treatment of necrotizing fasciitis, including a review of the literature, illustrates the indications for hyperbaric oxygen therapy for this life-threatening infection. in addition to this preliminary experimental study, silastic tube tonometer and capillary sampling techniques were tested to measure the effect of hyperbaric oxygen treatment on subcutaneous oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions in patients with necrotizing fasciitis and healthy controls. the management included surgical debridement of the necrotic tissue with incisions and drainage of the involved areas, antibiotic therapy, hyperbaric oxygen treatment at 2.5 ata pressure and surgical intensive care. the po2 and pco2 of subcutaneous tissue and arterial blood were measured directly in six patients with necrotizing fasciitis and three healthy volunteers in normobaric conditions and during hyperbaric oxygen exposure at 2.5 ata pressure. in addition to this preliminary experimental study, silastic tube tonometer and capillary sampling techniques were tested to measure the effect of hyperbaric oxygen treatment on subcutaneous oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions in patients with necrotizing fasciitis and healthy controls. the management included surgical debridement of the necrotic tissue with incisions and drainage of the involved areas, antibiotic therapy, hyperbaric oxygen treatment at 2.5 ata pressure and surgical intensive care. the po2 and pco2 of subcutaneous tissue and arterial blood were measured directly in six patients with necrotizing fasciitis and three healthy volunteers in normobaric conditions and during hyperbaric oxygen exposure at 2.5 ata pressure. adjunctive clindamycin, hyperbaric oxygen therapy and intravenous immunoglobulin are frequently employed in the treatment of necrotizing fasciitis, but their efficacy has not been rigorously established. 
Is the Hawkins sign able to predict necrosis in fractures of the neck of the astragalus? [SEP] the authors evaluate the results of a series of cases treated by surgery for fractures of the astragalus at the iind orthopaedic division of the university of pisa between 1978 and 1998. prognosis for fractures of the neck worsens as the hawkins radiographic classification of degrees increases. radiographic evaluation confirmed the effectiveness of the hawkins sign for the prediction of necrosis of the body; this necrosis occurred in 37.5% of cases; arthrosis of the astragalus developed in about half of the patients, which was, however, not always associated with stiffness of this joint. the hawkins sign, as a radiographic predictor, could exclude the possibility of developing ischemic bone necrosis after talar neck fractures, but its relationship with ankle function remains unclear. the purpose of this study was to illustrate the prognostic effect of the hawkins sign on ankle function after talar neck fractures and to study the value of early mri in detecting the avn changes after talus fractures. we introduce the concept of the partial hawkins sign in three cases of talar neck fracture that are associated with incomplete avascular necrosis. during follow up the hawkins sign can be an indication of a vital talus. secondly, the aim was to verify the influence of the location of talar fractures on the outcomes, the prognostic value of the hawkins sign, whether operative delays promote avascular necrosis (avn) and if the fractures require emergent surgical management. the hawkins sign is a subchondral radiolucent band in the talar dome that is indicative of viability at 6 to 8 weeks after a talus fracture. the hawkins sign is a good indicator of talus vascularity following fracture. 
Is a mandatory general surgery rotation necessary in the surgical clerkship? [SEP] changes in the spectrum of general surgery and the delivery of surgical care have placed the requirement for a mandatory general surgery rotation in the surgical clerkship in question. we tested the hypothesis that equal mastery of surgical clerkship objectives can be obtained in a clerkship with and without general surgery. therefore, we examined the effect of the length, timing, and content of the third year surgery rotation on several clerkship and postclerkship performance measures of 487 students from july 1994 to july 1998. students who had a 6-week clerkship and students who lacked exposure to general surgery felt their surgery rotation failed to prepare them to understand a number of surgical topics as well as students who had an 8-week clerkship or students who rotated on general surgery. the influence of calendar block, hospital site (university hospital, affiliated private tertiary-care hospital, and rural preceptor experience), and the mix of general surgical versus subspeciality rotations on oral and written student surgery clerkship scores was analyzed. this article describes how the surgery clerkship at mcp hahnemann school of medicine was redesigned to provide all students a well-rounded general professional education and to address the specific educational needs of generalists. during the 12-week clerkship, students spend eight weeks on two different general surgery rotations, which include significant experiences in outpatient settings. students rotated at academic, va, and community hospitals with 1 month of general surgery paired with 1 month of a surgical subspecialty. for general surgery students, the elective rotation may actually decrease competitiveness, while for specialty students, it appears necessary but not sufficient to improve match outcome. although almost two-thirds (61.8%) of respondents believe that medical students should have formal acs education in the form of a clinical rotation, an acs rotation is mandatory at only 16.4% of programs and is optional at 69.1% of programs as part of the surgical clerkship curriculum. 
Is Acupuncture Efficacious for Treating Phonotraumatic Vocal Pathologies? [SEP] acupuncture is a less-invasive procedure when compared with surgical treatment for benign vocal pathologies caused by vocal overuse. this study aimed to determine the wound-healing effect of acupuncture in treating phonotraumatic vocal fold lesions. the findings showed that acupuncture of voice-related acupoints facilitated an anti-inflammatory process in phonotraumatic vocal pathologies. this could be considered as supporting evidence to consider acupuncture as a less-invasive alternative option, when compared to surgery, for treating phonotraumatic vocal pathologies. to investigate the effectiveness of acupuncture in treating phonotraumatic vocal fold lesions. significant improvement in vocal function, as indicated by the maximum fundamental frequency produced, and also perceived quality of life, were found in both the genuine and sham acupuncture groups, but not in the no-treatment group. structural (morphological) improvements were, however, only noticed in the genuine acupuncture group, which demonstrated a significant reduction in the size of the vocal fold lesions. the findings showed that acupuncture of voice-related acupoints could bring about improvement in vocal function and healing of vocal fold lesions. this study investigated the effect of acupuncture on emotional stress in subjects with phonotraumatic injuries. the findings suggested that the subjects' salivary cortisol concentration did not reduce after acupuncture, and thus, acupuncture may not be able to reduce the emotional stress level in female dysphonic speakers. 
Is aneurysm repair justified for the patients aged 80 or older after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage? [SEP] with the advancement of an aging society in the world, an increasing number of elderly patients have been hospitalized due to aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (asah). the aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility of the definitive surgery for the acute subarachnoid cases aged 80 or older. better prognosis was obtained when ruptured aneurysm was repaired in the elderly than it was treated conservatively. this study investigated the outcome of clipping surgery for ruptured aneurysms in patients older than 80 years of age. advanced age itself did not affect the outcome of the elderly patients who underwent clipping surgery for aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. life expectancy has in the last few years increased and, as a consequence, also the number of elderly patients admitted to an emergency department with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. we selected and analyzed two groups of patients (group a and group b) among 458 retrospectively collected cases admitted to two neurosurgical centers with a diagnosis of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage over a 7.5-year period. elderly patients suffering from aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage should be considered for treatment despite age, with endovascular embolization as the most preferable option. the vast majority of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage patients require general anesthesia for surgical or endovascular repair of their aneurysm. this narrative review focuses on the available evidence of anesthetics and their adjuvants in neurovascular protection in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and discusses current impact on clinical care and future investigative directions. 
Do general practice characteristics influence uptake of an information technology (IT) innovation in primary care? [SEP] this study aims to explore the use of specific innovations in primary care practices. this study contributes new information on the relationship between organizational characteristics, the external environment and specific innovations in primary care practices. recent evaluations of it innovations in primary care have highlighted variations between centres and practices in uptake and use. we evaluated whether structural characteristics of a general practice were associated with variations in use of a web-based clinical information system underpinning a managed clinical network in diabetes, between the years 2001 and 2003. practice managers play an important role in the organisation and delivery of primary care, including uptake and implementation of technologies. practice managers supported the use of new technologies for routine tasks to manage workload and maximise convenience for patients, but a range of contextual factors such as practice list size, practice deprivation area and geographical location affected whether managers would  pursue the introduction of these technologies in the immediate future. a summary of recent publications examining the factors influencing the adoption of new drugs, medical equipment and information and communications technology (ict) by irish gps is undertaken. these studies identify experiential learning, connectedness with others, and gp and practice characteristics as significant influences in the adoption of new drugs, medical equipment and ict in irish general practices. this summary identifies possible levers for encouraging the adoption of health-care technologies by irish gps. the aim of this study was to evaluate the acceptance and uptake of digital devices for the delivery of health-related information to enhance awareness and change habits of antibiotic use in primary care in germany. 
Prognosis of well differentiated small hepatocellular carcinoma--is well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma clinically early cancer? [SEP] the multistep development of overt hepatocellular carcinoma from very well-differentiated early hepatocellular carcinoma, and of early hepatocellular carcinoma from adenomatous hyperplasia has been strongly suggested. six of the 14 minute hepatocellular carcinoma were demonstrated to be moderately or poorly differentiated tumors. among the 8 well-differentiated minute hepatocellular carcinomas, 2 tumors already contained less differentiated components. our study suggests that 1) the multistep carcinogenesis through adenomatous hyperplasia may not be so frequent, 2) de novo carcinogenesis from not only well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, but also from less differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma, especially b-hcc, may be present, 3) the carcinogenesis in the b-hcc cases may behave differently from that in c-hcc cases, and 4) minute hepatocellular carcinomas demonstrate varying prognoses after hepatectomy. the recently proposed term "well-differentiated hepatocellular neoplasm of uncertain malignant potential" should be applied in such cases to highlight the different pathogenesis and risk of malignancy compared to the typical adenomas, and to suggest a careful and customized clinical management. the aim of this study is to evaluate characteristics of icteric hepatocellular carcinoma for early diagnosis. pathology observations demonstrated poorly or moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma in all our cases. small hepatocellular carcinoma with indistinct margins has been identified as an early, well-differentiated neoplasm that usually measures less than 15 mm in greatest dimension. well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma can mimic high-grade dysplastic nodule in cirrhotic liver and hepatocellular adenoma in non-cirrhotic liver. hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is the sixth globally diagnosed cancer with a poor prognosis. 
Do follow-up recommendations for abnormal Papanicolaou smears influence patient adherence? [SEP] to determine whether a clinic-based intervention, consisting of motivational brochures and a tracking system, increases adherence to recommendations for treatment in women with abnormal papanicolaou smears. adherence rates were assessed prospectively for approximately 100 consecutive nonpregnant women with abnormal papanicolaou smears (inflammatory benign atypia, or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia i, ii, or iii) at each clinic. a motivational brochure can enhance adherence to treatment recommendations among women with abnormal papanicolaou smears. a review of the literature on adherence with recommended follow-up after an abnormal screening papanicolaou smear result reveals that many women do not receive adequate follow-up. primary care providers can influence the number of women who undergo timely colposcopy or a subsequent papanicolaou smear by addressing common barriers to follow-up. to compare adherence to follow-up recommendations for colposcopy or repeated papanicolaou (pap) smears for women with previously abnormal pap smear results. effective prevention includes appropriate use of papanicolaou smears and adherence to a care plan by the patient. emotional consequences of abnormal papanicolaou smears had considerable impact on follow-up visits. a number of factors were identified that affect adherence to follow-up among women with abnormal pap smears. rates of recommendation for colposcopy and biopsy in response to abnormal papanicolaou test reports framed by a single clinical scenario. 
Biomolecular identification of allergenic pollen: a new perspective for aerobiological monitoring? [SEP] respiratory allergies induced by allergenic plants pollen represent an important public health problem with increasing prevalence and severity. aerobiologic study of allergenic pollens is performed in many countries on regular basis and correlated with health data from allergists in the frame of national aerobiology networks. this study aimed at developing new biomolecular tools to analyze aerobiological samples and identifying major allergenic poaceae taxa at subfamily or species level, exploiting fast real-time pcr. we demonstrate the existence of a new occupational allergen for olive farmers: s. alba pollen. data on the presence and prevalence of allergenic airborne pollens, obtained from both aerobiological studies and allergological investigations, make it possible to design pollen calendars with the approximate flowering period of the plants in the sampling area. furthermore, in the last few years, experimental data on pollen and subpollen-particles structure, the pathogenetic role of pollen and the interaction between pollen and air pollutants, gave new insights into the mechanisms of respiratory allergic diseases. to verify the feasibility of developing a real-time polymerase chain reaction (pcr) approach, an alternative to optical analysis, as a rapid, accurate, and automated tool for the detection and quantification of airborne allergenic pollen taxa. the monitoring of airborne pollens that provoke allergy is of interest to clinicians to enable them to correlate chronologically the relationship between pollen concentrations in the atmosphere and the symptoms of patients with pollen-related allergies. our aim is determine if airborne urticaceae pollen concentrations show the aerodynamics of the two major allergens of parietaria (par j 1 and par j 2) as well as the allergen distribution in the different-sized particles. the samples were analysed by the methodology proposed by the spanish aerobiology network (rea) and the minimum requirements of the european aeroallergen society (eas) for pollen, and by elisa immunoassay for allergens. 
Does diabetes mellitus influence the efficacy of FDG-PET in the diagnosis of cervical cancer? [SEP] studies in which fdg pet/ct was performed before surgery in patients with early stage cervical cancers were included for analysis. fdg pet/ct showed lower sensitivity and clinically unacceptable negative predictive value in detecting nodal metastases in early stage cervical cancer and therefore, can not replace surgicopathological staging. in conclusion, fdg-pet may be an effective diagnostic tool for detecting recurrence and lymph node metastasis of uterine cervical cancers. therefore, we conducted this prospective study to compare the diagnostic ability of fdg-pet in patients with cervical cancer complicated by dm and those without dm. (18)f-fdg pet can help to clarify the diagnosis of clinically suspected recurrence of cervical cancer. this study was to evaluate the clinical impact of whole body positron emission tomography (pet) with 18f-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (fdg) to detect recurrent cervical cancer based on asymptomatically elevated tumor marker levels. with asymptomatically elevated scc antigen serum levels, the diagnostic sensitivity and accuracy of fdg-pet to detect recurrent cervical cancer lesions were 97.5% and 94.0%, respectively. the fdg-pet is a useful technique to detect recurrent cervical cancer for patients with asymptomatically elevated scc antigen serum levels. the aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the contribution of (18)f-fdg pet to the clinical management and survival outcome of patients suspected of recurrent cervical carcinoma and in line with the hypothesis that early diagnosis of recurrent cervical cancer may improve overall survival. fdg pet is a valuable tool in the case of suspected recurrence of cervical cancer on account of its impact on treatment planning and especially in predicting patient outcome. 
Biomechanical and wound healing characteristics of corneas after excimer laser keratorefractive surgery: is there a difference between advanced surface ablation and sub-Bowman's keratomileusis? [SEP] to describe the biomechanical and wound healing characteristics of corneas after excimer laser keratorefractive surgery. histologic, ultrastructural, and cohesive tensile strength evaluations were performed on 25 normal human corneal specimens, 206 uncomplicated lasik specimens, 17 uncomplicated sub-bowman's keratomileusis (sbk) specimens, 4 uncomplicated photorefractive keratectomy (prk) specimens, 2 uncomplicated advanced surface ablation (asa) specimens, 5 keratoconus specimens, 12 postoperative lasik ectasia specimens, and 1 postoperative prk ectasia specimen and compared to previously published studies. because adult human corneal stromal wounds heal slowly and incompletely, all excimer laser keratorefractive surgical techniques still have some distinct disadvantages due to inadequate reparative wound healing. concerns regarding the increasing incidence of corneal ectasia following laser in situ keratomileusis procedures, together with increased understanding of the biomechanics of the cornea, has resulted in many refractive surgeons returning to surface ablation techniques such as photorefractive keratectomy. the excimer laser keratorefractive surgery inevitably compromises structural integrity of the cornea by the surgical tissue subtraction and loss of integrity of bowman's membrane. to demonstrate alterations of corneal k-structures (sub-bowman's fibrous structures) after keratorefractive surgery by in vivo laser confocal microscopy and to look for association of k-structures with fluorescein-stained anterior corneal mosaic (acm). understanding the cascade of events involved in the corneal wound healing process and examination of how corneal wound healing influences corneal biomechanics and optics are crucial to improve the efficacy and safety of laser vision correction. improvements in the understanding of corneal biomechanical changes, the modulation of wound healing, laser technology including ablation profiles and different methods for epithelial removal have widened the scope for surface ablation. the biomechanical and wound healing properties of the cornea undermine the predictability and stability of refractive surgery and contribute to discrepancies between attempted and achieved visual outcomes after lasik, surface ablation and other keratorefractive procedures. interest in the study of corneal wound healing has increased with the proliferation of keratorefractive surgery. 
Does radiotherapy of the primary rectal cancer affect prognosis after pelvic exenteration for recurrent rectal cancer? [SEP] this study examined the impact of radiotherapy for the primary rectal cancer on outcomes after pelvic exenteration for local recurrence. patients who did and did not receive radiotherapy as part of their primary rectal cancer treatment were compared. patients who received radiotherapy for their primary rectal cancer (n = 41) required more radical exenterations (68% vs 44%; p = 0.020), had lower rates of clear resection margins (63% vs 87%; p = 0.010), had increased rates of surgical complications per patient (p = 0.014), and had a lower disease-free survival (p = 0.022). patients who previously received radiotherapy for primary rectal cancer treatment have worse oncologic outcomes than those who had not received radiotherapy after pelvic exenteration for locally recurrent rectal cancer. this report describes the results of total pelvic exenteration for rectal cancer in terms of post-operative mortality, morbidity, and longterm survival in patients with locally advanced primary and recurrent rectal cancer. a retrospective review to identify patients who underwent pelvic exenteration for locally advanced primary or recurrent rectal cancer was performed. to report the role of total pelvic exenteration in a series of locally advanced and recurrent rectal cancers. this systematic review examines the current evidence regarding clinical and oncological outcomes in patients with locally advanced primary and recurrent rectal cancer who undergo pelvic exenteration. clinical data of consecutive patients undergoing pelvic exenteration for locally advanced primary rectal cancer and patient-reported outcomes were collected at baseline, hospital discharge and at 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. our results support an aggressive approach to advanced primary rectal cancer and lend weight to the oncological role of pelvic exenteration for this group of patients. 
Can a practicing surgeon detect early lymphedema reliably? [SEP] bioimpedance techniques provide a reliable method of assessing unilateral lymphedema in a clinical setting. this study investigated the efficacy of various low frequency ranges for the detection of lymphedema. limb volume by sequential circumferential tape measurement was used to validate the presence of lymphedema. bioimpedance analysis seems to be a practical and reliable method for the early diagnosis of lymphedema. background: early lymphedema detection may reduce the symptoms and improve clinical outcomes. to assess these controversies, we propose the implementation of a screening program to detect early lymphedema in conjunction with a randomized, prospective trial designed to generate level 1 evidence regarding the efficacy of early intervention and appropriate treatment strategies. lymphedema symptoms in the affected limb may indicate a latent stage of lymphedema in which changes cannot be detected by objective measures. symptom report may play an important role in detecting lymphedema in clinical practice. lymphedema symptoms were assessed using a reliable and valid instrument. in the absence of objective measurements capable of detecting latent stages of lymphedema, count of symptoms may be a cost-effective initial screening tool for detecting lymphedema. 
Colorectal cancer with synchronous liver metastases: does global management at the same centre improve results? [SEP] colorectal cancer is a very common malignancy worldwide and development of liver metastases, both synchronous or metachronous, is a common event. colorectal liver metastases represent a major challenge for oncologists and surgeons. the rationale behind this liver-first strategy is initially the control of synchronous hepatic metastases of colorectal carcinoma, which can optimize a potentially curative hepatic resection and longstanding survival. synchronous colorectal liver metastasis is not a poor prognostic factor for survival when compared with the metachronous metastasis. complete resection is the only potential curative treatment of synchronous colorectal liver metastases. among 131 patients presented with synchronous colorectal liver metastases, 52 underwent simultaneous and 79 delayed resection. the long-term outcome of simultaneous resection of synchronous colorectal liver metastases is comparable to delayed resection. the aim of this prospective observational multicentre study was to evaluate the incidence of synchronous liver metastases in colon and rectal cancer and to determine clinico-pathologic factors of the colorectal cancer that influenced the development of synchronous liver metastases. synchronous liver metastases occurred in 14.7% of the colorectal cancer cases. localization of the cancer in the colon led to a different number of synchronous liver metastases. 
Is motion perception deficit in schizophrenia a consequence of eye-tracking abnormality? [SEP] studies have shown that schizophrenia patients have motion perception deficit, which was thought to cause eye-tracking abnormality in schizophrenia. the known eye-tracking difficulties in schizophrenia patients may interact with their motion perception. this study introduces a novel approach to motion perception studies and highlights the importance of concurrently measuring eye movements to understand interactions between these two systems; the results argue for a conceptual revision regarding motion perception abnormality in schizophrenia. abnormal smooth pursuit eye movements in patients with schizophrenia are often considered a consequence of impaired motion perception. in psychotic disorders, alterations of visual motion perception have been suggested to cause pursuit eye tracking deficits. we examined several aspects of visual perception, including motion perception, in patients with schizophrenia. eye tracking deficits are robust abnormalities in schizophrenia, but the neurobiological disturbance underlying these deficits is not known. to clarify the pathophysiology of eye tracking disturbances in schizophrenia, we tested 12 first-episode treatment-naive schizophrenic patients and 10 matched healthy individuals on foveofugal and foveopetal step-ramp pursuit tasks. schizophrenia is often accompanied by a range of visual perception deficits, with many involving impairments in motion perception. patients with schizophrenia and healthy schizotypic individuals have been found to show motion perception deficits and abnormal eye-tracking (both indicative of abnormal functioning within brain area v5), therefore it was hypothesised that these individuals would show a reduced or absent rm effect. 
Transgastric endoscopic splenectomy: is it possible? [SEP] we present results of per-oral transgastric splenectomy in a porcine model. the goal of this study was to determine the technical feasibility of per-oral transgastric splenectomy using a flexible endoscope. endoscopic splenectomy was performed on six pigs. ligation of the splenic vessels and mobilization of the spleen were achieved using commercially available devices and endoscopic accessories. transgastric endoscopic splenectomy in a porcine model appears technically feasible. since kalloo and colleagues first reported the feasibility and safety of a peroral transgastric approach in the porcine model in 2004, various groups have reported more complex natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (notes) procedures, such as the cholecystectomy, splenectomy and liver biopsy, in the porcine model. splenectomy is the definitive treatment, although transgastric ligation of varices must be added if active bleeding is taking place. natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (notes) has the potential to further reduce the invasiveness of surgery in human patients. splenectomy was performed using a laparoscopically assisted procedure, and then the spleen was pulled into the stomach using an endoscopic polypectomy snare after enlargement of the gastric orifice. transgastric endoscopic surgery is technically feasible in a porcine model. 
It's Fournier's gangrene still dangerous? [SEP] fournier's gangrene is characterized by tissue ischemia leading to rapidly progressing necrotizing fasciitis. we present the case of a patient with fournier's gangrene after third-degree burns. fournier's gangrene is a surgical emergency. forty-one patients with fournier's gangrene were reviewed on the parameters of age, sex, aetiological agents, predisposing factors, treatment modalities and outcomes. fournier's gangrene is still a severe disease. fournier's gangrene, originally described by fournier in 1883, is a rare and unusual ischaemic necrosis of the male external genitalia. fournier's gangrene is still an important disease with high mortality rates in spite of the developments in intensive care units and new-generation antibiotics. fournier's gangrene is the result of a highly lethal and rapidly progressive necrotizing infection of the perineal and genital fascia, with gangrene of the overlying skin. the patient is a 48 years old afghanian male that admitted with fournier gangrene. fournier gangrene is an uncommon but life threatening condition with high associated mortality and morbidity. 
Is it appropriate to implant kidneys from elderly donors in young recipients? [SEP] kidneys from elderly donors tend to be implanted in recipients who are also elderly. we present the results obtained after 10 years of evolution on transplanting elderly kidneys into young recipients. we conclude that patient and graft survival on transplanting kidneys from elderly donors to young recipients is superimposable on that obtained with young donors. twenty and 39 recipients received kidneys from elderly (> 60, 68.9 ± 5.0 years) and young (≤ 60, 45.9 ± 9.6 years) donors with atn, respectively. the incidence of transplanted kidneys derived from elderly donors is increasing because of the larger waiting lists and greater age of patients with end-stage renal failure. the aim of the present study was to investigate the clinical outcomes of kidney transplantation (kt) in elderly recipients compared with those in young recipients. overall, kidney and liver transplantation from older deceased donors have good outcomes, but are not as good as those from younger donors. the results of live kidney donation have been excellent for donor and recipient, and there is a trend towards inclusion of older donors. in this study, we transplanted 25 kidneys from elderly donors (ages 56-72 years) into young adult recipients (ages 20-50 years) (group 1) over a 4-year period. to maximize the utilization and optimize the survival of elderly donor kidneys, we propose transplantation of these kidneys into age-matched recipients with similar physiological requirements as those of donors, with regard to kidney function. 
Do provider service networks result in lower expenditures compared with HMOs or primary care case management in Florida's Medicaid program? [SEP] to determine the impact of florida's medicaid demonstration 4 years post-implementation on per member per month (pmpm) medicaid expenditures and whether receiving care through hmos versus provider service networks (psns) in the demonstration was associated with pmpm expenditures. using the donabedian structure-process-outcome (spo) model, patient experiences and utilization in florida psos and primary care case management (pccm) were compared. this is important since states that are experimenting with psos in their medicaid programs are looking to these organizations to improve beneficiary care while lowering costs. we examine the expenditures for enrollees in three medicaid primary care case management (pccm) demonstration projects compared to florida's pccm program from february 2002-february 2003. this analysis provides evidence that managed care programs such as florida's ics have the potential to reduce healthcare expenditures. a study was undertaken to compare adult enrollees' satisfaction with three medicaid programs operating in south florida: (1) the provider service network (psn), (2) medipass, and (3) medicaid hmos. the potential incorporation of hmos into medicaid has promised to improve the states' ability to accurately budget program expenditures, simplify management, eliminate abusive practices directly linked to fee-for-service (e.g., billing for undelivered services for providing unnecessary care) and, most important, contain costs. data collected by the new york state department of social services were used to compare the costs for matched cohorts enrolled in partial capitation programs in which the primary care physician is paid a monthly fee to provide ambulatory primary care for medicaid recipients; and full capitation programs in which a health maintenance organization (hmo) or a hospital-based prepaid health services program (phsp) is paid a more encompassing monthly fee to provide a larger range of services, including inpatient, outpatient, and specialty care. these data suggest that new york state primary care physicians who participated in programs that reimburse a prepaid monthly fee for outpatient primary care services achieved savings comparable to those of hmos. this paper uses data from the 1997 national survey of america's families to examine the effects of the various forms of mandatory medicaid managed care on access and use among beneficiaries not receiving supplemental security income or medicare benefits. 
Assessment of carotid artery stenosis before coronary artery bypass surgery. Is it always necessary? [SEP] to assess the early results of combined coronary artery bypass graft surgery and carotid endarterectomy. the asymptomatic patient with unilateral carotid stenosis who presents for coronary artery bypass might be best managed by myocardial revascularization followed by medical or surgical management of the carotid disease. moreover, carotid artery stenosis has been identified as a high-risk factor for postoperative ischaemic cerebral inconvenience following coronary artery bypass graft surgery. bilateral carotid artery stenosis was significantly associated with the severity of carotid artery stenosis (p ⩽ 0.05). high-grade carotid artery stenosis is present in 6-8% of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery. the objective of this study is to compare the safety and efficacy of isolated coronary artery bypass grafting vs. synchronous coronary artery bypass grafting and carotid endarterectomy in patients with asymptomatic high-grade carotid artery stenosis. routine preoperative noninvasive assessment of the carotid arteries are recommended in many institutions to reduce the stroke rate. the purpose of this study was to determine whether selection criteria for performing carotid sonographic screening before elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery can decrease the number of negative examinations without overlooking patients with significant carotid disease. selection criteria should be applied when choosing patients for carotid sonographic screening before elective coronary artery bypass surgery. patients with critical carotid artery stenosis should be subjected to angiography. 
Should direct mesocolon invasion be included in T4 for the staging of gastric cancer? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to characterize and classify mesocolon invasion from gastric cancer. among these, patients who showed macroscopically direct invasion into the mesocolon were compared to other patients with advanced gastric cancer. mesocolon invasion should be included in t4 for the staging of gastric cancer. this study was performed to evaluate the appropriate t stage for t mesocolon invasion in agc. from 1996 to 2008, 90 patients underwent curative gastrectomy with t mesocolon excision at the authors' institute under the suspicion of t mesocolon invasion based on surgical findings and without pathologic invasion to any other organ. patients with gastric cancer with pancreas invasion had a poorer prognosis than those with mesocolon invasion. for this purpose, 152 patients with gastric cancer were enrolled in the study and transverse mesocolon biopsies were undertaken intraoperatively. we evaluated the outcome indicators in gastric carcinoma patients with mesocolon invasion. we reviewed the hospital records of 169 gastric carcinoma patients with mesocolon invasion seen between 1986 and 2000 at chonnam national university hospital. the results showed improved survival of gastric carcinoma patients with mesocolon invasion who underwent curative resection compared to those who did not. 
Do Surrogates of Injury Severity Influence the Occurrence of Heterotopic Ossification in Fractures of the Acetabulum? [SEP] the severity of injury, especially central acetabular and posterior fracture-dislocations, increased the occurrence and amount of heterotopic bone. forty-four fractures of the acetabulum that had been treated with open reduction and internal fixation necessitating dissection of the gluteal muscles were reviewed radiographically for the development of heterotopic bone. heterotopic ossification is a common postoperative complication of acetabular fracture. this article describes a 40-year-old man with massive heterotopic ossification associated with late bone defects in the posterior wall of the acetabulum after a failed acetabular fracture operation. the objectives of this study were to (1) determine the prevalence of heterotopic ossification after surgery for fractures and fracture-dislocations involving the proximal aspect of the radius or ulna, (2) identify risk factors associated with the development of heterotopic ossification in these injuries, and (3) characterize the severity and location of the heterotopic ossification and the associated range of elbow motion. risk factors associated with the development of heterotopic ossification included elbow subluxation or dislocation at the time of presentation, an open fracture, a severe chest injury, and a delay in definitive surgical treatment. more severe heterotopic ossification was encountered in patients presenting with an associated distal humeral fracture, terrible triad injury, transolecranon fracture-dislocation, or monteggia fracture-dislocation. patients with an open injury, instability, severe chest trauma, or delay in definitive surgical treatment had a higher prevalence of heterotopic ossification. heterotopic ossification is a common complication of orthopaedic trauma association (ota) type c distal humerus fractures and ulnohumeral fracture dislocations. the purpose of this study was to precisely define the incidence of heterotopic ossification following major elbow trauma and to identify risk factors for the development of clinically significant heterotopic ossification and for surgical excision of elbow heterotopic ossification.current procedural terminology codes identified 156 patients who underwent operative intervention for a distal humerus fracture or an ulnohumeral fracture dislocation at 2 level i trauma centers over 6 years. 
Does pretreatment with statins improve clinical outcome after stroke? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine if patients taking statins before hospital admission for stroke had an improved clinical outcome. this finding could support the early initiation of statin therapy after stroke. several recent studies have indicated that treatment with statins, prior to the onset of acute ischemic stroke, may also substantially reduce the severity of stroke and the degree of patient disability. the purpose of the present review is to systematically evaluate the effectiveness of statin pretreatment on functional outcome of acute ischemic stroke and to assess potential adverse events associated with statin use. pretreatment with statins was found to reduce the recurrence of stroke and to result in more favorable outcomes for patients. pretreatment with statins was associated with a favorable outcome in acute ischemic stroke, with few incidences of adverse reactions. statins reduce the risk of stroke in at-risk populations and may improve outcomes in patients taking statins before an ischemic stroke (is). this review discusses the various prospective trials in stroke prevention and available data on the effects of statins in improving outcome of established ischemic stroke. finally, based on the present information, an evidence-based perspective about current and future use of statins in the short- and long-term management of ischemic stroke is presented. statins may improve ischemic stroke outcomes. 
Processing fluency effects: can the content and presentation of participant information sheets influence recruitment and participation for an antenatal intervention? [SEP] fluency, the subjective experience of ease associated with information processing, has been shown to affect a host of judgments. to assess the extent to which the title and font of participant information sheets (piss) can influence pregnant women's and trainee midwives' perceptions of an antenatal intervention. font influenced pregnant women's ratings of intervention complexity. participant information sheets are often lengthy and difficult to read and understand. patients and parents approached to participate in the host trials will be randomly allocated to either use the multimedia information resource in conjunction with standard participant information sheets, the multimedia information resource alone, or the standard participant information sheets alone. other outcomes measured include the effect of multimedia information resources on retention of participants into the host trials and the impact on family members' decision-making processes, when compared to standard participant information sheets alone. this study will inform whether multimedia information resources, when developed using participatory design principles, are able to increase recruitment and retention of children and adolescents into trials. two variables appeared to influence the likelihood that participants increase and maintain their reliance on the fluency cues after the intervention: the ability to detect the fluency manipulation and the preservation of implicit metacognitive skills. background: this protocol describes a double-blind, randomised non-inferiority study-within-a-trial (swat), comparing the effects of a patient-designed-and-informed participant information sheet with a standard, researcher-designed participant information sheet on recruitment, retention, decision certainty, participant information sheet understanding and likeability. to investigate whether the readability of participant information sheets has changed over time, whether particular study characteristics are related to poorer readability and whether readability and other study characteristics are related to successful study recruitment. 
Sternal fracture in growing children : A rare and often overlooked fracture? [SEP] sternal fractures are considered uncommon in pediatric patients. to describe the clinical and imaging features of sternal fractures in patients less than 18 years of age. we retrospectively reviewed 79 pediatric patients diagnosed with sternal fractures after trauma. our results suggest that sternal fractures in children are often due to lesser trauma and that associated lesions are rare. isolated fracture of the sternum is an uncommon injury in a child. sternal fractures are rare injuries in children. isolated sternal fractures are very rare in children. discussion focuses on the incidence, mechanism, associated factors and diagnostic challenge of sternal insufficiency fractures. sternal fractures are rare in children. the purpose of this series is to document traumatic findings in pediatric patients with sternal fractures at a level 1 trauma center. 
Is there a correlation between androgens and sexual desire in women? [SEP] the aim of this study was to investigate a possible correlation between serum levels of androgens and sexual desire in women and whether the level of adt-g is better correlated than the level of circulating androgens with sexual desire. sexual desire correlated overall with ft and androstenedione in the total cohort of women. in women aged 45-65 years, androstenedione correlated with sexual desire. in the present study, ft and androstenedione were statistically significantly correlated with sexual desire in the total cohort of women. evidence from population studies of women is reviewed on the association between endogenous androgen levels and sexual function or satisfaction. androgens play an important role in healthy female sexual function, especially in stimulating sexual interest and in maintaining desire. the role androgens play in female sexual desire remains unclear. we investigated whether androgen sensitivity or elevated androgen levels contributed to sexual desire using a motivational model of sexual desire. moreover, in agreement with our hypothesis, we found support for a relationship between androgen sensitivity and some, but not other aspects of sexual desire. this study presents a new way to investigate desire and shows some preliminary findings on the importance to consider androgen sensitivity when investigating the relationship between sexual desire and hormones. 
Does immediate breast reconstruction compromise the delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] three retrospective series compared chemotherapy delivery after immediate breast reconstruction with controls having mastectomy alone. immediate breast reconstruction (ibr) has been considered by some to lead to a delay in the delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy. retrospective analysis of patients in an academic breast service, who underwent mastectomy, with or without reconstruction, and received adjuvant chemotherapy. the administration of adjuvant chemotherapy does not need to be delayed in patients who have had immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy for breast cancer. in this study we sought to determine whether immediate breast reconstruction affects the interval between surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy. the indications for chemotherapy in breast cancer are expanding and wound complications following mastectomy may delay the initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy. in this study, we sought to determine whether reconstruction after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and mastectomy for large operable breast cancer affects the interval between surgery and adjuvant treatment and affects survival. the effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on immediate microvascular breast reconstruction is of concern because any complication might delay adjuvant treatment. complication rates and interval from surgery until adjuvant treatment of patients with mastectomy for locally advanced breast cancer followed by immediate microvascular breast reconstruction (deep inferior epigastric perforator (diep) flap, transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous (tram) flap, superior gluteal artery perforator (sgap) flap, transverse musculocutaneous gracilis (tmg) flap, or superficial inferior epigastric artery (siea) flap) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy were compared with those of patients who underwent immediate breast reconstruction without neoadjuvant chemotherapy. immediate microvascular breast reconstruction after neoadjuvant chemotherapy does not result in an increased complication rate or delay the start of adjuvant treatment even if complications occur and therefore can be performed safely in patients with locally advanced breast cancer. 
Human papillomavirus and pterygium. Is the virus a risk factor? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the involvement of human papillomavirus in the pathogenesis of primary and recurrent pterygium in northern israel. we conclude from our study that human papillomavirus infection does not appear to be an important pathogenic factor of pterygium in israel. in addition, human papillomavirus infection has been shown to be a risk factor in some populations. the involvement of hpv as a co-factor in the pathogenesis of pterygium, although suggested by several studies using pcr and immunohistochemical techniques, remains controversial. recent evidence suggests that potentially oncogenic viruses such as human papillomavirus and epstein-barr virus may be involved in the pathogenesis of pterygia. a higher recurrence risk rate and more aggressive disease of ophthalmic pterygium is observed in cases of hpv infection. several researchers believe that pterygium is uv-related and that abnormal expression of p53 protein and infection with human papillomavirus (hpv) are risk factors for pterygium, but their experiments have been inconclusive. we suggest that abnormal expression of p53, p53 codon 72 polymorphisms and hpv dna are required co-factors for the development of pterygium. this study evaluated human papillomavirus's (hpv) role in pterygium pathogenesis, its autoinoculation from genitalia to ocular surface, potential cytokines involved, and crosstalk cytokines between pterygium and dry eye (de). up to now, hpv has been blamed as the major viral pathogen in the etiopathogenesis of pterygium. 
Can PRISM predict length of PICU stay? [SEP] this study assessed the validity of the prism iii scoring system in accurately predicting the probability of mortality in a pediatric intensive care unit (picu) in taiwan. a positive correlation was found between albumin-creatinine ratio and picu length of stay (p=0.013, r=0.271). to estimate the impact of severity of illness and length of stay on costs incurred during a pediatric intensive care unit (picu) hospitalization. length of stay and its prediction from a model with admission day data (prism iii-24, diagnostic factors, mechanical ventilation). the total care days provided by each picu (n = 32) were well predicted by the length of stay model (r = 0.946). because maximum glucose level in the first day of picu admission (glfd) >200mg/dl contributes to prism, 200 mg/dl was used to differentiate high glucose (hg) from normal glucose. this study aimed at evaluating the mortality rate in a picu applying prism-iii. data required for calculating the prism-iii score were collected during the first 24 h of picu stay in all patients. among these three groups, the duration of hospital stay, picu stay, and ventilation; the prism score, and the rate of readmission were compared. conclusions longer hospital stay, prolonged picu stay, longer duration of ventilation, and higher prism iii score were independent risk factors for higher mortality in the picu. 
Can predilatation in transcatheter aortic valve implantation be omitted? [SEP] we have developed a novel technique of 'direct transapical aortic valve implantation', which enables surgeons to avoid predilatation of the native av. predilatation has been historically considered a mandatory step before transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) since it facilitates valve crossing and prosthesis delivery, ensures optimal valve expansion and improves hemodynamic stability during valve deployment. the aim of the study was to see whether or not balloon predilatation is necessary in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (tavi). balloon predilatation of the aortic valve has been regarded as an essential step during the transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) procedure. we hypothesize that tavi performed without predilatation of the aortic valve and using new-generation balloon-expandable transcatheter heart valves is associated with a better net clinical benefit than tavi performed with predilatation. balloon predilatation has been regarded as an essential step before implanting the self-expandable prosthesis during transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi). transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) without predilatation may be advantageous and is feasible with various transcatheter heart valves. direct implantation without pre-dilatation was feasible in 154 patients (94.5%), whereas in nine patients predilatation was required due to difficulties while crossing the native aortic valve. in the presence of severe aortic valve calcification and critical aortic stenosis, however, predilatation may still be necessary. transcatheter aortic valve implantation (tavi) without predilatation has fewer procedural steps and thereby potentially fewer complications. 
Autoerotic asphyxiation: secret pleasure--lethal outcome? [SEP] deaths in an autoerotic setting are usually due to accidental asphyxia, in which the individual accidently hangs or strangles themselves while inducing hypoxia for the purpose of heightened arousal. this case demonstrates the death of a 69 year old male which has occurred in the setting of a complex autoerotic environment, not as a result of asphyxiation, but rather as a result of natural causes which is likely to have been brought about by repeated similar activity. how individuals who engage in autoerotic asphyxial activities first become aware of its purported erotic potential is debated. this case series documents and examines the association between autoerotic asphyxiation, sadomasochism, and serial sexual murderers. autoerotic asphyxiation, along with other paraphilias found in this population, is reviewed. death during autoerotic asphyxial activity is usually considered accidental due to unanticipated failure of the device that was used to induce hypoxia during sexual arousal. two cases of hanging are reported in which apparently typical features of autoerotic asphyxial activity were present. although the majority of deaths that occur during autoerotic asphyxial episodes are accidental, the possibility of suicide must always be entertained, even in cases that may initially appear typical. we present an accidental autoerotic asphyxiation of a 24-year-old man. autoerotic asphyxia is the practice of self-inducing cerebral anoxia, usually by hanging, strangulation, or suffocation, during masturbation. 
Major depression and alcohol use disorder in adolescence: Does comorbidity lead to poorer outcomes of depression? [SEP] in contrast, the presence of comorbid major depression was associated with lower intensity of drinking. while the presence of a comorbid alcohol use disorder may worsen the prognosis for geriatric depression, limited data suggest that successful treatment of depression combined with reducing alcohol use leads to the best possible outcomes. adolescent depression carries an elevated risk of adult depression irrespective of comorbidity. alcohol use disorders with comorbid major depression represent an especially high-risk profile for suicidal behavior, repeated suicidal behavior and completed suicide. we compared demographic and clinical characteristics, prevalence of interpersonal triggers and the number of triggers for suicidal behavior in depressed late adolescents and young adults with or without comorbid alcohol use disorders. it appears that among 18-26-year-old depressed suicide attempters, individuals with comorbid alcohol use disorders are more impaired with regard to aggressiveness and impulsivity compared to persons without comorbid alcohol abuse/dependence. to identify clinical profiles discriminating depressed adolescents on the basis of comorbid alcohol/substance use disorders and to determine whether or not profiles with high predictive power are gender-specific. these profiles correctly identified most depressed adolescents with comorbid alcohol/substance abuse. clinicians should conduct comprehensive assessments of alcohol/substance abuse in depressed adolescents with the identified clinical profiles. adolescents with and without probable comorbid anxiety disorders were compared on depression and overall functioning. 
Cold preparation use in young children after FDA warnings: do concerns still exist? [SEP] to characterize the use and delivery of cough and cold medicines in children younger than 6 presenting to an inner-city pediatric emergency department (ped) following 2007 fda warnings. despite current recommendations, cough and cold medicines are still used in children younger than 6 years of age. • cough and cold medicines are frequently used in children to treat upper respiratory tract infections without solid proof of benefits. • safety issues have been raised about the use of these drugs in young children. • in 2007 international warnings were issued advising against use of these drugs in young children. • cough and cold medicines prescribing by primary care physicians has not really been influenced by international warnings in the netherlands, where no additional national warnings were made and only partially in italy. • a concerted action should be taken in europe to advise strongly against the otc use and prescription of cough and cold medicines in young children. the aim of the study was to assess the influence of national and international warnings on the prescription rates of cough and cold medicines (ccms) in the youngest children (<2 years) in the netherlands and italy. the hazards of use of these medicines in young children should be explicitly stipulated by the european medicines agency and all national agencies, in order to increase awareness amongst physicians and caretakers and reduce heterogeneity across the eu. recent warnings regarding the use of codeine in young children have triggered changes in postoperative pain management with a trend toward over the counter pain medicines. 
Does a 4 diagram manual enable laypersons to operate the Laryngeal Mask Supreme®? [SEP] the aim of this pilot study was to determine whether an instruction manual consisting of four diagrams enables laypersons to operate a laryngeal mask supreme® (lmas) in the manikin. an instruction manual of four illustrations with speech bubbles displaying the correct use of the lmas was designed. laypersons were handed a bag containing a lmas, a bag mask valve device (bmv), a syringe prefilled with air and the instruction sheet, and were asked to perform and ventilate the manikin as displayed. the intention of this manikin-based trial was to evaluate whether laypersons are able to operate an i-gel laryngeal mask (i-gel) modified for mouth-to-mask ventilation after receiving brief on-site instruction. laypersons were handed a labelled, mouthpiece-integrated i-gel laryngeal mask and a corresponding instruction chart and were asked to follow the printed instructions. laypersons were able to manage mouth-to-mask ventilation in the manikin with a reasonable success rate after receiving brief chart-based on-site instructions using a labelled i-gel mask. previous studies reported that complications associated with removal of the laryngeal mask were more frequent in awake patients than in anaesthetised patients; however, these studies did not comply with the method described in the manufacturer's instruction manual. the laryngeal mask was found to enable laryngotracheoscopy with a flexible 5.0-mm fibreoptic endoscope with no technical difficulties. we hypothesized that even laymen would be able to operate supraglottic airway devices after a brief training session. laypersons are able to operate supraglottic airway devices in manikin with minimal instruction. 
Can we measure mesopic pupil size with the cobalt blue light slit-lamp biomicroscopy method? [SEP] to compare scotopic pupil measurements obtained with a colvard pupillometer with measurements taken with a printed pupil gauge and penlight with a cobalt blue filter attachment in mesopic and scotopic luminance. at a mesopic luminance of 2.11 foot-candles, pupil measurements were taken with a bernell pupil card and penlight with a cobalt blue filter attachment. at a scotopic luminance of less than 2.00 foot-candles, pupil measurements were taken with the bernell card system and the colvard pupillometer. to evaluate factors that may affect mesopic pupil size in refractive surgery candidates. mesopic pupil size measurements were performed with colvard pupillometer. to determine if videokeratography-based pupil measurements are an accurate method of estimating pupil size under mesopic conditions. to determine the accuracy and reproducibility of scotopic pupil measurements with a slitlamp-based cobalt blue light. in a prospective experimental study, 2 independent observers measured 16 subjects' pupils with a standard slitlamp-based cobalt blue light. slitlamp-based cobalt blue light provided a reasonably good measurement of scotopic pupil size. the aim of this work is to assess a previously described slit-lamp biomicroscopy-based method (slbm) for measuring pupil diameter and compare it to colvard infrared pupillometry (cip). 
Should circumcision be performed in childhood? [SEP] the effects of childhood circumcision on male sexual function have been debated. we found no relationship between childhood circumcision age and overall sexual function; however some specific domains of sexual function (i.e. in 2012, the american academy of pediatrics (aap) concluded the health benefits of circumcision during the neonatal period outweigh the risks. this study describes recent trends in male circumcision in freestanding children's hospitals in the united states. the objectives of this report are to: 1) review the state, function, fate, and care of the prepuce in childhood, with focus on the neonate, in canada; 2) understand the current practice of childhood male circumcision in terms of age, indications, performers, techniques, outcomes, and education; and 3) consider ways to sustain a good healthcare professional-parental dialogue for safe practices that are accessible, acceptable, and culturally sensitive in the care of the prepuce. neonatal and childhood circumcision in canada is carried out to fulfill parental wishes, as well as for medical, religious, and cultural reasons. despite the age-old debate, childhood circumcision is likely to remain. circumcision is mostly performed in children in the first decade of life and a second peak of incidence of penile foreskin diseases occurs after the sixth decade of life, when circumcision is progressively performed again. higher risks of complications were determined by therapeutic circumcisions and by childhood age when compared to infant. circumcision is one of the most commonly performed operations during childhood. 
Does a colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis affect its management? [SEP] our results suggest that colonoscopy does not affect the management of patients with acute diverticulitis nor alter the outcome. most international guidelines recommend performing a routine colonoscopy after the conservative management of acute diverticulitis, mainly to rule out a colorectal malignancy; however, data to support these recommendations are scarce and conflicting. this review examines the role of colonoscopy in the evaluation of asymptomatic diverticulosis, segmental diverticular disease-associated colitis and acute diverticulitis. our aim was to evaluate the incidence, management, and outcomes of acute diverticulitis following colonoscopy. post-colonoscopy diverticulitis is a rare, but potentially serious complication. recently, we experienced three cases of colon cancer after treating acute diverticulitis, based on which we suggest the importance of follow-up colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis. international guidelines recommend a routine colonoscopy to rule out advanced neoplasm after an acute diverticulitis event. to understand the diagnostic yield, quality and safety of colonoscopy in the setting of acute diverticulitis. routine colonoscopy is advisable after a complicated diverticulitis event but its recommendation is unclear with regard to uncomplicated episodes. colonoscopy is advised 6 weeks after an attack of acute diverticulitis in order to completely evaluate the colonic lumen and exclude a potential malignancy. 
Do instrumental activities of daily living predict dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up? [SEP] to determine whether impaired instrumental activities of daily living affect conversion from mild cognitive impairment to dementia for subjects in a community. we suggest that when individuals with mild cognitive impairment are limited in their performance of instrumental activities of daily living, this is predictive of dementia onset. to describe the restriction in instrumental activities of daily living (iadl) in mild cognitive impairment (mci) and to assess the impact of iadl restriction on the progression to dementia and on mci reversibility. inclusion of instrumental activities of daily living restriction in the criteria of mild cognitive impairment improves the prediction of dementia and the stability of this status over time. to investigate whether problems in instrumental activities of daily living (iadl) can add to conventionally used clinical measurements in helping to predict a diagnosis of dementia at 1- and 2-year follow-up. to evaluate the predictive effect of daily functioning and motor performance (mp) on the progression to dementia in normal cognition, cognitive impairment, no dementia (cind), and mild cognitive impairment (mci). the ability to perform instrumental activities of daily living deteriorates early in dementia and affects people with dementia and their carers. this study therefore investigated instrumental activities of daily living deficits in mild dementia by exploring the relationship between instrumental activities of daily living initiative and performance and general cognition, people with dementia quality of life and carer stress. the revised interview for deterioration for daily living activities in dementia with its social instrumental activities of daily livings can help shift the focus of interventions to address those activities that are frequently impaired in mild dementia and relate to people with dementia and carer well-being. in this cross-sectional assessment of pairs of patients with dementia and their family caregivers, we evaluated basic, instrumental, and advanced activities of daily living by comparing past and present status observed by caregivers with subjective estimations by patients with dementia. 
Does the Simultaneous Use of a Neuroendoscope Influence the Incidence of Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt Infection? [SEP] maintenance of a sterile intraperitoneal environment is critical in patients with ventriculoperitoneal shunts. one patient presented with an extruded peritoneal shunt tip and positive cultures from cerebrospinal fluid and urine. to examine the incidence of postoperative ventriculoperitoneal shunt infections in patients after augmentation cystoplasty. we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 21 patients with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt who had bladder augmentation (18 ileal and 3 ileocecal) with attention to the preoperative urine culture, perioperative antibiotics, and the length of time drains were maintained. the incidence of postoperative ventriculoperitoneal shunt infections after augmentation cystoplasty can be kept low when prophylactic antibiotics and short-term drains are used. infection remains the most significant complication of ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery and the reported rates of cerebrospinal fluid shunt infection vary widely across studies in patients with hydrocephalus. the objective of this study is to review and evaluate the infections complicating ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery in patients with hydrocephalus. gender, age, and etiology of hydrocephalus were significantly associated with shunt infection. infection remains the most serious complication of ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery. prospective studies are needed to assess the observed associations between the risk factors and incidence of infection in hydrocephalus patients treated with ventriculoperitoneal shunt surgery. 
Body perception: do parents, their children, and their children's physicians perceive body image differently? [SEP] this pilot study evaluated body image perceptions in a sample of czech school-aged children and their parents and compared them with the perceptions of american children and parents. a previously developed silhouette body image instrument was utilized in a parent questionnaire and during child interviews to measure perceived and ideal body image perceptions of children and parents. descriptive statistics, independent t-tests and paired t-tests were used to compare differences between children's and parents' perceived and ideal body image perceptions. a future study should evaluate body image perceptions and factors influencing these perceptions in a representative sample of czech children and parents. to compare children's, parents' and physicians' perceptions of children's body size. the main objective of this study was to investigate normal weight and overweight preschool children's ability to understand conceptualizations of body image and their association with parental perceptions of their child's body. this investigation examines self-perception and parental perception of child body size and factors associated with accurate parental perception of child body size. to verify the body image perception of adolescents and their parents in relation to nutritional status and blood pressure levels. there was applied the scale silhouettes for parents about the perception of the described body image and a question about the concern of the nutritional status of their children. this study explored parents' perceptions about their child's appearance and health and evaluated a tool to determine parents' visual perception of their child's weight. 
Is a specialised training of phonological awareness indicated in every preschool child? [SEP] in a prospective study 218 preschool children were enrolled (stratified in 2 training programs, one specialized for phonologic awareness in order to prevent dyslexia, the other consisting in training of general perception) during the last year of kindergarten. a specialized training program to improve phonologic awareness as a basis for reading and writing in every kindergarten and preschool child seems to be unnecessary. children in the phonological skills group and the music group showed significant increases in phonological awareness from pre- to post-test. in preschool, one group of children received morphological awareness training, while a second group received phonological awareness training. this longitudinal study investigated the relationship between oral language abilities and phonological awareness in 85 typically developing, spanish-english preschool children (average age in preschool was 3 years, 9 months). phonological awareness was assessed during the spring of children's kindergarten year. children with speech difficulties often have delayed phonological awareness development and associated literacy problems. however, it is unclear to what extent phonological awareness training, originally designed to promote literacy skills, might also improve children's speech output. this article adopts a psycholinguistic approach to examine the nature and development of phonological awareness and to explore the relationship between phonological awareness training and phonological therapy. the role of phonological awareness in predicting literacy development in children is discussed, and principles for analyzing the psycholinguistic properties of therapy tasks are presented. 
Is there any relationship between streptococcal infection and multiple sclerosis? [SEP] multiple sclerosis (ms) is an immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating disease of uncertain etiology. to understand the effect of past group a streptococcal infection on ms, antistreptolysin o (aso) and antideoxyribonuclease b (adnase b) were measured in 21 patients with relapsing-remitting ms and 21 healthy blood donors by nephelometric assay. these findings indicate that a relationship between multiple sclerosis and streptococcal infections may exist, but to acquire a better understanding of the role of group a streptococci in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, more studies with animal models are necessary. upper respiratory infections were reported to trigger multiple sclerosis relapses. to evaluate whether human rhinovirus is associated with multiple sclerosis relapses and whether any particular strain is predominant. multiple sclerosis (ms) is a chronic inflammatory disease more common in the central nervous system (cns). patients undergoing ms treatment could be more susceptible to latent tuberculosis infection (ltbi) reactivation. this case raises questions of the relationship between streptococcus and the development of autoimmune hemolytic anemia in children. we review current thinking on the aetiology of multiple sclerosis, how genetic susceptibility interacts with environmental risk factors at the population level, multiple sclerosis-associated risk factors and contemporary causation theory. multiple sclerosis is a complex disease because of interaction between genes and the environment. 
Is the combination with 2-methoxyestradiol able to reduce the dosages of chemotherapeutices in the treatment of human ovarian cancer? [SEP] the estrogen metabolite 2-methoxyestradiol has shown antitumorigenic action in some epithelial tumors. to assess the effect of 2-methoxyestradiol, dose response and time courses in ovarian cancer and normal cells were conducted. 2-methoxyestradiol induced apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells but not in normal counterparts. we also demonstrate that 2-methoxyestradiol selectively induces an additive/synergistic apoptotic response in ovarian cancer cells when used in combination with tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand. 2-methoxyestradiol, alone or in combination with tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand, should be considered as a potential treatment for ovarian cancer. 2-methoxyestradiol-induced antitumor effects were further validated by in human ovarian cancer cells. these results indicate that a combination of tamoxifen with 2-methoxyestradiol showed an additive inhibitory effect concerning the proliferation of estrogen receptor-positive and receptor-negative breast cancer cell lines. in the present study, we investigated the anticancer potential of 2-methoxyestradiol, potent chemotherapeutic, in the a375 melanoma cellular model. moreover, the combination of 2-methoxyestradiol and trail reduces the tumor burden in vivo in mia paca-2 tumor xenograft model by caspase-3 activation. in this study, we sought to investigate the effects of 2-methoxyestradiol (2-me) on cisplatin-induced apoptosis and growth inhibition in skov3 ovarian cancer cells. 
Assessing joint line positions by means of the contralateral knee: a new approach for planning knee revision surgery? [SEP] reconstructing the natural joint line in knee revision surgery improves clinical and functional outcome but may be challenging when both cartilage and bone were removed during previous operations. we revised 15 nkii total knee arthroplasties with the navitrack system and compared the mechanical alignment and the joint line level on pre- and postoperative radiographs. these include, among other factors, the choice of the surgical approach, removal of the components, adequate reconstruction of the joint line and posterior condylar offset and the use of offset stems, as well as choosing the appropriate level of constraint.the modularity of many modern knee revision systems can help to address such issues as anatomical mismatch, gap balancing and malalignment.a well-planned surgical approach must be used in rtka. contralateral radiographs, as well as algorithms based on the relationship between bony landmarks and the joint line, can help to reconstruct a physiological joint line during rtka.modularity added to systems, such as offset stems, are useful enhancements that may further improve the reconstruction of the anatomy.there are several options for managing the patella, with the best choice depending on the status of the patellar component and residual bone stock. a retrospective radiographic review of joint line position before and after revision total knee arthroplasty was made, and compared with the joint line position before primary knee arthroplasty. the joint line position in unreplaced knee replacements averaged 16 mm, and the joint line position in knee replacements before revision surgery averaged 17 mm. joint line elevation after revision total knee replacement is a problem. preoperative determination of the joint line position will simplify the surgery and facilitate flexion/extension space balancing. the goal of this study is to evaluate the use of an adjustable knee spacer to control patellar height and joint-line during revision total knee surgery. the joint-line position and the patellar height were determined before and after revision tka. 
Does the type of tibial component affect mechanical alignment in unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] the authors quantitatively evaluated the relationship between component placement, limb alignment, and function following unicompartmental knee replacement surgery. given the potential advantages of the unicompartmental knee, improved precision in component placement should improve the long-term results of hemiarthroplasty knee surgery. patients were implanted with a unicompartmental knee arthroplasty system that uses a unique ligament tensor for femoral component alignment. twenty-nine consecutive lateral unicompartmental arthroplasties were performed with our unique tibial component positioning in 10 degrees to 15 degrees of internal rotation to compensate for the "screw-home" mechanism. unicompartmental replacement can be an alternative to tibial osteotomy in younger, active patients with unicompartmental knee disease. in this in vitro cadaver study, the tricompartmental replacement significantly changed knee kinematics while the unicompartmental replacement preserved normal knee kinematics. reliable unicompartmental knee replacement requires knowledge of the common failure mechanisms of this type of arthroplasty. whereas recent reports are very encouraging in terms of clinical results and enhanced durability of unicompartmental replacements, the current study confirms the observation that nonparallel orientation of femoral and tibial components is common and may produce excessive polyethylene wear and clinical failure. tibial component overhang 226 following unicompartmental knee replacement-does it matter? as such, the alignment of the tibial component plays a crucial role in postoperative knee function and long-term survival. 
Is tumour expression of VEGF associated with venous invasion and survival in pT3 renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] to evaluate peri-operative peripheral and renal venous plasma levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf), platelet-derived growth factor type bb (pdgf-bb), transforming growth factor (tgf)-beta1, endostatin, and thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1) in relation to pathological variables and prognosis, as pro- and anti-angiogenic factors are important for tumour growth and treatment of patients with renal cell carcinoma (rcc). renal venous vegf levels were correlated with tumour diameter and associated with grade and vascular invasion. higher renal venous and peripheral levels of vegf might be associated with a poorer prognosis. evaluation of the relationships between increased expression of vegf-c (vascular endothelial growth factor-c) and vessel density in the tumour-surrounding stroma, patient survival, and other conventional prognostic factors in patients with pt3-4 colon cancer. expression of vegf-c and vessel density were immunohistochemically assessed in 104 specimens of primary, locally advanced (pt3-4) colon adenocarcinoma after surgical resection. the study results indicate that expression of vegf-c in cells of locally advanced pt3-4 adenocarcinoma of the colon does not affect the survival time of the patients. increased expression of vegf-c is accompanied by a significant increase in vessel density in the pt3-4 tumour stroma. vegf expression in the tumours correlated well with the depth of invasion and lymph node metastasis. in patients with pt3n0/xm0 clear cell renal cell carcinoma positive vascular margins are associated with risk of disease progression. hif-1alpha expression correlated significantly with venous invasion, vegf expression, and microvessel density. 
Injury and poisoning mortality among young men--are there any common factors amenable to prevention? [SEP] deaths from injury and poisoning (suicide, accidents, undetermined deaths, and homicide) are the major cause of death among young men aged 15-39 years in england and wales and have been increasing in recent years. to describe common characteristics among young men who die from injury and poisoning. we employed a retrospective survey methodology to investigate factors associated with deaths by injury and poisoning among young men aged 15-39 years (n = 268) in merseyside and cheshire during 1995. alcohol and drug use are important contributory factors to injury and poisoning deaths. poisoning is the fifth leading cause of unintentional injuries among young children. knowledge of parents and caregivers about prevention of poisoning may be the basis to prevent subsequent injuries. these results indicate the need to identify prevention strategies for those injuries that were most commonly treated in emergency, such as unintentional falls among older women, self-inflicted poisoning among young women and blunt force and transportation-related injuries among young men. the majority of deaths in young men were caused by motor vehicle injuries in the u.s.a., whereas suicides and the extremely high rate of fatal non-motor vehicle accidents, largely due to alcohol poisoning and drownings, formed the main bulk of injury mortality in finland. targeted regional or community level programs are required to reduce avoidable deaths due to accidents, injury and poisoning occasioned by motor vehicle accidents, poisoning and suicide among young adults. unintentional poisoning mortality rates were higher in men than in women; however, the increase in rate over time was higher in women than in men. 
Continuation of pregnancy after antenatal corticosteroid administration: opportunity for rescue? [SEP] rescue antenatal corticosteroid may improve overall accuracy of antenatal corticosteroid administration timing, but this observation and its effect on the initial course is unknown. the administration of antenatal corticosteroids to improve outcomes after preterm birth is one of the most important interventions in obstetrics. this article summarizes the evidence for antenatal corticosteroid efficacy and safety that has accumulated since graham liggins and ross howie first introduced this therapy. although antenatal corticosteroids have proven effective for singleton pregnancies at risk for preterm birth between 26 and 34 weeks’ gestation, questions remain about the utility in specific patient populations such as multiple gestations, very early preterm gestations, and pregnancies complicated by iugr. continued surveillance of long-term outcomes after in utero corticosteroid exposure should be supported. continued surveillance of long-term outcomes after in utero corticosteroid exposure should be supported. to determine the duration of continuing pregnancy after antenatal corticosteroid (ac) administration and to evaluate the potential opportunity for rescue ac. continued surveillance of long-term outcomes after in utero corticosteroid exposure should be supported. continued surveillance of long-term outcomes after in utero corticosteroid exposure should be supported. drawing on advances in laboratory science, pre-clinical and clinical studies, we performed a narrative review of the scientific literature to provide a timely update on the benefits, risks and uncertainties regarding antenatal corticosteroid use in pregnancy. 
Does either obesity or OSA severity influence the response of autotitrating CPAP machines in very obese subjects? [SEP] in earlier work from this unit, we used correlations between autocpap pressure and both osa severity and obesity, to construct an algorithm to estimate the fixed cpap pressure a patient required for subsequent clinical use. the aim of this study was to characterise the urinary proteome in severely obese adult subjects with osa who were receiving cpap compared with severely obese subjects without osa. twenty-seven subjects with osa-on-cpap (age 49±7years, bmi 43±7 kg/m(2)) and 25 controls without osa (age 52±9years, bmi 39±4 kg/m(2)) were studied. the urinary proteome is compared in osa with cpap and without osa in severe obesity. this study investigated whether osa was associated with serum urate in severe obesity and whether continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) treatment was associated with a fall in urate. serum urate is associated with osa in severely obese females and cpap may reduce levels in patients with osa. to observe the effect of constant positive airway pressure (cpap) therapy on regional lipid deposition, muscle metabolism and glucose homeostasis in obese patients with obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (osas). in obese patients with severe osas, regular cpap use does not improve glucose control, suggesting that the influence of obesity on glucose control dominates over any potential effect of osas. although there is evidence that arterial stiffness is altered in osa, knowledge of these effects with continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) in severe obesity (body mass index (bmi) ≥ 35 kg/m(2)) is limited. this retrospective study sought to determine whether subjects who adhered to prescribed cpap treatment for osas would lose weight, or gain less weight than control subjects who were either untreated or did not adhere to prescribed cpap treatment. 
Does the clinical presentation of a prior preterm birth predict risk in a subsequent pregnancy? [SEP] unconditional logistic regression was used to assess the association of very preterm birth with sequence of pregnancies defined by their outcome (prior abortion - spontaneous or induced, and prior preterm or term birth) with adjustment for sociodemographic factors. a history of preterm birth is considered the most important risk factor for preterm birth in subsequent pregnancy. to examine recurrent preterm birth and early term birth in women's initial and immediately subsequent pregnancies. compared with women with a prior term birth, women with a prior early preterm birth (before 32 weeks of gestation) were at the highest risk for a subsequent early preterm birth (58/935 [6.2%] compared with 367/118,505 [0.3%], adjusted or 23.3, 95% ci 17.2-31.7). women with a prior early term birth had more than a twofold increased risk for subsequent preterm birth (before 32 weeks of gestation: 171/36,017 [0.5%], adjusted or 2.0, 95% ci 1.6-2.3; from 32 to 36 weeks of gestation: 2,086/36,017 [6.8%], adjusted or 3.0, 95% ci 2.9-3.2) or early term birth (13,582/36,017 [37.7%], adjusted or 2.2, 95% ci 2.2-2.3). both preterm birth and early term birth are associated with these outcomes in a subsequent pregnancy. to examine the impact of the interpregnancy interval and a previous preterm birth on the subsequent risk of a preterm birth. furthermore, there was an increased risk for a subsequent preterm birth in women who had a preterm birth in the index pregnancy (or 4.2; 95% ci 3.0-6.0). a difference was found in the impact of the interpregnancy interval on the subsequent risk of preterm birth between women with a prior preterm birth and those who previously delivered an infant at term. women with a prior preterm birth are at increased risk of recurrent preterm delivery in a subsequent pregnancy. 
Is the Distance Worth It? [SEP] patients with intermittent exotropia who had fusion with the distance alternate-letter suppression test had significantly better distance stereo acuity than patients who had suppression (p<0.001). distance alternate-letter suppression testing and distance stereo acuity tests may be useful as objective measures for assessing sensory loss in patients with intermittent exotropia. the success group showed better results both with worth 4-dot test (p=0.001 at distance and p=0.046 at near) and randot stereo test (p=0.003 for dots and p=0.000 for animals). measurements with a large shadow cone are not worth for larger distances due to overshadowing. stereoacuity at distance of 2500 arcsec or better was detected in 25 (63%) of 40 esotropes, and 16 (57%) of 28 exotropes, although stereoacuity of 800 arcsec or better was found only in two (5%) esotropes and one (4%) exotrope. maintaining an appropriate distance from others is important for establishing effective communication and good interpersonal relations. autism spectrum disorder (asd) is a developmental disorder associated with social difficulties, and it is thus worth examining whether individuals with asd maintain typical or atypical degrees of social distance. individuals with asd showed reduced interpersonal distances compared to td individuals. the same tendency was found when participants judged their preferred distance from objects. a set [formula: see text] is a distance k-dominating set of g if for every vertex [formula: see text], [formula: see text] for some vertex [formula: see text], where k is a positive integer. 
Aripiprazole: a new risk factor for pathological gambling? [SEP] dopamine partial agonist mechanism of aripiprazole could explain the occurrence of pathological gambling. two young patients' pathological gambling emerged simply due to exposure to aripiprazole, neither related to manic or psychotic symptoms nor with history of addictive or impulsive behaviors. we present the case of a patient with bipolar disorder and previous gambling behavior, in whom the gambling behavior escalated with the introduction of aripiprazole and its upward titration. clinicians should be vigilant for possible gambling and other impulse-control behaviors in patients taking aripiprazole. we report three cases of pathological gambling induced by aripiprazole, in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. we recommend consideration with increased attention for the appearance of pathological gambling symptoms among patients on aripiprazole. after adjusting for confounders, users of aripiprazole demonstrated an increased risk of pathologic gambling (rate ratio [rr], 5.23; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.78-15.38) and impulse control disorder (rr, 7.71; 95% ci, 5.81-10.34). to describe a case of aripiprazole-induced problem gambling and impulse-control deficit in a gambling-naïve patient following commencement of low-dose aripiprazole. this case adds to the literature on the dopamine partial agonist aripiprazole causing or exacerbating problem gambling, and extends that literature to low-dose use of aripiprazole in the gambling naïve. when commencing a patient on aripiprazole the possibility of emergence of problem gambling and other impulse-control deficits should be monitored, even in those with no history of similar behaviours and even on a low dose. 
Immune suppression by lysosomotropic amines and cyclosporine on T-cell responses to minor and major histocompatibility antigens: does synergy exist? [SEP] using murine models, we have shown that the lysosomotropic amine, chloroquine, is effective in the prevention of graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) mediated by donor t cells reactive with recipient minor histocompatibility antigens (mihcs). because lysosomotropic amines can suppress major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ii antigen presentation, their mechanism of action is potentially different from current immune suppressant drugs used to control gvhd such as cyclosporine. we investigated the use of cyclosporine and the lysosomotropic amines chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine in combination for additive or synergistic immunosuppression on t-cell responses in vitro to mihc and mhc in mice. we found that similar concentrations of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine suppress the t-cell response to mihc in mice (c57bl/6 anti-balb.b) and that lysosomotropic amines in combination with cyclosporine result in synergistic suppression of a proliferative response to mihc. lysosomotropic amines in combination with cyclosporine appear to be synergistic in the suppression of t-cell proliferation to mihc and mhc. we have recently shown that the lysosomotropic amine, chloroquine, can inhibit the development of graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) secondary to minor histocompatibility (mihc) differences in mice. the lysosomotropic amines, at low concentrations, in combination with the t cell-specific agent, cyclosporin a, synergistically suppresses the t cell response to mihc and mhc in mouse and in human. we hypothesize that the lysosomotropic amines may have unique beneficial effects on immune reconstitution following bone marrow transplantation. evaluation for a direct effect by the lysosomotropic amines on t cells, in the absence of antigen presenting cells, revealed that there was inhibition of t cell responses but only at high concentrations. thus, lysosomotropic amines in combination with cyclosporin a are synergistic in suppression of t cell proliferation. 
Does induction chemotherapy have a role in the management of nasopharyngeal carcinoma? [SEP] here we are going to highlight the role of chemotherapy in nasopharyngeal carcinoma, its benefit, and controversies regarding timing and sequences. our findings evinced that, as compared to chemoradiotherapy alone, the addition of induction chemotherapy comprising of gemcitabine plus cisplatin to concurrent cisplatin-radiotherapy to patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma was safe, demonstrated improved recurrence-free survival, overall survival, and distant recurrence-free survival, and marginally superior locoregional recurrence-free survival. between february 1981 and august 1986, 24 patients with previously untreated, stage iv nasopharyngeal carcinoma were treated with two to four monthly courses of cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy prior to radiotherapy. in conclusion, induction chemotherapy has significant activity in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. intergroup 0099 established the role of concurrent chemotherapy with radiation therapy in the treatment of locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma, but its reproducibility was unclear and chemotherapy compliance was poor. this review highlights recent advances in the management of nasopharyngeal carcinoma as a result of these endeavors. for pediatric nasopharyngeal carcinoma, the current standard of care is induction chemotherapy followed by chemoradiation therapy. in this review, we summarize the data from studies and reviews regarding chemotherapy for stage ii nasopharyngeal carcinoma in the intensity-modulated radiotherapy era and discuss chemotherapy utility. concurrent chemotherapy with radiotherapy is the standard treatment for locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal cancer. the use of cetuximab in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma has been tested in various settings, including in combination with induction chemotherapy and concurrent chemoradiotherapy, and in the palliative setting. 
Treatment of contralateral hydrocele in neonatal testicular torsion: Is less more? [SEP] treatment of neonatal testicular torsion has two objectives: salvage of the involved testicle (which is rarely achieved) and preservation of the contralateral gonad. our objective in this study was to determine whether the decision to manage a contralateral hydrocele in cases of neonatal testicular torsion solely through a scrotal approach is safe and effective. we have demonstrated that approaching a contralateral hydrocele in cases of neonatal testicular torsion solely through a scrotal incision is safe and effective. contralateral hydrocele is commonly seen in cases of neonatal testicular torsion. this report describes the antenatal diagnosis of testicular torsion with surgical and pathological confirmation. pathological examination demonstrated a recent extravaginal torsion, which is the predominant mechanism for testicular torsion in the fetus and neonate. the timing and surgical management of neonatal testicular torsions (ntts) remain controversial, varying from immediate orchiectomy with empirical contralateral orchiopexy to expectant management with resulting atrophy of the affected testicle. at our institution, the most frequent management of unilateral neonatal testicular torsions is ioco or co, but this carries an 18% complication rate, particularly if surgery is performed early. a case of the prenatal diagnosis of testicular torsion at 39 weeks' gestation is presented. perinatal testicular torsion is a rare emergency in a neonate that prompts immediate attention. 
Are normally sighted, visually impaired, and blind pedestrians accurate and reliable at making street crossing decisions? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to measure the accuracy and reliability of normally sighted, visually impaired, and blind pedestrians at making street crossing decisions using visual and/or auditory information. we found that normally sighted and visually impaired pedestrians were accurate and reliable in their street crossing decision-making ability when using either vision plus hearing or vision only (p > 0.05). compared to either the normally sighted (p = 0.018) or visually impaired subjects (p = 0.019), blind subjects were the least accurate with their street crossing decisions under the hearing only condition. our data suggested that visually impaired pedestrians can make accurate and reliable street crossing decisions like those of normally sighted pedestrians. using this new metric, we observed that visually impaired subjects who travel independently are able to make street-crossing judgments that are comparable to those of normally sighted subjects. we determined whether the street-crossing decisions of subjects with age-related macular degeneration (amd) were as accurate and precise as those made by young and older subjects with normal vision. street-crossing decisions in 13 amd subjects, and 20 young and 20 older control subjects with normal vision were measured along an un-signalized street for nine different gap times. street crossing can be a significant challenge for visually impaired people, limiting their mobility especially in urban environments. testing with visually impaired subjects resulted in successful guidance at an outdoor crosswalk. the travel environment for people with visual impairment includes pedestrian safety concerns, especially when crossing roads at intersections. 
Is it Crohn's disease? [SEP] metastatic crohn's disease is a rare cutaneous complication of primary crohn's disease. we present data from two pediatric cases of metastatic crohn's disease recently seen at our institution in addition to the 61 reported cases of pediatric metastatic crohn's disease in the literature. this review article will focus on the epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical features, and histology of and treatment options for pediatric metastatic crohn's disease. crohn's disease of the pouch can occur in patients with colectomy and ileal pouch-anal anastomosis performed for ulcerative colitis. the clinical phenotypes of crohn's disease were based on a combined assessment of clinical, endoscopic, radiographic, and histologic features. predominant symptoms were different in clinical phenotypes of crohn's disease. sera from patients with crohn's disease have been reported to show positive immunofluorescence with lymph nodes of nude mice primed with a filtrate of intestinal tissue affected with crohn's disease. parents of patients with crohn's disease are 35-70 times more likely to develop crohn's disease than the general population. urgency was more common in crohn's disease compared with non-crohn's disease: 19 vs. 11 percent (p=0.02). incontinence occurred more frequently in crohn's disease compared with non-crohn's disease patients: 19 vs. 10 percent (odds ratio, 2.4; p=0.01). 
Is Chaalia/Pan Masala harmful for health? [SEP] to determine the practices and knowledge of harmful effects regarding use of chaalia and pan masala in three schools of mahmoodabad and chanesar goth, jamshed town, karachi, pakistan. along with demographic data, questions regarding frequency of chaalia and pan masala use, practices of this habit in friends and family and place of procurement of these substances, were inquired. the frequency of use of any brand of chaalia was found to be 94% and that of pan masala was 73.8%. chaalia was considered harmful for health by 96% and pan masala by 60%. the frequency of habits of chaalia and pan masala chewing, by school children in lower socio-economic areas is extremely high. pan masala is commonly consumed in south-east asian and other oriental countries as an alternate of tobacco chewing and smoking. cytogenetic studies in chinese hamster ovary (cho) cells using aqueous and organic extracts of pan masalas, as well as genomic damage observed among pan masala consumers have conclusively shown genotoxic potential of pan masala-a dry complex mixture of areca nut, lime, catechu, cardamom, unspecified flavoring agent, etc., often containing tobacco in it. gutkha and pan masala contain harmful and carcinogenic chemicals. pan masala is a comparatively recent habit in india and is marketed with and without tobacco. these results indicate that pan masala is a potential dna-damaging agent and cytotoxic to bone marrow cells. 
Does multi-modal cervical physical therapy improve tinnitus in patients with cervicogenic somatic tinnitus? [SEP] recently, a positive effect of multi-modal cervical physical therapy on tinnitus severity in patients with cst was demonstrated. to identify prognostic indicators for decrease in tinnitus severity after cervical physical therapy in patients with cst. physical therapy that targeted the muscles of the upper cervical spine with dry needling resulted in a meaningful reduction in cervicogenic somatosensory tinnitus, and the improvements persisted at 1-year follow-up. to investigate the effect of a multimodal cervical physical therapy treatment on tinnitus complaints in patients with cst. cervical physical therapy can have a positive effect on subjective tinnitus complaints in patients with a combination of tinnitus and neck complaints. based on the results of this study, direct trigger point acupuncture of cervical muscles may be beneficial in the treatment of somatic tinnitus with a long-duration effect. this study aims to investigate the effect of a standardized physical therapy treatment, directed to the cervical spine, on tinnitus. this study is the first to investigate the effect of a standardized physical therapy treatment protocol on somatic tinnitus with a prospective comparative delayed design and with blinded evaluator for baseline, end of therapy, and 6 and 12 weeks after therapy. the conceptual phase of this study aims to uncover underlying mechanisms linking the auditory and somatosensory systems in relation to subjective tinnitus through (i) review of the literature (part 1) and (ii) through design of a pilot study that will explore characteristics of the study population and identify relevant components and outcomes of manual therapy in patients with cervicogenic somatosensory tinnitus (part 2). this manuscript focusses the theoretical concept of (cervicogenic) somatosensory tinnitus, either with or without secondary central tinnitus or tinnitus sensitization. 
Detailed analysis of sputum and systemic inflammation in asthma phenotypes: are paucigranulocytic asthmatics really non-inflammatory? [SEP] sputum eosinophils (in absolute values and percentages) were increased in all asthma phenotypes including paucigranulocytic asthma, compared to healthy subjects (p < 0.005). eosinophilic asthma showed higher absolute sputum neutrophil and lymphocyte counts than healthy subjects (p < 0.005), while neutrophilic asthmatics had a particularly low number of sputum macrophages and epithelial cells. the aim of the study was to investigate the capacity of electronic nose breath-print analysis to discriminate between different inflammatory asthma phenotypes (eosinophilic, neutrophilic, paucigranulocytic) determined by induced sputum in patients with persistent asthma. inflammatory asthma phenotypes (eosinophilic, neutrophilic and paucigranulocytic) were recognized by inflammatory cell counts in induced sputum. the aim of this study was to detect functional and inflammatory characteristics of patients with paucigranulocytic asthma. the recognition and importance of inflammatory phenotype analysis using induced sputum in adult asthma are reviewed using published literature. this study aimed to identify and validate a sputum gene expression signature that discriminates asthma inflammatory phenotypes. an asthma phenotype biomarker discovery study generated gene expression profiles from induced sputum of 47 asthmatic patients. a sputum gene expression signature of 6 biomarkers reproducibly and significantly discriminates inflammatory phenotypes of asthma and predicts ics treatment response. induced sputum (is) allows to measure mediators of asthmatic inflammation in bronchial secretions. 
Is HIV/STD control in Jamaica making a difference? [SEP] to describe the hiv/aids epidemic in jamaica. although awareness of aids and hiv is high and condom use has increased considerably, there are no grounds for complacency concerning the hiv/aids epidemic in jamaica. to assess the impact of the comprehensive hiv/std control program established in jamaica since the late 1980s on the hiv/aids epidemic. hiv/std control measures appear to have slowed the hiv/aids epidemic in jamaica, however a significant minority of persons continue to have unprotected sex in high risk situations. the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases (std) and risky behaviour patterns were studied in 165 adolescents attending a std clinic in jamaica. educational strategies which promote behaviour intervention at an early age, frequent and consistent use of condoms, abstinence or delayed onset of sexual activity are essential to reducing the hiv/aids and std risk in adolescents in jamaica. as part of a larger strategy to develop global indicators of hiv (human immunodeficiency virus) infection prevention programmes, a clinic-based method for the assessment of sexually transmitted disease (std) service quality was developed and field tested by trained observers who visited a random sample of public-sector clinics in jamaica in october 1991. hiv/aids is a problem in developing countries including jamaica. this study examines the sexual behavior and attitude of non-hiv testers in jamaica in order to provide research evidence that will direct public health policies and interventions. the existing hiv prevention programs need to be expanded and fortified to target young jamaicans, particularly those who do not engage in safe sexual practices. 
Is Panton-Valentine leucocidin associated with the pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia in the UK? [SEP] panton-valentine leucocidin producing methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus infections are rare but associated with very high mortality rates. we report the case of a 14-year-old patient with panton-valentine leucocidin producing methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus infection and influenza b pneumonia requiring veno-arterial extra-corporeal membrane oxygenator for refractory shock. cytosorb® hemoadsorption during panton-valentine leucocidin producing methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus infection appears safe and feasible and no adaptation of clindamycin dosage seems necessary. panton-valentine leucocidin positive staphylococcus aureus bacteremia is rare in our setting with high mssa-prevalence. panton valentine leucocidin, exfoliatins, enterotoxins and toxin shock syndrome toxin 1 are the main toxins involved in most dermatological manifestations associated with s. aureus. three patients hospitalised in the coronary care unit of a general district hospital (england, uk) were tested positive for panton-valentine leucocidin methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus colonisation during their routine weekly screening for methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa). among these isolates, four were panton-valentine leukocidin positive. the morbidity and mortality associated with panton-valentine leucocidin (pvl)-positive staphylococcus aureus suggest that this toxin is a key marker of disease severity. strains of staphylococcus aureus capable of producing panton-valentine leucocidin (pvl-sa) are increasingly implicated in commnity acquired infection. we report a 16-year-old schoolboy with panton-valentine leucocidin (pvl) positive methicillin susceptible s. aureus osteomyelitis, who was refractory to 9days of recognised antimicrobial chemotherapy with progressive multifocal haematogenous spread. 
Are even impaired fasting blood glucose levels preoperatively associated with increased mortality after CABG surgery? [SEP] thus, the goal of the current study was to examine the relationship between admission blood glucose and outcome after emergency cabg surgery. a retrospective analysis to evaluate whether admission hyperglycemia associated with increased morbidity or mortality was performed in patients after emergency cabg surgery. on multivariable analysis, admission blood glucose was identified as an independent risk factor for death after emergency cabg (p=.01; odds ratio, 1.16; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-1.29). our study shows for the first time that admission blood glucose is correlated with increased morbidity and mortality among patients undergoing emergency cabg surgery. the aim was to investigate the association between preoperative disturbances of glucose metabolism and long-term all-cause mortality after coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). we hypothesize that preoperative biomarkers reflecting myocardial damage, inflammation, and metabolic dysfunction are associated with an increased risk of mortality following cabg surgery and the use of biomarkers associated with these injuries will improve the northern new england (nne) cabg mortality risk prediction model. low preoperative hematocrit levels are associated with increased mortality after cabg surgery. preoperative high blood glucose levels are closely associated with poor performance and high mortality in cancer patients. preoperative fasting hyperglycemia was associated with shorter survival times in univariate analyses (hr, 3.215; 95% ci, 1.846-5.601; p<0.001). preoperative fasting hyperglycemia is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in gbc patients after gbc radical surgery. 
Does positron emission tomography change management in primary rectal cancer? [SEP] the influence of positron emission tomography in the management of recurrent rectal cancer is well established but its role in primary rectal cancer remains uncertain. this study therefore prospectively assesses the impact of position emission tomography scanning on the management of primary rectal cancer. position emission tomography scanning appears to accurately change the stage or appropriately alter the therapy of almost a third of patients with advanced primary rectal cancer. positron emission tomography has the most significant impact in the change of management overall, and its use in restaging advanced rectal cancer should be further explored. the aim of this study was to assess the role of (18)flourodeoxyglucose positron-emission tomography/computed tomography (pet/ct) in the initial staging of primary rectal adenocarcinoma. positron-emission tomography/computed tomography provides additional information to conventional staging in primary rectal cancer. this pilot study demonstrates that fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography imaging adds incremental information to the preoperative assessment of patients with rectal cancer. this study was designed to assess the impact of pet-ct on management of primary rectal cancer. the objective of this study was to investigate the possibility of using positron emission tomography/computer tomography to predict the histopathologic response in locally advanced rectal cancer treated with preoperative chemoradiation. this study reviews the role of positron emission tomography in the assessment of patients with suspected recurrent colorectal cancer. 
Can you deliver accurate tidal volume by manual resuscitator? [SEP] the tidal volume delivered by a manual resuscitator shows large variations. the expiratory tidal volume measured at the mask (v(te(mask))) is a good estimate of the tidal volume delivered during simulated neonatal resuscitation. to assess possible alterations in the tidal volume and peak inspiratory pressure delivered by seven models of manually operated self-inflating resuscitation bags as a function of the oxygen supply rate used. to compare tidal volumes delivered by one- vs two-handed compressions of a manual resuscitation bag and assess the effects of subject characteristics on those tidal volumes. a 1-liter resuscitation bag, lung performance analyzer and wright spirometer were used to measure tidal volume. the oxygen concentration delivered to the test lung by manual inflation of the resuscitation bag was measured using an anaesthetic machine while the delivered tidal volume was measured using a respirometer. the expiratory tidal volume measured at the mask (v(te(mask))) is a good estimate of the tidal volume delivered during simulated neonatal resuscitation. to examine nurses' ability to deliver 1.5 times the ventilated tidal volume at 100% fio2 with a manual resuscitation bag during endotracheal suctioning. however, little is known about how clinicians deliver tidal volumes and respiratory rates during cpr. delivered tidal volumes and respiratory rates were measured on a monitor. 
Can increases in the cigarette tax rate be linked to cigarette retail prices? [SEP] increases in taxes would result in a significant reduction in cigarette consumption while increasing tax revenue. the effectiveness of excise tax increases as a tool for reducing tobacco consumption depends largely on how the tax increases impact the retail price. a r1.00 (one rand) increase in the excise tax is associated with an increase in the retail price of cigarettes of r0.90 in the pre-2010 period, and r0.49 in the post-2010 period. in the pre-2010 period, the tobacco industry increased the retail price of cigarettes in july/august, independent of the excise tax increase. the degree of excise tax pass-through, and the magnitude of discretionary increases in cigarette prices, is significantly determined by the competitive environment in the cigarette market. excise tax increases are the most effective government intervention to increase the price of cigarettes, but cigarette manufacturers use trade discounts, coupons, and other promotions to counteract the effects of these tax increases and appeal to price-sensitive smokers. the current study explores the change in tobacco prices in retail locations and whether the tax increase was fully passed to consumers. the effectiveness of tax increase in reducing tobacco use depends on the extent to which the industry passes on the tax to consumers. evidence suggests that tobacco industry may absorb or raise the price more than the tax increase depending on the price segment of tobacco products. in the face of growing cigarette affordability, it is crucial that the specific tax be increased routinely by an amount that induces cigarette price increases large enough to make cigarettes less affordable over time. 
Vertical lines in distal esophageal mucosa (VLEM): a true endoscopic manifestation of esophagitis in children? [SEP] we observed an endoscopic abnormally in a group of children with histological esophagitis. we termed this finding "vertical lines in esophageal mucosa" (vlem). the esophageal mucosa had a normal appearance on 160 endoscopic studies (group 1) and vlem were the only mucosal abnormalities in 41 endoscopies (group 2). vlem may be a highly specific endoscopic feature of esophagitis in children. thirty patients (18m: 12f, 7 months to 20 years and 10 months) with a history of esophageal symptoms, but no endoscopic or histologic criteria of eoe were studied using a through the scope 20 mhz olympus ultrasound miniprobe um-3r (olympus america, center valley pa 18034) through a gif q180 or 160 (olympus) standard pediatric upper endoscope. esophagitis in infancy and childhood produces characteristic histologic changes in the mucosa and lamina propria of the distal esophagus. three hundred thirty-four consecutive patients with symptoms of foregut disease, no evidence of columnar-lined esophagus, and no history of gastric or esophageal surgery were evaluated by 1) endoscopic biopsies above, at, and below the gastroesophageal junction; 2) esophageal motility; and 3) 24-hour esophageal ph monitoring. white specks in the esophageal mucosa have been observed in children with eosinophilic esophagitis. endoscopic data, ph probe results, and histopathology reports for children with esophageal endoscopic abnormalities seen during a 17-month period were reviewed. this report describes a new endoscopic finding associated with allergic eosinophilic esophagitis in children. 
Does hypoglycaemia increase the risk of cardiovascular events? [SEP] study findings have suggested that hypoglycaemia is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events and mortality. these observations support the hypothesis that hypoglycaemia is a risk factor for cardiovascular events. severe hypoglycaemia is associated with a high risk of cardiovascular events in patient with diabetes. the aim of this study was to clarify the temporal relationship between hypoglycaemia and cardiovascular events. severe hypoglycaemia is associated with a greater risk of cardiovascular events and death, especially during the first month following a hypoglycaemic episode. patients prone to severe hypoglycaemia should be made aware of the elevated risk of subsequent cardiovascular events. this paper reports a secondary analysis investigating associations of severe hypoglycaemia with cardiovascular outcomes and mortality. hypoglycaemia has been associated with increased cardiovascular (cv) risk and mortality in a number of recent multicentre trials, but the mechanistic links driving this association remain ill defined. this was a systematic review of available mechanistic and clinical studies on the relationship between hypoglycaemia and cardiovascular risk. in addition, 88 studies have indicated that hypoglycaemia mechanistically contributes to cv risk by increasing thrombotic tendency, causing abnormal cardiac repolarization, inducing inflammation, and contributing to the development of atherosclerosis. 
Does the radiographic transition zone correlate with the level of aganglionosis on the specimen in Hirschsprung's disease? [SEP] the correlation between radiographic transition zone on contrast enema in hirschsprung's disease and the total length of aganglionosis is known to be inaccurate. the anticipated level of aganglionosis can influence the surgical approach to hirschsprung's disease. the contrast enema showed a transition zone suggestive of hirschsprung's disease in 67 of 75 patients (89%). of the patients with a radiographic transition zone in the rectosigmoid, 54 of 60 (90%) had a matching level of aganglionosis. in rectosigmoid hirschsprung's disease, the location of the radiographic transition zone correlates accurately with the level of aganglionosis in 90% of cases. the aim of this study was to determine the utility and diagnostic accuracy of a plain abdominal radiograph transition zone (partz) in predicting the level of aganglionosis. we aimed to evaluate the extent of the histological transition zone in patients with hirschsprung's disease. as expected, the presence of a transition zone was most accurate in predicting hirschsprung's disease. eighty percent of infants with aganglionosis had a roentgenographic transition zone, while 20% did not. the definitive surgical management of hirschsprung's disease (hd) depends on an unambiguous histological diagnosis of bowel aganglionosis, as well as an accurate assessment of its proximal extent from the rectum or 'leveling'. 
Is dexamethasone an effective alternative to oral prednisone in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations? [SEP] we reviewed the literature to determine if there is sufficient evidence that dexamethasone can be used as an effective alternative in the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations in the inpatient setting. the current literature suggests that dexamethasone can be used as an effective alternative to prednisone in the treatment of mild to moderate acute asthma exacerbations in children, with the added benefits of improved compliance, palatability, and cost. the aim of this study was to determine if 2 doses of oral dexamethasone are as effective as a 5-day course of oral prednisone in preventing relapse for pediatric asthma exacerbations. to compare nebulized dexamethasone with oral prednisone in the treatment of children with asthma. nebulized dexamethasone was as effective as oral prednisone in the ed treatment of moderately ill children with acute asthma and was associated with more rapid clinical improvement, more reliable drug delivery, and fewer relapses. dexamethasone has emerged as a viable alternative to prednisone in the treatment of pediatric acute asthma exacerbations, with the potential for improved compliance secondary to decreased frequency of dosing, improved taste, and decreased cost. thus, dexamethasone is an attractive alternative to prednisone/prednisolone and should be considered in the management of acute asthma exacerbations in the ed. objective: our hospital's pediatric emergency department (ed) began using dexamethasone for treating asthma exacerbations after ed studies showed non-inferiority of dexamethasone compared to prednisone. further research comparing the effectiveness of dexamethasone to prednisone in inpatient asthmatic children with various severities of illness is needed. the objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of dexamethasone versus prednisone for the treatment of pediatric asthma exacerbations in the emergency department (ed). 
Mammographic screening in Sami speaking municipalities and a control group. Are early outcome measures influenced by ethnicity? [SEP] female citizens of sami (the indigenous people of norway) municipalities in northern norway have a low risk of breast cancer. the objective of this study was to describe the attendance rate and outcome of the norwegian breast cancer screening program (nbcsp) in the sami-speaking municipalities and a control group. the objectives of this study were to compare municipalities with a majority of sami in the population and a control group with regard to socioeconomic factors and health outcome. the objective of this study was to document that the sami people, constituting an ethnic minority in northern norway, experience an equally available specialist health care service as the one offered to norwegians in general. the sami-speaking municipalities had a significantly lower incidence of cancer. the aim of this study was analyze the admission and inpatient stay at psychiatric hospital in northern norway among people from the sami-speaking municipalities (sami group) and a control group (non-sami group). this study explored the present utilization of healthcare services among the sami people by investigating sami municipalities' current expenditure on somatic hospital and specialist service. these results do not indicate that ethnic barriers prevent sami inhabitants from utilization of somatic hospital and specialist services. people living in sami speaking communities experienced significantly less ct and us exams, but had more mr exams than the control group. the objective of this study was to analyze the birth and induced abortion on demand (iad) rate among women in sami-speaking communities and a control group in finnmark county, norway. 
Do Electrochemiluminescence Assays Improve Prediction of Time to Type 1 Diabetes in Autoantibody-Positive TrialNet Subjects? [SEP] to explore whether electrochemiluminescence (ecl) assays can help improve prediction of time to type 1 diabetes in the trialnet autoantibody-positive population. trialnet subjects who were positive for one or more autoantibodies (microinsulin autoantibody, gad65 autoantibody [gada], ia-2a, and znt8a) with available ecl-insulin autoantibody (iaa) and ecl-gada data at their initial visit were analyzed; after a median follow-up of 24 months, 177 of these 1,287 subjects developed diabetes. ecl assays improved the ability to predict time to diabetes in these autoantibody-positive relatives at risk for developing diabetes. trialnet subjects positive for single autoantibody to insulin (miaa) (n = 50) or single autoantibody to glutamic acid decarboxylase (gada) (n = 50) were analyzed using new electrochemiluminescence (ecl) assays (ecl-iaa and ecl-gada, respectively) at their initial visit and longitudinally over time. we recently developed new electrochemiluminescence (ecl) insulin autoantibody (iaa) and glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 autoantibody (gada) assays that discriminate high-affinity, high-risk diabetes-specific autoantibodies from low-affinity, low-risk islet autoantibodies (iabs) detected by radioassay (rad). we measured pi:c ratios and autoantibodies with both electrochemiluminescence (ecl) assays (ecl-iaa, ecl-gada and ecl-ia2a) and radiobinding (rba) assays (miaa, gada, ia2a and znt8a) in 98 relatives of individuals with type 1 diabetes followed in the trialnet pathway to prevention study at the barbara davis center for a mean of 7.4 ​± ​4.1 years. electrochemiluminescence (ecl) assays have shown promise for enhancing the prediction of type 1 diabetes (t1d) with autoantibodies. the identification of diabetes-relevant islet autoantibodies is essential for predicting and preventing type 1 diabetes (t1d). determine if autoantibody titer magnitude and variability predict glucose abnormalities in subjects at risk for type 1 diabetes. ica512 autoantibody titers associate with progressive abnormalities in glucose metabolism in subjects at risk for type 1 diabetes. 
Assessment of appropriate antimicrobial prescribing: do experts agree? [SEP] twenty-four doctors specialized in infectious diseases or clinical microbiology (16 specialists and 8 residents) from five hospitals were asked to assess the appropriateness of antimicrobial agents prescribed for a broad spectrum of indications in 56 paper cases. doctors specialized in infectious diseases and clinical microbiology assess the appropriateness of antimicrobials prescribed for a broad spectrum of indications with acceptable agreement and validity, regardless of their experience or hospital of employment. to develop a consensus-based set of generic competencies in antimicrobial prescribing and stewardship for european prescribers through a structured consensus procedure. to develop standardized definitions of appropriateness for antimicrobial prescribing in the critical care setting. we used consensus-based modified delphi and rand appropriateness methodology to develop criteria to define appropriateness of antimicrobial prescribing. this study developed a patient-level audit tool to assess the appropriateness of antibiotic prescribing in acute national health service (nhs) hospitals in the uk. accepted variables were used to develop an audit tool to determine the extent of appropriateness of antibiotic prescribing at the individual patient level in acute nhs hospitals through infection expert consensus based on the results of a delphi process. conclusion all proposed disease-specific quality indicators for outpatient antibiotic prescribing have face validity and are potentially applicable. the highest confidence rates with prescribing were recorded in accurately diagnosing an infection that needs antimicrobial treatment, selecting an appropriate administration route, and selecting the appropriate dosage. the lowest confidence rates were recorded in modifying antimicrobial treatment based on clinical and/or microbiological evidence, prescribing antimicrobial combinations and not prescribing an antimicrobial in a febrile patient without severity criteria and uncertain diagnosis of infection. 
Is there a favorable subset of patients with prostate cancer who develop oligometastases? [SEP] to review the current understanding and recent developments regarding the concept of oligometastases in hormone-sensitive prostate cancer. this concept of oligometastases has been adopted in other cancer settings such as colorectal and non-small-cell lung cancers. multiple clinical and molecular biological studies have been influential in the support of a stable state in metastatic cancer progression coined 'oligometastases'. as our understanding of oligometastases in hormone-sensitive prostate cancer develops, we will be able to molecularly define the oligometastatic state and develop clinically available diagnostic tests. local failure was rare, with 3 prostate recurrences and progression of 10 treated oligometastases during follow-up. the unique properties of the oligometastatic prostate cancer appear to carry a better prognosis than wide spread metastatic disease, especially if these metastases are amenable to local ablative therapies. the term "oligometastatic prostate cancer" refers to a heterogeneous group of disease states currently defined solely on the basis of clinical features. improved functional imaging with prostate-specific membrane antigen-targeted strategies may enhance the identification of patients with oligometastatic prostate cancer in the short term. background: oligometastatic disease has emerged as a distinct clinical state, with a tumor burden intermediate between localized and extensive systemic disease. the term oligometastases represents a clinical state of metastatic disease that is limited in the number of metastatic sites and extent of disease, and amenable to metastasis-directed surgical or ablative therapy. 
Cycloplegic autorefraction in young adults: is it mandatory? [SEP] cycloplegic autorefraction of the right eye was measured on 25 myopic young adults using a modified grand seiko autorefractor. for studies seeking to measure changes in astigmatism in normal eyes, cycloplegic autorefraction is the method of choice. to compare cycloplegic autorefraction with non-cycloplegic subjective refraction across all age and refractive error groups. then all participants underwent cycloplegic autorefraction. the purpose of this assessment is to evaluate the accuracy of autorefraction compared with cycloplegic retinoscopy in children. comparisons of noncycloplegic with cycloplegic autorefractions found that noncyloplegic refraction tends to over minus by 1 to 2 d. cycloplegic autorefraction is appropriate to use in pediatric population-based studies. cycloplegic retinoscopy can be valuable in individual clinical cases to confirm the accuracy of cycloplegic autorefraction, particularly when corrected visual acuity is worse than expected or the autorefraction results are not consistent with expected findings. comparison of cycloplegic and non-cycloplegic autorefraction in both study groups showed significant differences in the sphere and spherical equivalent (all p<0.001), but no significant difference was found in cylinder, j0, and j45 between the study groups (all p>0.05). to investigate the cycloplegic effect on the accuracy of topcon ar rm-8000b autorefractometer in children. cycloplegic autorefraction identified true positive cases and myopic autorefraction was relatively unaffected by cycloplegia. 
Does screening or surveillance for primary hepatocellular carcinoma with ultrasonography improve the prognosis of patients? [SEP] surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is considered a standard of care for patients with chronic liver disease who are at risk of developing this malignancy. during 2010-2012, 194 patients underwent ultrasonography surveillance were diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma and divided into: (a) immediate diagnosis (n=105, 54.1%) after positive ultrasonography, (b) enhanced follow-up: (n=38, 19.6%) for initial negative recall procedures, (c) late call back: (n=28, 14.4%) recall procedures were deferred after positive ultrasonography, and (d) beyond ultrasonography: (n=23, 11.9%) surveillance ultrasonography had been negative. although the overall prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) remains poor, curative treatment may improve the survival of patients diagnosed at an early stage through surveillance. early hepatocellular carcinoma diagnosis is associated with better long-term survival. the purpose of this paper is to evaluate the efficacy of ultrasonographic screening for primary hepatocellular carcinoma. these findings strongly suggest that early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma by ultrasound may improve the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. for the first time, a randomized controlled trial of surveillance for hepatocellular carcinoma showed improved survival for those patients who underwent surveillance compared with no surveillance. surveillance of cirrhotic patients for early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma, based on ultrasonography and alpha1-fetoprotein determination, is a recommended practice. concurrently, patients were followed by periodic serum alpha-fetoprotein examinations and ultrasonography, aiming at early detection and possible treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. surveillance on hepatocellular carcinoma could detect most tumors with small size. 
"Would a man smell a rose then throw it away? [SEP] we are all familiar with shakespeare's quote from romeo and juliet 'a rose by any other name would smell as sweet'. the answer to promotion in rheumatology, if there is gender equality; would be that rose or rosendo (the male version of rose) would have equal opportunity to be promoted in academic rheumatology in the us. "if i were a betting person ... this is another instance in which a rose by an other name does not smell as sweet. although juliet's claim, 'what's in a name? that which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet', may apply to family names, 'that which we call' embryos and procedures in reproductive genetics often smell sweet because the names were created to perfume not-so-sweet-smelling practices. reproductive-genetic scientists and clinicians, including myself, have used perfumed names to make our research smell sweet for research ethics boards, research grant funders, government regulators, hospital administrators and the general public. in order for informed choices to occur for women who come to clinicians for information regarding reproductive genetics, and for transparency of scrutiny by research ethics boards, governmental regulators and the general public, it is essential that we consider the real meaning of sweet-smelling names in reproductive genetics. there are two possible mechanisms for this discrimination-behavior: either the bees are smelling nectar odor or they are smelling bee scent left by previous visitors to the flower. my results are inconsistent with the hypothesis that bees are basing their decision on nectar smell and suggest that they are using bee scent as a means of identifying empty flowers. 
Department of Transportation vs self-reported data on motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions for stroke survivors: do they agree? [SEP] research on stroke survivors' driving safety has typically used either self-reports or government records, but the extent to which the 2 may differ is not known. we compared government records and self-reports of motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions in a sample of stroke survivors. self-reports of collisions and convictions were acquired via a semistructured interview and then compared with the mto records. for 7 (13.5%) the mto records did not match the self-reports regarding collision involvement, and for 9 (17.3%) the mto records did not match self-reports regarding driving convictions. in our population of stroke survivors, self-reports of motor vehicle collisions and driving convictions differed from government records. in future studies, the use of both government and self-reported data would ensure a more accurate picture of driving safety post-stroke. the purpose of this study was to compare the age and sex trends of motor vehicle collision injuries between a nationally representative self-report survey and official police motor vehicle collision report data. the results indicate that the incidence of injuries based on self-report data in a nationally representative sample is similar to official sources of reporting and are thus a valid indicator or motor vehicle collision injury incidence. a retrospective analysis was performed utilizing public vehicle collision data gathered from the department of transportation of florida, new york, and massachusetts from october 1, 2019 to march 31, 2020 regarding 158,341 motor vehicle collisions. data on motor vehicle collision and injury statistics covering 2003-2007 were obtained from official sources provided by the department of traffic safety and the ministry of health's republican medical information centre. 
Neoadjuvant Imatinib in Locally Advanced Gastrointestinal stromal Tumours, Will Kit Mutation Analysis Be a Pathfinder? [SEP] gastrointestinal stromal tumour patients with exon 9 kit mutations have a worse outcome, but progression-free survival is improved by treatment with imatinib 800 mg daily. the phase iii trial in advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour, eortc 62005, demonstrated increased progression-free survival for imatinib 800 mg daily versus 400 mg. mutational analysis showed the benefit was primarily due to patients with exon 9 mutations. mutational analysis of kit and pdgfra should ideally be performed in all patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumour. gastrointestinal stromal tumors are a rare neoplasm exhibiting, in most cases, mutations of c-kit. we report the case of a patient with a gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumor who had a pathological complete response after neoadjuvant treatment with imatinib mesylate. we report the case of a 54-year-old arab woman with a gastrointestinal stromal tumor who had a pathological complete response after neoadjuvant treatment with imatinib mesylate. neoadjuvant imatinib therapy used to treat locally advanced or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gi st) remains under active investigation. here, we report a case of metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumour that relapsed during imatinib therapy. treatment paradigms changed with the discovery that gastrointestinal stromal tumor cells express kit, a tyrosine kinase growth factor receptor, which is mutated in 85% of cases. imatinib and sunitinib are tyrosine kinase inhibitors with activity against advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors. 
Does the lipid-lowering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors ligand bezafibrate prevent colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease? [SEP] nuclear peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppar), which play a central role in lipid and glucose metabolism, had been hypothesized as being involved in colon cancerogenesis. in animal studies the lipid-lowering ppar ligand bezafibrate suppressed colonic tumors. therefore, we proposed to investigate a possible preventive effect of bezafibrate on the development of colon cancer in patients with coronary artery disease during a 6-year follow-up. on multivariable analysis the colon cancer risk in patients who received bezafibrate tended to be lower with a hazard ratio of 0.47 and 95% confidence interval 0.2-1.1. our data, derived from patients with coronary artery disease, support the hypothesis regarding a possible preventive effect of bezafibrate on the development of colon cancer. the biological role of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars) in various diseases, including inflammation and cancer, has been highlighted recently. in the present study we investigated whether a cyclooxygenase (cox)-2 inhibitor nimesulide and ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars), troglitazone (a ppargamma ligand) and bezafibrate (a pparalpha ligand) inhibit colitis-related colon carcinogenesis using our model to evaluate the efficacy of these drugs in prevention of ibd-related colon carcinogenesis. the results suggest that cox-2 inhibitor and ppar ligands could serve as an effective agent against colitis-related colon cancer development. in addition, bezafibrate as pan-peroxisome proliferator activated receptor activator has clearly demonstrated beneficial pleiotropic effects related to glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity. the goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ligand bezafibrate on the progression of impaired fasting glucose phase to type 2 diabetes in patients with coronary artery disease over a 6.2-year follow-up period. 
Does self-efficacy mediate the relationship between transformational leadership behaviours and healthcare workers' sleep quality? [SEP] this paper is a report of a study conducted to investigate the longitudinal relationship between transformational leadership behaviours and employees' sleep quality, and the mediating effects of self-efficacy. structural equation modelling was used to investigate the relationships between transformational leadership, self-efficacy and sleep quality at both time points independently (cross-sectionally) and longitudinally. direct relationships between transformational leadership and sleep quality were found. the relationship between leadership and employees' sleep quality was not mediated by employees' self-efficacy. however, more research is needed to examine the mechanisms by which transformational leadership brings about improved sleep quality; self-efficacy was not found to be the explanation. self-efficacy was found to fully mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and well-being and team efficacy was found to partially mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and job satisfaction and fully mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and well-being. the present paper investigates how sailors' daily variations in sleep quality influence self-rated naval work-performance and interacts with perceived daily transformational leadership during a 30-day naval training mission. transformational leadership moderated the sleep quality-work performance link. individuals who experienced higher levels of leadership were less prone to reductions in performance after poor sleep. a theory-driven model of the relationships between transformation leadership, self-efficacy, work engagement and nurses' extra-role performance was tested using structural equation modelling. 
Does microbial contamination influence the success of the hematopoietic cell transplantation outcomes? [SEP] bacterial contamination of peripheral blood hematopoietic cells collected for autologous bone marrow transplantation occurs sporadically. microbial contamination of hematopoietic stem cell products is a rare but potentially fatal complication of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. microbial contamination of haematopoietic stem cells is rare but could cause a potentially mortal complication of a stem cells transplantation. microbial control results are necessary for the safety of hematopoietic stem cell products transplantation. microbial contamination can be a marker for faulty process and is assumed to play an important role in the collection of hematopoietic progenitor cell (hpc) and infusion procedure. we aimed to determine the microbial contamination rates and evaluate the success of hematopoietic cell transplantation (hct) in patients who received contaminated products. the microbiological contamination of peripheral blood (323/333 donations) and bone marrow (10/333 donations) products were analyzed. the multitude of factors that influence the risk of infection after hematopoietic cell transplantation has been further complicated by the rapid evolution of this therapy in the past 5 years. thus immunomodulatory influences on the recipient and the transplanted graft, both before and after hematopoietic cell transplantation, have a profound influence on the incidence and severity of infection. this review of the recent literature contributes to our understanding of how the conditions of hematopoietic cell transplantation influence the timing and nature of infectious complications. 
Very high serum CA 19-9 levels: a contraindication to pancreaticoduodenectomy? [SEP] the highest frequency of elevated serum ca 19-9 levels is found among patients with pancreatic cancer. we report the case of a patient with a gastric cancer and a very high serum ca 19-9 level. during a 5-y follow-up, the very high serum levels of ca 19-9 decreased along with improved general condition of the patients. ca 19-9 levels in pancreatic juice were generally very high, compared with those in serum. in addition, the pancreatic juice ca 19-9 levels in patients with pancreatic cancer were significantly higher than those in patients with chronic pancreatitis and other various diseases used as controls. the assay of pancreatic juice ca 19-9 seemed to be valuable in the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer, showing a diagnostic value approximately similar to that of the serum ca 19-9 assay and clearly superior to that of the serum or pancreatic juice carcinoembryonic antigen assay. our data suggests that ca 19-9 levels can be used reliably to detect recurrent pancreatic adenocarcinomas in patients with ca 19-9-positive primary tumors. to assess the outcome of patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma (pa) associated with high serum ca 19-9 levels. from 2000 to 2007, 344 patients underwent pancreatoduodenectomy for pa. fifty-three patients (elevated group) had preoperatively elevated serum ca 19-9 levels (>400 iu/ml) after resolution of obstructive jaundice. preoperative serum ca 19-9 level by itself should not preclude surgery in patients who have undergone careful preoperative staging. 
Perioperative care in an animal model for training in abdominal surgery: is it necessary a preoperative fasting? [SEP] along with the proposed physiologic effects of decreasing the surgical stress response and insulin resistance, preoperative carbohydrate loading was also demonstrated to improve patient satisfaction and well-being, without an increase in perioperative complications. the key components of enhanced recovery protocols include preoperative counseling, preoperative nutrition, altering the standard perioperative fasting guidelines, and the value of carbohydrate loading up to 2 hours preoperatively, standardized analgesic, and anesthetic regimens (epidural and nonopioid analgesia) and early mobilization. minimization of perioperative fasting is important to maintain volume status-decreasing reliance on intravenous fluid administration, and to reduce protein catabolism around the time of surgery. an intestinal ischaemia reperfusion (ir) animal model was used to investigate whether preoperative cho loading increases spontaneous postoperative food intake, intestinal barrier function and the catabolic response. male wistar rats (n = 65) were subjected to 16 h fasting with ad libitum water and: a) sham laparotomy (sham fasted, n = 24); b) intestinal ischaemia (ir fasted, n = 27); and c) intestinal ischaemia with preoperatively access to a cho drink (ir cho, n = 14). preoperative cho loading improves food intake, preserves the gi function and reduces the catabolic response in an ir animal model. multimodal protocols to optimize perioperative care and to accelerate postoperative recovery include abbreviated pre-and postoperative fasting. the aim of this study was to investigate the pre and postoperative fasting period and the factors that influence it in patients who underwent elective operations. the preoperative fasting period was influenced by the instruction received and surgery time. postoperative fasting period was 15.67 (1.67-90.42) hours and was influenced by type of surgery and lack of synchrony between the clinical meeting and the nutrition and dietetics service schedules. 
Are physicians aware of the side effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors? [SEP] to assess the prevalence of cough as a side effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor antihypertensive therapy, we reviewed 300 consecutive patient charts from a private practice and 200 consecutive patient charts from a university-based referral center for hypertension. clinicians must be aware of this potentially disturbing side effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors to avoid expensive and unnecessary diagnostic evaluations. angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors are commonly used in the treatment of hypertension. angioedema is a known side effect of ace inhibitors. however, despite the demonstrated clinical benefits many physicians are reluctant to prescribe ace-inhibitors to the mostly elderly heart failure patients due to concern for side effects which may be related to ace-inhibitor-induced bradykinin accumulation. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are a widely used antihypertensive modality. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ace-i) are considered safe, but they are associated with characteristic side effects, namely cough and angioedema, usually requiring discontinuation. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors inhibit angiotensin-converting enzyme and have been shown to be effective in many cardiovascular diseases. there are a number of side-effects associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, especially persistent dry cough. many of these side effects are dose related, and can be controlled or eliminated by lowering the dosage of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, depending upon the clinical circumstances. 
Residual fundus or neofundus after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy: is fundectomy safe and effective as revision surgery? [SEP] up to 30 % of patients who have undergone laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy require revision surgery for inadequate weight loss, weight regain, and/or the development of severe upper gastrointestinal symptoms. the aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic fundectomy (lf) in cases of a residual fundus/neofundus development regarding gerd symptoms. twenty-three patients submitted to laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg), complaining upper gastrointestinal (gi) symptoms and/or weight regain and candidated to laparoscopic surgical revision were investigated. conversion to sleeve gastrectomy is an effective and safe option for patients with gastric bypass complications. while there are variations in the technical aspects of performing a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy, key steps must be undertaken to produce safe and effective outcomes. this article reviews the indications for bariatric surgery, patient selection, surgical technique and tips, perioperative care and complications after sleeve gastrectomy. the aim of the study is to present surgical techniques and treatment outcomes for re-banding and sleeve gastrectomy as a revisional surgery after removing eroded adjustable gastric bands. a retrospective analysis was performed to study laparoscopic re-banding or sleeve gastrectomy as revisional surgery for band erosion. given the surgical techniques adopted, both re-banding and sleeve gastrectomy were found to be safe and effective revisional surgery after removal of eroded gastric band. laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy without staple line reinforcement is safe and avoids additional costs for reinforcement materials. 
Are physician estimates of asthma severity less accurate in black than in white patients? [SEP] it is unknown if accuracy of physician estimates differs between black and white patients, and how this relates to asthma care disparities. we hypothesized that: 1) physician underestimation of asthma severity is more frequent among black patients; 2) among black patients, physician underestimation of severity is associated with poorer quality asthma care. blacks were significantly more likely than white patients to have their asthma severity underestimated (or = 1.39, 95% ci 1.08-1.79). biased estimates of asthma severity may contribute to racially disparate asthma care. adjusting for sex and maternal education, the prevalence of physician-diagnosed asthma and probable asthma were associated independently with black ethnicity. we sought to assess the extent to which racial disparities between black and white subjects with severe asthma are attributable to physiologic, immunoinflammatory, and sociodemographic variables. differences in severe asthma in black compared with white subjects were observed. an extensive review of data from the national center for health statistics and from population-based studies confirmed lower overall copd but higher asthma mortality in blacks compared with whites, and lower chronic bronchitis and emphysema but similar or higher asthma prevalence in blacks compared with whites. higher asthma burden is more likely to be experienced by black than white patients. the higher overall risk of death from asthma in black patients compared with white patients in the united states is not explained by race differences in hospital deaths and therefore is attributable to factors preceding hospitalization. 
Does laparoscopic surgery decrease the risk of atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery? [SEP] atrial fibrillation, which occurs in 12% of all major foregut surgeries, can prolong hospital stay and increase morbidity. we examined the factors associated with new-onset atrial fibrillation after foregut surgery at our institution. laparoscopic (p = 0.004) and nonthoracic surgeries (p = 0.01) were associated with lower risk of atrial fibrillation. multivariate analysis revealed an association of atrial fibrillation with age (or 1.08, 95% ci 1.02-1.14, p = 0.01), and laparoscopic surgery (or 0.09, 95% ci 0.01-0.95, p = 0.04) after adjusting for surgery type. laparoscopic surgery is associated with lower risk of atrial fibrillation in foregut surgery. the aim of this article is to review the outcomes of foregut and bariatric surgery and its potential clinical advantages. between january 31 and may 23, 2000, 104 patients undergoing laparoscopic foregut procedures (fundoplication, myotomy, or paraesophageal hernia repair) were followed prospectively. atrial fibrillation is a common complication of cardiovascular surgery. strategies to prevent postoperative atrial fibrillation include perioperative beta-blockers, amiodarone, and atrial pacing. this review summarizes the results of studies that have examined the prophylactic value of orally administered sotalol and amiodarone in preventing atrial fibrillation after open-heart surgery. 
The Main Gate Syndrome: a new format in mass-casualty victim "surge" management? [SEP] to assess the psychological impact of a mass casualty incident (mci) in a subset of personnel in a level i hospital. responders had mainly to cope with a sudden surge in casualties and with organizational issues. many logistic problems with the treatment of patients with crush syndrome are due to chaotic disaster circumstances; consequently, medical and logistic recommendations on the treatment of crush victims are needed. in a joint initiative of the renal disaster relief task force of the international society of nephrology and european renal best practice, a work group of nephrologists, intensivists, surgeons, and logisticians with disaster experience or experts in guideline preparation collaborated to provide comprehensive information and recommendations on the management of crush casualties considering their occurrence with "epidemic" dimensions after mass disasters. the result is the monograph "recommendations for the management of crush victims in mass disasters", which may help provide effective health care to disaster victims with renal problems. this article discusses medical and logistic principles of the treatment of crush victims, both at the disaster field and on admission to hospitals, and guidance is described. the paper brings forward such general considerations as applicable to radiation mass casualty events, including (1) clear lines of communication; (2) scalability of approach; (3) whole-of-health approach; (4) knowledge based approach; and (5) multisectoral approach. additionally, some key considerations of planning for mass casualty management systems are discussed, namely, health systems surge capacity and networking, risk and resources mapping, and others. in this regard, mass casualty traffic incidents are worthy of special attention as, in addition to all losses and damage, they create challenges in the way of providing health services to the victims. the present study is an attempt to explore the challenges and facilitators in management of mass casualty traffic incidents in iran. 
Do communication disorders extend to musical messages? [SEP] effective musical communication requires conveyance of the intended message in a manner perceptible to the receiver. communication disorders that impair transmitting or decoding of structural features of music (e.g., pitch, timbre) and/or symbolic representation may result in atypical musical communication, which can have a negative impact on music therapy interventions. this study compared recognition of symbolic representation of emotions or movements in music by two groups of children with different communicative characteristics: severe to profound hearing loss (using cochlear implants [ci]) and autism spectrum disorder (asd). conveyance of emotions or movements through music may be decoded differently by persons with different types of communication disorders. in this regard, the current covid-19 pandemic demonstrates how music can be utilized as a communication tool and offers an interesting perspective for the consideration of music in future public health research. the universal language of music is simple, yet often forgotten, and communicates unspoken messages. it has never been doubted that music is a kind of communication, the mediator of human relationships, but it has been a question what music wants to express. in the last few years, there has been growing evidence that music and music therapy may improve communication skills (but not only) in different neurological disorders. vocal expression in the verbal and musical domains was investigated in a series of neuropsychological experiments based on novel language and musical tasks that were designed to establish the nature and specificity of the verbal output deficit. recent theoretical advances in the evolution of music posit that affective communication is an evolutionary function of music through which the mind and brain are transformed. 
Do patients with rheumatoid arthritis established on methotrexate and folic acid 5 mg daily need to continue folic acid supplements long term? [SEP] to determine the effect of two different weekly doses of folic acid on the toxicity and efficacy of low-dose methotrexate therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. folic acid, an inexpensive vitamin, is safe in a broad range of doses and protects patients with rheumatoid arthritis who are taking methotrexate from toxicity while preserving the efficacy of methotrexate. we sought to assess the evidence for the efficacy of folic acid supplementation in patients treated with methotrexate for inflammatory diseases. objectives: we investigated the effect of daily folic acid supplementation on methotrexate (mtx) toxicity and efficacy in japanese patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra).methods: we followed 19 patients treated with mtx who switched from taking weekly 5 mg folic acid supplementation (weekly regimen) to 1.25 mg daily (daily regimen). backgrounds folic acid dose at ≦5 mg/week has been recommended for rheumatoid arthritis (ra) patients to decrease risk of methotrexate adverse effects. we examined the influence of high-dose folic acid on methotrexate efficacies and safety in japanese ra patients. in this article we present guidelines and rationale for monitoring methotrexate therapy, and guidelines for folate supplementation during methotrexate therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. to evaluate the effects of repeated doses of folic acid on the pharmacokinetics of methotrexate (mtx) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. to determine the effect of longterm methotrexate (mtx) therapy and folic acid supplementation on folate nutriture and homocysteine levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. in order to reduce adverse effects without compromising drug efficacy, numerous clinical investigations have been performed using supplementation with folic or folinic acid during methotrexate therapy of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, addressing both the timing of folate supplementation and the weekly folate-to-methotrexate ratio. 
Can infundibular height predict the clearance of lower pole calyceal stone after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy? [SEP] in the present study, we determine whether there is a significant relationship between lower pole ratio (infundibular length : infundibular width) on preoperative intravenous urograms and stone fragment clearances after shockwave lithotripsy. stone-free status after shockwave lithotripsy was significantly related to infundibular length and width as well as to lower pole ratio, but not to infundibulo-pelvic angle. caliceal anatomy is an important consideration for lower pole stone clearance after shockwave lithotripsy. to assess the impact of lower pole calyceal anatomy on clearace of lower pole stones after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (eswl) by means of a new and previously defined radiographic measurement method. the aim of this study is to determine the frequency of factors affecting the non-clearance of stone fragments of lower pole renalstone after extra corporeal shockwave lithotripsy. this study was carried out to determine whether or not there is a significant relationship between the radiologic anatomy of the lower calyx, as seen on preoperative intravenous urography (ivu), and the outcome of stone clearance after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (eswl) for lower renal calyceal stones. to determine the influence of pelvicalyceal angle, size of the lower calyx infundibulum and lowerpole calyceal anatomy in predicting the clearance of fragments after extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (eswl) for lower calyceal stones. to evaluate the effects of lower pole calyceal anatomy on lower pole stone clearance after shock-wave lithotripsy (swl). stone length and location are prognostic factors determining stone-free rate after shockwave lithotripsy for renal calculi in pediatric patients. several anatomic factors influence the clearance of lower pole stones treated with shockwave lithotripsy (swl). 
Does lung ischemia and reperfusion have an impact on coronary flow? [SEP] to determine the hemodynamic effect due to lung ir injury, we performed a quantitative coronary blood-flow analysis in a swine model of in situ lung ischemia and reperfusion. in situ lung ir has a marked negative impact on coronary blood flow, hemodynamics, and inflammatory profile. it is known that ischemia-reperfusion can cause an increase in coronary permeability and microvascular plugging (no-reflow). partial clamping native pulmonary artery in large animal lung transplantation setting to study the impact of low versus high pulmonary flow on the development of ischemia reperfusion is feasible. in untreated and treated animals, coronary flow was decreased during reperfusion after the three types of ischemia. these results show that ischemia-reperfusion reduces hyperemic response (vasodilator reserve); this diminution being dependent on duration and severity of ischemia. reperfusion injury of the lung after ischemia is associated with altered alveolar blood flow and ventilation-perfusion mismatch, which is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality after lung transplantation. overall pulmonary vascular resistance increased during early reperfusion but returned to baseline level during late reperfusion. constriction of small arterioles by ischemia and reperfusion can have a significant effect on the early phase of ventilation-perfusion mismatch and pulmonary dysfunction by altering alveolar perfusion. however, coronary blood flow immediately on reperfusion was significantly enhanced in the ir-enalaprilat cohort (59 +/- 10 ml/min) compared with the ir-saline group (32 +/- 3 ml/min, p < .05). 
Is a patient's self-reported health-related quality of life a prognostic factor for survival in non-small-cell lung cancer patients? [SEP] the aim of this prognostic factor analysis was to investigate if a patient's self-reported health-related quality of life (hrqol) provided independent prognostic information for survival in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. evidence has suggested a clinically meaningful relationship between self-reported quality of life (qol) of a patient with cancer at the time of receiving a cancer diagnosis and overall survival (os). this study evaluated the prognostic value of qol assessments with regard to os in a large cohort of patients with lung cancer. overall qol measured by a simple single item at the time of lung cancer diagnosis is a significant and independent prognostic factor for survival in patients with lung cancer. various self-report questionnaires have been developed to monitor non-small cell lung cancer-related symptoms and quality of life over the course of treatment. we explored changes in perceptions of health status over time in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) and whether awareness of having a terminal illness was associated with survival. at each time point, patients with metastatic nsclc completed a measure of quality of life (functional assessment of cancer therapy-trial outcome index) and also reported whether they were "relatively healthy," "seriously but not terminally ill," or "seriously and terminally ill." we reviewed patients' medical records to gather data on clinical characteristics. quality of life has now become recognized as an important outcome measure for cancer therapy. this article reviews qol measures and the data for qol benefits from therapy in patients with advanced small-cell and non-small-cell lung cancer. this study describes self-reported functional and psychological status of patients using the european organization for research and treatment of cancer quality of life questionnaire (qlq-c30) and relates this to the prognosis. 
Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN): a role for polymorphisms in the beta-adrenergic receptor (ADRB) encoding genes? [SEP] this study included patients who were diagnosed with transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn) with more than 37 weeks of gestation. the present study aimed to investigate the role of bnp in the pathogenesis of transient tachypnea of the newborn. serum nt-probnp (n-terminal-probnp) level measurements of 43 infants diagnosed with transient tachypnea of the newborn were compared to those of 29 healthy neonates. transient tachypnea of newborn is associated with hypothyroxinemia in animals via decreased stimulation of beta-adrenergic receptors and na-k-atpase activity. transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn) is the most common perinatal respiratory disorder. treatment of transient tachypnea of newborn is supportive. to investigate the efficacy of an inhaled β-adrenergic agonists in transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn). transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn) is a common cause of early respiratory distress in the neonatal period of term infants. as resorption of foetal lung fluid is a catecholamine dependent process, we aimed at investigating, whether beta1- and beta2-adrenoreceptor (adrb1, adrb2) polymorphisms, known to alter catecholamine activity, are operative in ttn. transient tachypnea of the newborn (ttn), a common neonatal respiratory morbidity, is associated with failure of adequate clearance of fetal lung fluid. 
Is duration of psychological treatment for depression related to return into treatment? [SEP] symptoms of depression were assessed with the montgomeryåsberg depression rating scale (madrs) during treatment and 24 weeks after treatment. the present investigation examined how demographic and treatment outcome variables interacted to influence post-treatment return to work rates in a sample of individuals with chronic pain following interdisciplinary treatment. results indicated that patient age, lifting ability, pain duration, depression level, and reported disability were individually related to return to work; however, when these variables were evaluated relative to one another, level of depression and patient age had the best ability to predict post-treatment work status. furthermore, they provide evidence that general emotional distress is perhaps the most important predictor of work status following treatment. however, low duration of treatment, high anxiety, and low hope were the significant predictors of high depression. infertility, infertility treatment, and marriage duration were positively correlated with depression and the strength of psychological symptoms. this article systematically reviews guidelines and clinical trial data related to antidepressant treatment duration in pediatric patients with depressive and anxiety disorders. the extant literature suggests 9-12 months of antidepressant treatment for youth with major depressive disorder. for generalized, separation and social anxiety disorders, 6-9 months of antidepressant treatment may be sufficient, though many clinicians extend treatment to 12 months based on extrapolation of data from adults with anxiety disorders. such extended treatment periods may decrease the risk of long-term morbidity and recurrence; however, the goal of treatment is ultimately remission, rather than duration of antidepressant pharmacotherapy. 
Does shaving the incision site increase the infection rate after spinal surgery? [SEP] to determine whether shaving the incision site before spinal surgery causes postsurgical infection. spine surgeons usually shave the skin of the incision site immediately before surgery is performed. however, evidence from some surgical series suggests that presurgical shaving may increase the postsurgical infection rate. a total of 789 patients scheduled to undergo spinal surgery were randomly allocated into 2 groups: those in whom the site of operation was shaved immediately before surgery (shaved group; 371 patients) and the patients in whom presurgical shaving was not performed (unshaved group; 418 patients). a postoperative infection developed in 4 patients in the shaved group and in 1 patient in the nonshaved group (p < 0.01). the shaving of the incision site immediately before spinal surgery may increase the rate of postoperative infection. the following is a systematic review of articles related to preoperative scalp shaving before cranial surgeries and the implications for postoperative wound infections. this study aimed 1) to compare the rates of surgical site infection (ssi) between two groups with and without preoperative hair shaving, 2) to compare the bacterial colonization just before the skin incision between them, and 3) to evaluate people's preference for the hair shaving. to investigate the effects of different types of shaving on body image and surgical site infection in elective cranial surgery. an examination of contemporary practices worldwide shows that there is a greater realization that preoperative skin shaving does not confer any benefit against postoperative wound infection and that, paradoxically, it may lead to higher rates of wound infection due to the epidermal injury that it inflicts. 
The influence of atmospheric pressure on aortic aneurysm rupture--is the diameter of the aneurysm important? [SEP] the rate of aortic aneurysm rupture correlates with the aneurysm's diameter, and a higher rate of rupture is observed in patients with larger aneurysms. according to the literature, contradictory results concerning the relationship between atmospheric pressure and aneurysm size have been reported. in this paper, we assessed the influence of changes in atmospheric pressure on abdominal aneurysm ruptures in relationship to the aneurysm's size. the highest frequency of the admission of patients with a ruptured aortic aneurysm was observed during periods of winter and spring, when the highest mean values of atmospheric pressure were observed; however, this observation was not statistically confirmed. a statistically non-significant trend towards the higher rupture of large aneurysms (> 7 cm) was observed in the cases where the pressure increased between the day before the rupture and the day of the rupture. the results of this study do not support the hypothesis that there is a direct link between atmospheric pressure values and abdominal aortic aneurysm ruptures. for rupture of aortic aneurysms, high atmospheric pressure and low relative humidity were positive predictors. our conclusion is that larger diameter and higher diastolic blood pressure are important risk factors for expansion of abdominal aortic aneurysms. risk for rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm is widely believed to be related to its maximum diameter. our computer models showed that the stress within the wall of an abdominal aortic aneurysm and possibly the potential for rupture are as dependent on aneurysm shape as they are on maximum diameter. 
Do French lay people and health professionals find it acceptable to breach confidentiality to protect a patient's wife from a sexually transmitted disease? [SEP] to determine under what conditions lay people and health professionals find it acceptable for a physician to breach confidentiality to protect the wife of a patient with a sexually transmitted disease (std). the concept of breaching confidentiality to protect a wife from her husband's std was favoured much more by lay people and psychologists than by physicians (mean ratings 11.76, 9.28 and 2.90, respectively, on a scale of 0-22). most people in france are influenced by situational factors when deciding if a physician should breach confidentiality to protect the spouse of a patient infected with std. when is it acceptable for a psychiatrist to break confidentiality to protect the wife of a potentially violent patient? lay people in france are influenced by situational factors when deciding if a psychiatrist should break confidentiality to protect a patient's wife. this paper is a theoretical discussion that explores medical confidentiality within the context of brazilian law about underage consent sex. faced with such a situation, physicians find themselves in a dilemma as they are forced to choose between honouring their duty of professional confidentiality and protecting their patients' partner(s). recent advice from the belgian medical council (bmc) for the first time accepts that physicians can exceptionally, and under certain conditions, invoke necessity to breach confidentiality and inform usual and occasional sexual partners of hiv-infected patients who refuse to take precautions against transmission. the question of whether doctors should be legally empowered to breach the confidence of patients to protect the patients' sexual partners is discussed here with reference to the existing laws of canada, the united states, and nigeria. it is the statutory duty of medical practitioners to report notifiable infections, but there are a number of barriers to reporting in sexual health, in particular concerns that notification may breach confidentiality. 
Do somatic complaints predict subsequent symptoms of depression? [SEP] evidence suggests substantial comorbidity between symptoms of somatization and depression in clinical as well as nonclinical populations. in particular, it is unclear whether somatic complaints may heighten the risk for the subsequent development of depressive symptoms. we report findings on the link between symptoms of somatization (assessed using the scl-90-r) and depression 5 years later (assessed using the ces-d) in an initially healthy cohort of community adults, based on prospective data from the reno diet-heart study. our findings suggest that somatic complaints may represent one, but not necessarily the most important, risk factor for the subsequent development of depressive symptoms in women in nonclinical populations. in evaluation of the second hypothesis, somatic complaints were found to have a statistically significant indirect effect on the predictive relationship between traumatic life events and mood disturbance, accounting for 9% of the variance in depression and 14% of the variance in anxiety. the functional model suggests that somatic complaints may precede depressive symptoms; the affect-dysregulation model suggests that depressive symptoms may precede somatic complaints; and the sociocultural model suggests that depressive symptoms are strongly linked to somatic complaints mainly in western cultural contexts. the ability of negative affect (na) to predict somatic complaints 6 months later was examined. whether somatic symptoms are more likely to be associated with high levels of anxiety or high levels of depression was also explored. knowledge that somatic complaints are commonly an expression of underlying anxiety and depression may facilitate more rapid referral for psychiatric assessment and treatment and thereby help avoid unnecessary medical workups and sequelae from school refusal. previous research has indicated a relationship between posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) and somatic complaints. 
Are women with major depression in pregnancy identifiable in population health data? [SEP] the women with depression during their pregnancy were ascertained in two ways: women with dispensing records relating to dispensed antidepressant medicines with an who atc code to the 3rd level, pharmacological subgroup, 'n06a antidepressants'; and, women with any hospital admission during pregnancy, including the birth admission, if a comorbidity was recorded relating to depression. to identify risk factors for and the consequences (several adverse perinatal outcomes) of physician-diagnosed major depression during pregnancy treated in specialised healthcare. prevalence, risk factors and consequences of major depression during pregnancy. among 511,938 women, 0.8% experienced major depression during pregnancy, of which 46.9% had a history of depression prior to pregnancy. outcomes of pregnancies were worse among women with major depression than without. outcomes of pregnancies were worse among women with major depression than without. depression during pregnancy is a significant public health problem because of its negative effects on the health of both mother and infant. depression in pregnancy can be underdiagnosed as a consequence of the symptoms being misattributed to "normal pregnancy." we present a well-validated, brief scale to screen pregnant women for clinical depression. to assess the prevalence of self-reported mental health problems in a cohort of women in early pregnancy. 
Remote ischemic postconditioning: does it protect against ischemic damage in percutaneous coronary revascularization? [SEP] remote ischemic conditioning reduces infarct size in patients undergoing interventional reperfusion of ami, elective percutaneous or surgical coronary revascularization, and other cardiovascular surgery in many, but not in all, studies. our aim was to assess the long-term effect of remote ischemic postconditioning among patients undergoing pci. remote ischemic postconditioning was applied during pci immediately following stent deployment, by 3, 5-minute cycles of blood pressure cuff inflation to >200 mm hg on the arm or thigh (20 mm hg to the arm in the control), with 5-minute breaks between each cycle. remote ischemic postconditioning during pci did not affect long-term cardiovascular outcome. in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for st-segment elevation myocardial infarction, ischemic postconditioning has been shown to reduce infarct size, but the effect on clinical outcome has not been tested in a large randomized trial. myocardial infarct size was significantly reduced in ischemic preconditioning, ischemic postconditioning and remote postconditioning as compared to control (p < 0.01). remote postconditioning reduces myocardial infarction in rabbits. recent advances in the field have demonstrated that cardioprotection from brief episodes of ischemia is possible when applied immediately after reperfusion (ischemic postconditioning) or remotely in another tissue during myocardial ischemia, prior to reperfusion (remote ischemic conditioning). in this article, we will discuss the results of a recent study published by munk et al., concerning the application of remote ischemic conditioning during primary percutaneous coronary intervention to salvage myocardial function following st-elevation myocardial infarction. the author reviews the protective effects of ischemic postconditioning, a recently emerging strategy with broad implications in the search for new treatments in stroke and myocardial ischemic injury. 
Does combining antiretroviral agents in a single dosage form enhance quality of life of HIV/AIDS patients? [SEP] combining various antiretroviral agents into one single dosage form has been a strategy to reduce pill burden and enhance medication adherence among human immunodeficiency virus /aids (hiv/aids) patients. the widespread use of antiretroviral therapy has dramatically improved life quality and expectancy of infected individuals, but limitations of currently available drug regimens and dosage forms, alongside with the extraordinary adapting capacity of the virus, have impaired further success. this study was conducted to determine the impact of concomitant use of herbal remedies with antiretroviral drugs on adverse events and on quality of life. use of herbal drugs in combination with antiretroviral therapy does not significantly improve quality of life index in comparison to antiretroviral drug use only. the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy marked a major gain in efficacy of hiv/aids treatment and a reduction in morbidity and mortality of the infected patients. objectives: treatment of hiv infection has evolved from a single antiretroviral agent to combination therapy, which has dramatically improved both the quality of life and life expectancy of affected patients. various mixed preparations of these anti-hiv herbs are in clinical trials or are applied in the treatment of people living with hiv/aids-some of which yield lower plasma viral load, enhance immune function, relieve related symptoms and signs, improve the quality of life, or, in combination with highly active antiretroviral therapy, alleviate the side effects of biomedical drugs. drug interactions with highly active antiretroviral therapy and criteria for clinical evaluation of traditional chinese medicine treatment are also discussed. advances in antiretroviral combination therapy lasting the past two decades have transformed hiv-1 infection from a fatal disease into a chronic medical condition that in many cases does not compromise life quality. antiretroviral therapy is effective in delaying progression of hiv infection and aids, but the quality of life provided is only marginally better than the disease itself. 
The inverse equity hypothesis: does it apply to coverage of cancer screening in middle-income countries? [SEP] it is uncertain whether the inverse equity hypothesis-the idea that new health interventions are initially primarily accessed by the rich, but that inequalities narrow with diffusion to the poor-holds true for cancer screening in low and middle income countries (lmics).this study examines the relationship between overall coverage and economic inequalities in coverage of cancer screening in four middle-income countries. coverage for breast cancer screening was 10.5% in south africa, 19.3% in china, 33.8% in russia and 43% in mexico, and coverage for cervical cancer screening was 24% in south africa, 27.2% in china, 63.7% in mexico and 81.5% in russia. economic inequalities in screening participation were substantially lower or non-existent in countries with higher aggregate coverage, for both breast cancer screening (rii: 14.57 in south africa, 4.90 in china, 2.01 in mexico, 1.04 in russia) and cervical cancer screening (rii: 3.60 in china, 2.47 in south africa, 1.39 in mexico, 1.12 in russia). economic inequalities in breast and cervical cancer screening are low in lmics with high screening coverage. these findings are consistent with the inverse equity hypothesis and indicate that high levels of equity in cancer screening are feasible even in countries with high income inequality. to inform evidence-based decision-making as cervical cancer screening programs are planned, implemented, and scaled in low- and middle-income countries, we used cost and test performance data from the start-up demonstration project in uganda and a microsimulation model of hpv infection and cervical carcinogenesis to quantify the health benefits, distributional equity, cost-effectiveness, and financial impact of either (1) improving access to cervical cancer screening or (2) increasing the number of lifetime screening opportunities for women who already have access. to test the inverse equity hypothesis, which postulates that new health interventions are initially adopted by the wealthy and thus increase inequalities-as population coverage increases, only the poorest will lag behind all other groups. thousands of women living in many middle and low-income countries are unnecessarily dying from cervical cancer, partly due to limited screening coverage. to identify social determinants of health (sdh) associated with cervical screening for women living in middle and low-income countries, to inform responses to improve sdh and screening coverage, and to identify research gaps. based on the 'inverse equity hypothesis,' this study examines the degree to which low socioeconomic groups in developing countries are disadvantaged in vct. 
Identification of racial disparities in breast cancer mortality: does scale matter? [SEP] late-stage diagnosis, poverty factors, and demographic factors were found to be significant predictors of a census tract showing significant racial disparities in breast cancer mortality. the spatial association of racial disparities was found to be significant between late-stage diagnosis and breast cancer mortality with odds ratios of 33.76 (ci: 23.96-47.57) for african americans and 30.39 (ci: 22.09-41.82) for hispanics. to review recent research in racial/ethnic disparities in breast and gynecologic cancers, focusing on disparities occurring postdiagnosis. racial/ethnic disparity in breast cancer-specific mortality in the united states is well documented. we examined whether accounting for racial/ethnic differences in the prevalence of clinical, patient, and lifestyle and contextual factors that are associated with breast cancer-specific mortality can explain this disparity. race-specific rate ratios were used to measure the disparity in breast cancer mortality. the current results suggest that modifiable societal factors are responsible for apparent racial disparities in breast and prostate cancer survival observed at larger geographic scales. racial disparities in breast cancer mortality in the united states are well documented. this paper investigates the impact of geographic scale (census tract, zip code, and county) on the detection of disparities in breast cancer mortality among three ethnic groups in texas (period 1995-2005). this study investigates both relative and absolute racial disparities in breast cancer mortality between white non-hispanic and african-american/hispanic women at the census tract, zip code and county levels. 
Does the leukocyte count correlate with the severity of injury? [SEP] severe injury causes immunosuppression. this study analyzed changes in granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (g-csf) and its correlation with leukocyte and neutrophil counts in patients after traumatic brain injury (tbi). the leukocyte and neutrophil counts of the mild group gradually decreased, but a second increase after day 4 was observed in the severe group. there was no statistically significant difference in leukocyte counts relative to severity of esophageal injury. in hypothermic neonates, persistence of lower leukocyte counts after rewarming is observed in infants with more severe cns injury. patients with high peripheral leukocyte counts are sometimes found to have high leukocyte counts in ascitic fluid in the presence of negative cultures. to determine if peripheral leukocytosis (greater than or equal to 20 x 10(9)/l) by itself can result in high leukocyte or neutrophil counts in ascites, 29 patients were studied. marked peripheral leukocytosis (or neutrophilia) does not seem to have an effect on the leukocyte or neutrophil count in ascitic fluid. the aim of this study was to examine the potential interactions between leukocyte counts and other risk factors. subjects with leukocyte counts in the upper tertile had significant higher levels of serum glucose, triglyceride, hsc-reactive protein, potassium, phosphorus and measured osmolality, and lower levels of apoai, total protein, albumin and the ratio of albumin/globulins. 
Can transcranial direct current stimulation be useful in differentiating unresponsive wakefulness syndrome from minimally conscious state patients? [SEP] the lack of direct neurophysiological recordings from the thalamus and the cortex hampers our understanding of vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome and minimally conscious state in humans. we obtained microelectrode recordings from the thalami and the homolateral parietal cortex of two vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome and one minimally conscious state patients during surgery for implantation of electrodes in both thalami for chronic deep brain stimulation. we propose that all chronic doc patients should be given the possibility to benefit from nibs, and that transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) should be preferred over repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rtms), based on the literature and its simple use. one recently developed intervention option has been non-invasive transcranial direct current stimulation. we therefore examined the neural response using tms-eeg both before and after tdcs in seven doc patients (four diagnosed as in a minimally conscious state and three with unresponsive wakefulness syndrome). left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tdcs) was applied in a group of patients with disorders of consciousness to determine the effects of modulation of spontaneous oscillatory brain activity. 12 patients in an unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws) and 12 in a minimally conscious state (mcs) underwent 2-weeks active and 2-weeks sham tdcs. our protocol induced potentiating of the electrophysiological markers of ami and m1 excitability, paired to a clinical improvement, in all of the patients with minimally conscious state (mcs) but in none of those suffering from unresponsive wakefulness syndrome (uws). to this end, we enrolled 15 healthy individuals and 26 doc patients (minimally conscious state-mcs- and uws), who underwent a γ-band transcranial alternating current stimulation (tacs) over the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. data collected from 22 patients scanned in two other centres (salzburg: 10 minimally conscious state, five vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome; new york: five minimally conscious state, one vegetative state/unresponsive wakefulness syndrome, one emerged from minimally conscious state) were used to validate the classification with the selected features. 
Aromatase inhibitor-related musculoskeletal symptoms: is preventing osteoporosis the key to eliminating these symptoms? [SEP] this review will focus on bone and musculoskeletal side effects of aromatase inhibitors, including osteoporosis, fractures, and arthralgias. recent data suggest that some breast cancer survivors treated with aromatase inhibitors may experience aromatase inhibitor associated musculoskeletal symptoms. in multivariate analyses, aromatase inhibitor associated musculoskeletal symptoms (odds ratio [or] = 2.29 [95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.36-3.86]), and body mass index (or = 1.06 [95% ci: 1.02-1.12]) were associated with reductions in pa. in subgroup analysis among breast cancer survivors with aromatase inhibitor associated musculoskeletal symptoms, self-reported lower extremity joint pain (or = 1.23 [95% ci: 1.00-1.50]) and impaired lower extremity physical function (or = 1.07 [95% ci: 1.01-1.14]) were associated with reductions in pa. breast cancer survivors with aromatase inhibitor associated musculoskeletal symptoms were more likely to report reductions in pa since initiating aromatase inhibitor therapy compared with those without aromatase inhibitor associated musculoskeletal symptoms. musculoskeletal symptoms can severely affect patients' quality of life and also lead to premature discontinuation of aromatase inhibitor therapy. patients on ais who develop osteoporosis are at increased risk of musculoskeletal symptoms and bone fracture. aromatase inhibitor induced musculoskeletal syndrome is experienced by approximately half of women taking aromatase inhibitors, impairing quality of life and leading some to discontinue treatment. we conclude that aromatase inhibitor induced musculoskeletal syndrome is a significant issue for australian women and is an important reason for treatment discontinuation. although there is evidence of negative impact of the aromatase inhibitors on bone, our data still show a poor application of the recommendations in order to prevent osteoporosis related to the administration of these drugs. 
Could different follow-up modalities play a role in the diagnosis of asymptomatic endometrial cancer relapses? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome benefit of follow-up protocols for patients with recurrent endometrial and cervical cancer. a better overall survival from relapse was observed when vaginal relapse was compared to other sites in endometrial cancer patients and when pelvic recurrence was compared to distant sites in cervical cancer cases. among asymptomatic recurrent endometrial cancer cases, pelvic examination, abdominal or pelvic ultrasound and ct could detect 92% of relapses, while the vast majority of cervical cancer relapses could be diagnosed by pelvic examination and/or ct (85%). endometrial cancer patients showed a significantly better prognosis when the recurrence was detected during follow-up visits, thus supporting the real advantage of our surveillance programs, while no statistically significant differences were found in survival of cervical cancer patients between the symptomatic and the asymptomatic group. the aim of this review was to analyze the role of follow-up in patients treated for endometrial cancer and to provide some compelling issues that may contribute to improve daily practice while waiting for evidence-based guidelines. the anatomic sites of endometrial cancer relapse are mostly equivalently distributed between local (pelvic) and distant (abdominal and chest). most endometrial cancer recurrences are symptomatic, even if vaginal vault relapses represent a particular setting of a more frequently asymptomatic disease. adjunctive objectives of routine follow-up are identification of treatment complications and detection of possible second tumors associated with endometrial cancer. to evaluate the clinical benefit of routine follow up of women after treatment for endometrial adenocarcinoma. follow-up after endometrial cancer treatment varies in italy. 
Locoregional opening of the rodent blood-brain barrier for paclitaxel using Nd:YAG laser-induced thermo therapy: a new concept of adjuvant glioma therapy? [SEP] nd:yag laser-induced thermo therapy (litt) of rat brains is associated with blood-brain barrier (bbb) permeability changes. we address the question of whether litt-induced locoregional disruption of the bbb could possibly allow a locoregional passage of chemotherapeutic agents into brain tissue to treat malignant glioma. animals were perfused with paclitaxel, and high-pressure liquid chromatography (hplc) was employed to analyze the content of paclitaxel in brain and plasma samples. the 1.06 micron nd:yag laser and a new fiberoptic delivery system, the interstitial thermo-therapy (itt) laser fibre, allows stereotactic interstitial irradiation of cerebral tumours. according to these results, the risk of delayed post-operative hemorrhages, noticed in some patients with glioblastoma operated on by nd:yag lasers, suggests that residual tumor in the cavity should be treated by co2 laser because of its minimal damage of microcirculation. the authors describe a new photodynamic therapy (pdt) method for malignant brain tumors. animal study and clinical study were done using slt cl50, computer-control laserthermia system to treat deep-seated brain tumors. experimental study revealed that laserthermia produced minimal edema, temperature control was satisfactory, and blood-brain barrier opened up for 6 days following laserthermia. five patients with brain tumors were treated with laserthermia. laserthermia using nd:yag laser is safe and easy to use and it is beneficial to treat deep-seated brain tumors. 
Preoperative tracheobronchoscopy in newborns with esophageal atresia: does it matter? [SEP] from february 2012 until november 2014, all patients with esophageal atresia and distal tracheo-esophageal fistula were subjected to preoperative tracheobronchoscopy. preoperative tracheobronchoscopy (tbs) in the diagnostic assessment of newborns affected by esophageal atresia (ea) was described in 1981. despite surgical refinements, perioperative use of tracheobronchoscopy (tbs) as part of surgical approach to esophageal atresia (ea) is still controversial. tracheobronchoscopy is a useful and safe procedure and should be recommended in tertiary centers for babies with ea before surgical repair. esophageal atresia remains one of the most challenging congenital anomalies of the newborn. in this review, we analyze the literature surrounding current knowledge on the management of newborns affected by esophageal atresia, focusing on prenatal management and preoperative assessment. the aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome and late sequelae of patients with esophageal atresia or tracheoesophageal fistula. background: tracheal agenesis/atresia (ta) presents with respiratory distress at birth and subsequent difficulty in endotracheal intubation. fetal tracheobronchoscopy has been reported both as a diagnostic and therapeutic procedure in the setting of severe congenital lung lesions. we report a rare case where a newborn infant presented with features of esophageal atresia due to membranous diaphragm. 
Is horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex influenced by otolith organs input? [SEP] otolith organs input influences the axis of horizontal semicircular canal ocular reflex; therefore, the plane of compensatory eye movements induced by the horizontal canal stimulation is not always parallel to the canal. to clarify whether horizontal canal ocular reflex is influenced by otolith organs input. these results suggest that physiologic alteration of the vestibulo-ocular reflex using deliberately mismatched visual and semicircular canal stimuli induces changes in both canal-ocular and otolith-ocular responses. we postulate, therefore, that central nervous system pathways responsible for controlling the gains of canal-ocular and otolith-ocular reflexes are shared. rotational testing was used to investigate the horizontal semicircular canal-ocular reflex, canal-otolith interaction, and the dynamic otolith-ocular reflex. results indicated abnormal gain and phase of the horizontal semicircular canal-ocular reflex during sinusoidal rotation and a variable rate of decay of postrotatory responses. we assessed the influence of age on the otolith-ocular reflex and semicircular canal-otolith interaction. results indicated that there were statistically significant changes in the otolith-ocular reflex and semicircular canal-otolith interaction as a function of age. these reflexes derive from semicircular canal and otolith organs and depend on the transformation of the respective sensory signals into extraocular motor commands. a likely mechanism by which semicircular canals might influence the tuning of the otolith responses includes stabilization of coactivated and centrally converging sensory signals from semicircular canal and spatially aligned epithelial utricular regions during natural head/body motion. 
Is perforation of the appendix a risk factor for tubal infertility and ectopic pregnancy? [SEP] to critically assess the evidence that appendiceal perforation is a risk factor for subsequent tubal infertility or ectopic pregnancy. review of the literature yielded estimates of the risk of adverse fertility outcomes ranging from 1.6 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.1 to 2.5) for ectopic pregnancy after an appendectomy to 4.8 (95% ci 1.5 to 14.9) for tubal infertility from perforation of the appendix. the methodologic weaknesses of the studies do not permit acceptance of increased risk of tubal pregnancy or infertility as a consequence of perforation of the appendix, so a causal relationship cannot be supported by the data currently available. although perforation of the appendix is considered a risk factor for female tubal infertility, the epidemiologic evidence supporting this relation is inconsistent. the authors found that neither history of acute appendicitis nor perforation of the appendix was a statistically significant risk factor for tubal infertility. these data do not provide substantial evidence that perforation of the appendix is an important risk factor for female tubal infertility. logistic regression analysis demonstrated that tubal factor infertility and previous surgery for endometriosis were risk factors for ivf ectopic pregnancy. however, there was a significant association between prior ectopic pregnancy, prior tubal ligation, use of intrauterine device, and prior abdominal/pelvic surgery with ectopic pregnancy (p<0.05). this study identified prior ectopic pregnancy, prior tubal ligation, use of intrauterine device, and prior pelvic/abdominal surgery as the main risk factors for ectopic pregnancy in a sample of iranian women. tubal damage as a verified reason for infertility and its treatment also increased the risk of ectopic pregnancy. 
Serovar specific immunity to Neisseria gonorrhoeae: does it exist? [SEP] the serovars of neisseria gonorrhoeae that are predominant in a community change over time, a phenomenon that may be due to the development of immunity to repeat infection with the same serovar. this study evaluated the epidemiologic evidence for serovar-specific immunity to n. gonorrhoeae. ninety-five neisseria gonorrhoeae organisms isolated in valencia, spain, were characterized by antibiotic sensitivity testing, auxotyping, serotyping, plasmid analysis and restriction endonuclease fingerprinting (hindiii digestion). the specificity of enzyme restriction patterns of neisseria gonorrhoeae is confirmed to be of practical importance in the epidemiologic study of gonorrhoea. isolates of neisseria gonorrhoeae from 1356 episodes of gonorrhoea were serotyped. to measure the frequency and nature of antimicrobial resistance in neisseria gonorrhoeae isolates in kingston, jamaica, from 1990 to 1991 and to assess the effectiveness of prescribed treatment regimens. urethral isolates of neisseria gonorrhoeae from 116 heterosexual men with uncomplicated gonorrhea, representing 7.1% (116/1633) men attending the std comprehensive health centre from october 1990 through march 1991 who had positive gram-stained smears, were characterized by auxotype, serovar, presence of the tetm determinant, and plasmid content. penicillinase-producing neisseria gonorrhoeae, tetracycline-resistant neisseria gonorrhoeae, and penicillinase-producing/tetracycline-resistant neisseria gonorrhoeae belonging to multiple auxotype/serovar classes were isolated repeatedly through the study period. to study the serologic characters and antibiotic susceptibilities of quinolone-resistant neisseria gonorrhoeae in hong kong. sixty-nine strains of neisseria gonorrhoeae isolated from clinical failure cases after treatment with ofloxacin during the period january 1, 1992, to january 1, 1995, were studied. 
May student examiners be reasonable substitute examiners for faculty in an undergraduate OSCE on medical emergencies? [SEP] we report our experience of assessment of undergraduate students appearing in their pre-professional examination in the subject of general surgery by conducting osce. in our experience, osce was considered a better assessment tool as compared to the traditional method of examination by both faculty and students and is acceptable to students and faculty alike. to compare the effect of student examiners (se) to that of faculty examiners (fe) on examinee performance in an osce as well as on post-assessment evaluation in the area of emergency medicine management. it seems quite admissible and justified to encourage medical students to officiate as examiners in undergraduate emergency medicine osce formative testing, but not necessarily in summative assessment evaluations. the study aimed to compare osce assessments made by student examiners and faculty examiners during examinations of clinical skills in undergraduate nursing education. students who performed the examinations were observed both by a faculty examiner and student examiner. the osce protocols from both faculty and student examiners were reviewed and compared. the conclusion was that the level of agreement between student and faculty examiners was high when using an osce protocol in clinical examinations of two different clinical skill tasks. we introduced an objective structured clinical examination (osce) for our fourth year medical students at the end of their accident and emergency (a&e) medicine attachment. we found the osce to be an acceptable form of examination to both medical students and examiners. 
Are endothelial cell patterns of astrocytomas indicative of grade? [SEP] the present study was to examine 45 astrocytomas (including world health organization grade ii 15 cases, grade iii 15 cases, and grade iv 15 cases) by cd34 endothelial marker periodic acid-schiff (pas) dual staining to see if vm existing in these tumors. pas-positive pattern of vm was found in two grade iv astrocytomas. these data indicate that the vast majority of endothelial cells compromising the vascular hypercellularity observed in high-grade astrocytomas are in the normal cell cycle whereas in many cases the malignant astrocytes are not. we evaluated the vascular pattern of 17 astrocytoma surgical specimens (seven from children and 10 from adults), and four normal brains obtained at autopsy, utilizing antibody to glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) and von willebrand factor (vwf) utilizing confocal microscopy. diffuse, low grade astrocytoma (three cases) showed a staining pattern similar to control tissue; intermediate grade (one case), anaplastic astrocytoma (three cases) and gliobastoma multiforme (six cases) showed an increased vessel density with multiple small vessels (glomeruloid clusters), some with prominent intimal hyperplasia, loss of vessel wall integrity, and with numerous vwf-positive single cells/microvessels within the tumor substance. evaluation of astrocytomas utilizing antibody to vwf and confocal microscopy aids in the grading of these neoplasms. perfusion indices showed significant difference among the astrocytoma grades. in all grades of astrocytomas, cxcr4 was expressed in tumor cells and some endothelial cells, whereas cxcl12 was present in endothelial cells and infiltrating microglia. to investigate the correlation of angiogenic factor expression levels with the degrees of malignancy and vascularity and their clinicopathologic significance in astrocytomas. bfgf and vegf expression levels in neoplastic astrocytes and endothelia were significantly different in various grades of astrocytoma. 
Do healthier lifestyles lead to less utilization of healthcare resources? [SEP] the present paper analyzes morbidity patterns, health behaviors and lifestyles, self-perceived health status and health service utilization among healthcare professionals, by using the portuguese 1999 national health survey. stronger beliefs about the ability to engage in healthy lifestyles were related to healthier living attitudes and healthier lifestyle choices. teens who perceived healthy lifestyles as more difficult had less healthy attitudes and reported less healthier choices and behaviors. from conveying advice which encourages healthy lifestyles to communicating the location and availability of various medical resources, healthier lives and communities can be realized. this study examined associations of lifestyle-related resource utilization within a healthcare delivery system and cardiovascular biomarkers among midlife women with low physical activity. participation in ≥4 lifestyle-related resource encounters (compared to none) was associated with 51 more minutes/week of physical activity (95% ci: 33,69) at the next clinical measurement in all women, 6.2 kg lower weight (95% ci: -7.0,-5.5) at the next measurement in women with obesity, and 8-10 mg/dl lower plasma glucose (95% ci: -30,14 and -23,2, respectively) at the next measurement in women with diabetes or prediabetes. our results support the sustained utilization of health plan-based lifestyle-related resources for improving physical activity, weight, and plasma glucose in high-risk midlife women. given the observed low utilization, health system-wide efforts may be warranted to increase utilization of lifestyle-related resources in this population. in this study religiosity, in a random sample of danes, seems to be associated with healthier lifestyle, such as a healthier dietary pattern and less smoking, as is found in more religious cultures. our study suggests that religious practice among danish citizens seems to be correlated with health behaviours and that healthcare professionals should pay more attention to the connection between religiosity and health. 
Antral follicle assessment as a tool for predicting outcome in IVF--is it a better predictor than age and FSH? [SEP] this observational study shows that the antral follicle count is a better predictor of ongoing pregnancy in ivf patients aged >38 years of age than is basal fsh. result(s); the antral follicle count was the best single predictor for poor ovarian response: area under the receiver operating characteristic curve = 0.87. our data demonstrate that the antral follicle count provides better prognostic information on the occurrence of poor response during hormone stimulation for ivf than does the patient's chronological age and the currently used endocrine markers. to determine the predictive value of serum anti-müllerian hormone (amh) concentrations and antral follicle counts (afc), on ovarian response and live birth rates after ivf and compare with age and basal fsh. basal levels of amh, fsh and antral follicle count were measured in 192 patients prior to ivf treatment. poor responders in ivf were older, had lower afc and amh but higher basal fsh levels. the analysis of 384 ivf cycles showed that anti-müllerian hormone concentration and antral follicle count were the best predictors of poor ovarian response and performed better in non-smokers than in smokers, for which no parameter could predict pregnancy. basal follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh) and age are predictors of successful outcome in in vitro fertilization (ivf). by prospectively study of 214 women undergoing in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (ivf-et) treatment, we obtained data supporting that antral follicle size could be an additional valuable predictive marker other than the antral follicle count (afc) in predicting ovarian response. together, our data suggest that basal antral follicle size could be a valued predictive marker in women with ivf-et treatment, in which women with antral follicle size 6-7 mm are likely predisposed to better ivf-et outcomes. 
Do all ethnic groups in New Zealand exhibit socio-economic mortality gradients? [SEP] first, to establish whether a deprivation gradient in all-cause mortality exists for all ethnic groups within new zealand; second, if such gradients do exist, whether their absolute slopes are the same; and third, if such gradients exist, what impact the unequal deprivation distributions of the different ethnic groups have on the observed ethnic inequalities in life expectancy at birth. to explore the contributions of socio-economic and demographic factors to ethnic disparity among older adult (65+) all cause and cause-specific mortality differentials among māori, pacific, asians and non-māori, non-pacific non-asian (nmnpna) in new zealand. the results demonstrate that clear ethnic mortality gradients persist into old age and the mortality level of most groups was influenced by varying distribution of socio-economic factors. to quantify the contribution of health care to ethnic and socio-economic inequalities in health in new zealand in 2000-02, using the concept of 'amenable' mortality (deaths at ages 0-74 years from causes responsive to health care). in this paper, we determine trends in colorectal cancer mortality by ethnicity and socio-economic position in new zealand. to test whether trends in breast cancer mortality varied by ethnicity and socio-economic position during the 1980s and '90s in new zealand. there are strong socio-economic gradients for all-cause mortality and most specific causes of mortality among both males and female adults in new zealand, regardless of the choice of socio-economic factor. social class differences in male mortality in new zealand were investigated separately for maori, pacific island and other new zealand males aged 15-64. all three groups displayed strong social class mortality gradients but, for each class, the maori mortality rates were approximately 50% higher than the rates for the "other" category, while the pacific islander rates generally occupied an intermediate position. overall, there were substantial social class differences and ethnic differences in mortality and these were largely independent so that only about one-fifth of the maori mortality excess was attributable to social class factors. 
Can normal knee kinematics be restored with unicompartmental knee replacement? [SEP] the clinical relevance is that medial unicompartmental arthroplasty cannot restore the motion of the knee to normal in the living knee. knee kinematics after unicompartmental knee replacement followed the predicted pattern of normal stability in extension and had slightly less varus-valgus laxity at 30 degrees (p less than 0.01), 45 degrees (p less than 0.01), and 60 degrees (p less than 0.05), and less anteroposterior displacement at 45 degrees (p less than 0.01) and 60 degrees (p less than 0.05). this study offers encouraging evidence that unicompartmental knee replacement with unconstrained components can restore normal knee kinematics, and that alignment can be restored with a high degree of accuracy with an intramedullary alignment system. unicompartmental replacement can be an alternative to tibial osteotomy in younger, active patients with unicompartmental knee disease. in this in vitro cadaver study, the tricompartmental replacement significantly changed knee kinematics while the unicompartmental replacement preserved normal knee kinematics. the kinematic behaviour of anterior cruciate deficient knees (n=16) after mobile unicompartmental knee replacement was compared to matched intact knees (n=16). kinematic differences were found between the deficient and intact knees after mobile unicompartmental knee replacement; but these kinematic changes do not seem to affect the medium-term clinical outcome. the purpose of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that a medial unicompartmental knee arthroplasty might restore the functional flexion axis of a knee to normal. if a unicompartmental knee could help restore the normal flexion axis, the anatomic landmarks after the arthroplasty would show the vertical translation similar to those of normal knees during a knee flexion. unicompartmental knee replacement results in a more kinematic knee and produces good functional results. 
Are serum leptin levels a prognostic factor in advanced lung cancer? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to evaluate pre-treatment concentrations of leptin in patients with advanced lung cancer and to investigate possible associations between their levels and clinicopathological variables, response to therapy and overall survival. our results showed that the serum leptin level has no prognostic indications in advanced lung cancer patients. leptin is decreased in lung cancer, and there is lack of correlation with tumour‑related factors including prognosis. the aim of this study was to evaluate the expression and clinical significance of leptin in lung cancer. serum leptin levels in lung cancer patients were significantly higher compared to those in controls and leptin expression in lung cancer tissue was markedly increased than that in normal lung tissue (both p<0.050). determination of leptin levels might provide useful predictive information for lung cancer. we hypothesized that leptin expression may be a determinant for prognosis in lung adenocarcinoma patients with cisplatin/pemetrexed chemotherapy. serum from consenting patients with lung adenocarcinoma were obtained for the measurement of leptin and associated tumor biomarkers. the results indicated that the serum leptin level has prognostic indications in patients with advanced lung adenocarcinoma during cisplatin/pemetrexed chemotherapy, which indicates that it may be a useful marker for the prognosis of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy treatment. our objective is to study serum leptin levels in relation to nutritional status and acute phase response in advanced-stage non-small cell lung cancer.seventy-six patients newly diagnosed of non surgical non-small cell lung cancer before chemotherapy treatment and 30 healthy controls were included. 
Is fetal gender associated with emergency department visits for asthma during pregnancy? [SEP] to investigate if fetal gender (1) affects the risk of having an emergency department (ed) visit for asthma; and (2) is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had at least one visit to the ed for asthma during pregnancy. we performed a multivariable analysis using logistic regression to model the risk of having an ed visit for asthma, with fetal gender being one of the predictors. while having an ed visit for asthma was positively associated with teenage pregnancy, low income, and presence of pregnancy-induced hypertension, it was not associated with fetal gender (or 1.01, 95% ci 0.85-1.19). fetal gender was not a significant predictor of adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had an asthma ed visit during pregnancy. fetal gender does not affect the risk of having an ed visit for asthma during pregnancy, and it is not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes among women who had an asthma-related ed during pregnancy. recent studies have found that asthmatic women pregnant with a female fetus reported more symptoms and had slightly lower lung function than women pregnant with a male fetus. in order to further investigate this association, we studied the effect of fetal sex on maternal asthma exacerbations and the use of asthma medications during pregnancy. women pregnant with a female fetus were compared to women with a male fetus with respect to their rate of asthma exacerbation, their weekly doses of inhaled short-acting beta(2)-agonists (saba), and their daily dose of inhaled corticosteroids (ics) during pregnancy. based on the results, we conclude that fetal gender is unlikely to affect maternal asthma during pregnancy to the point where acute care and medications are more often required among women pregnant with a female fetus. during pregnancy, females with asthma may be at higher risk of exacerbation. 
Stretch-sensitive KCNQ1 mutation A link between genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation? [SEP] to investigate sequence alterations of i(ks) potassium channel genes kcnq1, kcne1 and kcne2 in kazakhstani patients with atrial fibrillation. genomic dna of 69 cases with atrial fibrillation and 27 relatives were analyzed for mutations in all protein-coding exons and their flanking splice site regions of the genes kcnq1 (nm_000218.2 and nm_181798.1), kcne1 (nm_000219.2), and kcne2 (nm_172201.1) using bidirectional sequencing on the abi 3730xl dna analyzer (applied biosystems, foster city, ca, usa). inherited long qt syndrome (lqts), a cardiac arrhythmia that predisposes to the often lethal ventricular fibrillation, is commonly linked to mutations in kcnq1. kcnq1 and kcne mutations are also associated with atrial fibrillation. the description of a novel, de novo gain of function mutation in kcnq1, responsible for atrial fibrillation and short qt syndrome in utero indicates that some of these cases may have a genetic basis and confirms a previous hypothesis that gain of function mutations in kcnq1 channels can shorten the duration of ventricular and atrial action potentials. we hypothesized that gain-of-function kcnq1 mutations previously associated with familial atrial fibrillation have distinct pharmacological properties that may enable targeted inhibition. mutations in kcnq1, one component of a sympathetically activated cardiac potassium channel complex, cause familial atrial fibrillation, although the mechanisms in vivo are unknown. we show here that mice with deletion of the kcnq1 protein partner kcne1 have spontaneous episodes of atrial fibrillation despite normal atrial size and structure. this paper reviews recent progress in understanding the role of genetic contributors to the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation and its familial susceptibility. in addition, studies have pointed to interesting combined roles of genetic and environmental factors in atrial fibrillation pathogenesis, providing insights into gene-environment interactions. 
Are adult body circumferences associated with height? [SEP] the results showed 26% of adult men, 10.4% of adult women and more than 30% of the older adults of both genders classified as without risk by the combination matrix between body mass index and waist circumference presented a ratio between the waist circumference and height that showed increased risk. we have studied the association of head circumference at birth with later deaths from coronary heart disease (chd), and assessed whether maternal height and adult body mass could modify the association. the association was modified by maternal height (pinteraction = 0.01) and by adult body mass (pinteraction = 0.05). head circumference at birth was inversely associated with deaths from chd, and the combination of small head and tall mother, or small head and high adult body mass, was associated with the highest risk. childhood waist circumference indexed by height is associated with left ventricular mass (indexed by height) in boys (age of divergence: 8 years). though results are affected by adult body size, composition and blood pressure, some aspects of adult cardiac structure may have their genesis in childhood body size. body height was an additional independent predictor of grip and palmar pinch. various anthropometric measures, including height, have been associated with atrial fibrillation (af). risk estimates for af tended to be stronger for hip circumference than for waist circumference and for fat-free mass than for fat mass, which was explained largely by height. adult bmi and waist circumference were not associated with glioma. 
Would corrected QT dispersion predict left ventricular hypertrophy in hypertensive patients? [SEP] to study the relationship between qt interval dispersion, arterial hypertension and different left ventricular geometric patterns in the framework of a population study. mean values of corrected qt dispersion were higher in hypertensives than in normotensives in each left ventricular geometric pattern. prolonged corrected qt dispersion is associated with left ventricular geometric abnormalities and arterial hypertension and is mostly related to concentric hypertrophy. although ventricular repolarization indexes were similar in patients with and without left ventricular hypertrophy, only corrected qt dispersion was significantly higher in patients with hypertension (p = .006). qt dispersion in men with severe left ventricular hypertrophy was significantly enlarged (67.5 vs. 30 ms, p=0.047). the heart rate-corrected qt dispersion (67 +/- 37 versus 53 +/- 21 milliseconds, p < .05) and qt apex dispersion (55 +/- 22 versus 44 +/- 16 milliseconds, p < .01) were significantly longer in the patients with left ventricular hypertrophy than in those without hypertrophy. we studied 49 patients of essential hypertension and the relationship between qt dispersion (defined as the difference between the maximum and the minimum qt interval in a 12-lead electrocardiogram) and m-mode echocardiographic left ventricular mass was analysed. hence, we conclude that there is a direct, linear and positive correlation between left ventricular mass and qt dispersion in essential hypertension. this study evaluated the correlation of left ventricular hypertrophy and qt dispersion in patients with systemic hypertension. qt dispersion, determined using the standard electrocardiogram, showed an increase as left ventricular mass determined by echocardiography increased in hypertensive patients. 
Traumatic aortic injury: does the anatomy of the aortic arch influence aortic trauma severity? [SEP] we investigate whether the anatomy of the aortic arch influences the severity of aortic injury. the mean aortic arch index and mean aortic arch angle were 6.8 cm and 58.3°, respectively, in the type i injury group; 4.4 cm and 45.9° in the type iii group; 3.3 cm and 37° in the type iv group. there is an inverse relationship between the severity of aortic injury and the aortic arch index. to assess aortic arch morphology and aortic length in patients with dissection, traumatic injury, and aneurysm undergoing tevar, and to identify characteristics specific to different pathologies. this was a retrospective analysis of the aortic arch morphology and aortic length of dissection, traumatic injury, and aneurysmal patients. arch anatomy has significant morphologic differences when comparing aortic pathologies. to report the clinical and radiological characteristics, management and outcomes of traumatic ascending aorta and aortic arch injuries. traumatic aortic injuries of the ascending aorta/arch should be considered in any major thoracic trauma patient presenting cardiac tamponade, aortic valve regurgitation and/or myocardial contusion. seventeen patients (19%) had 24 injuries to the aortic arch branches: in 14 of these 17 patients, the aorta was intact, whereas three patients also had aortic rupture. the occurrence of acute traumatic aortic injury in patients with congenital abnormality of the aortic arch has been rarely reported; however, it renders the diagnosis and treatment more difficult. 
Inpatient versus outpatient management of neutropenic fever in gynecologic oncology patients: is risk stratification useful? [SEP] this study aimed to evaluate the utility of risk stratification of gynecologic oncology patients with neutropenic fever (nf). to provide guidelines on antimicrobial prophylaxis for adult neutropenic oncology outpatients and on selection and treatment as outpatients of those with fever and neutropenia. inpatient treatment is standard to manage febrile neutropenic episodes, although carefully selected patients may be managed as outpatients after systematic assessment beginning with a validated risk index (eg, multinational association for supportive care in cancer [mascc] score or talcott's rules). the purpose of this study is to analyze the safety of outpatient treatment for cancer patients with chemotherapy-induced neutropenic fever in a community hospital setting and to compare the costs of outpatient treatment with those of inpatient treatment for such patients. in a community hospital setting most cancer patients with neutropenic fever who meet certain criteria can be safely, effectively, and inexpensively treated as outpatients. the safe and effective outpatient treatment of adults with chemotherapy- induced neutropenic fever is reviewed. the standard of care for neutropenic fever is inpatient treatment with i.v. fever in a neutropenic pediatric oncology patient requires prompt assessment due to the risk of infectious complications. treatment of fever and neutropenia in cancer patients has been recognized for 30 years as a medical emergency, requiring prompt in-hospital evaluation and institution of broad-spectrum intravenous (i.v.) outpatient management of fever during neutropenia could obviously be much less costly than standard inpatient care and could improve quality of life for low-risk patients undergoing cancer therapy. 
Should chest wall irradiation be included after mastectomy and negative node breast cancer? [SEP] this retrospective study was conducted to determine the indication of chest wall irradiation following mastectomy in axillary node-positive breast cancer patients. among node-positive breast cancer patients following mastectomy, those with definite vascular invasion should be delivered chest wall irradiation regardless of the number of positive axillary nodes. after nac, most patients received irradiation of the breast/chest wall and axillary and supraclavicular nodes. in this setting, port to breast/chest wall with or without regional nodal irradiation was safe and effective, with acceptable disease-free and overall survival rates reported in this high-risk population. therefore, chest wall and supraclavicular/infraclavicular nodes irradiation should always be considered in post-mastectomy radiotherapy. among patients with breast cancer who have four or more positive axillary nodes or t3-4nany, those who have no vascular invasion or less than 4 axillary nodes metastases do not need to be subjected to chest wall irradiation after radical mastectomy. this retrospective study evaluates the results of postmastectomy electron-beam chest-wall irradiation in patients with breast cancer. postmastectomy electron-beam chest-wall irradiation is as effective as photon-beam irradiation in breast cancer. different radiotherapy techniques are being used for chest wall irradiation after mastectomy. from january 1990 to june 1995, 89 patients underwent electron-beam-rotation irradiation of the chest wall after primary mastectomy and axillary lymph node dissection (group i) and 41 patients after excision of local recurrent breast cancer (group ii) with 4 x 2.5 gy/week to 50 gy total dose (4-12 mev electrons depending on the thickness of the chest wall). 
Can bisphosphonate treatment be stopped in a growing child with skeletal fragility? [SEP] the bmd at both sites decreased precipitously within 24 months of stopping treatment, raising the question as to whether bisphosphonates can be stopped in a growing child with skeletal fragility. this case has led us to consider whether bisphosphonate therapy can be discontinued in a child with fragility fractures before his/her linear growth has ceased? data suggest that bisphosphonates have a residual therapeutic effect after being stopped and that fracture benefit appears to be sustained 2-5 years after discontinuation. bisphosphonates are effective in increasing bone mineral density (bmd), but fragility fractures can still occur despite bisphosphonate treatment. skeletal fragility is a common complication of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (all) but the impact of bisphosphonate therapy on bone mass and fracture is unclear. we aim to conduct a systematic review to evaluate the effects of bisphosphonates on bone mineral density (bmd) and fracture incidence in children with all. this systematic review identified that there is insufficient evidence to support routine use of prophylactic bisphosphonate therapy in childhood all for prevention of fracture and improvement of bone mass. long-term extensions (up to 10 years) of pivotal clinical trials with daily bisphosphonate administration showed sustained efficacy with no evidence of adverse effects on bone metabolism and skeletal fragility. recent studies focus on the resolution of the effects of bisphosphonates on bone metabolism and fracture risk following cessation of long-term treatment. bisphosphonate therapy is currently recognized as a first-line treatment of osteoporosis through the inhibition of osteoclast activity. 
Regional anesthesia as compared with general anesthesia for surgery in geriatric patients with hip fracture: does it decrease morbidity, mortality, and health care costs? [SEP] at our institution, a regional anesthesia program was instituted for patients undergoing surgery for hip fracture. there is no difference in postoperative morbidity, rates of rehospitalization, in-patient mortality or hospitalization costs in geriatric patients undergoing regional or general anesthesia for repair of hip fracture. to determine the impact of anesthesia type on in-hospital mortality and morbidity for geriatric fragility hip fracture surgery. hip fracture surgery with general or regional anesthesia. (1) among older patients undergoing surgery for hip fracture, does 90-day mortality differ depending on the type of anesthesia received? hip fracture surgery is a common procedure, and the geriatric population with its multiple comorbid conditions is at most at risk of developing anesthesia-related complications. regional anesthesia is associated with a lower odds of inpatient mortality and pulmonary complications among all hip fracture patients compared with general anesthesia; this finding may be driven by a trend toward improved outcomes with regional anesthesia among patients with intertrochanteric fractures. during surgery following hip fractures, both general and regional anesthesia are used, but which type of anesthesia offers a better outcome remains controversial. regional anesthesia was not associated with decreased 30-day all-cause mortality (odds ratio [or] 0.89, 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.67-1.18, p = 0.409), but associated with decreased 30-day all-cause readmission and surgical site infection readmission relative to general anesthesia (or 0.83, 95% ci 0.75-0.93, p = 0.001 and or 0.69, 95% ci 0.49-0.97, p = 0.031).regional anesthesia is not associated with 30-day mortality, but is associated with lower 30-day all-cause and surgical site infection readmission compared with general anesthesia for hip fracture surgery. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of age and the anesthesia method used on morbidity and mortality in geriatric patients who had hip surgery. 
Does blood pressure change in treated hypertensive patients depending on whether it is measured by a physician or a nurse? [SEP] to determine whether there are differences between blood pressure (bp) measured by the nurse (nbp), bp measured by the physician (pbp) and self-measured bp in treated hypertensive patients and, if found, to evaluate their clinical importance. systolic bp measured by the nurse in treated hypertensive patients is significantly lower than the readings obtained by the physician, and are almost identical to ambulatory bp monitoring. blood pressure determination by the nurse is desirable not only for diagnosis but also to evaluate the level of control of blood pressure during the follow-up of treated hypertensive patients. the objective of the present study was to determine the correspondence between blood pressure measured by a doctor or a nurse and ambulatory blood pressure. physician-measured diastolic pressure was 3 +/- 11 mmhg (p < 0.05) higher on average than ambulatory pressure, but the difference between nurse-measured and ambulatory diastolic pressure was 0 +/- 12 mmhg (not significant). thus, nurses rather than doctors should routinely measure blood pressure, but nurse-measured blood pressure is not an acceptable substitute for ambulatory monitoring. the difference between the nurse blood pressure and abpm was greater among treated hypertensive patients than untreated patients. also, the group whose care was managed by a physician-nurse team revealed significantly higher scores for discussion of blood pressure medication than the group whose care was managed only by one or more physicians. nurses qualified to assist with meeting the needs of hypertension clients in primary care settings can positively affect clients' knowledge about blood pressure medication and--perhaps as a result of this knowledge--how well the clients control their blood pressure. data indicate that for patients who remain actively in follow-up, blood pressure control was the same when treated by either physicians or the nurse practitioner. 
Treadmill testing of children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory: does peak oxygen uptake reflect maximum oxygen uptake? [SEP] )vo(2)peak) in children with spina bifida. the aim of this study was to determine whether the vo(2)peak measured during an incremental treadmill test is a true reflection of the maximum oxygen uptake ((. )vo(2)max) in children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory. )vo(2)max in children who have spina bifida and are ambulatory, validating the use of a treadmill test for these children. with emerging interest in exercise and lifestyle interventions for children and adolescents with spina bifida, there is a need for appropriate measurements in exercise testing. the purpose of this study was to assess both reliability and agreement of maximal and submaximal exercise measures in "normal ambulatory" and "community ambulatory" children and adolescents with spina bifida. both maximal and submaximal measures of exercise testing can be used for discriminative purposes in ambulatory children and adolescents with spina bifida. [methods] the subjects completed a series of tests to determine their peak oxygen uptake, pulmonary oxygen uptake kinetics at the onset of moderate-intensity treadmill exercise, and the rate of decline in electromyographic (emg) mean power frequency (mpf) (emg mpfrate) during one continuous, fatiguing, isometric muscle action of the plantar flexors until exhaustion at approximately 60% maximum voluntary contraction. oxygen consumption was measured according to type of cerebral palsy or level of spina bifida lesion, and in healthy children. on other occasions, peak calf blood flow, resting ankle-brachial index, and pulmonary oxygen uptake kinetics during steady-state walking were assessed. 
Is the probability of prenatal diagnosis or termination of pregnancy different for fetuses with congenital anomalies conceived following assisted reproductive techniques? [SEP] to compare the probability of prenatal diagnosis (pnd) and termination of pregnancy for fetal anomaly (topfa) between fetuses conceived by assisted reproductive techniques (art) and spontaneously-conceived fetuses with congenital heart defects (chd). a retrospective cohort study was conducted to evaluate and compare the prevalence of congenital anomalies in babies and fetuses conceived after four procedures of assisted reproduction technologies (art). the prevalence of congenital anomalies was compared retrospectively between 2750 babies and fetuses conceived between 2001 and 2014 in vitro fertilization with standard insemination (ivf), ivf with intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi), ivf with frozen embryo transfer (fet-ivf), and icsi with frozen embryo transfer (fet-icsi). the parental backgrounds, biologic parameters, obstetric parameters, and perinatal outcomes were compared between babies and fetuses with and without congenital anomalies. the purpose of this study is to determine the pattern of pregnancy termination for major congenital anomalies in our hospital after seven years of commencement of the screening programme. therefore, termination of pregnancies with major anomalies significantly contributes to the global decrease in perinatal morbidity and mortality associated with birth defects. congenital anomalies confirmed and those suspected prenatally, delivered 1991-2008. analysis of proportions of congenital anomalies confirmed and those suspected prenatally. a total of 722 (44% of prenatally detected affected fetuses) resulted in termination; 48% of these had chromosome anomalies, 34% had isolated structural anomalies, 7% had multiple anomalies, 10% had familial disorders; 42% had lethal anomalies and 58% would probably have survived the neonatal period giving an estimated 20% reduction in birth prevalence of congenital anomalies compatible with survival because of terminations. the material for this study came from the analysis of data from multiple sources on births and terminations of pregnancy after prenatal diagnosis of congenital anomalies in 279,642 consecutive pregnancies of known outcome. 
Is there a relationship between complex fractionated atrial electrograms recorded during atrial fibrillation and sinus rhythm fractionation? [SEP] prolonged and fractionated right atrial endocardial electrograms are characteristic of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (idiopathic or associated with sick sinus syndrome). complex fractionated atrial electrograms were observed in all regions of the la. complex fractionated atrial electrograms were highly conserved between two episodes of af with 76.1 +/- 11.8% of cfae reproducible at delta of 20 ms. complex fractionated atrial electrograms are reproducible at the same anatomic site in a separate episode of af. the mean electrogram amplitudes during both atrial fibrillation and flutter correlated significantly with amplitudes during sinus rhythm (r = 0.79, r = 0.94, respectively, both p < 0.0001). complex fractionated electrograms (egms) of the coronary sinus electrograms (cses) are employed as a target during radiofrequency ablations (rfa) of atrial fibrillation (af). fractionated and/or continuous discrete activities were recorded from coronary sinus electrograms during sinus rhythm and during pacing. mapping of atrial fibrillation (af) involves identification of low-voltage regions associated with complex fractionated electrograms (cfe) which theoretically represent abnormal substrate and targets for ablation. complex fractionated electrograms were prevalent throughout all regions during af, but did not correlate with %low voltage, fractionation, or slowed conduction during paced rhythm. a prolonged and fractionated atrial electrogram characteristic of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation can be closely related to the vulnerability of the atrial muscle. both ablation-targeting complex fractionated atrial electrograms (cfaes) recorded during af and fractionated electrograms recorded during sinus rhythm (sinus rhythm fractionation [srf]) have been described. 
Does rural or urban residence make a difference to neonatal outcome in premature birth? [SEP] to test the hypothesis that very premature infants born to mothers residing in rural areas have poorer outcomes than those residing in urban areas in the state of new south wales (nsw) and the australian capital territory (act) despite a coordinated referral and transport system. premature births from rural mothers have a higher risk of stillbirth and mortality in neonatal intensive care than urban infants. rural and urban differences in rates of inadequate prenatal care, neonatal death, and low birth weight were examined in the general population and in subpopulations stratified by risk and race using data from five years (1984-88) of birth and infant death certificates from washington state. results indicate that rural residents in the general population and in various subpopulations had similar or lower rates of poor outcome than did urban residents but experienced higher rates of inadequate prenatal care than did urban residents. trends in rural and urban obstetric deliveries and neonatal and maternal mortality in california were compared to inform policy development and patient and provider decision making in rural health care settings. neonatal death rates were significantly higher in babies born to rural mothers with no pregnancy complications who delivered a normal weight baby vaginally at an urban hospital compared to urban mothers delivering at an urban hospital (0.2 [ci 0.2-0.4] deaths per 1,000 births versus 0.1 [ci 0.1-0.1]). logistic regression analysis showed that delivery in a rural hospital was a protective factor compared to urban mothers delivering in an urban hospital, with an odds ratio of 0.8 (ci 0.6-0.9). in this study of rural and urban populations in gansu province, a disadvantaged province of china, we describe the characteristics and mortality of newborn infants and evaluated rural-urban differences of neonatal death. this study assesses the rural-urban differences in neonatal mortality rate (nmr) and the associated risk factors in nigeria. determinants of neonatal mortality were different in rural and urban nigeria, and rural neonates had greater risk of mortality than their urban counterparts. 
Is the use of cyanoacrylate in intestinal anastomosis a good and reliable alternative? [SEP] we have developed a reliable method of microneural anastomosis using cyanoacrylate adhesives. it was concluded that the cyanoacrylate repair deserves to be considered as an alternative to the conventional suture technique in microneural anastomosis. to present anastomosis with cyanoacrylate as a cheap, simple, fast, and available technique for anastomosis in urological, vascular, gynecological, and general surgical procedures. cyanoacrylate anastomosis may in the future present a fast, convenient, simple, and affordable option in the treatment of patients requiring anastomosis. this experimental study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of using cyanoacrylate adhesive for sutureless colonic anastomosis and as a protective seal to prevent leakage. n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate could be a useful method for sutureless colonic anastomosis based on the absence of anastomotic leakage, but it may impede healing of the colonic anastomosis. the clinical use of n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate in colonic anastomosis does not appear to be acceptable and safer anastomotic methods or alternative forms of cyanoacrylate should be developed. 2-octyl-cyanoacrylate may be a good alternative in ischemic colon anastomosis without impairment of tissue perfusion. although cyanoacrylate glue (ca) has been widely used in various kinds of medical applications, its application in gastrointestinal anastomosis remains limited, and outcomes of experimental studies have not been satisfactory. microvascular anastomosis using cyanoacrylate adhesive has a reputation among researchers as an alternative to conventional sutures. 
Is trabecular bone related to primary stability of miniscrews? [SEP] to compare the primary stability of miniscrews inserted into bone blocks of different bone mineral densities (bmds) with and without cortical bone, and investigate whether some trabecular properties could influence primary stability. miniscrews 1.4 mm in diameter and 6 mm long were inserted into the bone blocks, and primary stability was evaluated by insertion torque (it), mini-implant mobility (ptv), and pull-out strength (ps). intergroup comparison showed lower levels of primary stability when the bmd of trabecular bone was lower and in the absence of cortical bone (p≤.05). to verify whether bone mineral density (bmd) of cortical bone, trabecular bone, and total bone influence the primary stability of orthodontic miniscrews and to verify whether there is a correlation between the measurement of bmd by cone-beam computed tomography (cbct) and central dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (dexa). the aim of this preliminary study was to evaluate bone density in two bovine pelvic regions and verify the primary stability of miniscrews inserted into them. however, the miniscrew primary stability was not different when varying the bone type (p < 0.05). calculations were carried out in both cases in configurations where the miniscrew was inserted into two different palatal regions: in the first it was anchored in one layer of cortical bone and in the underlying trabecular bone; in the second, two layers of cortical bone and the trabecular bone in between were involved. this study aimed to evaluate the primary stability of miniscrews shorter than 6 mm and their feasibility in artificial bone with densities of 30, 40, and 50 pounds per cubic foot (pcf). the mit and micromotion results demonstrated that the intrabony length of a miniscrew significantly affected its stability in low-density cortical bone, unlike cases with a higher cortical bone density (p < 0.05). thus, the primary stability of miniscrews was affected by both the cortical bone density and intrabony length. 
Is there any evidence of a "July effect" in patients undergoing major cancer surgery? [SEP] the "july effect" refers to the phenomenon of adverse impacts on patient care arising from the changeover in medical staff that takes place during this month at academic medical centres in north america. there has been some evidence supporting the presence of the july effect, including data from surgical specialties. on the whole, the data confirm an absence of a july effect in patients undergoing major cancer surgery. the aim of this study was to investigate the influence of the day of week of surgery on mortality and morbidity rates in a national danish cohort of patients undergoing major elective surgery for colorectal cancer. a "july effect" of increased complications when new trainees begin residency has been reported widely by the media. we sought to determine the effect of admission month on in-hospital mortality, complications, length of hospitalization, and costs for patients undergoing head and neck cancer (hnca) surgery. these data do not support evidence of a "july effect" or an increase in morbidity or mortality at teaching hospitals providing hnca surgical care. some studies have suggested patients who undergo surgery in july have worse outcomes compared to patients treated during other months. a multivariable regression analysis was performed to examine the independent effect of july admissions on overall complications, major complications, and inpatient mortality. in this study of a nationwide database, patients who underwent asd surgery in july did not have increased odds of developing a complication or inpatient mortality compared to patients admitted in other months. 
Is it necessary to insert a nasobiliary drainage tube routinely after endoscopic clearance of the common bile duct in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced cholangitis? [SEP] little is known about whether a routinely inserted endoscopic nasobiliary drainage (enbd) tube improves the clinical course in patients with choledocholithiasis-induced acute cholangitis after clearance of choledocholithiasis. a total of 104 patients with choledocholithiasis-induced acute cholangitis who underwent primary endoscopic treatment were compared according to insertion of an enbd tube (51 in the enbd group and 53 in the no-enbd group). successful performance of endoscopic sphincterotomy in the treatment of choledocholithiasis led to the placement of retrograde, transpapillary catheters for internal drainage and prevention of cholangitis. one hundred and twenty seven patients were treated by nasobiliary drainage, or stenting, to prevent biliary obstruction after endoscopic failure to clear stones from the common bile duct. there were no complications of nasobiliary drainage, but two of 39 patients treated by temporary stents developed cholangitis, both successfully managed by endoscopic duct clearance. a 7 f endoscopic nasobiliary drainage (enbd) tube with a pigtail shape was temporarily placed in the common bile duct. the present study aimed to explore the indications and feasibility of t-tube-free trans-umbilical single-incision laparoscopic common bile duct exploration (silcbde) plus laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc) for treating choledocholithiasis. a nasobiliary catheter or biliary stent was emergently inserted endoscopically to control acute suppurative cholangitis in those patients. a nasobiliary catheter or stent was inserted endoscopically in all 38 patients with acute suppurative cholangitis. from june to november 2001, temporary implantation of the new bent-type tube stent was performed in four patients (two women, two men; mean age, 73.3 years) with choledocholithiasis, for the drainage of bile and pancreatic juice simultaneously after endoscopic lithotomy by endoscopic sphincterotomy or endoscopic balloon sphincter dilatation. 
Storage of vaccines in the community: weak link in the cold chain? [SEP] introduction of inactivated polio vaccine creates challenges in maintaining the cold chain for vaccine storage and distribution. bangladesh has substantial cold-chain storage and transportation capacity after inactivated polio vaccine introduction, but temperature fluctuations during vaccine transport could cause vaccine potency loss that could go undetected. bangladesh and other countries should strive to ensure consistent and sufficient cold-chain storage and monitor the cold chain during vaccine transportation at all levels. however, the cold supply chain is essential for vaccine storage and logistics services. the proposed novel micro cold storage aims to be silent, clean, mobile, without moving parts, and reliable for the last-mile vaccine logistics as a vaccine carrier to the remote rural areas. the design consideration of covid-19 vaccine storage has been reported. the maximum benefit of receiving vaccines for vaccine-preventable diseases can only be attained when we ensure that safe storage and handling occurs through strict adherence to the vaccine cold chain. to investigate the cold chain for vaccines and compliance with the local code of practice for storage. in a random sample of general practices orders for live vaccines (oral polio and measles, mumps, and rubella) were accompanied by a cold chain monitor which was activated on leaving the supplying pharmacy. although vaccine supply chains in many countries require additional stationary storage and transport capacity to meet current and future needs, international donors tend to donate stationary storage devices far more often than transport equipment. 
Is the clinically positive axilla in breast cancer really a contraindication to sentinel lymph node biopsy? [SEP] sentinel lymph node biopsy has allowed improved staging of the axilla with reduced morbidity in breast cancer patients. axillary lymph node status is a very important prognostic factor in breast cancer patients; nodal evaluation is therefore a critical part of breast cancer management. sentinel lymph node biopsy is an effective method of staging the axilla and deciding on axillary clearance in patients of carcinoma breast. sentinel lymph node biopsy might replace complete axillary dissection for staging of the axilla in clinically n0 breast cancer patients and represent a significant advantage as a minimally invasive procedure, considering that about 70% of patients are found to be free from metastatic disease, yet axillary node dissection can lead to significant morbidity. sentinel lymph node biopsy helps to accurately evaluate the status of the axilla and the extent of disease, but also determines appropriate adjuvant treatment and long-term follow-up. sentinel lymph node biopsy in breast cancer allowed conservation of the axilla in 80% (289/360) of patients with negative sentinel lymph nodes in this study. objective the aim of the current study is to determine the feasibility and accuracy of ultrasound-guided core biopsy for staging the axilla in clinically node-negative patients with invasive breast cancer. the aim of the present study is to determine the accuracy and feasibility of ultrasound-guided core biopsy to stage the axilla in clinically node-negative breast cancer patients, comparing with final histopathology as gold standard. conclusion in conclusion, the present study demonstrated high accuracy of ultrasound-guided axillary lymph node core biopsy in breast cancer patients with clinically node-negative axilla. in 48.2% of the patients, positive sentinel lymph node does not demonstrate a positive axilla. 
Convulsions and retinal haemorrhage: should we look further? [SEP] to evaluate the likelihood that, in children under the age of 2 years, convulsions alone may cause retinal haemorrhages. in children under the age of 2 years convulsions alone are unlikely to cause retinal haemorrhages. therefore, the finding of retinal haemorrhages in a child admitted with a history of convulsion should trigger a meticulous search for other causes of these haemorrhages, particularly non-accidental injury. the prevalence of retinal haemorrhages after convulsions is not well established. one child was found with unilateral retinal haemorrhages following an episode of a simple febrile convulsion. retinal haemorrhages following a convulsive episode are rare. to evaluate the incidence of retinal haemorrhages after convulsions in children. convulsions rarely (if ever) give rise to retinal haemorrhages. to determine the prevalence of retinal haemorrhages in infants presenting with convulsions and admitted to hospital, and to consider whether this finding indicates shaken baby syndrome. convulsions alone are unlikely to cause retinal haemorrhages in children under 2 years of age. 
Are patients willing participants in the new wave of community-based medical education in regional and rural Australia? [SEP] community-based medical education is growing to meet the increased demand for quality clinical education in expanded settings, and its sustainability relies on patient participation. patients attending six rural and 11 regional general practices in new south wales over 18 teaching sessions in november 2008, who consented to student involvement in their consultation. patients in regional and rural settings were willing partners in developing skills of junior medical students, who had greater involvement in patient consultations than previously reported for urban students. our study extends the findings from urban general practice that patients are underutilised partners in community-based medical training. the support of patients from regional and rural settings could facilitate the expansion of primary care-based medical education in these areas of workforce need. conclusions evaluation of the prcc indicates that a rural community-based clinical education can provide a high quality academic experience for students as well as a sustainable solution to rural medical workforce maldistribution. the greater murray clinical school provides a community based medical education programme for the clinical years at the university of new south wales. the paper outlines the conceptual approach towards the development and implementation of this novel approach to community based medical education. new clinical teaching environments have been established in australia, particularly in rural and regional areas; these are proving to be ideal contexts for student learning. to use data from an evaluation of the flinders university parallel rural community curriculum (prcc) to inform four immediate challenges facing medical education in australia as medical student numbers increase. 
Can Flexible Instruments Create Adequate Femoral Tunnel Lengths at 90° of Knee Flexion in Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction? [SEP] to compare the femoral tunnel characteristics using a rigid versus flexible reamer during anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. it was hypothesized that the employment of a flexible reamer along with femoral tunnel would exhibit longer tunnel length and more acute femoral graft tunnel angle compared to the case of a rigid reamer.the study population included 28 patients who underwent anatomical single-bundle anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction using transportal technique and were able to take postoperative computed tomography (ct) evaluation. the femoral tunnel in group i was made at 90° of knee flexion. the objective of our study was to evaluate the effect that knee flexion angle while femoral tunnels are being drilled may have on the length of these tunnels, in anatomical reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament. the mean anteromedial femoral tunnel lengths measured with the knees flexed at 90°, 110° and 130° were 33.7 (± 3.72) mm, 37.4 (± 2.93) mm and 38.8 (± 3.31) mm, respectively. to identify the relationship between knee flexion angle and femoral tunnel length, as well as the exit points of guidewires, when using a far anteromedial portal technique for posterolateral femoral tunnel drilling in double-bundle anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. when using the far anteromedial portal technique, more than 110° knee flexion is desirable to achieve ideal femoral tunnel length and avoid articular cartilage injury. we aimed to analyze how different positions of the tibial and femoral tunnels when used for anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction affect relations with the posterior cruciate ligament (pcl) at different degrees of knee flexion. to compare the accuracy of tunnel placement and graft isometry for anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction performed using a computer-assisted navigation system (orthopilot) and using traditional instruments. this study evaluated the ability of flexible instruments compared with rigid instruments to place anatomic femoral tunnels in anterior cruciate ligament reconstructions by use of both transtibial drilling and anteromedial drilling without hyperflexion. 
Quality of life in lung cancer patients: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] as part of a prospective study on quality of life in newly diagnosed lung cancer patients an investigation was carried out to examine whether there were differences among patients' quality of life scores and their socioeconomic status. in general, the findings suggest that quality of life is not only the outcome of the disease and its treatment, but is also highly dependent on each patients' socioeconomic characteristics. we evaluated the feasibility and validity of interviewer administration of 3 quality of life instruments for patients of low socioeconomic status with metastatic prostate cancer. these data support the feasibility and validity of quality of life measurement in patients of low socioeconomic status with metastatic prostate cancer. progress and achievements in areas such as performance status as a proxy of quality of life measure, psychological morbidity and symptom distress as predictive factors of quality of survival, and communication problems in quality of life studies of lung cancer patients have been emphasized and their implications in lung cancer care discussed. we studied associations between patient-reported pretreatment ft, socioeconomic status and clinical outcomes for locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (la-nsclc) patients. quality of life in patients with inoperable lung cancer receiving palliative treatment has become an important issue. the aim of the study was to investigate the influence of socioeconomic status and body mass index on the quality of life of breast cancer patients during the phases of treatment-before and after mastectomy. socioeconomic status is significantly associated with altered appearance distress, body image, and quality of life in korean women with breast cancer. socioeconomic status in lung cancer patients, especially those suffering from sclc, needs to be addressed. 
Are Biochemical Markers of Bone Turnover Representative of Bone Histomorphometry in 370 Postmenopausal Women? [SEP] bone turnover markers were significantly but modestly associated with bone turnover parameters measured in iliac cancellous bone. how estrogen therapy influences bone metabolism in postmenopausal women has previously been studied using several approaches, including bone densitometry, measurement of biochemical markers of bone turnover, and histomorphometry. to investigate the duration of high bone turnover after menopause in normal healthy women. biochemical markers of bone turnover were measured including total and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, c-terminal propeptide of type i procollagen, free deoxypyridinoline and urinary degredation products of type i collagen. high bone turnover occuring after menopause lasts for >25 years during the postmenopausal period. following double tetracycline labeling, transiliac bone biopsies were obtained at baseline and 1 year and analyzed for changes in histologic indexes of bone remodeling on the cancellous surface as well as at the endocortical subdivision of the endosteal envelope, the location of the greatest fraction of postmenopausal bone loss. biochemical markers of bone turnover suggested that bone resorption decreased, but no significant effects on histomorphometric parameters of bone formation were detected. the aim of the study was to compare bone mineral density (bmd) and bone turnover in pre- and postmenopausal women with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (iddm), non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (niddm) and normal reference women. bmd in the forearm, spine, femur and total body and biochemical markers of bone turnover were measured and compared with reference values obtained from measurements of normal healthy pre- and postmenopausal women. markers of bone turnover were significantly higher postmenopausally than premenopausally in both iddm and niddm patients. 
Should early extubation be the goal for children after congenital cardiac surgery? [SEP] the many advantages of early tracheal extubation following congenital cardiac surgery in young infants and children are now widely recognized. this study aimed to present experience of early extubation after congenital heart surgery and to explore the factors that affect successful immediate postoperative extubation and early extubation. this case report aims to critically analyse the evidence surrounding early extubation in the post-operative phase following complex congenital cardiac surgery. this experience shows that early extubation can safely be carried out in well-selected patients after surgery to correct congenital cardiac malformations. the concept of early extubation following congenital heart surgery is not new. to evaluate the impact of early extubation (within 6 h postoperatively) on children undergoing congenital heart surgery, retrospective data were obtained from records of 1000 consecutive patients. our study establishes that early extubation can be accomplished within the first 24 h after surgery in low- to medium-risk pediatric cardiac surgery patients, especially in older ones undergoing low-complexity procedures. we sought to determine the feasibility and assess the clinical outcomes associated with an early extubation strategy for all children undergoing congenital heart surgery, including neonates (age, <30 days). early extubation is possible in many very young children undergoing congenital heart surgery, with a low rate of failed extubation. early extubation can reduce pulmonary complications in children undergoing cardiac surgery. 
Does delivery mode affect women's postpartum quality of life in rural China? [SEP] to explore the impact of delivery mode on women's postpartum quality of life in rural china and probe factors influencing postnatal quality of life. under the circumstance of increasing high caesarean section rate in rural china, the impact of delivery mode on postnatal quality of life remains unclear. delivery mode did not affect postpartum quality of life in rural china. socio-cultural determinants may contribute more in influencing postnatal quality of life. null findings in impact of delivery mode on postpartum quality of life may cause more difficulties in maternal decision-making for vaginal delivery in rural china. health-related quality of life of women in the postpartum period may depend on the mode of birth. to explore health-related quality of life of women at the sixth week and sixth month postpartum by mode of birth. postpartum quality-of-life may be affected by delivery mode. the purpose of this study was to determine the association between postpartum health related quality-of-life (hrqol) and mode of delivery. this study provided evidence that the effect of delivery mode on ui was partially mediated by pssl among postpartum women in shandong, china. 
Menopausal hormone therapy and irregular endometrial bleeding: a potential role for uterine natural killer cells? [SEP] the main objective of this study was to explore the role of uterine natural killer (unk) cells and their regulatory cytokine il-15 in irregular bleeding in ht users. the relationship between endometrial unk cells (cd56+) and bleeding patterns was measured. this is the first report of unk cells and their association with regulating cytokines in postmenopausal endometrium and demonstrates a possible mechanism by which ht may induce irregular bleeding. to evaluate the endometrial cavity of menopausal women with irregular bleeding while receiving hormone replacement therapy. irregular bleeding during hormone replacement therapy was associated with atrophic endometrium whenever transvaginal sonography showed endometrial thickness to be less than 4 mm. endometrial leukocytes were not related to bleeding, with the exception of uterine natural killer cells, which were significantly increased during bleeding, as previously published. to determine the role of endometrial ablation and benign uterine pathology in menopausal women with refractory bleeding who were treated with continuous hormone replacement therapy (hrt). refractory menopausal bleeding and benign uterine pathology. the mechanisms of bleeding with menopausal hormone therapy seem to differ from those seen during normal menstruation and breakthrough bleeding in users of long-acting progestogen-only contraception. the potential mechanism(s) involved in endometrial bleeding includes the following: changes in the ratio of vascular endothelial growth factor to thrombospondin-1 (pro- versus anti-angiogenic factors); alterations in metalloproteinases and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (timp); changes in tissue factor a known haemostasis mediator in the endometrium; and increased endometrial leukocytes with a particular emphasis on uterine natural killer (unk) cells. 
Percutaneous ethanol injection for benign cystic thyroid nodules: is aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid advantageous? [SEP] we evaluated the differences between percutaneous ethanol injection with and without aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid for treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules. we examined 60 patients with benign cystic thyroid nodules confirmed by fine-needle aspiration biopsy and divided them into 2 groups according to nonaspiration (group a, n = 30) or aspiration (group b, n = 30) of ethanol-mixed fluid after intracystic ethanol injection. percutaneous ethanol injection without aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid seems to be the preferable method of treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules from the perspective of both the physician and the patient. we examined the efficacy and safety of ultrasound guided percutaneous ethanol injection for the treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules in euthyroid patients. ultrasound guided percutaneous ethanol injection of cystic thyroid nodules is a safe, low-cost and effective therapeutic procedure in patients with benign thyroid cystic nodules. sonographically guided percutaneous ethanol injection has been recently proposed as a treatment for nonfunctioning benign thyroid nodules such as cysts or solid nodules. the objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of ethanol injection in thyroid cysts and solid nodules. sonographically guided percutaneous ethanol injection is more effective for thyroid cysts than for solid thyroid nodules. we compared the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of ultrasound-guided percutaneous polidocanol injection and percutaneous ethanol injection for the treatment of benign cystic and predominantly cystic thyroid nodules. to provide an overview of ultrasound (us)-guided percutaneous ethanol injection (pei) therapy for thyroid cystic nodules and discuss the practical and technical details. 
Can the growth rate of a gallbladder polyp predict a neoplastic polyp? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the growth rate of a gallbladder (gb) polyp is a predictive indicator for neoplastic polyps. on multivariate analysis, however, the growth rate was not related to the neoplastic nature of a polyp, but older age (>60 y) and large size (>10 mm) were significantly associated with neoplastic polyps. to evaluate the characteristics of gallbladder polyps 10 mm or larger to predict a neoplasm in us examinations. the univariate analysis revealed that adjacent gallbladder wall thickening, larger size (≥15 mm), older age (≥57 years), absence of hyperechoic foci in a polyp, ct visibility, sessile shape, a solitary polyp, and an irregular surface were significant predictors for a neoplastic polyp. this study assessed a national cohort of histopathologically proven gallbladder polyps to distinguish neoplastic from non-neoplastic polyps. polyp subtype, size, distribution, presentation as wall thickening or protruding polyp, and presence of gallstones were assessed for neoplastic and non-neoplastic polyps. the management of gallbladder polyps (gbp) is directly linked to the early diagnosis of gallbladder cancer (gbc). the size of gbp and the presence of gallstones were risk factors for neoplastic polyps. the aim of this study was to improve diagnostic work-up for gallbladder polyps using sonographic and mri characteristics of neoplastic and nonneoplastic polyps. detection rates for potentially neoplastic and frankly neoplastic polyps were recorded and compared with complication rates from cholecystectomy. 
Are performance measurement systems useful? [SEP] a growing movement in the united states seeks to improve the outcomes achieved by public agencies through performance measurement strategies. this article reviews the literature on performance measurement and performance management in the public sector in order to develop a conceptual framework for examining the federal child welfare performance measurement system. six health care systems were identified that have done a particularly effective or innovative job of creating and implementing performance measurement tools and systems by using data available in existing clinical and administrative information systems: dean health system (madison, wi), sharp healthcare (san diego), henry ford health system (detroit), scripps health (san diego), legacy health system (portland, or), and lovelace health system (albuquerque). managers may take comfort, however, in the knowledge that performance measures need not be perfect to be useful. based on the care needs and appropriate goals for the health system for this population, applicable measures and suggestions for implementing and using performance measurement systems are identified. this article outlines a three-step approach to using a performance measurement system based on the philosophy of continuous improvement and the methods of statistical process control (spc). it is feasible to implement a performance measurement system in lmics if the system is acceptable, appropriate, and useful to providers. efforts to enhance target population coverage, strengthen leadership support for performance measurement, and build capacity for performance feedback utilization may enhance the implementation of this performance measurement system. this article examines the use of an integrated performance measurement system to plan and control primary care service delivery within an integrated delivery system. our study extends the existing literature by examining the use of performance information generated by an integrated performance measurement system within a healthcare organization. 
Does para-cervical block offer additional advantages in abortion induction with gemeprost in the 2nd trimester? [SEP] the use of gemeprost (16,16-dimethyl-trans-delta 2-pge1 methyl ester) vaginal pessaries for the termination of pregnancy in the late second trimester has been investigated in an open single-center study. the safe induction of therapeutic abortion in 58.9% of women using vaginal gemeprost pessaries alone offers an acceptable alternative to surgical evacuation in the late second trimester but should not be started without the possibility to terminate the procedure by dilatation and evacuation (d + e). to compare a new regimen for second trimester abortion using dilapan and vaginal gemeprost suppositories with extra-amniotic rivanol instillation and oxytocin i.v. the dilapan-gemeprost treatment was advantageous with respect to a shorter induction-abortion interval and ease of handling. to determine whether mifepristone (ru486) is more effective than laminaria tent in shortening the induction-abortion interval in termination of second trimester pregnancies with gemeprost. induction-abortion intervals, amount of gemeprost required, and incidence of side effects. mifepristone is more effective than laminaria tent in shortening the induction-abortion interval in termination of second trimester pregnancies. pregnancy was terminated with cervical preparation using osmotic dilators followed by 1 mg vaginal gemeprost administered every 3 h for a maximum of five doses in the first 24 h. all variables are expressed in categorical form (parity, gestational age, maternal age and body mass index) and analyzed by the cox proportional hazards model. in combination with osmotic dilators and gemeprost, gestational age and parity are independent factors that affected the induction to abortion interval of second-trimester medical abortion. the use of gemeprost (16,16 dimethyl-trans-delta 2-pge1 methyl ester) vaginal pessaries for the termination of pregnancy in the early second trimester has been further investigated. 
Does insulin resistance drive the association between hyperglycemia and cardiovascular risk? [SEP] numerous investigations including cross-sectional and prospective studies, meta-analyses, and systematic reviews provide compelling evidence that insulin resistance by itself is a cardiovascular risk factor in a variety of population groups, including the general population and patients with diabetes. several estimations of insulin resistance have been consistently associated with elevated rate of cardiovascular events independently of other cardiovascular risk factors and diabetes status. the clinical expression of insulin resistance (the metabolic syndrome or any of its components including obesity, hyperinsulinemia, hypertension, and dyslipemia) has been related to cardiovascular disease as well. insulin resistance appears to be the risk factor that best correlates with metabolic abnormalities prior to diagnosis and is fundamentally linked to development of cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. insulin resistance at this stage appears to be significantly associated with a clustering of cardiovascular risk factors predisposing the individual to accelerated cardiovascular disease. patients with diabetes and/or insulin resistance syndrome are at increased risk for developing cardiovascular disease. the present paper provides a critical overview of the clinical evidence linking diabetes-related metabolic abnormalities to cardiovascular risk, debates the pathophysiologic mechanisms through which insulin resistance and hyperglycemia may affect the arterial wall, and discusses the associations between vascular biomarkers, metabolic abnormalities and cardiovascular events. the relation of insulin resistance to cardiovascular risk, particularly for coronary artery disease (cad), has been well established in many prospective studies. these three conditions (ie, insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, and overt diabetes) are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. insulin resistance is widely believed to be the common denominator causing, in susceptible individuals, the development of various cardiovascular risk factor components of the syndrome (e.g., hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and hyperglycemia). 
Are there risk factors that increase the rate of staple line leakage in patients undergoing primary sleeve gastrectomy for morbid obesity? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate bleeding and leakage rates of primary and revisional sleeve gastrectomy in a personal series of 664 consecutive patients. staple line leak after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) still represents the most feared complication. the postoperative staple line leak after primary lsg significantly increases postoperative morbidity and mortality. sleeve gastrectomy is a common procedure in recent years for treatment of morbid obesity however leak from staple-line is its main challenging complication. despite numerous studies regarding leak after sleeve gastrectomy, there is still no conclusion on reinforcement of staple-line in this procedure. sleeve gastrectomy (sg) is an upcoming primary treatment modality for morbid obesity. staple-line leak is a life-threatening complication of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. staple-line leak is a life-threatening complication of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. sleeve gastrectomy is the most frequently performed operation for the treatment of morbid obesity. a prospective study assessment was made of 120 consecutive morbidly obese patients with body mass index (bmi) of 43+/-5 (30 to 63), who underwent lsg using the following technique: (1) division of the vascular supply of the greater gastric curvature and application of the linear stapler-cutter device beginning at 6-7 cm from the pylorus so that part of the antrum remains; (2) inversion of the staple line by placement of a seroserosal continuous suture close to the staple line; (3) use of a 48 fr bougie so as to avoid possible stricture; (4) firing of the stapler parallel to the bougie to make the sleeve as narrow as possible and prevent segmental dilatation. 
Chronic functional somatic symptoms: a single syndrome? [SEP] results offer tentative confirmation of functional somatic syndromes as discrete entities and suggest that relaxing the diagnostic criteria for somatization may identify individuals with distress limited to a single functional system. to identify distinctive features in patients with chronic functional somatic symptoms, and to determine whether these symptoms support the hypothesis of the existence of specific somatic syndromes. one hundred and eighty-two patients diagnosed between 1998 and 2002 as having chronic functional somatic symptoms and 182 controls matched by age, sex, socioeconomic status, and practice were included. patients with chronic functional somatic symptoms have a great diversity of functional somatic symptoms. we assessed whether the number of somatic symptoms is a predictor of health status in three functional somatic syndromes (fss). the term functional somatic syndrome has been applied to several related syndromes characterized more by symptoms, suffering, and disability than by consistently demonstrable tissue abnormality. patients with functional somatic syndromes have explicit and highly elaborated self-diagnoses, and their symptoms are often refractory to reassurance, explanation, and standard treatment of symptoms. although discrete pathophysiologic causes may ultimately be found in some patients with functional somatic syndromes, the suffering of these patients is exacerbated by a self-perpetuating, self-validating cycle in which common, endemic, somatic symptoms are incorrectly attributed to serious abnormality, reinforcing the patient's belief that he or she has a serious disease. based on the hypothesis that chronic wad should be perceived as a functional somatic syndrome, we compared the symptom profile of persons with chronic wad with the profile of persons with a functional somatic disorder, and with the profile of persons with an organic pain disorder. we conclude that this study provide evidence in favour of the hypothesis that chronic wad should be perceived as a functional somatic syndrome. 
Actinobaculum schaalii, a cause of urinary tract infections in children? [SEP] reported here is the case of a 5-year old boy with a pyeloureteral junction (puj) obstruction and pyelonephritis caused by actinobaculum schaalii, an actinomyces-like organism. pyelonephritis or any other urinary tract infection caused by actinobaculum schaalii has not been described in children before. to inform that actinobaculum schaalii can colonize the urine and cause urinary tract infection in children. actinotignum schaalii (formerly actinobaculum schaalii) is a gram-positive, facultative anaerobic rod that is typically involved in urinary tract infections in elderly patients or those with underlying urological pathologies. actinobaculum schaalii can cause urinary tract infections and septicemia but is difficult to identify by cultivation. to-date only 21 clinical cases of actinobaculum schaalii infection have been published, and a. schaalii has been considered a rare cause of urinary tract infection (uti) and urosepsis. actinobaculum schaalii can cause urinary tract infections (utis) and occasionally septic complications. actinobaculum schaalii is common among elderly people with suspected uti and may be clinically significant, when found alone or together with other bacteria, among children and patients treated for kidney stones. actinobaculum schaalii is an emerging pathogen particularly involved in urinary tract infection of elderly people and/or patient with urological risk factors of urinary tract infection. nine of 10 strains of actinobaculum schaalii caused urinary tract infections in predisposed individuals. 
Prevalence of chronic conditions among Medicare Part A beneficiaries in 2008 and 2010: are Medicare beneficiaries getting sicker? [SEP] the objective of this study was to analyze the change in the health of medicare beneficiaries enrolled in part a (hospital insurance) between 2008 and 2010 by comparing the prevalence of 11 chronic conditions. medicare part a beneficiaries had more chronic conditions on average in 2010 than in 2008. analyzing the prevalence of 11 chronic conditions by using medicare claims data provides a monitoring tool that can guide health care providers and policy makers in devising strategies to address chronic conditions and rising health care costs. the increase in chronic health conditions among medicare beneficiaries has implications for the medicare system. the objective of this study was to use the us department of health and human services strategic framework on multiple chronic conditions as a basis to examine the prevalence of multiple chronic conditions among medicare beneficiaries. a beneficiary was considered to have a chronic condition if a medicare claim indicated that the beneficiary received a service or treatment for the condition. overall, 68.4% of medicare beneficiaries had 2 or more chronic conditions and 36.4% had 4 or more chronic conditions. in 1999, 82% of aged medicare beneficiaries had 1 or more chronic conditions, and 65% had multiple chronic conditions. per capita medicare expenditures increased with the number of types of chronic conditions from $211 among beneficiaries without a chronic condition to $13 973 among beneficiaries with 4 or more types of chronic conditions. we find that the effect of chronic conditions on medicare payments is dramatic. 
Does successful completion of the Perinatal Education Programme result in improved obstetric practice? [SEP] a comprehensive perinatal education programme can be successfully transferred to a foreign health care system. scores on the perinatal self-efficacy scale and the single-room maternity care competency tool were improved. improvements in perinatal and single-room maternity care-specific competencies suggest that our education programme was successful in preparing nurses for their new role in the single-room maternity care setting. to evaluate the effectiveness of the perinatal continuing education programme (pcep) in a latin american country. to determine whether successful completion of the perinatal education programme (pep) improves obstetric practice. the objective of this study was to determine the effect of a multi-professional outreach obstetric training programme on perinatal and neonatal outcomes. this is the second study of an educational intervention in obstetrics to demonstrate improvement in neonatal outcome and the first to be associated with a decrease in caesarean sections. an educational programme for health care professionals working in maternal and child health has been designed to address these needs according to the perinatal society of australia and new zealand guideline for perinatal mortality: improving perinatal mortality review and outcomes via education (improve). to determine whether the maternal care and newborn care manuals from the perinatal education programme significantly improves the cognitive knowledge of midwives. the cognitive knowledge of both maternal and newborn care can be significantly improved when midwives use the perinatal education programme in an outreach, co-operative learning course. 
Do patients with localized prostate cancer treatment really want more aggressive treatment? [SEP] examine whether patients with prostate cancer choose the more aggressive of two radiotherapeutic options, whether this choice is reasoned, and what the determinants of the choice are. most patients with localized prostate cancer prefer the lower radiation dose. treatment preferences of patients with localized prostate cancer can and should be involved in radiotherapy decision making. curative treatment is an effective treatment option for selected elderly with localized prostate cancer. locally advanced prostate cancer is a treatment dilemma. as with prostate cancer in general, there is no clear evidence that aggressive intervention (ie, surgery or radiation) is superior to noninvasive interventions (eg, delayed treatment or androgen ablation). little is known about men with localized prostate cancer who seek second opinions, the reasons why, and the association with treatment and quality of care. conservatively treated locally advanced prostate cancer is associated with poor survival outcome. the authors investigated whether prostate-directed treatment with either surgery or radiotherapy versus conservative treatment in the setting of locally advanced or metastatic disease was associated with improved survival within a cohort of men from the centers for disease control and prevention's (cdc) breast and prostate cancer data quality and patterns of care study (cdc poc-bp). for men with advanced, nonmetastatic prostate cancer, conservative treatment alone was associated with a 4 times higher likelihood of prostate cancer mortality compared with men treated with surgery (hazard ratio, 4.18; 95% confidence interval, 1.44-12.14). 
Does music influence stress in mechanically ventilated patients? [SEP] music is considered an ideal therapy for reducing stress in patients receiving mechanical ventilation. to explore the influence of music on serum biomarkers of the stress response in patients receiving ventilatory support. additional research is needed with a larger sample size to evaluate further the influence of music on biochemical markers of the stress response in patients receiving mechanical ventilatory support. the purpose of this study was to explore the influence of music on stress in a sample of patients over the duration of ventilatory support. our results suggest that listening to music leads to higher sedation scores in sedated, mechanically ventilated icu patients. to examine the effects of music intervention on the physiological stress response and the anxiety level among mechanically ventilated patients in intensive care unit. our findings confirm that short-term therapeutic effects of music listening results in substantial reduction in physiological stress responses arising from anxiety in mechanically ventilated patients. to evaluate the impact of slow-tempo music listening periods in mechanically ventilated intensive care unit patients. to examine selected psychophysiologic responses of mechanically ventilated patients to music. to examine the predictive associations of music intervention, anxiety, sedative exposure, and patients' characteristics on time to initiation and duration of weaning trials of patients receiving mechanical ventilation. 
Does reducing spasticity translate into functional benefit? [SEP] itb may reduce spasticity in a dose-dependent manner irrespective of its origin. a functional benefit may result if itb can uncover "subclinical" motor control that had been suppressed by spasticity. [results] spasticity was significantly reduced after 1 year of treatment. [conclusion] neurodevelopmental treatment-based physical therapy in children with cerebral palsy seems to be effective in reducing spasticity, but does not improve gross motor function. although botulinum toxin is used to reduce spasticity, its functional benefits are less easily demonstrated. this paper reports an exploratory meta-analysis to investigate the relationship between reduced arm spasticity and improved arm function. in 26 patients the improvement in spasticity preceded the improvement in function with 18 showing the reverse. using a targeted meta-analytic approach, it is possible to demonstrate that reducing spasticity in the arm is associated with a significant improvement in arm function. poststroke spasticity often negatively affects functional activities and daily living and frequently is accompanied by pain, abnormal limb postures, and contractures. it is known that bont is effective at reducing spasticity and improving range of motion, but it remains to be determined to what degree this translates into improved function, activity, and participation. 
Is the holmium:YAG laser the best intracorporeal lithotripter for the ureter? [SEP] in addition to its soft tissue applications holmium:yag laser has also been found an excellent intracorporeal lithotripter for all kinds of stones. between june 1997 and december 2002, 205 patients with a diagnosis of ureteric calculi were treated with ureteroscopy using holmium:yag laser as an intracorporeal lithotriptor. ureteroscopic holmium:yag laser lithotripsy is a safe, technically feasible and efficacious treatment for ureteral stones. to study the efficiency and safety of holmium:yag laser lithotripsy for ureteral stones. the holmium:yag laser is an ideal intracorporeal lithotripter for ureteral calculi, with a high success rate and low morbidity. to evaluate the outcome of the low power holmium-yag laser in management of ureteral stones, and to report the incidence rate of different types of stones. we prospectively analyzed and compared the effectiveness and complications of pneumatic lithotripter with a holmium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet (ho:yag) laser for the ureterorenoscopic management of impacted ureteral stones. our comparative study has shown that the use of ho:yag as an intracorporeal lithotripter during ureteroscopic management of impacted ureteral stones is highly efficient with high success rates, regardless of the stone location. to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the holmium:yag laser in retrograde ureteroscopic laser lithotripsy of ureteric calculi. the holmium:yag is a safe and effective intracorporeal lithotripter when deployed in a retrograde manner in conjunction with a mini-ureteroscope. 
Metered-dose inhalers. Do health care providers know what to teach? [SEP] the specific aim of this investigation was to evaluate the proficiency of health care providers and patients in the proper use of metered-dose inhalers. health care providers, which include house staff, nurses, and respiratory care practitioners who provide care to patients with asthma in the primary general medicine clinic or the pulmonary medicine clinic of a university-county hospital in which patients were referred, were surveyed and assigned a performance score regarding the knowledge base of the appropriate use of metered-dose inhalers. patients who attended the primary care general medicine and pulmonary subspecialty clinic were also assessed as to their proficiency in the use of metered-dose inhalers. a significant percentage of patients had a poor understanding of the technique used with the metered-dose inhaler. house staff and nursing staff were also less proficient in the proper use of the metered-dose inhaler. it also demonstrates a significant lack of understanding by health care providers of the proper use of metered-dose inhalers. before education, metered-dose inhaler misuse was similarly common in the teach-to-goal and brief intervention groups (92% vs. 84%, respectively; p = 0.2). metered-dose inhaler misuse was not significantly less common in the teach-to-goal group than in the brief instruction group at 30 days (54% vs. 70%, respectively; p = 0.11), but it was immediately after education (11% vs. 60%, respectively; p < 0.001) and at 90 days (48% vs. 76%, respectively; p = 0.003). to evaluate knowledge of and techniques for using prescribed inhalation devices among patients with asthma or copd treated at a tertiary teaching hospital. to evaluate the ability of emergency health care providers and patients to demonstrate the proper use of metered-dose inhalers (mdis). 
Does the bracket-ligature combination affect the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months? [SEP] to investigate the effect of bracket-ligature combination on the amount of orthodontic space closure over three months. the hypothesis that reducing friction by modifying the bracket/ligature interface increases the rate of space closure was not supported. to compare the rates of orthodontic space closure for: active ligatures, polyurethane powerchain (rocky mountain orthodontics, rmo europe, parc d'innovation, rue geiler de kaysersberg, 67400 illkirch-graffenstaden, strasbourg, france) and nickel titanium springs. the aim of this study is to assess whether the aging and the sum of elastomeric ligatures affect the static friction during orthodontic space closure. the results of this study showed that in multi-bracket orthodontic therapy, the rs increases with the number of elastomeric ligatures involved for arch-wire engagement. the type of ligature used influenced the actual amount of force released by the orthodontic system significantly more than the type of bracket used (stainless steel vs ceramic). the aim of this study was to compare the rate of en-masse space closure with sliding mechanics between passive self-ligating smartclip brackets (3m unitek, monrovia, calif) and conventional twin brackets ligated with stainless steel ligatures. this study compared the frictional force resulting from the bracket/archwire interface and the stress at the root/periodontal ligament/bone interface, between passive self-ligating brackets and conventionally ligated brackets, during the space closure stage. the aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of space closure of two bracket systems, self-ligating and conventional ones, considering two systems with the same design and prescription. our typodont model showed no significant difference in the efficiency of space closure between the self-ligating bracket and conventional bracket tied with stainless steel ligatures. 
Health habits and vaccination status of Lebanese residents: are future doctors applying the rules of prevention? [SEP] this calls for better education of our future doctors on smoking cessation to decrease the smoking burden on our lebanese society and worldwide. the purpose of this study was to (1) examine the general perception of satisfaction, trust, and openness that lebanese patients hold toward the work, office, personal, and social characteristics of their doctors - physician or dentist; and (2) identify the aspects on which a lebanese health practitioner should focus to improve his/her practice. the doctor traits most preferred by the lebanese public were found to be: empathy (90%), professionalism (87%), miscellaneous traits (86%), and academics (81%). following the syrian crisis, a substantial influx of syrian refugees into lebanon posed new challenges to optimal vaccination coverage for all children residing in the country. generally, vaccination coverage levels increased with age and were higher among lebanese than syrian children. substantial variability exists in vaccination coverage among children aged 12-59 months residing in different districts in lebanon. a 19-item questionnaire was used to record influenza vaccination status, knowledge and attitudes towards the influenza vaccine among the lebanese general population. suboptimal vaccination rates exist among the lebanese ambulatory adult population. we conducted a cross-sectional study in greater beirut, lebanon to assess the barriers, attitudes and clinical approach of lebanese physicians towards hpv vaccination. physician gender, residency program and level of knowledge play a role in hpv vaccine barriers and recommendation in lebanon. 
Does vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia have the same evolution as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia? [SEP] in 1% to 3% of patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin), vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (vain) will either coexist or occur at a later date. its association with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia is found in 65% of cases, with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia in 10% of cases, while for others, the association with concomitant cervical or vulvar intraepithelial neoplasias is found in 30-80% of cases. we reviewed records and histopathology slides of 94 patients with vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia diagnosed from 1977 to 1986. a 52-year-old woman had concomitant cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) grade 3 and vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3. vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia is a precancerous lesion of the vulva, which has been referred to in the past with varied terminology. we report a case of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia and concomitant cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in a 30 year old female. mosaicism, punctation, and white epithelium correlated with the histologic diagnosis of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in 43%, 55%, and 42% of the cases, respectively. to determine whether bacterial vaginosis is associated with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia a retrospective study was conducted at the genitourinary medicine clinic at southlands hospital, shoreham-by-sea, uk. odds ratio showed an increased prevalence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia associated with bacterial vaginosis. virologic results explain the higher risk for vaginal neoplasia in patients with a history of cervical neoplasia. 
Should general practitioners call patients by their first names? [SEP] to assess the acceptability to patients of the use of patients' first names by doctors and doctors' first names by patients in general practice. response by patients to questionnaire on attitude to use of first names. most patients (324) did not, however, want to call the doctor by his or her first name. general practitioners should consider using patients' first names more often, particularly with younger patients. forms of address between patients and general practitioners is an underexplored area which may influence productive dialogue within a consultation. this article aims to describe how australian patients prefer to be addressed by their gp, how patients prefer to address their gp, and the factors influencing these preferences. twenty consecutive patients of 13 randomly selected gps (n=260) were surveyed on preferences for use of names in consultations and the factors influencing these preferences. ninety percent of patients prefer to be addressed by their first name. thirty-five percent of patients prefer to call the gp by first name, 27% by title and last name, 21% by title only, and 10% by title and first name. these findings allow gps to feel confident in addressing their patients informally. 
Transesophageal echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular function in brain-dead patients: are marginally acceptable hearts suitable for transplantation? [SEP] echocardiography is now widely available and is a reliable tool to assess left ventricular dysfunction in brain-dead donors. fifty-five potential brain-dead heart donors (age 38 +/- 11 years) were prospectively evaluated by transesophageal echocardiography (tee) before harvesting. tee is useful to assess left ventricular function in potential brain-dead donors. the role of transesophageal echocardiography in cardiac donor screening is unknown. therefore we compared the potential benefit of transesophageal echocardiography combined with transthoracic echocardiography in 24 (16 men and 8 women) consecutive brain-dead patients with a mean age of 29 +/- 9 years (range 16 to 44 years), who were being considered as cardiac transplant donors. in this short report we have presented a patient who underwent a successful cardiac transplantation from a brain-dead donor who had cardiopulmonary resuscitation after carbon monoxide intoxication. although the donor had a history of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, the left ventricular ejection fraction was 55% and the echocardiographic evaluation revealed normal cardiac contractions with acceptable hemodynamic parameters. in the hope of preventing these complications and stabilizing the condition of cardiac donors, we compared the function of transplanted hearts from brain-dead rats that received triiodothyronine (t3) (n = 6) with that of hearts from a group that received a placebo (n = 5). hearts from brain-dead rats that had received t3 before transplantation showed improved postoperative function. in conclusion, transesophageal echocardiography is a safe, effective method for the assessment of ventricular function of patients on ventricular assist device support. 
Attenuation of ischemia/reperfusion-induced ovarian damage in rats: does edaravone offer protection? [SEP] edaravone administered during the last 3 min of ischemia, prior to reperfusion induces a pharmacological postconditioning in vivo against renal ischemia/reperfusion injury in rats. to investigate the effects of edaravone on ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury in the rat bladder. the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of edaravone on experimentally induced ovarian torsion/detorsion ischemia/reperfusion (i/r) injury. these results indicate that edaravone could be an effective agent in the short-term treatment and prevention of ovarian ischemia and reperfusion damage. the aim of this study was to investigate whether prophylactic treatment with edaravone prevents ischemia/reperfusion (i/r)-induced ovarian damage during pneumoperitoneum in an experimental rat model. administration of different doses of edaravone in rats significantly prevented degenerative changes in the ovary (p < 0.0001). these results indicate that prophylactic treatment with edaravone prevents i/r-induced ovarian damage during pneumoperitoneum in an experimental rat model. we aimed to evaluate the protective effect of edaravone on radiation-induced ovarian damage in an experimental rat model. this is the first study evaluating the protective effects of edaravone on radiation-induced ovarian damage. edaravone decreased the follicular apoptosis and attenuates the radiation-induced ovarian damage in rats. 
Does the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale favor left hemisphere strokes? [SEP] left-hand stroke predicted higher scores of total national institutes of health stroke scale and national institutes of health stroke scale items of questions, commands, right limb weakness, and language. previously reported hemisphere-related differences in stroke outcome may partly results from imbalances in stroke lesion volume between rhs and left hs. to assess the psychometric properties of the national institutes of health stroke scale (nihss) in people with either left or right acute hemisphere stroke for the purpose of improving the scale's sensitivity in detecting neurologic impairment. to compare early impairment of level of consciousness between patients with right and left hemispheric stroke. we examined the placebo arm of the ninds t-pa stroke trial to test the hypothesis that the total volume of cerebral infarction in patients with right hemisphere strokes would be greater than the volume of cerebral infarction in patients with left hemisphere strokes who have similar nihss scores. the volume for right hemisphere stroke was statistically greater than the volume for left hemisphere strokes, adjusting for the baseline nihss (p<0. the spearman rank correlation between the 24-hour nihss score and 3-month lesion volume was 0.72 for patients with left hemisphere stroke and 0.71 for patients with right hemisphere stroke. the purposes of this study were to establish whether there are characteristic mechanistic differences in the frequency, severity, functional outcome, and mortality between left- and right-hemisphere ischemic stroke and, given the velocity differences in the carotid circulation and direct branching of the left common carotid artery from the aorta, whether large-vessel ischemia (including cardioembolism) is more common in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery. left-hemispheric strokes (54%) were more common than right-hemispheric strokes (46%; p=0.0073), and had higher admission nihss scores (p=0.011), increased mortality (p=0.0339), and higher endovascular intervention rates (p≤0.0001). left-hemispheric ischemic strokes appear to be more frequent and often have a worse outcome than their right-hemispheric counterparts. 
Can a Novel Surgical Approach to the Temporomandibular Joint Improve Access and Reduce Complications? [SEP] the technique can be used in various temporomandibular joint (tmj) operations, such as condylar resection, high condylectomy or tumor removal. the temporomandibular joints and parotid regions were studied. over time, different techniques have been described to obtain broad access to the temporomandibular joint (tmj), in order to allow good visibility, minimizing post-operative complications at the same time. the use of this technique provides a simple, cosmetic approach to obtaining an adequate dermal graft for temporomandibular joint reconstructive procedures, while minimizing the potential complications associated with other commonly used techniques. all patients achieved normal occlusion and had painless functioning of the temporomandibular joint with proper mouth opening (>35 mm) without any recurrence at long term follow up. digitally designed surgical templates for minimally invasive temporomandibular joint (tmj) surgery (mitmjs) are a promising tool for improving the safety of these procedures. tissue engineering potentially offers new treatments for disorders of the temporomandibular joint which frequently afflict patients. effective treatment options for patients suffering from severe temporomandibular joint disorders are in high demand because surgical options are restricted to removal of damaged tissue or complete replacement of the joint with prosthetics. tissue engineering approaches for the temporomandibular joint are a promising alternative to the limited clinical treatment options. this review outlines the anatomical and physiological characteristics of the temporomandibular joint, clinical management of temporomandibular joint disorder, and current perspectives in the tissue engineering approach for the temporomandibular joint disorder. 
Young-Burgess classification of pelvic ring fractures: does it predict mortality, transfusion requirements, and non-orthopaedic injuries? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate potential differences between the pelvic ring injury classification systems by tile and by young and burgess with regard to their predictive value on mortality, transfusion/infusion requirement and concomitant injuries. two-hundred-and-eighty-five consecutive patients with pelvic ring fractures were analyzed for mortality within 30 days after admission, number of blood units and total volume of fluid infused during the first 24h after trauma, the abbreviated injury severity (ais) scores for head, chest, spine, abdomen and extremities as a function of the tile and the young-burgess classifications. the objectives of this study were to evaluate the ability of the young-burgess classification system to predict mortality, transfusion requirements, and nonorthopaedic injuries in patients with pelvic ring fractures and to determine whether mortality rates after pelvic fractures have changed over time. mortality at index admission, transfusion requirement during first 24 hours, and presence of nonorthopaedic injuries as a function of young-burgess pelvic classification type. in this review, we discuss the imaging classification of pelvic ring fractures in the context of our experience of reporting trauma computed tomography (ct) in a major trauma centre. pelvic ring fractures are potentially significant injuries with risk of significant haemorrhage and morbidity. we demonstrate the different types of pelvic ring fracture with examples from trauma ct, and with reference to the distribution and frequency of these injuries in trauma patients. the current paper will review the definitive management of pelvic ring injuries, ultimately using the young and burgess classification as a guide, with a focus on current practice and the supporting evidence. classification of pelvic fracture by young and burgess type and acetabular fractures by letournel type. the purpose of this study was to measure the inter- and intraobserver reliability of tile ao, young and burgess, and ffp classification in pelvic ring fractures. 
Is vitamin D deficiency a feature of pediatric celiac disease? [SEP] to establish the frequency of vitamin and mineral deficiency in children newly diagnosed with celiac disease. vitamin d, zinc, and iron deficiency are frequently observed in pediatric patients with celiac disease at the time of diagnosis. therefore, serum vitamin d, zinc, and iron levels should be checked in all children diagnosed with celiac disease. the purpose of this review is to examine the prevalence of vitamin d deficiency in pediatric gastrointestinal disease, specifically celiac disease and inflammatory bowel disease (ibd); to discuss the role of vitamin d and its deficiency in gastrointestinal disease pathophysiology; and to present current literature regarding diagnosis and treatment of vitamin d deficiency in these pediatric gastrointestinal diseases. vitamin d deficiency is common in children with gastrointestinal symptoms and disease processes. suboptimal vitamin d status commonly occurs in children with gastrointestinal disease. to evaluate vitamin d status and supplementation in the pediatric population with common gastrointestinal diseases. data show that deficiencies in vitamin d have been linked to certain psychological disorders and celiac disease. this case suggests that infants with a vitamin d deficiency caused by celiac disease or non-celiac gluten sensitivity should be carefully monitored when they are given oral supplements of vitamin d, to prevent any adverse side-effects associated with the varied roles of vitamin d in the immune response. this study aims to investigate the prevalence of vitamin b12, deficiency in patients with untreated celiac disease. 
Is unsafe sexual behaviour increasing among HIV-infected individuals? [SEP] to evaluate whether reported unsafe sexual behaviour among hiv- infected individuals is changing over time. participants in the swiss hiv cohort study were asked about their sexual practices every 6 months for 3 years during regular follow-up of the cohort beginning on 1 april 2000. : logistic regression models were fit using generalized estimating equations assuming a constant correlation between responses from the same individual. females (or, 1.38; 95% ci, 1.19-1.60), 15-30 year olds (or, 1.26; 95% ci, 1.09-1.47), those with hiv-positive partners (or, 12.58; 95% ci, 10.84-14.07) and those with occasional partners (or, 3.25; 95% ci, 2.87-3.67) were more likely to report unsafe sex. this paper reports on descriptive data exploring gender differences in hiv knowledge and unsafe sexual behaviours among disabled individuals in south africa. although the importance of condoms in hiv prevention was recognised, there were relatively high levels of reported unsafe sexual behaviours. males reported higher number of monogamous and concurrent sexual partnerships and sex without a condom after alcohol use. visits where patients reported unsafe sexual behaviours with occasional partners were compared to visits where they reported safe sexual behaviours using a logistic model based on generalized estimating equations. increased sexual risk taking has been described in hiv-infected individuals receiving potent antiretroviral therapy. our primary hypothesis was that self-reported unsafe sexual behavior would be more prevalent among individuals with optimal viral suppression. almost all respondents reported engaging in behaviours that placed them at risk of hiv infection: 32.9% through unsafe injecting, 84.4% because of unsafe sexual behaviour and 89.2% because of either injecting or sexual behaviour. 
Cholestasis associated with small bowel atresia: do we always need to investigate? [SEP] cholestasis occurs frequently in patients with small bowel atresia (sba) and is often attributed to prolonged parental nutrition. we characterized cholestasis and analyzed the pertinence of investigating this patient population. all patients with short bowel (4) and 60% (6/10) of patients with a delay of enteral feeding more than 14 days postoperatively had cholestasis. small bowel atresia is frequently associated with postoperative cholestasis that will resolve with time. biliary atresia is a common cause of neonatal cholestasis and affected infants need surgery before 60 days of life for better prognosis. severe and prolonged cholestasis necessitating evaluation for biliary atresia was found in 2 patients with anomalous bile duct anatomy. purpose to develop and validate a scoring system based on clinical and imaging features to predict the risk for biliary atresia in patients with neonatal cholestasis. conclusion a simple scoring system combining clinical and imaging features can help accurately estimate the risk for biliary atresia in patients with neonatal cholestasis. neonatal cholestasis occurs in approximately 1 in 2500 term infants, the most common underlying disease being biliary atresia, viral infections and α1-antitrypsin deficiency. a stepwise approach to the management of cholestasis in the newborn and infant is suggested, where percutaneous liver biopsy is of value to select patients with suspected biliary atresia for laparotomy. 
Are financial incentives cost-effective to support smoking cessation during pregnancy? [SEP] financial incentives are effective for smoking cessation during pregnancy. we review developments over the past three years (2012-15) on the use of financial incentives to promote smoking cessation among pregnant women. overall, there is a growing and compelling body of evidence supporting the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of financial incentives for smoking cessation among pregnant women. to investigate the cost-effectiveness of up to £400 worth of financial incentives for smoking cessation in pregnancy as an adjunct to routine health care. financial incentives for smoking cessation in pregnancy are highly cost-effective, with an incremental cost per quality-adjusted life years of £482, which is well below recommended decision thresholds. financial incentives are an effective way of helping women to stop smoking during pregnancy. this randomised controlled trial will assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of financial incentives to help women who are abstinent from smoking at end-of-pregnancy to avoid return to smoking up to 12 months postpartum. financial incentives appear to be effective in promoting smoking cessation in pregnancy. the present study examines how financial incentives for smoking cessation during pregnancy may work, by exploring pregnant women’s experiences of trying to stop smoking, within and outside of a financial incentives scheme. the main aim of this study is to determine the feasibility of a personal financial incentive scheme for encouraging smoking cessation among pregnant women. 
Can medical students contribute to quality assurance programmes in day surgery? [SEP] educational opportunities for medical undergraduate programmes are being sought in the day surgery environment. our study was undertaken to explore ways in which senior medical students can actively contribute to qa processes as part of an undergraduate day surgery educational programme. educational opportunities for medical undergraduate programmes are being sought in the day surgery environment. our study was undertaken to explore ways in which senior medical students can actively contribute to the qa processes as part of an undergraduate day surgery educational programme. fifty-nine final year medical students followed allocated patients with common surgical conditions through all phases of the day surgery process. we recommend that students have a formally recognized place in day surgery qa programmes, to close the qa loop and to adequately prepare them for medical practice in the 21st century. recent medical advances have led to an explosion in the use of day surgery, making traditional teaching untenable and necessitating a transfer of undergraduate teaching programmes into the day surgery setting. thirty-one final year medical students participated in a new teaching programme conducted in a dedicated day surgery unit in a major australian public teaching hospital, five commonly performed procedures were audited and analysed by a mixed model analysis of variance to determine whether students impacted significantly on operation time. the advent of day surgery presents new opportunities and challenges for medical education. an undergraduate pilot programme was conducted at the university of adelaide to explore the practicalities, acceptance and educational value of a day surgery programme for final-year medical students. 
Measurement of head and neck paragangliomas: is volumetric analysis worth the effort? [SEP] a retrospective case note analysis was conducted of patients with head and neck paragangliomas treated with a watch-and-scan policy from march 2003 to september 2015, and the relevant literature was reviewed. readily available surveillance scanning in head and neck paragangliomas enables the monitoring of head and neck paragangliomas, which may allow for avoidance of major surgery. adequate morpho-functional screening and follow-up and, if possible, genetic testing is advisable in patients with head/neck paraganglioma. head and neck paragangliomas are a group of slow-growing hypervascular tumors associated with the paraganglion system. this article reviews the contemporary approach to the workup and management of head and neck paragangliomas. workup and treatment of head and neck paragangliomas are changing. head and neck paragangliomas are slowly growing tumors, with some carotid body tumors being reported to exist for many years as a painless lateral mass on the neck. paragangliomas of the head and neck are rare vascular skull-base tumors derived from the paraganglionic system with an estimated incidence of 1:30,000 accounting for 3% of all paragangliomas. this article discusses the clinical characterics, normal anatamy, imaging findings and protocols, pathology, staging, and differential diagnosis for paragangliomas of the head and neck. we report a case of a multifocal head and neck paraganglioma in a young man with a family history of cervical tumours. 
Three-dimensional ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy: is it a reliable method for the histological assessment of breast lesions? [SEP] the use of three-dimensional (3d) ultrasound may help to determine the exact position of the needle during breast biopsy, thereby reducing the number of core samples that are needed to achieve a reliable histological diagnosis. the aim of this study was to demonstrate the efficacy of 3d ultrasound-validated large-core needle biopsy (lcnb) of the breast. the objective of this one-institutional study was to determine the number of large-core needle biopsies (lcnb), under three-dimensional ultrasound (3d-us) validation, that are sufficient to obtain a reliable histological diagnosis of a sonographically detectable breast lesion. we demonstrate that three 3d-us-guided percutaneous core specimens are sufficient to achieve tissue for a reliable histological assessment of sonographically detectable breast lesions and allow the detection of malignancies with high sensitivity and low rate of false-negative diagnoses. to assess the reliability and reproducibility of automated large-core breast biopsy. ultrasound-guided, large-core needle biopsy (us-lcnb) of suspicious breast lesions is acknowledged as less invasive and less expensive and less time consuming than surgical biopsy, and provides a histologic diagnosis with a comparable high degree. to evaluate the role of three-dimensional (3d) ultrasound (us) following needle breast biopsy under two-dimensional (2d) needle guidance. a total of 437 breast core needle biopsies under ultrasound guidance with touch imprint cytology, histology, and final diagnosis were reviewed. the aim of this study was to evaluate the use of three-dimensional (3d) ultrasonography in the complete excision of benign breast tumors using ultrasound-guided vacuum-assisted core-needle biopsy (mammotome). 3d sonographically guided biopsy should be integrated into breast cancer screening programs as a safe therapeutic option for breast lesions presumed to be benign. 
Can bone thickness and inter-radicular space affect miniscrew placement in posterior mandibular sites? [SEP] the purposes of this study are to report the alveolar process thickness and inter-radicular space in the posterior region of the mandible, to assess the impact of different miniscrew insertion angle protocols, and to identify differences between the genders or types of malocclusion. this study aimed to assess the interradicular distance and alveolar bone thickness of persian adults with different sagittal skeletal patterns for miniscrew insertion using cone-beam computed tomography (cbct). the area with maximum inter-radicular distance and optimal alveolar bone thickness for miniscrew insertion varies in different individuals, depending on their sagittal skeletal pattern. the purpose of this study was to assess age, sex, and regional differences in the cortical bone thickness of commonly used maxillary and mandibular miniscrew implant placement sites. maxillary and mandibular cortical bones at commonly used miniscrew implant placement sites are thicker in adults than in adolescents. the purpose of this study was to evaluate bone density in buccal inter-radicular bone between second premolars and first permanent molars and its association with the clinical stability of miniscrews used for en masse retraction of anterior teeth in extraction cases. to highlight one of the possible complications associated with the inter-radicular placement of orthodontic miniscrews. inter-radicular placement of orthodontic miniscrews is a valuable source of anchorage in the treatment of orthodontic patients. bone thickness and bone depth are important factors when placing miniscrews. mean bone thickness at commonly used sites for orthodontic miniscrew placements in the maxilla. 
Do general practice selection scores predict success at MRCGP? [SEP] however, the relationship between selection  and performance in the royal college of general practitioner examinations (mrcgp) has yet to be explored. to explore the predictive validity of general  practice selection scores using the akt and csa elements of the mrcgp as a final outcome measure. the general practice selection process is predictive of future performance in the mrcgp. the royal college of general practitioners of the uk, over the years in an evolving format, has offered a membership examination (mrcgp) which it believes acts as a quality marker for those who sit it and also positively influences the development of family practice generally. to determine if possession of the mrcgp (a doctor defined measure of doctor quality) is associated with the patient enablement score (a patient based consultation outcome measure) and family practitioners' attitudes to the work of family practice. in written tests of general practice within the membership of the royal college of general practitioner (mrcgp) examination considerable effort has put been put into achieving acceptable levels of reliability. mrcgp and mrcp(uk) are the main entry qualifications for uk doctors entering general [family] practice or hospital [internal] medicine. mrcgp examination, uk. we analysed historical selection (entry) and licensure (exit) examination results for trainees sitting the uk membership of the royal college of general practitioners (mrcgp) licensing examination (n = 2291). data linkage of gmc plab performance data with data from the royal colleges of physicians and the royal college of general practitioners on performance of plab graduates and uk graduates at the mrcp(uk) and mrcgp examinations. 
The Deformity Angular Ratio: Does It Correlate With High-Risk Cases for Potential Spinal Cord Monitoring Alerts in Pediatric 3-Column Thoracic Spinal Deformity Corrective Surgery? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine whether the deformity angular ratio (dar) can reliably assess the neurological risks of patients undergoing deformity correction. the data from 35 pediatric spinal deformity correction procedures with thoracic 3-column osteotomies were reviewed. identifying accurate radiographical, patient, and procedural risk factors in the correction of severe deformities can help prepare the surgical team to improve safety and outcomes when carrying out complex spinal corrections. a total of 1820 young patients (mean age = 12.2 years) underwent spinal deformity correction were mainly analyzed. the axial spinal cord classification correlated with ionm alerts and greater severity of spinal deformity in pediatric scoliosis patients. assess preoperative morphology of the spinal cord across the thoracic concavity to predict intraoperative loss of neuromonitoring data. we present a new spinal cord risk classification scheme to identify patients with increased odds of losing spinal cord monitoring data with thoracic deformity correction. intraoperative monitoring of the spinal cord has become the standard of care during surgery for pediatric spinal deformity correction. due to the profound risks associated with spinal deformity surgery, intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring is an integral tool to warn of impending spinal cord injury. intraoperative neuromonitoring appears to provide a safe and useful warning mechanism to minimize spinal cord injury that may arise during scoliosis correction surgery in pediatric patients. 
Does age moderate the effect of personality disorder on coping style in psychiatric inpatients? [SEP] the current study examined whether coping styles predicted self-harm after controlling for commonly associated factors, such as age, gender, and borderline personality disorder. results showed that younger age, diagnosis of borderline personality disorder, and higher emotion-oriented coping were associated with self-harm. after controlling for age and borderline personality disorder, higher levels of emotion-oriented coping were found to be a significant predictor of self-harm. coping styles prospectively predicted change in most of the mcmi-ii personality disorders, whereas sex and age did not affect the outcome. to examine age-related differences in the relationship between personality and coping strategies in an australian population of psychiatric inpatients. consenting eligible adults (n=238) from 18-100 years of age consecutively admitted to inpatient psychiatry units were assessed using the scid i and ii, the coping orientations to problems experienced scale (cope), the brief psychiatric rating scale (bprs), the global assessment of functioning scale (gaf), the social and occupational functioning assessment scale (sofas), the 12 item short-form heath survey (sf12), the sarason social support questionnaire, and the neo five factor inventory (neo-ffi) (cognitively impaired, and non-english speaking patients were excluded). older adults reported less symptomatology than younger patients and younger patients described more personality dysfunction than older patients. as assessed by the cope, older adults reported lower levels of dysfunctional coping strategies than younger adults. personality traits, social supports, gender, and age predicted coping strategies, while axis i diagnosis, education, personality disorder, and symptom severity were not significant predictors of coping strategies. we assessed coping styles in 970 subjects prospectively, at mean ages 17, 24, 29, and 33, using the coping inventory for stressful situations. 
Autoxidation products of both carbohydrates and lipids are increased in uremic plasma: is there oxidative stress in uremia? [SEP] chronic uremia appears to be in a state of an increased oxidative stress. recent studies, however, have demonstrated that one age, the glycoxidation product carboxymethyllysine (cml), could be derived not only from carbohydrates but also from oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids in vitro, raising the possibility that both carbohydrate and lipid autoxidation might be increased in uremia. these data suggest that the increased levels of ages in blood, and probably in tissues, reported in uremia implicate a broad derangement in non-enzymatic biochemistry involving alterations in autoxidation of both carbohydrates and lipids. oxidative stress was present in both uremia and leishmaniasis with reduced total antioxidant capacity and was associated with increased induced production of superoxide and apoptosis. these results provide strong evidence for increased non-enzymatic crosslinking of tissue proteins by go and mgo in uremia, implicating oxidative stress and resultant advanced glycation and lipoxidation reactions in tissue damage in uremia. oxidant stress occurs in uremia before dialysis therapy is initiated, as evidenced by increased production of reactive oxygen species, increased levels of oxidized plasma proteins and lipids, and decreased antioxidant defenses. the existence of an increased oxidative stress in chronic renal failure is supported by evidence of increased lipid, carbohydrate, and protein oxidation products in plasma and cell membrane. chronic uremia is associated with increased modification of protein caused by reactive carbonyl compounds derived from both carbohydrates and lipids. uremic oxidative stress is characterized biologically by an increase in lipid peroxidation products and reactive aldehyde groups as well as by increased retention of oxidized thiols. the pathophysiology of increased oxidative stress in uremia is multifactorial, but the retention of oxidized solute by the loss of kidney function is probably a major contributor. 
Can 'high-risk' human papillomaviruses (HPVs) be detected in human breast milk? [SEP] high-risk human papillomaviruses (hpvs) are present and can cooperate with epstein-barr virus (ebv) to initiate and/or enhance the progression of several types of human carcinomas including cervical as well as head and neck; in parallel, it has been recently pointed out that these oncoviruses can be detected in human breast cancers. the aim of our study was to determine the presence of 'high-risk' hpv dna in human breast milk. using polymerase chain reaction techniques, we evaluated the presence of hpv infection in human breast milk collected from 21 hpv-positive and 11 hpv-negative mothers. this preliminary case-control study indicates the absence of mucosal 'high-risk' hpv types in human breast milk. multiple viruses, including human immunodeficiency virus, epstein barr virus (ebv) and mouse mammary tumour virus have been identified in human milk. high risk human papillomavirus (hpv) sequences have been identified in breast cancer. the aim of this study is to determine if viral sequences are present in human milk from normal lactating women. standard (liquid) and in situ polymerase chain reaction (pcr) techniques were used to identify hpv and ebv in human milk samples from normal lactating australian women who had no history of breast cancer.high risk human papillomavirus was identified in milk samples of 6 of 40 (15%) from normal lactating women - sequencing on four samples showed three were hpv 16 and one was hpv 18. the presence of high risk hpv and ebv in human milk suggests the possibility of milk transmission of these viruses. high-risk human papillomaviruses (hpvs) could be important risk factors for breast carcinogenesis and metastasis. 
Quaternary cytoreductive surgery in ovarian cancer: does surgical effort still matter? [SEP] the surgical management of advanced epithelial ovarian cancer involves cytoreduction, or removal of grossly-evident tumor. residual disease after surgical cytoreduction of ovarian cancer has been shown to be strongly associated with survival. the purpose of this article is to review the role of maximum surgical effort in primary and recurrent ovarian cancer. we sought to describe the clinicopathologic features and outcomes of patients undergoing quaternary, quinary, or senary cytoreductive surgery for ovarian cancer. we retrospectively identified patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who underwent quaternary or beyond cytoreduction at our institution between 1/1/1989 and 12/31/2020. to summarize the existing data on interval cytoreductive surgery and neoadjuvant chemotherapy as alternative treatment strategies for patients with advanced-stage ovarian cancer. this review will discuss an update on the role of surgery in the treatment of primary epithelial ovarian cancer as it has evolved since the emergence of the concept of surgical cytoreduction. the role of cytoreductive surgery for recurrent ovarian cancer is not well established. herein, we present contemporary evidence supporting the positive role of cytoreductive surgery and offer selection criteria for optimal candidates for surgery in the treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer. primary surgery with diagnostic and cytoreductive intent should be performed in accordance with the european guidelines of staging in ovarian cancer. 
Chemotherapy and survival in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma: is pneumologists' skepticism justified? [SEP] cytotoxic chemotherapy is associated with modest survival advantage as initial treatment of advanced lung cancer. preliminary results suggest a remarkably high safety profile and significant activity with respect to improvement in time to progression and survival in comparison to historical controls or lower dose treated cohorts, particularly in non small cell lung cancer. in a retrospective study of long term survival in patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung who had been treated purely by surgery, 1820 patients with lung cancer seen during the 15 years 1962-77 were reviewed and reclassified histologically and according to the tnm system. while advances in combined modality therapy have led to significant progress against locally advanced disease, it was only a decade ago that few believed that the treatment of stage iv non-small-cell lung cancer was justifiable. however, multiple randomized trials in the 1980s and 1990s have changed the role of chemotherapy in lung cancer, such that by the middle of the next decade, it may be that only patients with stage ia non-small-cell lung cancer are not considered as candidates for chemotherapy. patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer should receive combination chemotherapy. thus, it would appear that the results in limited small cell and non-small cell carcinomas of the lung utilizing high-dose radiotherapy followed by chemotherapy are comparable, and that limited small cell carcinoma of the lung patients with high-dose radiotherapy followed by chemotherapy can survive longer than those patients with stage iii, non-small cell lung carcinoma.while the two- to five-year survival rates in small cell carcinoma demonstrate no appreciable differences, in non-small cell carcinomas there are significant two- to five-year survival differences. from 1977, 29 patients with inoperable non-small cell lung carcinoma due to locally far-advanced disease underwent lung resection after receiving two to eight courses of chemotherapy. in spite of major advances in understanding the staging and prognostic factors of lung cancer, advances in survival have been minimal over the past 20 years. in this review, i evaluate recent findings in studies of the biology of lung cancer cells and consider the potential application of these findings in the treatment of patients with this disease. 
Does topical ropivacaine reduce the post-tonsillectomy morbidity in pediatric patients? [SEP] tonsillectomy in pediatric patients may cause severe postoperative pain. we compared the effect of topical ropivacaine with and without ketamine on post-tonsillectomy pain. to determine whether post-operative administration of topical ropivacaine hydrochloride decreases morbidity following adenotonsillectomy. locally 1.0% ropivacaine administration significantly relieves the pain of pediatric tonsillectomy and, it is a safe and effective method. we sought to evaluate the efficacy of ropivacaine in post-tonsillectomy pain management in adults and evaluate the timing of intraoperative ropivacaine administration for this purpose. administration of the local anesthetic ropivacaine does not affect post-tonsillectomy pain. to compare the efficacy of preoperative peritonsillar injection of ropivacaine, bupivacaine and lidocaine for pediatric tonsillectomy. ropivacaine infiltration is as effective as bupivacaine for post-tonsillectomy pain management in children. in view of potential side effects of bupivacaine-epinephrin combination, ropivacaine is a safer choice, for post-tonsillectomy pain relief. dexamethasone does not significantly improve the morbidity of pediatric tonsillectomy when preemptive analgesia with ropivacaine and clonidine is used concurrently. 
Is pain a clinically relevant problem in general adult psychiatry? [SEP] this article examines the dilemmas inherent in psychiatry's attempts to incorporate pain disorders into the standard psychiatric nomenclature. each succeeding diagnostic and statistical manual has broadened the concept of pain disorders, and, gradually, the diagnosis has become increasingly removed from the original idea of "psychogenic pain." however, there remains a problem of validity, as the disorder continues to imply a mind-body dualism, and clinicians are asked to determine the relative contribution of both to the overall picture of pain. the article ends by tentatively offering some suggestions for future approaches to pain diagnoses in psychiatry. psychiatry of old age is a psychiatric subspecialty that has been developed in many countries since the 1950s as an attempt to improve the care of older adults with mental health disorders. while this may not be of concern for clinical neurophysiology, it may lessen psychiatry's contribution to pain medicine. this paper questions the validity of the concept of general psychiatry, which may be responsible for many of these administrative dilemmas. this paper introduces the multidisciplinary pain clinic as an alternative means of addressing somatic symptoms and psychiatric disorders in an ambulatory medical population. purpose: a cross-sectional exploration of notre dame australia physiotherapy students' attitudes toward psychiatry and mental illness, students' perceptions regarding preparation in this area for general clinical practice, and a cross-sectional investigation of current mental health-and psychiatry-related content in physiotherapy curricula across australia and new zealand. methods: a questionnaire including demographic details, level of exposure to mental illness, and the attitudes toward psychiatry-30 items (atp-30) was completed by pre-clinical and clinically experienced physiotherapy students from the university of notre dame australia. 
Does concomitant anterior/apical repair during midurethral sling improve the overactive bladder component of mixed incontinence? [SEP] surgery (colposuspension, bladder neck pubovaginal slings, and midurethral slings) offers excellent subjective and objective cure rates in patients with mixed incontinence. midurethral sling (mus) can improve overactive bladder (oab) symptoms. persistent overactive bladder and urgency urinary incontinence after sling surgery (pubovaginal sling or midurethral sling) in women with mixed urinary incontinence (mui) is devastating to patients and frustrating to surgeons who perform anti-incontinence surgery. the objective of the study was to compare detrusor overactivity and urge urinary incontinence rates after midurethral slings versus bladder neck slings. midurethral slings have increased rates of resolution of detrusor overactivity and lower rates of de novo detrusor overactivity than transvaginal bladder neck sling procedures. to evaluate characteristics associated with treatment failure 1 year after midurethral sling in women with mixed urinary incontinence. certain clinical and urodynamic variables are associated with treatment failure after midurethral sling among women with mixed urinary incontinence. to evaluate characteristics associated with treatment failure 1 year after midurethral sling in women with mixed urinary incontinence. four-hundred three women who participated in a randomized trial that compared midurethral sling and behavioral and pelvic floor muscle therapy (combined group) compared with midurethral sling alone for mixed incontinence with 1-year follow-up data were eligible for this planned secondary analysis. certain clinical and urodynamic variables are associated with treatment failure after midurethral sling in women with mixed urinary incontinence. 
Does the use of atypical antipsychotics as adjunctive therapy in depression result in cost savings? [SEP] atypical antipsychotics have demonstrated beneficial effects on affective symptoms, in addition to antipsychotic activity. clinical studies of patients with schizoaffective disorder and major depression support the use of atypical antipsychotics to treat depression. atypical antipsychotics, which have fewer side effects than traditional antipsychotics, have been used as monotherapy or adjunctively with antidepressants to treat depressive disorders with or without psychotic symptoms. one common approach has been to augment conventional antidepressants with an adjunctive agent, but the optimal selection of atypical antipsychotic agents for adjunctive treatment of treatment-resistant depression (trd) remains controversial. there is moderately strong controlled evidence supporting the use of some atypical antipsychotics, either as adjunctive treatment or monotherapy, in the treatment of nonpsychotic anxiety; however, the side effect burden of some atypical antipsychotics probably outweighs their benefits for most patients with anxiety disorders. the american psychiatric association recommends adjunctive atypical antipsychotics as a treatment option when response to antidepressants is inadequate. atypical antipsychotics with improved efficacy in negative symptoms and/or cognitive function may facilitate this and thus lead to substantial savings. model predictions suggest that reported clinical profiles of atypical antipsychotics could lead to significant savings and large improvements in effectiveness over conventional therapy. several clinical reports have documented a beneficial effect of adding atypical antipsychotic drugs to ongoing treatments with antidepressants, particularly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, in ameliorating drug-resistant depression. the results support the conclusion that atypical antipsychotics may be effective as adjunctive therapy in treatment-resistant depression; however, their adverse effect profile may be unfavorable in some patients. 
Can patients be anticoagulated after intracerebral hemorrhage? [SEP] background and purpose blood pressure reduction is a promising intervention for acute intracerebral hemorrhage, but clinical trials of this treatment often exclude those with anticoagulant-associated intracerebral hemorrhage, leaving it unclear whether this population might benefit. results sixty-nine anticoagulant-associated intracerebral hemorrhage and 69 matched non-anticoagulant-associated intracerebral hemorrhage patients were included. we retrospectively studied 79 patients from three centers who suffered an intracerebral hemorrhage during treatment with anticoagulants and compared them with 84 patients from one center who suffered a spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage without anticoagulant treatment. our results suggest that intracerebral hemorrhage is more frequent and more extensive in patients treated with anticoagulants but that once it has occurred in such patients intracerebral hemorrhage is not significantly more serious than in untreated patients. the clinical data of 65 consecutive intracerebral hemorrhage patients taking anticoagulants were retrospectively reviewed. we analyzed patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage who had received antiplatelet/anticoagulant therapy. anticoagulation reversal in the setting of acute intracerebral hemorrhage is an evolving field. we investigated the precise clinical and radiologic characteristics of intracerebral hemorrhage associated with direct oral anticoagulant use. clinical and neuroradiological characteristics of patients with direct oral anticoagulant-related intracerebral hemorrhage, and effects of prior treatment on the severity at admission and on outcome at discharge were assessed. in approximately half of anticoagulated patients with intracerebral hematoma the bleeding evolves slowly over 12 to 24 hours, and emergency reversal of anticoagulation is crucial. 
Diagnostic and therapeutic ureteroscopy: is dilatation of ureteral meatus always necessary? [SEP] all patients underwent ureteroscopy with thin rigid 7.0f or 9.5f ureteroscopes without dilation of the ureteral meatus. the use of small instruments, such as the gautier ureteroscope, that do not require dilation or any particular manipulation of the ureteral meatus seems to be essential together with an accurate ureteroscopic technique. ureteral dilation was performed when necessary to access the ureter. routine ureteral dilation and ureteral stent placement are not always necessary in these patients. ureteroscopy has become a common technique in the diagnosis and treatment of ureteral pathologies, but this procedure is quite invasive and some complications have been reported in literature. the aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of ureteroscopy for lower ureteric stones without the use of fluoroscopy. whenever required, the ureteric meatus was dilated with a ureteric balloon under direct vision. to determine the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of diagnostic and therapeutic ureteroscopy in renal allograft ureters. four patients with ureteral stricture at ureteroneocystostomy site (40%) had successful ureteral dilatation and double j ureteral catheters were also inserted. four patients with ureteral stricture at the ureteroneocystostomy site (40%) underwent successful ureteral dilatation and double-j ureteral catheters were also inserted. 
Does managed care enable more low income persons to identify a usual source of care? [SEP] by requiring or encouraging enrollees to obtain a usual source of care, managed care programs hope to improve access to care without incurring higher costs. (1) to examine the effects of managed care on the likelihood of low-income persons having a usual source of care and a usual physician, and; (2) to examine the association between usual source of care and access. having a usual physician can be an effective tool in improving access to care for low-income populations, although it is most effective when combined with insurance coverage. however, the effectiveness of managed care in linking more low-income persons to a medical home is uncertain, and may have unintended consequences for uninsured persons. to examine the effects of managed care penetration and the uninsurance rate in an area on access to care of low-income uninsured persons and to compare differences in access between low-income insured and uninsured persons across these different market areas. access to care for low-income uninsured persons is lower in states with high medicaid managed care penetration, compared to uninsured persons in states with low medicaid managed care penetration. this datawatch examines the relationship between managed care enrollment and access to care for low-income adults with medicaid and compares their experience with that of low-income, privately insured managed care enrollees. medicaid managed care enrollees are more likely than low-income, privately insured managed care enrollees to be poorer, have health problems, and experience access problems. compared with low-income populations in fee-for-service care, managed care enrollees, whether in medicaid or privately insured, are not appreciably different in having a usual source of care, having a regular provider, or emergency room use but report more problems in obtaining care and are more likely to be dissatisfied with their health plans. rural low-income individuals in the us may benefit from new policies that promote patient-centered, personalized care. 
Knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and functional ambulation: are they related in Parkinson's disease? [SEP] to evaluate the relationship between knee extensor strength, postural stability, functional ambulation, and disease severity in parkinson's disease (pd). knee extensor strength positively correlated with dynamic postural stability and negatively correlated with disease severity. further, dynamic postural stability was negatively correlated to disease severity and positively correlated with functional ambulation in this cohort of patients with pd (p<.05). these findings suggest a malleable relationship between knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and disease severity in pd. despite having poorer knee extensor strength, people with pd rely more heavily on these muscles during stair walking. this study aimed to investigate the association between hip extensor muscle weakness and performance of activities of daily living (adl) including stair ambulation, sit-to-stand (sts), and walking in patients with early-stage knee osteoarthritis (oa). hip extensor muscle weakness was associated with difficulty during stair ambulation and sts in patients with early-stage knee oa, after adjusting for knee extensor muscle strength. the results suggest that hip extensor muscle strength may be important to improve or maintain adl in patients with early-stage knee oa. correlations between dynamic postural stability and muscle strength, anterior instability, and knee scores were determined. significant correlations were found between maximal torques of the extensor of injured knees at 60 and 180 degrees /s (r = -0.52, p = 0.048 and r = -0.46, p = 0.019, respectively) and dynamic postural stability, and maximal torques of flexors of injured knees showed similar relations (r = -0.51, p = 0.0048 and r = -0.47, p = 0.016, respectively). 
Is distance to provider a barrier to care for medicaid patients with breast, colorectal, or lung cancer? [SEP] of these, patients with breast cancer who were insured by medicare (odds ratio [or], 0.75; p < .001), medicaid (or, 0.55; p < .001), or uninsured (or, 0.50; p < .001); patients with prostate cancer who were insured by medicare (or, 0.87; p = .003), medicaid (or, 0.58; p = .001), or uninsured (or, 0.36; p < .001); and patients with lung cancer who were insured by medicare (or, 0.84; p = .020), medicaid (or, 0.74; p = .001), or uninsured (or, 0.48; p < .001) were less likely to receive surgical care at high-volume hospitals compared with patients who had private insurance. persons of low socioeconomic status, including those with medicaid coverage, are more likely to be diagnosed with cancer at an advanced stage, but little is known about cancer screening practices among medicaid recipients. efforts to increase cancer screening rates among medicaid recipients must address patient, physician, and organizational barriers to the routine identification and delivery of preventive services. nonclinical factors may affect receipt of pain management among medicaid beneficiaries with cancer. to examine associations of patient characteristics and us state-level medicaid policies on receipt of interventional pain management among medicaid beneficiaries with breast or colorectal cancer. state-level medicaid policies were not significantly associated with receipt of interventional pain management for breast or colorectal cancer patients; disparities in receipt of these services were observed only for breast cancer patients. uninsured and medicaid-insured patients with lung cancer and colon cancer who underwent resection had longer lengths of stay and higher inpatient costs than privately insured patients, but they had shorter lengths of stay when reconstruction was not provided. : patients enrolled in medicaid <12 months before diagnosis were at greater risk of breast (odds ratio [or] = 2.70; 95% confidence interval [95% ci] = 1.22-5.99) and lung (or = 2.18; 95% ci = 1.45-3.29) cancer diagnosis in the month of death than medicare only patients. patients enrolled in medicaid following diagnosis had a higher risk of late stage colorectal (or = 1.30; 95% ci = 1.01-1.67), breast (or = 2.12; 95% ci = 1.60-2.82), and lung (or = 1.33; 95% ci = 1.02-1.75) cancer relative to medicare only patients. disparities in cancer screening that already disfavor states with high cancer rates may widen in states that have not chosen to expand medicaid unless significant efforts are mounted to ensure their residents obtain preventive health care. 
Can folic acid protect against congenital heart defects in Down syndrome? [SEP] individuals with down syndrome are at high risk for congenital heart defects and have been shown to have abnormal folate metabolism. these data were used to determine whether a lack of periconceptional maternal folic acid supplementation is associated with congenital heart defects in down syndrome. lack of maternal folic acid supplementation was more frequent among infants with down syndrome and atrioventricular septal defects (odds ratio [or], 1.69; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.08-2.63; p = 0.011) or atrial septal defects (or, 1.69; 95% ci, 1.11-2.58; p = 0.007) than among infants with down syndrome and no heart defect. our results suggest that lack of maternal folic acid supplementation is associated with septal defects in infants with down syndrome. some studies proposed a high dose of folic acid (in mg/d) to prevent congenital heart defects in women with a high global risk (such as those with diabetes or obesity). although the mechanisms remain unclear, multivitamins containing folic acid may also protect against other birth defects, including congenital heart defects. key research findings relative to the question of whether maternal use of folic acid before and during pregnancy reduces the chance that offspring will be born with a congenital heart defect or an orofacial cleft are reviewed in this paper. to investigate the potentially protective of periconceptional folic acid use on the risk of congenital heart defects (chds) relative to other non-folate related malformations. pharmacologic doses of folic acid and iron appear to have a preventive effect against down's syndrome. conotruncal cardiac defects are partially prevented by maternal folic acid supplementation. 
Are there mental health differences between francophone and non-francophone populations in manitoba? [SEP] our study sought to compare mental health indicators between francophones and non-francophones living in the province of manitoba. outside urban areas, francophones had lower rates of diagnosed substance use disorder (rate ratio [rr] = 0.80; 95% ci 0.68 to 0.95) and of suicide and suicide attempts (rr = 0.59; 95% ci 0.43 to 0.79), compared with non-francophones, but no differences were found between the groups across the province in rates of diagnosed mood disorders, anxiety disorders, dementia, or any mental disorders after adjusting for age, sex, and geographic area. when surveyed, francophones were less likely than non-francophones to report that their mental health was excellent, very good, or good (66.9%, compared with 74.2%). the discrepancy in how francophones view their mental health and their rates of diagnosed mental disorders may be related to health seeking behaviours in the francophone population. to compare 12-month and lifetime service use for common mental disorders in 4 francophone subsamples using data from national mental health surveys in canada, quebec, france, and belgium. to compare the 12-month prevalence of common mental disorders among francophones in canada, france, and belgium. search for studies published between 1990 and november 2019 reporting on health and healthcare in francophone populations in canada. these two studies reported on barriers on access to specialised care by francophone and highlighted difficulties experienced by healthcare professionals in providing quality healthcare to francophone patients in ontario and manitoba. francophones of both sexes reported more mood disorder than anglophones, but francophone men had less anxiety disorder than anglophone men. the aim of this study is to investigate francophone/anglophone differences in alcohol use/problems and associated risk factors in the province of ontario, canada. 
Does type 1 diabetes mellitus affect Achilles tendon response to a 10 km run? [SEP] the load-response behaviour of tendons may be altered in type 1 diabetes mellitus (t1dm) as hyperglycaemia accelerates collagen cross-linking. this study compared achilles tendon load-response in participants with t1dm and controls. the main goal of this study was to compare the various degenerative changes in the achilles tendon of type 2 diabetic patients to that of controls. the achilles tendons of type 2 diabetic subjects have significantly more degenerative changes than their age/ sex-matched controls in our locality. disorganized achilles tendon fibers occur significantly more often among male than female type 2 diabetic subjects. disorganization of achilles tendon fibers and hypoechoic foci are significantly more prevalent in type 2 diabetic subjects with peripheral neuropathy than those without peripheral neuropathy. exposure to chronic hyperglycaemia can affect many tissues including the achilles tendon, which is one of the largest tendons in the body. tendon healing is impaired in patient with diabetes mellitus. the effects of streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetes (stz-d) on the healing of the transected achilles tendon in rats was studied. induction of type 1 diabetes by stz significantly delayed the healing of the transected achilles tendon in rats. 
Fragility of the esophageal mucosa: a pathognomonic endoscopic sign of primary eosinophilic esophagitis? [SEP] the response of a series of patients with primary eosinophilic esophagitis to dilation is reported together with a description of a possibly pathognomonic sign: fragile esophageal mucosa, for which the term "crêpe-paper" mucosa is introduced. primary eosinophilic esophagitis is characterized by fragile esophageal mucosa that readily tears in response to minor trauma during otherwise uneventful diagnostic endoscopy. the distinctive histological features accompanying eosinophilic esophagitis may facilitate the diagnosis of the underlying disease entity. esophagitis in infants and children is often characterized by eosinophilic inflammation. in patients with esophagitis, electron microscopy revealed numerous eosinophils throughout the mucosa and invariably demonstrated signs of activation, including inversion of core-to-matrix densities and lucency of granule core protein. eosinophils present in esophagitis are activated by electron microscopic criteria, and can been seen in an activated state entering into the mucosa. this report describes a new endoscopic finding associated with allergic eosinophilic esophagitis in children. eosinophilic esophagitis tends to be severe when white specks are present (> or =15 eosinophils/high power field) and is not associated with pathologic gastroesophageal reflux, as demonstrated by ph probe testing. endoscopic features suggestive of eoe were found in the squamous mucosa of 2 patients with and 7 patients without esophageal eosinophilia. in this study, symptoms, accompanying allergic disorders, and endoscopic findings in 117 patients with eosinophilic esophagitis were analyzed retrospectively. 
Does cup-cage reconstruction with oversized cups provide initial stability in THA for osteoporotic acetabular fractures? [SEP] this study measured acetabular component stability and the initial surface contact achieved between the acetabular component and unfractured region of the pelvis after tha using an oversized acetabular component and cup-cage reconstruction. use of a dual mobility cup cemented in a acetabular reconstruction cage device limits the risk of instability and does not hinder the acetabular fixation during tha revisions. this study confirms the advantage of dual mobility cups during acetabular reconstruction cemented in antiprotrusio cages as a way to limit, without eliminating, the risk of dislocation. when a constant millimeter increment in cup oversizing is used, there may be a greater risk of pelvic fracture in a small acetabulum and a greater risk of inadequate press fit stability in a large acetabulum. this report demonstrates that early postoperative periprosthetic acetabular discontinuity after tha is a risk in elderly patients with severe osteoporosis and that salvage of acetabular fixation can be achieved with cemented cage reconstruction and medial morselized bone grafting. reconstruction of acetabular defect has been advocated as standard procedure in total hip arthroplasty. the initial cup-bone stability is, however, a challenge and a number of studies supported by clinical follow-ups of patients suggested that if the structural graft needs supporting more than 50% of the acetabular component, a reconstruction cage device spanning ilium to ischium should be preferred to protect the graft and provide structural stability. the aim of this study was to report the clinical and radiological outcome of using the modern porous metal cup in patients undergoing acute total hip arthroplasty (tha) for selected subset of acetabular fractures. eighteen patients with acetabular fracture underwent acute tha with modern porous metal cup from a single manufacturer. the current study showed that the modern porous metal cup provides sufficient primary stability and appear suitable for primary tha in acute acetabular fractures at mid-term follow-up: (i) in selected fractures, acute tha can be extended to young adult patients as well. 
Pulmonary valve replacement in adults late after repair of tetralogy of fallot: are we operating too late? [SEP] pulmonary valve replacement is infrequently required after repair of tetralogy of fallot. in this review, we will appraise the evidence supporting pulmonary valve replacement in the adult with repaired tetralogy of fallot, as well as the optimal timing and mode of intervention. pulmonary valve replacement long after repair of tetralogy of fallot can improve cardiac function, functional status, and arrhythmia propensity. we aim to evaluate the effects of pulmonary valve replacement in repaired tetralogy of fallot. nineteen patients underwent pulmonary valve replacement after repair of tetralogy of fallot, excluding rastelli type operation, between august 1981 and august 2011. pulmonary valve replacement long after repair of previous tetralogy of fallot had clinical benefits with low mortality. late pulmonary valve replacement following repair of tetralogy of fallot may become necessary in patients with chronic pulmonary insufficiency. we conducted a retrospective study of patients with repaired tetralogy of fallot who underwent pulmonary valve replacement from 1990 to 2015 in our institution. pulmonary valve replacement in patients with repaired tetralogy of fallot has acceptable short- and intermediate-term outcomes. pulmonary valve replacement is performed increasingly late after correction of tetralogy of fallot. 
Xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis: a premalignant condition? [SEP] xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is an unusual inflammatory process of the gallbladder which is difficult to diagnose and manage and may be confused with gallbladder cancer. forty-two cases of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis were identified. clinical, radiological and pathological findings in 31 patients with xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis have been reviewed. xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis and carcinoma of the gallbladder coexisted in three patients. a focal type of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is found simultaneously with gastric cancer diagnosed preoperatively. herein, the authors report a new case of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis concomitant with gallbladder adenocarcinoma in a 65-year-old female patient. seven cases of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis are presented, and their clinicopathological appearance is described. we report here 7 cases of xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis and review the literature. subsequent frozen section and histopathology demonstrated xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis. xanthogranulomatous cholecystitis is a rare variant of chronic cholecystitis, which can involve adjacent organs including liver, colon and duodenum mimicking gallbladder cancer. 
Does TDP-43 type confer a distinct pattern of atrophy in frontotemporal lobar degeneration? [SEP] to determine whether tdp-43 type is associated with distinct patterns of brain atrophy on mri in subjects with pathologically confirmed frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld). here we present a retrospective analysis of clinical, neuropsychological and neuroimaging (volumetric and voxel-based morphometric) features in a pathologically ascertained cohort of 95 cases of frontotemporal lobar degeneration classified according to contemporary neuropathological criteria. frontotemporal lobar degeneration-associated pathologies segregated based on their cerebral atrophy profiles, according to the following scheme: asymmetric, relatively localized (predominantly temporal lobe) atrophy (tdp-43 type c); relatively symmetric, relatively localized (predominantly temporal lobe) atrophy (microtubule-associated protein tau mutations); strongly asymmetric, distributed atrophy (pick's disease); relatively symmetric, predominantly extratemporal atrophy (corticobasal degeneration, fused-in-sarcoma pathology). tdp-43 (transactive response binding protein of 43 kda) and fus (fused in sarcoma) comprise the neuropathological protein aggregates of distinct subtypes of the neurodegenerative diseases frontotemporal lobar degeneration and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. in this minireview the specific functions of tdp-43 and fus are described and discussed in the context of how tdp-43 and fus may contribute to the pathogenesis of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. we sought to describe the antemortem clinical and neuroimaging features among patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with tdp-43 immunoreactive inclusions (ftld-tdp). our findings indicate that behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and alzheimer's disease show similar degrees of hippocampal atrophy in vivo, but patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia show greater hippocampal atrophy at post-mortem, with the frontotemporal lobar degeneration with tdp-43 inclusions subtype being particularly affected. hippocampal atrophy does not appear to be an efficient diagnostic marker for underlying behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia or alzheimer's disease pathology, although for behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia, episodic memory deficits in conjunction with marked hippocampal atrophy emerge as potential biomarkers for frontotemporal lobar degeneration with tdp-43 inclusions pathology. frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld) can be classified based on the presence of the microtubule-associated protein tau and the tar dna binding protein-43 (tdp-43). we propose that cellular apoptosis susceptibility protein associated defective nuclear transport may play a mechanistic role in the pathogenesis of the tdp-43 positive frontotemporal lobar degeneration. 
Is oncoplastic surgery a contraindication for accelerated partial breast radiation using the interstitial multicatheter brachytherapy method? [SEP] the first technique utilized in early accelerated partial breast irradiation studies was multicatheter interstitial brachytherapy. accelerated partial breast irradiation by means of multicatheter brachytherapy shows great promise in the modern treatment of early breast cancer combining high efficacy in preventing tumour recurrence with low levels of toxicity. with the use of multicatheter interstitial brachytherapy substantial reductions in the radiation exposure of risk organs can be achieved in comparison to whole breast external beam radiotherapy. in this article, we present the technical data related to multicatheter interstitial brachytherapy to the breast proceeding, from the implantation of the vectors to the treatment itself. the indications for brachytherapy in breast cancer are boost after whole breast irradiation, accelerated partial breast irradiation or selected patients with second ipsilateral breast tumor event. multicatheter interstitial breast brachytherapy remains a major technique for breast cancer treatment. we discuss the current status, indications, and technical aspects of breast cancer brachytherapy. multiple guidelines are available to assist clinicians with patient selection for accelerated partial breast irradiation (apbi), and recent guidelines support brachytherapy as an appropriate technique to deliver apbi. to assess the feasibility of high-dose-rate perioperative multicatheter interstitial brachytherapy to deliver accelerated partial breast irradiation (apbi) in selected patients with early breast cancer. our preliminary results show that the perioperative multicatheter interstitial high-dose-rate brachytherapy for apbi in selected patients with early breast cancer is feasible. 
Diagnostic characteristics of child bipolar I disorder: does the "Treatment of Early Age Mania (team)" sample generalize? [SEP] subjects (n = 247) were outpatients who participated in either the national institute of mental health-funded phenomenology and course of pediatric bipolar disorders study or the treatment of early age mania (team) study. to present the prevalence and clinical correlates of mania with and without depressive episodes in a representative sample of us adolescents. team was a multi-site, 8-week, randomized clinical trial of risperidone, lithium, or divalproex in 279 medication-naïve patients, aged 6 through 15 years, with a dsm-iv diagnosis of bipolar disorder currently in manic or mixed phase. after quality control, 69 team early-onset bipolar disorder cases, 725 mayo clinic bipolar disorder cases (including 189 early-onset cases), and 764 controls were included in the analysis of association, assessed with logistic regression assuming log-additive allele effects. comparison of team cases with controls suggested association of early-onset bipolar disorder with the rs6265 minor allele [odds ratio (or) = 1.55, p = 0.04]. our study shows that mania profile is common in the community sample of turkish prepubertal children and does not support the thought that mania is rare outside the us. to address the problems of differentiation of mania from attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) and of the ubiquitous manifestation of irritability across child psychiatry diagnoses, a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar i disorder phenotype (pea-bp) was defined by dsm-iv bipolar i disorder (manic or mixed phase) with elation and/or grandiosity as one criterion. a conservatively defined child mania phenotype met the robins and guze criteria for establishing diagnostic validity in psychiatric illness. continuities between pea-bp and adult bipolar disorder and relationships of pea-bp to other descriptions of child mania are discussed. using nationwide registers of all inpatients and outpatients contacts to all psychiatric hospitals in denmark, we investigated (1) gender-specific rates of incident pediatric mania/bipolar disorder during a period from 1995 to 2012, (2) whether age and other characteristics for pediatric mania/bipolar disorder changed during the calendar period (1995 to 2003 versus 2004 to 2012), and (3) whether the diagnosis is more often made at first psychiatric contact in recent time compared to earlier according to gender. 
Estimation of basal metabolic rate in Chinese: are the current prediction equations applicable? [SEP] this study aimed to measure the basal energy expenditure (bee) of chinese healthy adults and establish an accurate predictive equation for this population. equation were the closest to the measured basal metabolic rate. the aim of this study was to develop a new bmr prediction equation for chinese adults applicable for a large bmi range and compare it with commonly used prediction equations. aim: to contribute to understanding the applicability of equations for predicting basal metabolic rate in this population. besides basic anthropometrics data, this paper reports the generation of predictive equation for basal metabolic rates of healthy malaysian adult from prospective measurements on 307 male and 349 females aged 18-60 years, using the douglas bag technique. to develop predictive equations for basal metabolic rate (bmr) in healthy chinese adults and to evaluate factors that may influence bmr. measuring the bmr of chinese adults by indirect calorimetry. the better-fitting equation for predicting bmr in chinese adults is bmr = 13.88 x weight (kg) + 4.16 x height (cm) - 3.43 x age (years) - 112.40 x sex (men = 0; women = 1) +54.34. the equations developed in this study predict bmr more accurately for chinese adults. basal metabolic rates of adolescent male and female population aged between 17-20 years were estimated using equations proposed by fao, icmr, cunningham, harris benedict, fredrix and miffin. 
Does rugby headgear prevent concussion? [SEP] however, there remains concern that many players believe rugby headgear in fact does prevent concussions. conclusions nearly 40% of collegiate rugby players surveyed believed headgear helped to prevent concussions despite no scientific evidence that it does. those who believed headgear prevented concussion were, on average, 4 times more likely to play with increased aggressive form than those who believed headgear did not prevent concussions (p = 0.001). although most players in the study believe that rugby headgear may prevent concussion, only a minority reported wearing it. to determine whether protective headgear reduced the incidence of concussion in a pilot study of under 15 rugby union. although there is some controversy about the desirability of wearing protective headgear in football, this pilot study strongly suggests that current headgear does not provide significant protection against concussion in rugby union at a junior level. research has found protective headgear offers no significant protection against concussions but suggests a large proportion of players perceive headgear to be effective in preventing concussions. the perceived effectiveness of rugby union headgear in reducing concussions in american male collegiate rugby union athletes was assessed. some players wear padded headgear, but whether this protects against concussion is unclear. in professional male rugby union players, we examined: (i) the association between the use of headgear and match concussion injury incidence, and (ii) whether wearing headgear influenced time to return to play following concussion. 
Spinal subdural hematoma: a sequela of a ruptured intracranial aneurysm? [SEP] here, we report an unusual case of a ruptured posterior communicating artery aneurysm resulting in an isolated subdural hematoma located in the tentorial and spinal canal without subarachnoid or intraparenchymal hemorrhage. our results suggest that a diagnosis of ruptured intracranial aneurysm should be considered in patients with nontraumatic subdural hematoma. spinal subdural hematoma (sdh) secondary to intracranial aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) occurs rarely and can cause neurologic deficits. rupture of an intracranial aneurysm may cause symptomatic sdh in the lumbosacral spine as well as subarachnoid hematoma. we present a rare case of spinal subdural hematoma induced by guidewire-based lumbar drainage in a subarachnoid hemorrhage patient with a ruptured intracranial aneurysm. a case of spinal subdural hematoma (ssdh) following subarachnoid hemorrhage (sah) because of a ruptured internal carotid aneurysm is described. magnetic resonance imaging showed a subdural hematoma in the lumbosacral region. we report a case of pure subdural hematoma secondary to a ruptured true saccular aneurysm of a cortical artery branch. in the context of a presentation of spontaneous subdural hematoma, intracerebral aneurysm rupture should be considered as a possible etiology. ruptured aneurysm of the posterior communicating artery may cause cranial acute interdural hematoma with a typical subarachnoid hemorrhage clinical presentation, and it rarely can extend to spinal epidural space. 
Can shape analysis differentiate free-floating internal carotid artery thrombus from atherosclerotic plaque in patients evaluated with CTA for stroke or transient ischemic attack? [SEP] patients presenting with transient ischemic attack or stroke may have symptom-related lesions on acute computed tomography angiography (cta) such as free-floating intraluminal thrombus (fft). the objective of our study is to determine whether quantitative shape analysis can accurately differentiate fft from atherosclerotic plaque. we identified five quantitative shape descriptors of carotid fft. we hypothesized that atherosclerotic plaque ulceration is associated with nonlacunar ischemic stroke rather than lacunar stroke. prospectively, 750 consecutive patients with transient ischemic attack or ischemic stroke symptoms in the anterior cerebral circulation were evaluated for the presence of atherosclerotic plaque ulceration in the symptomatic carotid artery with multidetector cta. atherosclerotic carotid plaque ulceration is associated with nonlacunar ischemic stroke, independent of the degree of carotid stenosis. carotid free-floating thrombus (fft) is an unusual finding in acute ischemic stroke. computed tomography angiography (cta) showed high grade proximal left internal carotid artery (ica) stenosis along with interesting finding of a free floating thrombus (fft) in the left ica. the patient experienced transient ischemic attacks whenever a position was assumed which permitted occlusion of the internal carotid artery by the free floating thrombus. we report a patient with an ischemic stroke caused by thromboembolism from an ulcerated plaque with floating thrombus of the internal carotid artery (ica). 
Dementia and aphasia in motor neuron disease: an underrecognised association? [SEP] this report concerns an autopsy case of rapidly progressive aphasia and motor neuron disease. based on these clinicopathological findings and a review of the literature, we concluded that our case is the first reported case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia that clinically showed rapidly progressive aphasia. amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) is characterized by degeneration of upper and lower motor neurons. in some als patients, dementia or aphasia may be present (als-d). we conclude that in most cases progressive dysarthria is the presenting sign of an established neurodegenerative disease (generally degenerative dementia or motor neuron disease), although the possibility that progressive dysarthria is a distinct entity cannot be excluded. frontotemporal dementia and motor neuron disease share clinical, genetic and pathological characteristics. of the 40 patients with frontotemporal dementia, 12.5% had concomitant motor neuron disease. biomarkers of motor system function were abnormal in frontotemporal dementia. the neurophysiological index was reduced in frontotemporal dementia (1.1) compared with controls (1.9, p < 0.001), indicating a degree of lower motor neuron dysfunction, although remained relatively preserved when compared with motor neuron disease (0.7, p < 0.05). motor system dysfunction in frontotemporal dementia may result from pathological involvement of the primary motor cortex, with secondary degeneration of lower motor neurons in the brainstem and anterior horn of the spinal cord. 
Does solid culture for tuberculosis influence clinical decision making in India? [SEP] to investigate the impact of solid culture on löwenstein-jensen medium on clinical decision making. in a retrospective review of 150 culture-positive and 150 culture-negative consecutively sampled tuberculosis (tb) suspects, treatment decisions were analysed at presentation, after the availability of culture detection results and after the availability of drug susceptibility testing (dst) culture results. a total of 124 (82.7%) culture-positive patients and 35 (23.3%) culture-negative patients started anti-tuberculosis treatment prior to receiving their culture results; 101 patients (33.7%) returned for their results; two (1.3%) initiated treatment based on positive culture and no culture-negative patients discontinued treatment. we studied 59 patients presumed to have pulmonary tuberculosis to determine whether gallium-67 citrate scintigraphy could improve diagnostic accuracy and help clinical decision making for empiric treatment pending culture results. specifically, i explore the factors that inform doctors' decision-making and locate these decision-making processes within the broader socio-cultural context of india. national institute for research in tuberculosis clinics in chennai and madurai, india. implementation of new tuberculosis (tb) diagnostic strategies in resource-constrained settings is challenging. we measured the impact of solid and liquid mycobacterial cultures on treatment practices for patients undergoing tb evaluation in kampala, uganda. we compared empiric treatment decisions with solid and liquid culture in terms of diagnostic yield and time to results, and assessed impact on patient management. of 200 patients enrolled, 26 (13%) had culture-confirmed tb: 22 (85%) on solid culture alone, 2 (8%) on liquid culture alone, and 2 (8%) on both solid and liquid culture. 
Diffusion-weighted echo-planar MR imaging of primary parotid gland tumors: is a prediction of different histologic subtypes possible? [SEP] our aim was to determine the value of echo-planar diffusion-weighted mr imaging (epidwi) in differentiating various types of primary parotid gland tumors. to compare the image distortion and the quantification variation in parotid gland apparent diffusion coefficients (adcs) on periodically rotated overlapping parallel lines with enhanced reconstruction (propeller) versus echo-planar diffusion-weighted (dw) magnetic resonance (mr) images and to investigate the relationship between parotid gland adc and parotid gland fat content. to investigate the feasibility of using diffusion-weighted (dw) echo-planar imaging (epi) for differentiating primary parotid gland tumors. diffusion-weighted echo-planar mri seems to be a valuable tool for differentiating benign from malignant primary parotid gland tumors. to determine which features are characteristic of malignant parotid tumors, spin-echo t1- and t2-weighted images of malignant lesions in the parotid gland were compared with those of benign disease. mr imaging is useful in delineating malignant tumors but is unreliable in correctly predicting the histologic nature of a mass lesion in the parotid gland. to investigate the feasibility of diffusion-weighted (dw) echo-planar imaging (epi) for measuring different functional conditions of the parotid gland and to compare different measurement approaches. diffusion-weighted echo-planar mr imaging successfully visualized the parotid glands of all volunteers. diffusion-weighted echo-planar mr imaging allows non-invasive quantification of functional changes in the parotid glands. the differential diagnosis of parotid gland tumors is often difficult with conventional magnetic resonance imaging. 
Is there a role for endothelin-1 in the hemodynamic changes during hemodialysis? [SEP] we determined plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 and no in patients on chronic hemodialysis (chd) before and after hemodialysis treatment. there was a significant decrease in endothelin-1 plasma concentration after hemodialysis in comparison with its values before hemodialysis. in chd patients, a positive correlation was found between endothelin-1 plasma concentration and systolic blood pressure after hemodialysis, irrespective of ace inhibitors therapy. no and endothelin-1 play a significant role in etiology of the hemodynamic changes of blood pressure during the dialysis. more activation of vasoconstrictors (endothelin-1 and angiotensin ii) during hemodialysis was found. the aim of the present study was to investigate the time course of plasma endothelin-1 levels during a hemodialysis session and to explore the influence of preexisting type 2 diabetes mellitus. plasma endothelin-1 was enhanced in hemodialysis patients compared to normal subjects and increased from 1.28 +/- 0.47 before to 1.44 +/- 0.54 pg/ml (ref. the aim of this study was to determine plasma endothelin-1 during hemodialysis and to compare the endothelin-1 levels in hemodialysis patients with and without rhuepo substitution. endothelin-1 concentration was elevated before commencement of hemodialysis (1.16 +/- 0.36 pg/ml) when compared to healthy controls (ref. plasma endothelin-1 was higher in hemodialysis patients and there was a continuous rise in plasma endothelin-1 during a session. 
Do risk factors for suicidal behavior differ by affective disorder polarity? [SEP] the influence of affective disorder polarity on subsequent suicide attempts or completions and any differential effect of suicide risk factors by polarity were assessed in a prospective cohort. mixed-effects, grouped-time survival analysis assessed risk of suicidal behavior and differential effects of risk factors for suicidal behavior by polarity. age, hopelessness and active substance abuse but not polarity predicted suicidal behavior. the authors reviewed the association of suicidal behavior with mixed features in both major depressive and bipolar disorders, as well as potentially relevant adverse effects of antidepressant treatment and use of alternative treatments aimed at minimizing agitation and suicidal risk. isolating the specific factors that contribute to the high risk of suicide in patients with affective disorders can be challenging as well; substance and alcohol abuse, family history of suicide, differences in allele distributions, comorbid anxiety, depression recurrence, seasonal effects, rapid cycling, and a history of hospitalizations for depression all appear to contribute to the likelihood that these patients will engage in suicidal behavior. the highest risk of suicide attempts is noted in affective disorders. suicide attempts are significantly associated with 10 out of 20 analyzed clinical factors in our group of affective patients, however, the significance (or lack of it) of these factors differed in female and male groups in half the cases. suicide risk factors were associated with 6 variables in major affective disorder patients, as follows: male gender, unemployed, more frequent depressive episodes (>4 in the past year), depressive episodes with suicidal ideation and attempts, depressive episodes with psychotic symptoms, and no current antidepressant use. the main risk factors for nonfatal suicidal behavior included family history of suicide, early onset of bipolar disorder, extent of depressive symptoms, increasing severity of affective episodes, the presence of mixed affective states, rapid cycling, comorbid axis i disorders, and abuse of alcohol or drugs. in nominal regression models, severity of depressive episode and hopelessness were independent risk factors for suicidal ideation, and hopelessness, comorbid personality disorder, and previous suicide attempt were independent risk factors for suicide attempts. 
Multidisciplinary breast cancer clinics. Do they work? [SEP] treatment of breast cancer is complex and multidisciplinary by nature, with protocols that are updated continuously. breast cancer management requires a multidisciplinary approach that is tailored to the patient's stage at presentation, desire for breast conservation or reconstruction, estimation of risk of recurrence, and assessment of the benefits and toxicities of potential adjuvant therapies. at the lahey clinic medical center, breast surgeons, plastic surgeons, radiation oncologists, and medical oncologists staff the breast cancer treatment clinic, and work closely together to formulate treatment plans that will optimize the likelihood for cure with an acceptable cosmetic result. the objective of this scoping review was to identify and classify the definitions and characteristics of multidisciplinary care, as well as outcomes and interventions for patients with breast cancer. the multimodality approach in combination with multidisciplinary clinical work in breast cancer serve as a role model for the management of many cancer types worldwide. numerous benefits for patients and for specialist breast clinicians working in partnership with breast physicians were identified. to describe the effect of multidisciplinary care on survival in women treated for breast cancer. after multidisciplinary care was introduced (time period october 1995 to december 2000), breast cancer mortality was 18% lower in the intervention area than in the non-intervention area (0.82, 0.74 to 0.91). a multidisciplinary approach to the management of breast cancer is the standard of care in developed health systems. we performed a systematic review to assess the extent and quality of evidence on whether multidisciplinary care (mdc), or related aspects of care contribute to clinical outcomes in breast cancer, and in particular whether these influence survival. 
Is the international normalised ratio (INR) reliable? [SEP] capillary inr is thus reliable, could improve ttr and decrease iatrogenicity. there was good agreement between whole blood and fresh plasma monitor system international normalised ratio (inr) and the reference inr of target samples. the aim of the present study was to determine the number of centres required to give reliable isi and international normalised ratio (inr) with these two poct whole blood pt monitors. the prothrombin time/international normalised ratio (pt/inr) line method to derive inr, based on only five european concerted action on anticoagulation (ecaa) certified plasmas, is shown to be reliable in previous ecaa studies. the international normalised ratio (inr) as pt standardisation introduced an analytical variation that increases with higher pt measures and higher international sensitivity index (isi) values. our study was conducted to investigate the inr accuracy through the mathematical derivative application to reduce the analytical component of the inr uncertainty. we analysed the calculation system of the inr through the mathematical derivative in 87 pt ratio measurements. wide acceptance of the international normalised ratio (inr) and thromboplastins with low international sensitivity indices (isis) has inadvertently led to the application of the inr to patients other than those on anticoagulation treatment. vitamin k antagonists have been used for many decades and have been traditionally monitored by the measurement of the international normalised ratio (inr) in the laboratory. variability of inr results in this uk national external quality assessment scheme (neqas) programme was comparable to that in the uk neqas eqa programme for laboratory inr testing. 
Are there associations of health status, disease activity and damage in SLE patients? [SEP] a 2 year longitudinal observational study, measuring health status (short-form 36. visual analog scale for pain and fatigue, modified health assessment questionnaire, patient global assessment of disease activity), disease activity, and organ damage in 87 patients with sle. on a group level the sle patients showed stable health status measures and disease activity scores 2 years after baseline, but organ damage scores increased significantly. to determine the health status of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and to identify the associations of this domain. as well, to study possible correlations between health status measures and demographic and disease variables in the patients with sle. measures of health status (medical outcome survey sf-36, joint pain and fatigue on visual analog scale, modified health assessment questionnaire) were obtained from 82 sle and 82 ra patients matched for age, sex, and disease duration, and from 74 age and sex matched healthy controls. disease activity and organ damage were assessed in the patients with sle. our study showed that patients with sle and ra have a multidimensional involvement of health status compared to healthy controls. older age at diagnosis (p < or = 0.0001), longer duration of sle (p < or = 0.0001), poor nutrition (p < 0.002), and higher disease activity at diagnosis (p < 0.007) were associated with more damage. non-caucasian race, longer disease duration, higher disease activity and lower level of education were associated with more organ damage in sle. to examine the relation between fatigue, disease activity, damage, and quality of life measures in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). 
PSA repeatedly fluctuating levels are reassuring enough to avoid biopsy? [SEP] to evaluate whether the risk of having a positive repeat prostate biopsy is lower in patients with fluctuating prostate-specific antigen (psa) levels than in patients with a steady or steadily increasing psa level. in the present study, by contrast with the common and unfounded view, the risk of having a positive repeat prostate biopsy was no lower in men with a fluctuating psa level than in those with a steady or steadily increasing psa level. to evaluate whether the risk of prostate cancer was different according to the pattern of fluctuation in prostate-specific antigen (psa) levels in patients undergoing repeat transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy (trus-bx). multivariate analysis showed that psa fluctuation pattern and high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia at initial trus-bx were the predictive parameters for positive repeat biopsies. prostate-specific antigen (psa) levels can show wide fluctuations when repeatedly measured. to report the 2-year clinical and biochemical follow-up of symptomatic men who had a high prostate-specific-antigen (psa) level, for whom our policy has been to avoid biopsy in those with a normal repeat psa, as minimizing negative prostate biopsies is an important goal in managing men with a high psa, where the decision for biopsy based on one high value may be inappropriate. in symptomatic men referred with a raised psa level and who have a normal dre and normal repeat psa, prostatic biopsy can be safely avoided. serum psa levels at repeat biopsy did not differ significantly in patients with and without prostate cancer. in patients with a psa decrease at the first follow-up, prostate volume and number of increases in the psa level from the initial prostate biopsy were predictors for prostate cancer diagnosis at the second prostate biopsy. suspecting cancer from an increase in prostate-specific antigen (psa) has a high negative rate at an initial prostate biopsy. 
Is zero central line-associated bloodstream infection rate sustainable? [SEP] this was a multicenter, quasiexperimental, 140-month, acute care study comparing central line-associated bloodstream infection rates associated with positive or negative intravenous connectors to a zero fluid displacement connector. central line-associated bloodstream infections are serious life-threatening infections in the intensive care unit setting. after the second year, there was a sustained 89% cumulative central line-associated bloodstream infection rate reduction to 1.2 central line-associated bloodstream infections per 1000 central line days (incidence density rate, 0.11; 95% confidence interval 0.1-0.3; p, 0.001). baseline average central line-associated bloodstream infections per 1,000 central line days was 4.48 and 2.71, for the intervention and control groups (p = .28), respectively. identify the longest period a central line remains free from central line-associated bloodstream infection during an 18-month insertion-bundle project. the cumulative line days that remained close to infection-free before the lowest probability of central line-associated bloodstream infection, 1 in 100 chances, was identified using conditional probability modeling. the lowest probability identified for central line-associated bloodstream infection was 1 in 100 chances regardless of the phase of the project or central line type. given that three quarters of intensive care unit patients have their central line removed by day 7, zero risk for central line-associated bloodstream infection should be achievable in the majority of patients where clinicians comply with the clinician and patient insertion bundles. every health care facility aims to achieve and maintain a zero central line-associated bloodstream infection (clabsi) rate. the overall central-line-associated bloodstream infections prevalence was low (1.37 central-line-associated bloodstream infections events/1,000 central-line days) and decreased over the time of the study. 
Is gastric electrical stimulation superior to standard pharmacologic therapy in improving GI symptoms, healthcare resources, and long-term health care benefits? [SEP] to compare symptoms, healthcare resource utilization and costs in two groups of patients with the symptoms of gp: those treated via gastric electrical stimulation (ges) and those treated with traditional pharmacological agents in an intensive outpatient program (med). we conclude that ges is more effective in improving long-term gi symptoms and costs, and decreasing use of healthcare resources than intensive medical therapy, in this sample of patients with the symptoms of gp followed for 3 years. the aim of this study was to report the long-term clinical response to high-frequency gastric electrical stimulation (ges) in 16 patients with postsurgical gastroparesis who failed standard medical therapy. gastric electrical stimulation (ges) with the use of high-frequency and low-energy neural stimulation is an approved technique for patients with idiopathic and diabetic gastroparesis. gastric electrical stimulation has been proven effective for drug-refractory gastroparesis. the objective of this study was to investigate sacral electrical stimulation (ses) and gastric electrical stimulation (ges) by comparing upper and lower gastrointestinal (gi) and genitourinary (gu) symptoms and quality of life, before treatment and in the long term after treatment. a number of recent pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies show promise, including gastric electrical stimulation. gastric electrical stimulation (ges) has been recommended for drug refractory patients with gastroparesis, but no clear baseline predictors of symptom response exist. to investigate whether there is an association between gastric emptying rate and symptom improvement in gastroparetic patients treated with gastric electrical stimulation (ges), we retrospectively reviewed 63 gastroparetic patients who received ges therapy for at least 1 year. gastric electrical stimulation has recently emerged as an effective strategy in the management of these patients. 
Should pulp chamber pulpotomy be seen as a permanent treatment? [SEP] during the past decade, with a view to understanding pulp biology better and developing bioactive materials, pulpotomy has been reinvestigated as a definitive treatment in mature permanent teeth. pulp chamber pulpotomy or coronal pulpotomy is widely used in deciduous and immature permanent teeth, and there is thus a need for trials to evaluate the outcome of pulpotomy as a therapeutic procedure on mature permanent teeth in accordance with good clinical practice guidelines. this study aimed to review publications reporting the outcomes of pulpotomy when indicated as a definitive treatment in mature permanent teeth and to discuss the relevance of the criteria that could be used in clinical practice or research. mta pulpotomy for permanent molars in children is a viable alternative to rct. to investigate the benefits of pulpotomy (to the level of the floor of the pulp chamber) as an endodontic treatment for teeth with vital pulps. under the conditions of this study, pulpotomy offered a viable alternative to root canal treatment for teeth with vital pulps in the short term. the objective of the present work was to evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of pulpotomy and associated medicaments in saving permanent teeth with pulp exposure resulting from extensive caries. intention-to-treat analyses on studies comparing pulpotomy and other treatment modalities tended to favor pulpotomy. pulpotomy is a prospective substitute for root canal treatment in managing permanent teeth with carious pulp exposures, even in permanent teeth with irreversible pulpitis. the long-term radiologic interpretation of the pulp after partial pulpotomy in young permanent molars supports the clinical impression that it is a warranted treatment in well-chosen cases. 
Does transverse apex coincide with coronal apex levels (regional or global) in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? [SEP] to identify the regional and global apexes of curves in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis and to compare the levels of those with the most rotated vertebral levels on computed tomography scans. the most rotated vertebral (or disc) levels (transverse apex) were compared with the regional and global apex levels (vertebra or disc) (coronal apexes) of the corresponding curves separately. many normal children have coronal plane asymmetry (an inconsequential lateral curvature of the spine), and certainly all have vertebral body asymmetry in the transverse plane, but when median plane asymmetry (flattening or more usually reversal of the normal thoracic kyphosis at the apex of the scoliosis) is superimposed during growth, a progressive idiopathic scoliosis occurs. this study investigates the coronal plane segmental biomechanics for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients in response to physiologically relevant axial compression. individual spinal joint compliance in the coronal plane was measured for a series of 15 idiopathic scoliosis patients using axially loaded magnetic resonance imaging. a retrospective cross-sectional review studied the posteroanterior and lateral bending radiographs of 26 preoperative patients with thoracic major adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. to characterize the relation of vertebral axial rotation, apparent vertebral wedging, and disc wedging with lateral bending in patients with severe adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. the objective was to test the hypothesis that for all common idiopathic scoliosis deformities evolution occurs as a torsion, the apex vertebra translating away from the upper end vertebra and at the same time angulating in a clockwise arc for right apex deformities and a counterclockwise arc for left apex deformities. prospective evaluation of spinal range of motion in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis undergoing a spinal fusion. the three-dimensional nature of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) necessitates a tridimensional assessment and management. 
Does the Child Health Computing System adequately identify children with cerebral palsy? [SEP] this paper assesses the usefulness of the child health computing system as a source of information about children with cerebral palsy. a comparative survey of information held on the child health computing system (chcs) and the northern ireland cerebral palsy register (nicpr) in one health and social services board in northern ireland was carried out. the sample comprised children with cerebral palsy aged 5-9 years. unless improvements are made in case ascertainment, case validation and recording activities, the evidence suggests that the chcs will not be able to provide the same quality of information for needs assessment and surveillance of very low birthweight infants in relation to cerebral palsy as is provided by a specialist case register. a questionnaire was administered to the parents of children with cerebral palsy being treated in a north carolina hospital, and the responses were linked with health services claims data from medicaid. the belief of the parents in the adequacy of care received by their child, as well as their willingness to utilize supplemental health care services, were major predictors of health care service utilization by children with cerebral palsy enrolled in medicaid. the aim of this study is to develop a short version of the cerebral palsy quality of life instrument that can subsequently be scored as a multi-attribute utility instrument through assigning preference-based values.methods: a sample of 473 participants who have a child with cerebral palsy completed the cerebral palsy quality of life instrument(proxy-version) instrument. following expert opinion, two other domains were also added, as these were considered to have significant impact on health-related quality of life in children with cerebral palsy.conclusions: the combination of factor and rasch analysis along with consultation with patients, clinicians and experts in health-related quality-of-life instrument development, has resulted in a short version of the cerebral palsy quality of life instrument.implication for rehabilitationthis study provides the first classification system for children with cerebral palsy.the cerebral palsy-six dimension (cp-6d) survey, which is a short version of cerebral palsy quality of life instrument, can be timesaving when measuring quality of life in children with cerebral palsy.the short version (cp-6d) can be used in preference based measurement and generate quality adjusted life years for children with cerebral palsy. a systematic search was performed based on the following inclusion criteria: (1) evaluative tools at the activity level according to the international classification of functioning, disability and health; (2) previously used in studies including children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy aged 2-18 years; (3) at least one aspect of reliability and validity in children with cerebral palsy should be established. to evaluate the quality of life of mothers with children suffering from cerebral palsy compared with those who have children with minor health problems. 
Are we seeing the effects of public awareness campaigns? [SEP] results there was an improvement in public awareness of clinical trials following the campaign; 56.7% [95% confidence interval (ci) 51.8, 61.6] of the sample recalled seeing or hearing advertising about rcts following the campaign compared with 14.8% (10.8, 18.9) prior to the campaign launch (difference = 41.4%; 95% ci for difference 35.6, 48.3; p < 0.01). conclusions it is possible to raise public awareness of clinical research using the media, but further efforts may be required to influence individuals' decisions to take part in clinical research. public awareness campaigns about depression and suicide have been viewed as highly effective strategies in preventing suicide, yet their effectiveness has not been established in previous studies. this study evaluates the effectiveness of a public-awareness campaign by comparing suicide counts before and after a city-wide campaign in nagoya, japan, where the city government distributed promotional materials that were aimed to stimulate public awareness of depression and promote care-seeking behavior during the period of 2010-2012. public awareness campaigns can be an effective strategy in preventing suicide. this study aimed to evaluate a public engagement campaign targeted at raising awareness of laryngeal cancer. in this study, we aimed to determine the effectiveness of this public health campaign on increasing the awareness of ckd. although the campaign increased knowledge and awareness, it did not achieve the goal of improving public preparedness. respondents who indicated having seen the public awareness campaign showed more openness towards seeking professional help and were considerably more likely to be familiar with the dutch helpline than those who reported not having seen the campaign. our results strengthen the idea that awareness campaigns can make a contribution to informing the general public about mental health services and improving help-seeking behaviour. 
Is breast cancer prognosis inherited? [SEP] it has been suggested that prognosis in familial breast cancer could be influenced by the parent of origin, with a worse prognosis when inherited paternally. we found no evidence for a worse prognosis in patients with paternally inherited breast cancer. previous studies in mouse models and pilot epidemiology studies have demonstrated that inherited polymorphisms are associated with inherited risk of tumor progression and poor outcome in human breast cancer. earlier work in our laboratory using mouse models and human breast cancer populations has enabled us to show that metastasis susceptibility is an inherited trait. family history is a known risk factor for breast cancer, but its prognostic value and the prognostic value of tumour characteristics in relation to family history has not been clearly established. two previous studies have suggested that breast cancer prognosis clusters within families. large-scale studies with accurate data on strong prognosticators are still needed to confirm the possibility of familial inheritance of breast cancer prognosis. a genetic component is well established in the etiology of breast cancer. breast cancer prognosis of a woman predicts the survival in her first-degree relatives with breast cancer. our novel findings suggest that breast cancer prognosis might be inherited. 
Does nuchal translucency thickness in the first trimester predict GDM onset during pregnancy? [SEP] this study was planned to evaluate whether increased nuchal translucency (nt) thickness in the first trimester of gestation can be related to onset of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) during pregnancy. increased fetal nuchal translucency thickness at 10-14 weeks of gestation can identify 80% of trisomy 21 pregnancies. to examine the relationship between the measurement of nuchal translucency in the first trimester and nuchal fold in the second trimester in normal pregnancy. nuchal translucency is one of the important markers in the first trimester during antenatal screening for fetal down's syndrome. with the observation of alterations in biochemical markers in pregnancies conceived after assisted reproduction, this review presents current information related to the thickness of nuchal translucency in these pregnancies. first-trimester sonographic assessment of the risk of chromosomal abnormalities is routinely performed throughout the world, primarily by measuring fetal nuchal translucency thickness between 11-13 weeks' gestation, combined with assessment of serum markers. multiple studies reported early diagnosis of major fetal anomalies after demonstrating the association of increased nuchal translucency thickness with structural defect in chromosomally normal and abnormal fetuses. a prospective multicentre screening study where fetal nuchal translucency thickness was measured at 10 to 14 weeks of gestation. to investigate the relation between increased fetal nuchal translucency thickness at 10-14 weeks of gestation and maternal-fetal infection. four hundred and twenty-six chromosomally normal pregnancies with increased fetal nuchal translucency thickness at 10-14 weeks of gestation and 63 with 'unexplained' second or third trimester fetal nuchal oedema or hydrops. 
Are the arginine vasopressin V1a receptor microsatellites related to hypersexuality in children with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype? [SEP] to examine family-based transmission of the number of 5' flanking arginine vasopressin v1a receptor (avpr1a) microsatellites, which include [(gata)(14)] and complex [(ct)(4)-tt-(ct)(8)-(gt)(24)] repeats, in probands with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype (pea-bp). in the pea-bp group, there was a 43% rate of hypersexuality with a <1% rate of sexual abuse, supporting hypersexuality as a manifestation of child mania. therefore, effects of gender, puberty, and comorbid attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) on dsm-iv mania criteria and other characteristics of a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder (pea-bp) phenotype were investigated. pubertal subjects had higher rates of hypersexuality. in adults, a criterion for bipolar disorder is excessive involvement in pleasurable activities including hypersexuality. hypersexuality may be primary and intrinsic to bipolar disorder in youth, secondary and associated with it as the result of psychosocial influences or psychodynamic factors, or due to general aggression and disruptive behavior. this report discusses the importance of psychosocial and psychodynamic influences on the sexual experience and activity of bipolar children. it is proposed that a developmental, psychodynamically informed model is helpful in understanding sexuality in children and adolescents with bipolar disorder. it is also suggested that assessment of psychosocial and psychodynamic influences on the sexuality of bipolar children is necessary in order to adequately assess whether hypersexuality should be a criterion of bipolar disorder in youth. subjects (n = 93) with a prepubertal and early adolescent bipolar disorder phenotype were obtained through consecutive new case ascertainment from designated pediatric and psychiatric sites from 1995 to 1998. 
Stage I non-small cell lung carcinoma: really an early stage? [SEP] several molecular markers have been identified recently in association with non-small cell carcinoma of the lung that are promising to make early detection of metastatic disease more reliable. there was a significant difference between the survival of patients with stage i large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma and that of patients with the same stage of other non-small cell lung carcinomas. the prognosis of large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma was poor, even for early stage disease; the prognosis of the stage i disease of large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma was poorer than that of the same stage of other non-small cell lung cancers. we report a unique case of early stage small cell lung carcinoma (sclc) identified in the native lung following single lung transplantation. in small-cell lung carcinomas, there were 6 patients with pathologic stage i, 3 with pathologic stage ii and 7 with pathologic stage iii. we analyzed 335 cases of pathologic stage ia non-small cell lung carcinoma treated between 1988 and 2003 by complete resection. the pathologic stage ia non-small cell lung carcinomas comprised 259 adenocarcinomas, 65 squamous cell carcinomas, and 11 large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the pattern of recurrence after complete resection of pathological stage i, ii non-small cell lung cancer, especially according to the cell type. preoperative diagnosis was small cell carcinoma of the lung in 13, non-small cell lung cancer in one, and uncertain in seven patients. curative resection offers the best chance for long term survival in patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung with very limited stage disease. 
Does Residency Selection Criteria Predict Performance in Orthopaedic Surgery Residency? [SEP] the objective of this study was to determine which criteria in the residency application had the highest correlation with subsequent performance of orthopaedic residents. orthopaedic surgery has become an increasingly competitive specialty for medical students applying to residency. do preresidency selection factors serve as predictors of success in residency? there are several published articles on resident selection in allopathic orthopaedic programs [5-7]. the goal of our study was to evaluate the resident selection criteria for osteopathic orthopaedic residency programs. the most important factors in resident selection were performance during the student's rotation at the program, formality/politeness and performance in the interview, and medical school board exam scores. orthopaedic residency programs have members of the resident selection committee review medical school performance measures for the purpose of screening candidates to interview and, subsequently, include on their rank order lists for the residency match process. the purpose of this study was to compare the perspectives on resident selection criteria solicited from orthopaedic program directors and residency applicants. a quantitative composite scoring tool (qcst) to be used in a standardized manner to help predict orthopaedic residency performance from application materials was developed. in 64 orthopaedic residents, four predictors (united states medical licensing examination [usmle] part i scores, alpha omega alpha status, junior year clinical clerkship honors grades, and the qcst score) were analyzed with respect to four residency outcomes assessments. 
Optimism and survival: does an optimistic outlook predict better survival at advanced ages? [SEP] despite a common belief that health declines with age, many older adults remain optimistic about their future health. among 408 older adults (mage  = 70.32 years), this study identified the prevalence, source, and two-year stability of comparatively optimistic fhes; examined demographic, psychosocial, and health correlates of comparative fhes; and assessed the role of comparative fhes in predicting eight-year survival odds. the aim of this study was to examine whether an optimistic outlook predicts survival among the oldest-old. an optimistic outlook appears to be a significant predictor of survival among the oldest-old women. first, to replicate previous findings on the detrimental effect of negative self-perceptions of ageing (spa) on physical health outcomes and to expand them to the prediction of mental health; second, to test whether an optimistic outlook to the future can buffer the effect of negative spa on physical and mental health outcomes. optimism is associated with health benefits and improved survival among adults older than 65 years. we examine the hypothesis that being optimistic at ages 85 and 90 is associated with improved survival. all measures of optimism (op-total, op-future, and op-happy) at ages 85 and 90 were significantly associated with improved 5-year survival from age 85 to 90 and 90 to 95, respectively, in both unadjusted and adjusted models. these finding support the hypothesis that being optimistic continues to confer a survival benefit irrespective of advancing age. generalized estimating equations were used to determine whether participants interpreted statements more optimistically as the expressed probability of survival decreased. 
Is it better to be big? [SEP] these two claims lead to the idea that big data is the source of better scientific knowledge, through more objectivity, more data, and better analysis. big data is an inevitable part of the future of healthcare. there is a compelling need to manage and use big data to make better decisions to support the transformation of healthcare to the personalized, evidence-supported model of the future. the goal of this commentary is to motivate psychologists to embrace big data science for the betterment of the field. in healthcare, big data tools and technologies have the potential to create significant value by improving outcomes while lowering costs for each individual patient. roc curves comparison of dfi and big halo revealed the auc value for big halo to be significantly higher (dfi auc = 0.71 vs. big halo auc = 0.83; p = 0.025) than for dfi. in this commentary, we will provide a brief overview on big data principles and the potential they may bring to dementia research, and - most importantly - we will do a reality check in order to provide an answer to the question of whether dementia research is ready for big data approaches. the discipline of nursing needs to maximize the benefits of big data to advance the vision of promoting human health and wellbeing. we provide growth-path vision recommendations for big data competencies for practicing nurses, nurse educators, researchers, and policy makers to help prepare the next generation of nurses and improve patient outcomes trough better quality connected health. the result of this research has important implications for the theory and practice of adopting big data applications. 
Is arch form influenced by sagittal molar relationship or Bolton tooth-size discrepancy? [SEP] this study investigates the possible association between arch form, clinically significant tooth-size discrepancy, and sagittal molar relationship. bolton ratio was calculated, sagittal molar relationship was defined according to angle classification, and correlations were analyzed using anova, chi-square, and t-tests. furthermore, no association was observed between the presence of significant bolton discrepancy and the sagittal molar relationship or arch form. arch form in a saudi patient group is independent of gender, sagittal molar relationship, and bolton discrepancy. to determine the dental arch dimensions and arch forms in a sample of saudi orthodontic patients, to investigate the prevalence of bolton anterior and overall tooth size discrepancies, and to compare the effect of gender on the measured parameters. the dental arch dimensions were measured. males generally had larger dental arch measurements than females, and the prevalence of tooth size discrepancy was more in bolton's anterior teeth ratio than in overall ratio. tooth size discrepancies of the maxillary and mandibular arches is an important factor for achieving this goal. the aim of this study was to determine the relationship between the bolton overall and anterior ratio and the relationship between first molars according to the angle classification, and the size of overjet and overbite. six tooth-size discrepancy ratios were computed and included the bolton (2) and the new (4) johnson/bailey analysis ratios for the anterior arch component, posterior arch component, and overall ratio of the maxillary and mandibular arches. 
Cold knife conization vs. LEEP. Are they the same procedure? [SEP] there was no significant difference between double-leep cone procedure (86%) and cold-knife conization (87%) (p = 0.8). it appears that double leep performed as an outpatient procedure can be an acceptable alternative to cold-knife conization in patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.▪. between 1991 and 1995, 95 patients underwent either diagnostic leep or cold knife conization at allegheny university hospitals. we conclude that leep is an acceptable diagnostic alternative to traditional cold knife conization. to determine if loop electrosurgical excision procedure (leep) can replace cold knife conization. leep conization is a quick, simple and economical procedure that can safely replace most cases of cold knife conization. these results suggest that in our hands: (1) laser conization is relatively costly and time consuming and alters the tissues significantly, and (2) the choice between cold knife and leep is more difficult--cold knife gives a sample adequate for histological evaluation (including evaluation of the margins), while the leep procedure is technically easier and less time consuming but sometimes induces electrocautery artifact so that evaluation of the margins is not possible. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of leep and cold-knife conization on the outcome of subsequent pregnancy in a tertiary public hospital. cold-knife conization, leep, and both (conization and leep) were performed in 102 (51.3%), 95 (47.7%) and two (1%) women, respectively. a matched pair group of patients undergoing cold knife conization was used for the comparison with lletz-conization. 
Are pectins involved in cold acclimation and de-acclimation of winter oil-seed rape plants? [SEP] the hypothesis was tested that pectin content and methylation degree participate in regulation of cell wall mechanical properties and in this way may affect tissue growth and freezing resistance over the course of plant cold acclimation and de-acclimation. the results show that the temperature-dependent modifications in pectin content and their methyl esterification degree correlate with changes in tensile strength of a leaf tissue, and in this way affect leaf expansion ability and its resistance to freezing and to fungus pathogens. a possible role of photosynthetic apparatus during cold de-acclimation was studied in oilseed rape (brassica napus var. the present study investigates the survival and responses of pa-treated non-acclimated (n) and acclimated (a) winter oilseed rape to increasing cold conditions. thus, cold tolerance of winter oilseed rape can be enhanced by pa treatment. cell walls isolated from stipules of cold acclimated and non-acclimated plants showed that cold temperatures induce changes in polymers containing xylose, arabinose, galactose and galacturonic acid residues. greater jim7 labeling was observed in champagne compared to terese, indicating that cold acclimation also induces an increase in the degree of methylesterification of pectins. these data indicate a role for esterified pectins in cold tolerance. the possible functions for pectins and their associated arabinans and galactans in cold acclimation are discussed. studies of differential gene expression between cold acclimated (ca) and non-cold acclimated (na) plants yield insight into how plants prepare for cold stress at the transcriptional level. 
Updating emotional content in working memory: a depression-specific deficit? [SEP] people with depression have shown alterations in processing emotional information and working memory functionality. there is some evidence that emotional content may interact with working memory update processes, however neurological correlates are current unknown. previous research has demonstrated that depressed individuals have difficulty both disengaging from negative information and maintaining positive information in working memory (wm). this study was designed to assess the effects of irrelevant emotional material on the ability to update the contents of working memory in depression. the impact of irrelevant emotional material on the ability to update the contents of working memory was indexed by response latencies on a recognition task in which the participants decided whether or not a probe was a member of the relevant list. these findings indicate that depression is associated with difficulties removing irrelevant negative material from working memory. this study evaluated depression-related biases in three cognitive control functions, namely inhibition, working memory updating, and set shifting. specifically, currently depressed participants showed a reduced ability to inhibit the processing of negative distracting stimuli and to update working memory with emotional information, relative to control participants. impairment in working memory updating is typically associated with the retention of irrelevant negative information which can lead to persistent depressive mood and abnormal affect. although two previous studies have demonstrated that depressed individuals showed deficits in working memory (wm) updating of both negative and positive contents, the effects were confounded by shifting dysfunctions and the detailed neural mechanism associated with the failure in n-back task is not clear. 
Does ultrasound imaging before puncture facilitate internal jugular vein cannulation? [SEP] to investigate whether prepuncture ultrasound evaluation of vascular anatomy facilitates internal jugular vein cannulation compared with landmark-guided puncture. the right internal jugular vein was cannulated using either anatomic landmarks or prepuncture ultrasound (3.75/7.5 mhz) guidance. in this prospective study, the authors tested their hypothesis that using an ultrasound scanner would increase the success of internal jugular cannulation and decrease the incidence of carotid artery puncture in infants. to compare the conventional method for cannulation of the internal jugular vein with the ultrasound-aided technique. ultrasound guidance reduces both the duration of time and the number of punctures required to cannulate the internal jugular vein. the puncture of the internal jugular vein with real-time ultrasound guidance resulted in significantly fewer unsuccessful attempts of venepuncture without requiring additional time. our results confirm that ultrasound-guided cannulation of the internal jugular vein offers several advantages over the external landmarks technique: higher success rate in both vein puncture and catheter placement, lower complications, lower patient discomfort during the procedure because of a low number of needle passes. internal jugular vein cannulation was successful in 37/37 (100%) patients in the ultrasound group and in 32/42 patients (76%) in the control group (p < 0.01). ultrasound guidance improved the success rate of jugular vein cannulation in icu patients. ultrasound cannulation of the internal jugular vein minimized complications. 
Should prostate specific antigen be adjusted for body mass index? [SEP] we examined the relationship between body mass index and prostate specific antigen by age in men without prostate cancer in a longitudinal aging study to determine whether prostate specific antigen must be adjusted for body mass index. thus, adjusting prostate specific antigen for body mass index does not appear warranted. it is not logical to lower the prostate specific antigen threshold based on only the hemodilution effect since body mass index related prostate volume enlargement can increase prostate specific antigen in obese men. increasing body mass index or waist circumference was associated with decreasing prostate specific antigen (with or without prostate volume adjustment) and increasing prostate volume (p for trend <0.01). we determined whether the clinical usefulness of prostate specific antigen is negatively impacted by obesity by examining its operating characteristics and predictive accuracy as a function of body mass index. however, adjusting for obesity related hemodilution may still be required to properly interpret prostate specific antigen results in men with increased body mass index. we examine the role of body mass index in the assessment of prostate cancer risk. body mass index, especially in men with a known family history of prostate cancer, should be considered for inclusion in any clinical assessment of prostate cancer risk and recommendations regarding prostate biopsy. higher body mass index is linked to lower prostate specific antigen. we tested the accuracy of prebiopsy prostate specific antigen for predicting prostate cancer across body mass index categories. 
Does obstructive sleep apnea affect aerobic fitness? [SEP] current research is inconclusive as to whether obstructive sleep apnea severity directly limits exercise capacity and lowers health-related quality of life (hrqol). the aim of this study was to evaluate the association of obstructive sleep apnea severity with determinants of exercise capacity and hrqol. greater obstructive sleep apnea severity was associated with older age, higher body weight, higher body mass index, lower peak aerobic capacity, a higher percentage of peak aerobic capacity at a submaximal exercise intensity of 55 watts, and lower physical component summary score from the sf-36. obstructive sleep apnea severity has no independent association with exercise capacity or hrqol. we sought to determine whether patients with obstructive sleep apnea (osa) had an objective change in aerobic fitness during cycle ergometry compared to a normal population. patients with moderate/severe obstructive sleep apnea have a higher respiratory effort-related arousal index (p < 0.01), lower sleep efficiency (p = 0.01), and less rapid eye movement sleep (p = 0.04). most of the associated comorbidities and causes of these sleep disorders are known to negatively impact cardiorespiratory fitness; however, little is known about the direct relationships between cardiorespiratory fitness, obstructive sleep apnea and central sleep apnea. this article provides a systematic analysis of existing peer reviewed, published clinical studies pertaining to the relationship between cardiorespiratory fitness and sleep-related breathing disorders in adults. the prevalence of obesity is increasing worldwide, and a corresponding increase in the prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea and its cardiovascular and noncardiovascular consequences is likely. this article reviews the established evidence supporting obesity as a risk factor for obstructive sleep apnea and discusses the evidence suggesting that obesity is also a consequence of obstructive sleep apnea. 
The effect of an intracerebroventricular injection of metformin or AICAR on the plasma concentrations of melatonin in the ewe: potential involvement of AMPK? [SEP] in seasonal breeding species such as sheep, the circadian clock controls the secretion of an endogenous rhythm of melatonin and, as a consequence, is probably involved in the generation of seasonal rhythms of reproduction. considering this, we identified the presence of the subunits of ampk in different hypothalamic nuclei involved in the pre- and post-pineal pathways that control seasonality of reproduction in the ewe and we investigated if the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of two activators of ampk, metformin and aicar, affected the circadian rhythm of melatonin in ewes that were housed in constant darkness. metformin and aicar both reduced (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01 respectively) the amplitude of the circadian rhythm of melatonin secretion independently of insulin secretion. taken together, these results suggest a potential role for ampk on the secretion of melatonin probably acting trough the paraventricular nucleus and/or directly in the pineal gland. we conclude that ampk may act as a metabolic cue to modulate the rhythm of melatonin secretion. the present study investigated the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of metformin on food intake and hypothalamic appetite-regulating signalling pathways induced by the orexigenic peptide ghrelin. rats were injected intracerebroventricularly with ghrelin (5 µg), metformin (50, 100 or 200 µg), 5-amino-imidazole-4-carboxamide 1-β-d-ribofuranoside (aicar, 25 µg) and l-leucine (1 µg) in different combinations. phenformin, aicar and metformin increased ampk (alpha1) activity and decreased i(amiloride). we conclude that under standard cell culture conditions the ampk modulators aicar and compound c, but not metformin, stimulate insulin secretion by ampk-independent mechanisms. 
Literacy after cerebral hemispherectomy: Can the isolated right hemisphere read? [SEP] we investigated reading skills in individuals who have undergone left cerebral hemispherectomy and in readers with developmental dyslexia to understand diverse characteristics contributing to reading difficulty. although dyslexia is a developmental disorder, left hemispherectomy requires that patients (re)establish the language process needed to perform the language-based tasks in the nondominant (right) hemisphere to become readers. while the effect of the dominant hemisphere resection on spoken language has been extensively researched, little is known about reading abilities in individuals after left-sided resection. here, we explored the reading skills in participants who have undergone left cerebral hemispherectomy. we examined if components of phonological processing that are shown to reliably separate average readers from struggling readers, i.e., phonological awareness, verbal memory, speed of retrieval, and size of vocabulary, show the same relationship to reading levels when they are mediated by the right hemisphere [2]. when cerebral hemispherectomy is performed to control seizures associated with very early (in utero) insult, it has been found that the remaining right hemisphere is still able to support reading and phonological processing skills that are normally mediated by the left hemisphere. four adults who had hemispherectomies because of severe epilepsy following infantile of childhood damage to one hemisphere of the brain, are assessed on their reading and spelling abilities in an attempt to see if the two hemispheres are equipotential for these abilities in infancy. participants (ages 6-18) who had undergone left hemispherectomy (lh; n = 10) or right hemispherectomy (rh; n = 14) completed standardized measures of reading, language, and nonverbal cognition. investigations of psychoeducational skills in reading, language, and nonverbal cognition among children who have undergone hemispherectomy can offer important insights into compensatory potential for left and right hemispheres as well as inform educational programming for children following medical stabilization. the literature pertaining to the representation of language in the right hemisphere of hemispherectomy and callosotomy patients is reviewed to ascertain whether it provides an empirical basis for the assertions that (1) the right hemisphere participates in the recovery of language in aphasia, (2) the right hemisphere mediates the reading errors of deep dyslexic and pure alexic patients, and (3) the right hemisphere plays a fixed role in normal reading processes. 
Characterization of the gender dimorphism after injury and hemorrhagic shock: are hormonal differences responsible? [SEP] an important and persistent finding has been that males and females respond differently following traumatic injury and hemorrhagic shock. a significant advancement in the experimental understanding of the gender dimorphism in response to trauma-hemorrhage and sepsis has occurred. several clinical and experimental studies show a gender dimorphism of the immune and organ responsiveness in the susceptibility to and morbidity from shock, trauma, and sepsis. in this respect, cell-mediated immune responses are depressed in males after trauma-hemorrhage, whereas they are unchanged or enhanced in females. information regarding the influence of gender and hormones on immune and cardiovascular responses after nonthermal trauma-hemorrhagic shock is, on the one hand, considerable but, on the other hand, disappointingly incomplete. in recent years, clinical studies have indicated that gender might be a factor that plays a significant role in the outcome of patients with shock, trauma, and sepsis. although these observations suggest gender-specific response after trauma-hemorrhage, the mechanisms responsible for gender specificity remain largely unknown. a number of studies have reported gender dimorphism in terms of response to trauma, shock and sepsis. several clinical and experimental studies have demonstrated gender dimorphism in immune and organ responsiveness and in the susceptibility to and morbidity from shock, trauma, and sepsis. recently, interest in the clinically and experimentally observed gender dimorphic response to traumatic injury has led to the possibility of modulating cell and organ functions following trauma and hemorrhagic shock by the administration of sex steroids. 
Can communication with terminally ill patients be taught? [SEP] health care communication is a skill that is critical to safe and effective medical practice; it can and must be taught. communication skill influences patient disclosure, treatment adherence and outcome, adaptation to illness, and bereavement. caring for terminally ill patients requires effective communication skills. it is important that medical personnel understand appropriate ways to communicate with the patient in order to inform him about his illness, throughout its duration. furthermore, the physician needs to communicate with the family of the terminally ill patient. there is a need for improved communication between relatives and the health professionals involved in terminal care as well as better advice on services and benefits available to both patients and relatives. nevertheless, for both sexes, early childhood experiences communicating about death and dying were found to be a better predictor of the case with which respondents can imagine communicating with a terminally ill loved one than are current adult attitudes and experiences. while clinicians receive extensive training on how to identify and treat illness, communication techniques, especially those centering around emotion-laden topics such as end-of-life care, receive short shrift medical education. good communication was considered the cornerstone to define the best treatment for a terminally ill patient. seventy-three percent said prognosis communication education was either absent or inadequate during their training, and 96% believed it should be part of cancer care training. 
Delays in time to primary treatment after a diagnosis of breast cancer: does it impact survival? [SEP] treatment delays in breast cancer are generally thought to affect prognosis but the impact on survival remains unclear. indicators for breast cancer care include time to primary treatment. the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether time to primary treatment (tpt) in breast cancer impacts survival. this study explored whether longer provider delays (between first presentation and treatment) were associated with later stage and poorer survival in women with symptomatic breast cancer. the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether delays from diagnosis to initial treatment in breast cancer impacts survival. it is generally accepted that delay in receiving treatment for breast cancer results in adverse outcomes. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of delay in treatment after the diagnosis of metastatic disease on survival measured from metastatic breast cancer diagnosis and from first treatment while controlling for immortal time effect among patients with metastatic breast cancer. this study demonstrated that delays of over 12 weeks in receiving treatment for metastatic breast cancer were related to adverse survival outcomes measured from initiation of first treatment. to elucidate the impact of treatment delay on breast cancer patient's quality of life and survivorship. evidence revealed that delaying the initiation of treatment for breast cancer more than 90 days after diagnosis has a detrimental effect on disease free and overall well-being of survivors. 
Are increased carotid artery pulsatility and resistance indexes early signs of vascular abnormalities in young obese males? [SEP] to provide insight into the factors by which obesity in itself may directly lead to early arterial damage, we aimed to determine early sonographic markers of obesity-related vascular dysfunction in young obese males. the mean pulsatility index, resistance index, body mass index, waist circumference, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance, plasma fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-sensitivity c-reactive protein were statistically higher in obese subjects than in healthy controls. our results suggest that depressed vessel compliance and increased vascular resistance are features of young, obese, normotensive subjects independently of and in addition to cardiovascular risk factors. the purpose of this study was to compare carotid and brachial artery diameter, blood pressure, arterial stiffness, and endothelial function in young, apparently healthy, normal-weight, overweight, and obese male subjects. after adjusting for age, the obese group had significantly greater brachial, carotid, and aortic pressures, brachial pulse wave velocity, carotid intima media thickness, and carotid arterial diameter compared with both the overweight and normal-weight groups. obesity is associated with a much worse arterial profile, as an increased carotid lumen size was accompanied by higher blood pressure, greater arterial stiffness, and greater carotid intima media thickness in obese compared with overweight or normal-weight individuals. we compared carotid arteries in youth who were lean, were obese, or had t2dm. the carotid arteries were stiffer in obese and t2dm groups than in the lean group. youth with obesity and t2dm have abnormalities in carotid thickness and stiffness that are only partially explained by traditional cardiovascular risk factors. we compared carotid imt, pulsatility and resistivity index evaluated by ultrasonography, in 10 patients with histological-proven nafld and retinal vascular changes (retinophotographies). 
Are acceptance rates of a national preventive home visit programme for older people socially imbalanced? [SEP] preventive home visits are offered to community dwelling older people in denmark aimed at maintaining their functional ability for as long as possible, but only two thirds of older people accept the offer from the municipalities. the purpose of this study is to investigate 1) whether socioeconomic status was associated with acceptance of preventive home visits among older people and 2) whether municipality invitational procedures for the preventive home visits modified the association. information on preventive home visit acceptance rates was obtained from questionnaires. older persons with high financial assets accepted preventive home visits more frequently than persons with low assets (adjusted or = 1.5 (ci95%: 1.1-2.0)). high socioeconomic status was associated with a higher acceptance rate of preventive home visits, but the association was attenuated by invitational procedures. the purpose was to analyze whether psychological characteristics and social relations in older men and women were related to accepting and receiving preventive home visits during 3 years, when offered as part of a national scheme. older men with poor psychological rating on most of the variables had larger odds ratios of accepting and receiving preventive home visits compared to older men with higher ratings. older women with poor rating on the psychological characteristics and high social participation had larger odds of accepting and receiving preventive home visits, and women with a strong sense of coherence had larger odds of receiving many visits. it is concluded that psychological characteristics and social relations in older persons seem to influence whether they accept and receive preventive home visits, but patterns of associations are complex and vary for men and women. in the netherlands, a primary-care based preventive home visitation programme has been developed for potentially frail community-dwelling older people (aged ≥75 years), consisting of a comprehensive geriatric assessment during a home visit by a practice nurse followed by targeted interdisciplinary care and follow-up over time. 
Does open access publishing increase the impact of scientific articles? [SEP] we sought to determine the impact of such initiatives on open access publishing in the sub-area of human electrophysiology and the impact of open access on the attention articles received in the scholarly literature and other outlets. these findings demonstrate that open-access publishing is increasing in popularity in the sub-area of human electrophysiology and that open-access articles enjoy the "open access advantage" in citations similar to the larger scientific literature. the benefit of the open access advantage may motivate researchers to make their publications open access and pursue publication outlets that support it. does free access to journal articles result in greater diffusion of scientific knowledge? using a randomized controlled trial of open access publishing, involving 36 participating journals in the sciences, social sciences, and humanities, we report on the effects of free access on article downloads and citations. articles placed in the open access condition (n=712) received significantly more downloads and reached a broader audience within the first year, yet were cited no more frequently, nor earlier, than subscription-access control articles (n=2533) within 3 yr. this article reviews the events that led to the creation of open-access publishing, the arguments for and against it, and the implications of open access for the future of academic publishing. articles assigned to open access were associated with 89% more full text downloads (95% confidence interval 76% to 103%), 42% more pdf downloads (32% to 52%), and 23% more unique visitors (16% to 30%), but 24% fewer abstract downloads (-29% to -19%) than subscription access articles in the first six months after publication. open access publishing may reach more readers than subscription access publishing. in the past few years there has been an ongoing debate as to whether the proliferation of open access (oa) publishing would damage the peer review system and put the quality of scientific journal publishing at risk. 
In vivo visualization of pyloric mucosal hypertrophy in infants with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: is there an etiologic role? [SEP] recently attempts have been made to demonstrate the possible role of hypergastrinemia in the production of congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis in infants. eleven infants with congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, ranging in age from three to 11 weeks, were evaluated for fasting and postprandial serum gastrin levels. two to ten weeks following successful pyloromyotomy, a similar evaluation was undertaken to demonstrate the possible role of elevated serum gastrin levels in the etiology of congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. the results of our study minimize the direct importance of serum gastrin in the production of congenital hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. in infants with ihps, the pyloric mucosa constitutes approximately one third of the cross-sectional diameter of the pyloric mass and fills and obstructs the pyloric canal. antral or pyloric mucosal hypertrophy was visualized endoscopically in all 18 study patients. barium meal studies demonstrated fixed narrowing of the pyloric canal similar to infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. palpation of a hypertrophied pylorus is diagnostic of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. to evaluate the accuracy of sonography for both diagnosis and exclusion of pyloric stenosis in the infant with nonbilious vomiting without a palpable olive and to clarify the relationship between infant age and size and the dimensions of the hypertrophic pylorus. although the diagnosis of pyloric stenosis is made on the basis of muscle thickness, we have documented that the pyloric mucosa becomes redundant in infants with pyloric stenosis, permitting a fuller understanding of the anatomic correlate underlying the sonographic images. 
Does the early adopter of drugs exist? [SEP] to analyse associations between indicators for adoption of new drugs and to test the hypothesis that physicians' early adoption of new drugs is a personal trait independent of drug groups. in a population-based cohort study using register data, we analysed the prescribing of new drugs by danish general practitioners. as indicators of new drug uptake, we used adoption time, cumulative incidence, preference proportion, incidence rate and prescription cost and volume. for all drug groups, adoption time adjusted for practice size was only weakly associated with other indicators ( r: -0.56 to -0.27). however, the theory that physicians' early adoption of new drugs is a personal trait independent of the type of drug could not be confirmed. the notion of the early-drug-adopting general practitioner may be mistaken. early adopters were 4 times more likely to be active pdmp users than were late adopters. an important element of the process by which new drugs achieve widespread use is their adoption by gps. in this paper, we explore the factors that shape the timing of the first prescription of six new drugs by general practitioners in ireland. we also find strongly significant, and consistently signed, stock and order effects across these drugs: gps who have a track record of early adoption tend also to be early adopters of other new drugs; and, the larger the proportion of gps which have already adopted a new drug the slower is subsequent adoption. 
Does high blood pressure reduce the risk of chronic low back pain? [SEP] to determine whether obesity or blood pressure relate to the level of pain experienced by persons with chronic back pain. contrary to assumptions about acute pain, increased chronic pain does not appear to relate to increased blood pressure. low back pain is the leading cause of disability worldwide. associations between blood pressure and chronic low back pain were explored in the cross-sectional hunt 2 survey of a norwegian county in 1995-1997, including 39,872 individuals who never used antihypertensive medication. in the prospective study of disease-free women, baseline pulse pressure and systolic pressure were inversely associated with risk of low back pain [odds ratio (or) 0.93 per 10 mm hg increase in pulse pressure, 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.89-0.98, p = 0.007; or 0.95 per 10 mm hg increase in systolic pressure, 95% ci 0.92-0.99, p = 0.005]. results for low back pain are consistent with the theory of hypertension-associated hypalgesia, predicting diminished pain sensitivity with increasing blood pressure, possibly with modified reactions in people suffering from long-lasting pain. in addition, the chronic pain group showed lower diastolic blood pressure. to determine whether pain and baroreceptor responses observed in the chronic pain group depended on lower blood pressure levels, a second experiment with a non-clinical sample was performed. data suggested that the differences in pain responses found in low back pain patients were associated with their lower tonic blood pressure levels. conclusions the current study supports previous findings of widespread, increased pain sensitivity in chronic non-specific low-back pain patients. 
Does responsibility affect the public's valuation of health care interventions? [SEP] however, rankings of interventions might depend on whom valuations of health states are elicited from. this paper reports on a large-scale national study that elicited the relative valuations attached by the general public to different states of health (defined in hrqol terms). this study investigates whether the public value safety-related health care improvements more highly than the same improvements in contexts where the health care system is not responsible. an online survey was conducted to elicit the relative importance placed on preventing harms caused by 1) health care (hospital-acquired infections, drug administration errors, injuries to health care staff), 2) individuals (personal lifestyle choices, sports-related injuries), and 3) nature (genetic disorders). participants valued interventions preventing hospital-acquired infections (1.31) more highly than genetic disorders (1.0), although drug errors were valued similarly to genetic disorders (1.07), and interventions to prevent injury to health care staff were given less weight than genetic disorders (0.71). our results suggest that people do not attach a simple fixed premium to "safety-related" interventions but that preferences depend more subtly on context. the identification of the attribution of economic value that users of a health system assign to a health service could be useful in planning these services. this study attempts to extract the economic value that the subject, user of primary care nursing services in a public health system, attributes to this service by the method of contingent valuation, based on the perspectives of willingness to pay (wtp) and willingness to accept [compensation] (wta). the identification of the attribution of economic value to a health service that does not have a direct price at the time of use, such as a visit to primary care nursing, and the definition of a profile of "loss aversion" in reference to the service evaluated, can be relevant elements in planning, enabling incorporating patient preferences to health policy decision-making. this approach allows for the valuation of the health component of any such intervention and the valuation of key social care attributes and processes. 
Nasal fractures:  is closed reduction satisfying? [SEP] closed reduction of the fracture under general or local anesthesia with elevators or forceps is widely used to treat nasal bone fractures. nasal fractures are commonly treated by primary closed reduction. retrospective chart review of patients with nasal fractures treated by closed reduction at the wellington regional plastic, maxillofacial and burns unit, new zealand over a 2-year period was undertaken. prospective chart review of adult patients with nasal fractures treated by closed reduction at a busy district general hospital in greater london over a 10-month period. closed reduction gives good results in the treatment of nasal fractures in children. to examine the efficacy of closed reduction of nasal fractures in children and adolescents based on the parents' and surgeons' ratings of post-reduction nasal symmetry. closed reduction is an easy and sufficient treatment for nasal fractures, especially for mild nasal fractures. the standard treatment for a nasal bone fracture is closed reduction within 10 days. to determine outcomes of patients with displaced nasal bone fractures after closed nasal reduction (cnr). the aim of this study was to analyze the cases that were reexplored shortly after closed reduction of the nasal bone fracture. 
Do improvements in outreach, clinical, and family and community-based services predict improvements in child survival? [SEP] in this second article of the neonatal survival series, we identify 16 interventions with proven efficacy (implementation under ideal conditions) for neonatal survival and combine them into packages for scaling up in health systems, according to three service delivery modes (outreach, family-community, and facility-based clinical care). early success in averting neonatal deaths is possible in settings with high mortality and weak health systems through outreach and family-community care, including health education to improve home-care practices, to create demand for skilled care, and to improve care seeking. our findings support the importance of increasing access to clinical services, certain outreach services and breastfeeding and, in africa, of improving nutritional status. child and family outreach services have been an important adjunct to urban community child and adolescent mental health treatment. the child and family outreach services program was developed as an extension of a child and adolescent outpatient and child partial hospitalization program to provide a comprehensive continuum of treatment. the child and family outreach program generalizes and links traditional therapeutic services to the patient's and family's environment through in-home, in-school, and community intervention. the retrospective data analysis showed outreach at the targeted suburbs' early childhood health centres (echc) improved attendance for families living in these suburbs. this research suggests that outreach occupational therapy services are valued by families in this disadvantaged area and contribute towards improving access to allied health services for disadvantaged families with young children. while findings show that exposure to community-based services was associated with enhanced approval of birth spacing and limitation, this view is grounded in perceptions that childhood survival has improved. this evaluation sought to rigorously assess whether a community service-linkage model to evidence-based programs decreased subsequent reports of abuse and neglect among families reported to the child protection system (cps). 
Does spontaneous remission occur in polyarteritis nodosa? [SEP] we describe a young male who presented with spontaneous perirenal hematoma and was subsequently diagnosed to have polyarteritis nodosa. polyarteritis nodosa is a systemic vasculitis of medium and small-sized arteries associated with aneurysm formation. polyarteritis nodosa is a rare life-threatening disease characterized by necrotizing vasculitis of small and median arteries. polyarteritis nodosa (pan) is a systemic vasculitis whose severe forms are treated with glucocorticoids and cyclophosphamide. we report a case report of 71-year-old man followed for polyarteritis nodosa refractory to glucocorticoids and cyclosphosphamide. central nervous system involvement in polyarteritis nodosa is unusual and tends to occur later in the course of disease. her evaluation led to a diagnosis of polyarteritis nodosa. we present what may be the first published case report of polyarteritis nodosa presenting as acute bilateral visual loss. to report the clinical spectrum of polyarteritis nodosa (pan) from north india and highlight some unusual findings. we hypothesize a relationship between reactivation of polyarteritis nodosa and treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid. 
Gluten tolerance in adult patients with celiac disease 20 years after diagnosis? [SEP] a relapse of clinical symptoms and of the intestinal lesions after gluten was reintroduced into the diet demonstrated the "permanent" nature of sensitivity to gluten in children with celiac disease. first, the long-term follow-up of children with proven celiac disease shows that 10% to 20% of them become "tolerant" (defined on clinical, biological and histologic grounds) to gluten during adolescence. t-cell responses to different gluten peptides appear to be similar between adults and children at the time of diagnosis of celiac disease. to investigate the compliance to the gluten-free diet in a cohort of adult celiac patients 20 years after the diagnosis, received in childhood through a mass screening. adults with a new diagnosis of celiac disease were surveyed at baseline, 6 months and 1 year using standardized measures for intestinal symptoms [rome iii diagnostic questionnaire and celiac symptom index (csi)] and gluten-free diet adherence [gluten-free eating assessment tool (gf-eat) and celiac diet adherence test]. one year post-diagnosis, there was high adherence to a gluten-free diet as 93% reported gluten exposure less than once per month on the gf-eat and only 8% had ongoing celiac disease symptoms (csi score >45). twenty-seven consecutive adults with newly diagnosed celiac disease were investigated at the time of diagnosis and after 1 year on gluten-free diet. the diagnosis of celiac disease needs to be definitive and robust before establishing a gluten-free diet, since lifelong abstention from gluten (gliadin < 20 mg/kg foodstuffs), cereal products (wheat, rye, barley and spelt) as well as from preparations and beverages containing gluten, is necessary. to evaluate clinical features and symptom recovery on a gluten-free diet in a canadian adult celiac population. retrospective study of 20 cases of adult celiac disease (> 14 years old at diagnosis). 
Do symptoms predict COPD in smokers? [SEP] sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and relative risks of predicting symptoms and smoking history for copd were calculated. symptoms are frequent in subjects with ao and increase their risk for copd, but add little beyond age and smoking history to the predictive value of spirometry. to test the hypothesis that there are a significant number of asymptomatic smokers with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), we estimated the prevalence of copd in a group of asymptomatic smokers. to investigate the effectiveness of voluntary lung function screening in bringing to light patients with previously unknown copd and to evaluate the relationships among symptoms, smoking status, and airway obstruction. copd smokers were more symptomatic than smokers without copd. smoking is a major risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), and smoking cessation is the only intervention that slows disease progression. smokers with copd had more pack-years and respiratory symptoms than smokers without copd, whereas higher ftnd scores were associated with anxiety/depression and respiratory symptoms in both groups. patients with hf and copd were more symptomatic, but only breathlessness when walking up a hill was an independent predictor of copd (odds ratio = 1.33, p = 0.0484). thus, in elderly smokers with stable hf, significant breathlessness when walking up a hill is most indicative of associated copd, and may indicate the need for further lung function evaluation. smoking is a major risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd); however, the similarities and differences in clinical presentation between smokers and nonsmokers are not fully described in patients with copd. 
Search engine as a diagnostic tool in difficult immunological and allergologic cases: is Google useful? [SEP] google's value as a diagnostic guide in general medicine was recently reported. the aim of this comparative cross-sectional study was to evaluate whether searching google with disease-related terms was effective in the identification and diagnosis of complex immunological and allergic cases. this google-based search was useful to identify an appropriate diagnosis in complex immunological and allergic cases. to determine how often searching with google (the most popular search engine on the world wide web) leads doctors to the correct diagnosis. several previous studies have tried to assess the usefulness of google search as a diagnostic aid. to investigate how often google search is helpful to reach correct diagnoses in dermatology. in the light of our paper, google search appears to be an interesting diagnostic aid in dermatology. in our recent paper, we study web search as an aid in the process of diagnosing rare diseases. in this paper, we summarize the original findings and the response to findzebra, discuss why google search is not designed for specialized tasks and outline some of the current trends in using web resources and social media for medical diagnosis. this study showed how medical students searched for health information online, specifically the recommended testing for histamine intolerance, by comparing the use of various search engines (google, medisuch, and a website of the student's choice) to find out more about search strategies in future health professionals. 
Uniformity of evidence-based treatments in practice? [SEP] evidence-based dentistry is the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of current best evidence in making decisions about the care of individual patients. evidence-based medicine has become ubiquitous in modern-day medicine, including wound care. however, the application of evidence-based medicine into the arena of chronic wounds has not been uniformly performed and measured. instead, one must rely more heavily on current evidence and experts in the field until larger, more consistent studies can establish good practice patterns. their dissemination and implementation in daily clinical practice should help to improve practice uniformity and eventually optimize the management of as patients. medicine is also now practiced across different medical systems of varying complexity, and creating standard treatment guidelines is one way of establishing uniform treatment across these systems. evidence-based medicine is the application of scientific research to produce these treatment guidelines. to facilitate the uniformity and efficacy of this intervention, we analyzed current evidence and developed practice recommendations. we carried out an evidence-based literature review. the objective of this guideline was to ensure uniformity in the diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up. 
Do approved doctors and medical referees in the UK agree when assessing a seafarer's fitness? [SEP] to study the extent of agreement between the medical referees (mrs) and the determinants of agreement between the mrs. a total of 232,878 seafarer medical examinations were carried out by approved doctors (ads) between 2003 and 2009. the mrs upgraded the seafarer's fitness category in 58% (271) of cases, upheld the initial ad's decision in 40% (184) and downgraded the seafarer's fitness category in only 2% (10) of cases. mrs seemed to agree with each other as they upgraded the fitness category of seafarers to allow more of them to work at sea. this study aims to investigate the extent of agreement between approved doctors (ads) and medical referees (mrs) when they assess a seafarer's fitness. standards to assess the quality of doctors and clinics performing pre-employment medical examinations (pemes) were developed for international maritime health association (imha) quality, a not for profit organisation, created to provide an ethically sound and professional accepted accreditation system that would benefit seafarers having pemes and employers, insurers and national maritime authorities seeking valid assessments of seafarers' fitness for duty. a general practitioner decided that a first-time scandinavian seafarer with hyperactivity disorder, reasonably well-regulated on dextroamphetamine, was fit for unrestricted work at sea. doctors providing medical fitness certificates for work at sea must understand the special requirements of seafaring life, know details about medicine use restrictions aboard, and be familiar with international import bans and national prescription regulations for controlled substances. the assessment of fitness to work at sea is an important aspect of maritime risk management. many parties, including flag states, employers and their insurers, and seafarers and their trade unions, are involved in agreeing international medical fitness criteria. contributions from maritime health professionals and other medical and scientific experts are essential to the development of rational and valid criteria, but the decisions on the level of authority to be given to these and the means adopted for ensuring compliance with them are essentially political issues where the voice of those with subject knowledge is only one among many in the processes for adoption and implementation of any new arrangements. 
Hepatorenal syndrome: are we missing some prognostic factors? [SEP] hepatorenal syndrome is a severe complication of end-stage cirrhosis characterized by increased splanchnic blood flow, hyperdynamic state, a state of decreased central volume, activation of vasoconstrictor systems, and extreme kidney vasoconstriction leading to decreased gfr. the 1-year cumulative incidence of hepatorenal syndrome and the 1-year survival rate of patients were 20.5% and 79.5%, respectively. in this article, we review the current understanding on the pathophysiology, the diagnostic criteria and the available therapeutic options for patients with emerging hepatic syndromes in cirrhosis, namely the hepatorenal, hepato-adrenal and hepatopulmonary syndrome. the hepatorenal syndrome is a well-recognized complication of advanced cirrhosis and is usually associated with an accelerated course to death unless liver transplantation is performed. the hepatopulmonary syndrome is often missed in the evaluation of patients with cirrhosis; however, early recognition is essential for the efficient management of individual patients. hepatorenal syndrome (hrs) is associated with a poor prognosis. hepatorenal syndrome is a well-characterized type of terminal renal failure that occurs in patients with cirrhosis with ascites. hepatorenal syndrome (hrs) is a form of functional renal failure occurring in patients with advanced liver disease. the hepatorenal syndrome is a severe and well-known complication of end-stage liver disease, but its management is controversial. to evaluate the efficacy and safety of terlipressin in the treatment of hepatorenal syndrome. 
Vaginal dose assessment in image-guided brachytherapy for cervical cancer: Can we really rely on dose-point evaluation? [SEP] the aim of the study was to evaluate the vaginal dose and toxicity in patients of cervical cancer treated with image guided brachytherapy at our institute. the introduction of volumetric ct or mri image-guided adaptive brachytherapy in cervical cancer has led to better pelvic control and survival, with decreased morbidity, than brachytherapy based on x-ray radiographs. our purpose was to evaluate the relationship between brachytherapy technique and patient characteristics on dose to organs-at-risk (oars) in patients undergoing high dose rate (hdr) brachytherapy for cervical cancer. to identify risk factors for vaginal stenosis and to establish a dose-effect relationship for image-guided brachytherapy in locally advanced cervical cancer. the current clinical practice for cervical cancer intracavitary brachytherapy in most centers is to prescribe the dose to point a. to facilitate and standardize image-based dosimetry for cervical cancer brachytherapy, the american image-guided brachytherapy working group and the european gynecological gec-estro working group have recently proposed nomenclature for volume definition and recommendations for image-based intracavitary brachytherapy for cervical cancer. to compare the inverse planning optimization based on total dose constraints versus conventional treatment plan (point a planning method) for cervical carcinoma, and evaluate the benefit of ct-based image-guided brachytherapy. significant differences between point doses and dose volume histogram parameters indicate the need for inverse planning in image-guided brachytherapy of cervical cancer. the purpose of this study was to analyze the dosimetric outcome of 3d image-guided high-dose-rate (hdr) brachytherapy planning for cervical cancer treatment and compare dose coverage of high-risk clinical target volume (hrctv) to traditional point a dose. the implementation of image-guided brachytherapy in cervical cancer raises the problem of adapting the experience acquired with 2d brachytherapy to this technique. 
Prescriptions as a proxy for asthma in children: a good choice? [SEP] children diagnosed with asthma can be identified reliably with a range of medication proxies. although anti-asthma medications are amongst those most frequently under or over prescribed it is generally accepted that prescriptions for such agents can be used as a proxy for disease prevalence. the aims of this study were to estimate prevalence and incidence of childhood asthma in a representative italian area by analysing three years of anti-asthmatic prescriptions and hospitalizations of subjects with chronic or first time treatment, and to underline appropriateness of therapeutic choices. maternal report of both children's use of antiasthmatics during the preceding year and the presence of asthma was compared with data on dispensed antiasthmatics. the aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of dispensed anti-asthmatic medications as a proxy of asthma among children and adolescents aged 0-19 years in norway. to determine the differences in respiratory and allergy medication use and costs, as proxies for control, in pediatric patients with asthma and allergy who initiated asthma controller therapy. knowledge about asthma medication use and adherence in real-life offers opportunities to improve asthma treatment in children. to describe prescription patterns, adherence and factors of adherence to drugs in children with asthma. to evaluate prescriptions of asthma medication for children in primary care. data on prescriptions of asthma medication for children aged 0-9 years were collected from a general practice-based network in the north eastern part of the netherlands. 
Does the familial transmission of drinking patterns persist into young adulthood? [SEP] parental drinking has been shown to be associated with offspring drinking. to explore the long-term (10-year) transmission of familial drinking during adolescence to offspring drinking patterns in young adulthood. the association between familial drinking and offspring drinking in young adulthood exhibits clear non-linear trends. changes in the lower part of the familial drinking distribution are strongly related to drinking in young adults, but the actual levels of drinking in drinking families appear less important in shaping the drinking patterns of the offspring in young adulthood. the aims of this study were to determine whether this pattern applies to the population as a whole and to identify those for whom heavy drinking in early adulthood does lead to continued high levels of consumption throughout the life course. family dynamics in 10th grade were identified as important for the development of different drinking patterns in the early 20s, when many individuals have left home, which suggests a key target for substance use prevention programs. this study examined the association between moderate drinking at age 16 (adolescence) and alcohol consumption at age 26 (young adulthood), whilst controlling for possible confounding effects at the individual and family level (assessed at birth and age 10). in comparison with other potential influences upon drinking, including employment and financial circumstances, social position and psychological wellbeing, the family formation patterns of young adults were most strongly associated with their current drinking. stability and change in drinking between adolescence and early adulthood were also examined. findings showed strong effects of childhood aggression (men only) and poor family functioning on enhanced levels of problem drinking in young adulthood. 
Proof of concept study: does fenofibrate have a role in sleep apnoea syndrome? [SEP] to investigate the effect of fenofibrate on sleep apnoea indices. thirty-four subjects (mean age 55 years, body mass index 34 kg/m 2 , fasting triglycerides 3.5 mmol/l) with diagnosed sleep apnoea syndrome not treated with continuous positive airways pressure were enrolled and randomized to once daily treatment with fenofibrate (145 mg nanocrystal(r) tablet) or placebo. fenofibrate treatment significantly reduced the percentage of time with spo(2) <90% (from 9.0% to 3.5% vs. 10.0% to 11.5% with placebo, p = 0.007), although there was no significant change in the ahi (reduction vs. control 14% (95%ci -47 to 40%, p = 0.533). other sleep variables were not significantly influenced by fenofibrate. the consistent direction of change in sleep indices in this proof-of-concept study may support further investigation of fenofibrate in moderate to severe sleep apnoea syndrome. nine patients with sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome were studied on two nights, one breathing air and the other 28% oxygen, the order being randomised. oxygen therapy does not diminish nocturnal plasma anp levels in patients with sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome. a retrospective study was performed analysing 223 patients referred for suspected obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome. to review data on children who have both obesity and obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome. literature and data on obesity-associated obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome in children. 
Can mental imagery functional magnetic resonance imaging predict recovery in patients with disorders of consciousness? [SEP] recent findings in patients with conscious awareness disorders reveal that mental imagery can be used to map patterns of residual cognitive function in their brain and to provide diagnostic and prognostic indicators. our aim is to communicate with patients with disorders of consciousness through asking them to answer questions with "yes/no" by performing mental imagery tasks using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri). together, hallucinations and mental imagery predicted multiple abnormalities in functional connectivity both within and between the attentional control networks, as measured with resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging. to determine the potential prognostic value of using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) to identify patients with disorders of consciousness, who show potential for recovery. further course on the coma recovery scale-revised. participants performed a mental imagery fmri paradigm. recently proposed mental imagery paradigms permit to identify signs of consciousness in non-communicative brain damaged patients. the clinical application of these functional neuroimaging techniques awaits validation from ongoing multi-centric cohort studies in these challenging patients with chronic disorders of consciousness. despite the apparent absence of external signs of consciousness, a significant small proportion of patients with disorders of consciousness can respond to commands by willfully modulating their brain activity, even respond to yes or no questions, by performing mental imagery tasks. task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography techniques have revealed covert consciousness in the chronic setting, but these techniques have not been tested in the intensive care unit. 
The nurse cystoscopist: a feasible option? [SEP] nurse-led cystoscopy has become an established service for bladder tumour surveillance patients. the role of the nurse cystoscopist has been developed to include diagnostic cystoscopy with telephone follow-up and counselling. the availability of the flexible cystoscope for outpatient procedures has further increased the number of cystoscopists. this mnemonic has been developed to serve as a template for complete endoscopic examination of the lower urinary tract to which the cystoscopist may refer when undertaking this operation. flexible cystoscopy is a common practice in urology. resident education in cystoscopy has traditionally relied on clinical instruction. we evaluated a simulator for flexible and rigid cystoscopy. we evaluated 30 novice and 27 expert cystoscopists on a computer based cystoscopic simulator (uromentor, simbionix, lod, israel). objectively, expert and novice performance of cystoscopic tasks can be distinguished with the uromentor. subjective assessments suggest ongoing refinement of the simulator as a learning tool for cystoscopic skills training. 
Is cardiovascular evaluation necessary prior to and during beta-blocker therapy for infantile hemangiomas? [SEP] since 2008, beta-blockers have become first-line treatment for infantile hemangiomas, the most common tumor of infancy. although consensus guidelines for pretreatment evaluation and monitoring of propranolol therapy in patients with infantile hemangiomas (ih) have been formulated, little is known about the cardiovascular side effects. they also evaluate the recent systemic and topical applications of beta-blockers to treat infantile hemangioma. extraocular infantile hemangiomas have been shown to respond to oral and topical beta blockers, while there is little literature regarding the management of intraocular infantile hemangiomas with beta blockers. here the authors review the use of beta-blockers in the treatment of infantile hemangiomas, including oral, topical, and multimodal treatment options. recently, beta-blockers have been favoured over systemic corticosteroids for treatment of disfiguring or life-threatening infantile hemangiomas. the use of beta-blockers as treatment offers clues into the pathogenesis of infantile hemangioma, which is not yet completely understood. although beta-blockers have been widely prescribed in the treatment of cutaneous infantile hemangiomas since 2008, their use in the treatment of intracranial infantile hemangiomas has been minimal. we conclude that beta-blockers are a safe and effective treatment of intracranial infantile hemangiomas and can be employed as first-line management of these lesions. propranolol, a nonselective beta-blocker, has recently been used for treating proliferating infantile hemangiomas. 
Is specialty care associated with improved survival of patients with congestive heart failure? [SEP] there is uncertainty about whether physician specialty influences the outcomes of outpatients with congestive heart failure after adjustment for differences in case mix. our objective was to determine the impact of physician specialty on outcomes in outpatients with new-onset congestive heart failure. patients with congestive heart failure followed by both specialists and fps had significantly better survival than those followed by fps alone (or those who received no specific cardiovascular follow-up care). improved treatment of congestive heart failure (chf) can slow disease progression, promote clinical stability, and prolong survival. with technological improvements in the treatment of coronary artery disease, improved survival after myocardial infarction, and better hypertension therapy, patients are living longer, thus the need for successful management of older patients with chronic heart failure. previous studies suggest that specialty care is more costly but may produce improved outcomes for patients with acute cardiac illnesses. to determine whether patients with congestive heart failure who are cared for by cardiologists experienced differences in costs, care patterns, and survival compared with patients of generalists. in this observational study of patients hospitalized with congestive heart failure, cardiologist care was associated with greater costs and resource use and no difference in survival at 30 days of follow-up. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors clearly improve survival in patients with symptomatic congestive heart failure. further significant improvement in quality of life and survival has recently been established in three large clinical trials, and it is now safe to say that the standard of care for symptomatic congestive heart failure in 1992 is digoxin, furosemide, and an ace inhibitor, with the survival trials favoring the ace inhibitor enalapril. 
Can the prognosis of polymyalgia rheumatica be predicted at disease onset? [SEP] we retrospectively evaluated patients with polymyalgia rheumatica followed up at the rheumatology clinics of 10 tertiary hospitals. age at disease onset was 67.4 yr. twenty-three patients (45.1%) developed polymyalgia rheumatica in winter. if untreated, polymyalgia rheumatica may result in significant disability. polymyalgia rheumatica onset was at a mean age of 66.7 years, and ocular inflammation, which developed 7-21 months later, was bilateral in all patients. polymyalgia rheumatica is an inflammatory disease of unknown etiology affecting individuals aged fifty years and older, mainly of caucasian ethnicity. polymyalgia rheumatica is one of the most common inflammatory rheumatologic conditions in older adults. we investigated whether polymyalgia rheumatica is associated with an increased risk of vascular events. we used cox regression models to compare time to first vascular event in patients with and without polymyalgia rheumatica. over a median follow-up period of 7.8 (interquartile range 3.3-12.4) years, the rate of vascular events was higher among patients with polymyalgia rheumatica than among those without (36.1 v. 12.2 per 1000 person-years; adjusted hazard ratio 2.6, 95% confidence interval 2.4-2.9). patients with polymyalgia rheumatica have an increased risk of vascular events. 
Should ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements be estimated in hospitalized alcoholic cirrotics? [SEP] ascitis and undernutrition are frequent complications of cirrhosis, however ascitis volume and anthropometric assessment are not routinely documented or considered in prognostic evaluation. population (n = 25, all males with alcoholic cirrhosis) was recruited among patients hospitalized for uncomplicated ascitis. measurements included ultrasonographically estimated ascitis volume, dry body mass index/bmi , upper arm anthropometrics, hematologic counts and liver function tests. admission ascitis volume corresponded to 7.1 ± 3.6 l and dry bmi to 18.3 ± 3.5 kg/m². nevertheless, similar matches for mortality were documented with ascitis volume and dry bmi, and arm circumference below the 5th percentile was highly significantly associated with rehospitalization. a greater association than hitherto acknowledged, between ascitis volume and anthropometric measurements from one side, and long-term rehospitalization and mortality from the other, was demonstrated in male stable alcoholic cirrhotics. for this reason, a number of anthropometric equations have been developed that utilize sex, age, height and weight to estimate the person's total body water (tbw) and hence vd of ethanol. because of the paucity of studies establishing the accepted leukocyte count is sterile ascites, less than 300 wbc per mm3 with 25% polymorphonuclear (pmn) leukocytes, peritoneal fluid wbc counts and bacterial cultures were studied in 63 consecutive hospitalized patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and ascities. body volume and 35 anthropometric measurements were obtained from 88 active soldiers using standard techniques. these anthropometric measurements were examined for their possible relationships to body volume using stepwise linear regression analysis. 
The use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it just a difference between the rich and the poor? [SEP] to illustrate how maternal mortality audit identifies different causes of and contributing factors to maternal deaths in different settings in low- and high-income countries and how this can lead to local solutions in reducing maternal deaths. descriptive study of maternal mortality from different settings and review of data on the history of reducing maternal mortality in what are now high-income countries. differences in maternal mortality are more than just differences between the rich and poor. to illustrate how maternal mortality audit identifies different causes of and contributing factors to maternal deaths in different settings in low- and high-income countries and how this can lead to local solutions in reducing maternal deaths. differences in maternal mortality are more than just differences between the rich and poor. to illustrate how maternal mortality audit identifies different causes of and contributing factors to maternal deaths in different settings in low- and high-income countries and how this can lead to local solutions in reducing maternal deaths. differences in maternal mortality are more than just differences between the rich and poor. in resource-poor settings, the facility-based maternal death review or audit is one of the most promising strategies to improve health service performance. although clinical audit is an important instrument for quality care improvement, the concept has not yet been adequately taken on board in rural settings in most resource limited countries where the problem of maternal mortality is immense. low-quality obstetric care in low- and middle-income countries contributes to high in-hospital maternal mortality. 
Could the extent of lymphadenectomy be modified by neoadjuvant chemotherapy in cervical cancer? [SEP] neoadjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy (nact) plus radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy has been demonstrated to be a valid alternative to chemoradiation in patients with advanced cervical cancer. herein is reported the case of a woman with locally advanced cervical cancer that was successfully treated using neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by total robotic type c1 radical hysterectomy (trrh) plus pelvic lymphadenectomy. in this study we discuss 11 patients with cervical carcinoma stage ib treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by large cone resection. in this retrospective study we included 10 patients with figo stage ib1 and 1 patient with ib2 cervical cancer, who first received a pelvic lymphadenectomy followed by neoadjuvant chemotherapy and conization. neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by conization seems to be a promising new fertility sparing treatment modality in patients with cervical carcinoma stage ib1, but further studies with larger populations should confirm these data. the aim of this study is to describe the outcome of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with radical surgery and pelvic lymphadenectomy in a woman with cervical cancer who wished to maintain her pregnancy. this is a report of a 26-week pregnant woman with locally advanced cervical cancer stage i(b2) (figo) who was successfully treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy paclitaxel plus platinum, followed by c/s and radical surgery. this study aimed to investigate the clinical impact of the location of ln metastases in esophageal cancer and to evaluate the relevance of minimizing the extent of lymphadenectomy after neoadjuvant therapy. herein is reported the case of a young woman with locally advanced cervical cancer that was successfully treated using neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by simple vaginal trachelectomy and laparoscopic lymphadenectomy. a number of authors favor extended mediastinal and cervical lymphadenectomy in hopes of improving survival. 
Do Wound Cultures Give Information About the Microbiology of Blood Cultures in Severe Burn Patients? [SEP] to determine the degree of correlation of gram stain with culture for the microbiological analysis of burn wound surfaces. gram stain plus culture of burn wound surface swab specimens obtained during routine dressing changes or based on clinical signs of infection. documentation of all bacterial and fungal wound and blood isolates from severe burn patients hospitalized in the burn unit and intensive care unit was obtained from medical records retrieved retrospectively from a computerized, hospital-wide database over a 13-year period. the most common organism in blood and wound cultures of minor burns was staphylococcus aureus. burn wound infections carry considerable mortality and morbidity amongst burn injury victims who have been successfully rescued through the initial resuscitation. tissue specimens for culture and sensitivity were collected from burn wounds using standard collection techniques and analyzed at microbiological laboratory. positive cultures were significantly more frequent among patients with over two weeks duration of burn wounds. positive cultures were more frequent among patients with over two weeks duration of burn wounds. in this study, we investigated the usefulness of blood white blood cell (wbc), c-reactive protein (crp) and procalcitonin (pct) levels with a clinical diagnosis of infection in patients with severe burns, with a bacterial culture (+) wound site, in patients with sirs and sepsis. in the study, 23 patients with (+) burn wound culture hospitalized in the intensive care unit of gazi yaşargil training and research hospital burn center burn between january 2016 and january 2021 were analyzed. 
Are behavioural risk factors to be blamed for the conversion from optimal blood pressure to hypertensive status in Black South Africans? [SEP] we therefore compared the carotid characteristics between five-year sustained hypertensive and normotensive black south africans, and investigated how carotid characteristics relate to cardiometabolic risk factors, inflammation, endothelial activation and health behaviours. these results highlight the importance of proper hypertension control in africa. one hundred and ninety-two unrelated hypertensives and 123 normotensives of black south african origin were studied. hypertension prevalence, treatment status and factors relating to high blood pressure were determined in an urban black community of the cape peninsula, south africa. hypertension is highly prevalent in black south africans in which morbidity and mortality from stroke are on the increase. if blood pressure readings in the children of a population are a good predictor of future hypertension among the adults of that population, then the rural south african black population will increasingly suffer from hypertensive disease. despite acknowledging hypertension as the most common life-threatening risk factor for cardiovascular disease (cvd), a dearth of data is available on the prevalence, awareness, and determinants of hypertension in rural parts of south africa. the principal aim of the current study is to determine the prevalence and associated risk factors of hypertension among a black rural african population from the mtatha town of eastern cape province. the potential influence of social and psychological factors on the risk of hypertension within the african american community must be examined in relation to cultural and historical influences on the community. first, we determined whether baseline supar is elevated in normotensive black south africans who developed hypertension over 5 years, compared with those who remained normotensive; and second, whether hypertension is associated with supar. 
Systematic use of patient-rated depression severity monitoring: is it helpful and feasible in clinical psychiatry? [SEP] bipolar patients attending the rasit tahsin mood disorders outpatient unit of istanbul bakırköy research and training hospital for psychiatry, neurolgy & neurosurgery, were assessed using standardized forms based on a nation-wide mood disorders follow-up program. concordance of implementations with the tpatgbd were evaluated step by step for each level of depression severity. to review systematically the literature on patients' experiences of, and participation in, technology-based monitoring of mental health symptoms. technology-based symptom monitoring was used for a range of mental health conditions, either independently of a specific therapeutic intervention or as an integrated component of therapeutic interventions. future research should examine robustly patients' role in the development and evaluation of technology-based symptom monitoring in order to maximise its clinical utility. research indicates that patients with mental illness are willing to engage in the use of telemonitoring and mobile technology to assess and monitor their mood states. this systematic review synthesises quantitative and qualitative evidence of the effectiveness and feasibility of daily/weekly/monthly remote mood monitoring that includes distant support in participants with mood disorders. inclusion criteria comprised mood monitoring of mood disorder patients as main intervention, study design, method of monitoring, and presence of psychotherapy and psychoeducation. further, it may be effective in improving symptoms of depression, increasing treatment adherence, and facilitating the prevention and management of adverse outcomes. rapidly proliferating digital technologies seem to be feasible for short-term use in patients with serious mental illness; nevertheless, long-term effectiveness data from naturalistic studies will help demonstrate their usefulness and facilitate their adoption and integration into the mental health-care system. 
Treadmill training post stroke: are there any secondary benefits? [SEP] to explore the secondary benefits of treadmill training for people in the chronic stage of recovery from stroke. in comparison to conventional gait rehabilitation, gait training assisted by end-effector apparatus leads to a statistically significant and clinically relevant improvement in gait velocity and maximum walking distance after stroke, while treadmill training with body weight support leads to a statistically significant and clinically relevant improvement in maximum walking distance. to evaluate the role of bodyweight-supported treadmill training (bwstt) for chronic stroke survivors. recent studies in our laboratory examined the effect of 6 months of treadmill exercise training in chronically disabled stroke survivors. treadmill exercise improves fitness and walking ability in patients when initiated 6 months or more following their index stroke. nonetheless, treadmill exercise appears to have motor, cardiac, and daily functional benefits in stroke survivors. to investigate the effects of aerobic treadmill training on physical activity levels and time spent in low-energy expenditure activities (primary outcomes), as well as on cardiorespiratory fitness, endurance, depression, mobility, quality of life and participation (secondary outcomes) after stroke. to determine the benefit of treadmill training with intense and unpredictable perturbations compared to treadmill walking-only training for dynamic balance and gait post-stroke. the results of this study show that user-driven treadmill control encourages healthy gait biomechanics and a greater sense of stability in post-stroke subjects. post-stroke gait rehabilitation may benefit from programs with user-driven treadmill training paradigms to improve mobility following stroke. 
Does lunar position influence the time of delivery? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to examine the influence of the lunar cycle on the frequency of birth, on instrumental delivery, neonatal outcome as well as a possible relationship between lunar position at time of conception and the gender of the child. to study the relationship between lunar position and the day of delivery; to investigate the synodic distribution of spontaneous deliveries, especially in relation to the presence of a full moon. a connection between the distribution of spontaneous full-term deliveries and the lunar month was found. the effect of the phases of the moon seems to be particularly relevant in multiparae and plurigravidae; in these cases, the mean day of delivery corresponds to the first or second day after the full moon. in this paper the effect of lunar phases on the time of delivery is shown. in this retrospective, observational study, we examined a total of 9890 full-term spontaneous deliveries as well as non-elective cesarean sections that occurred throughout 12 lunar months (february 7 th , 2008-january 25 th , 2009) in a rural medical college to evaluate the influence of the lunar position on the distribution of deliveries among indian population. to refute the commonly held belief by the general public that the lunar cycle affects labour, we studied 10 027 deliveries over an 18-month period in a large maternity unit in ireland. the purpose of this study was to examine the influence of the lunar cycle on the frequency of deliveries and/or delivery complications. the purpose of this study is to analyse the relationship between the phases of the moon and the frequency of deliveries in a rural historical context without electricity, and among women of low nutritional status. there is a popular belief that the lunar cycle influences spontaneous delivery in both humans and cattle. 
Is oral endotracheal intubation efficacy impaired in the helicopter environment? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine whether or not the in-flight environment of air medical transport in a bo-105 helicopter impairs the ability of flight nurses to perform oral endotracheal intubation. oral endotracheal intubation in the in-flight setting of the bo-105 helicopter takes approximately twice as long as intubation in a ground setting. the results support pre-flight intubation of patients who appear likely to require urgent intubation during air medical transport in the bo-105 helicopter. using multivariate logistic regression, odds estimates for out-of-hospital endotracheal intubation were adjusted using age, sex, head/neck abbreviated injury scale score, injury severity score, mechanism of injury (penetrating versus blunt), admission systolic blood pressure, mode of transport (ground only versus helicopter or helicopter + ground), and the use of out-of-hospital neuromuscular blocking agents. out-of-hospital endotracheal intubation was associated with an increased adjusted odds of poor neurologic outcome (or 1.61; 95% ci 1.15 to 2.26), moderate or severe functional impairment (functional impairment score 6 to 15; or 1.92; 95% ci 1.40 to 2.64), and severe functional impairment (functional impairment score 11 to 15; or 1.80; 95% ci 1.29 to 2.52). this study simulated intubation with direct laryngoscopy and with a glidescope ranger video laryngoscope using a standard laerdal airway manikin in a medical helicopter under various conditions. participants intubated an airway manikin using both direct laryngoscopy and the glidescope ranger in varying conditions, including standing in a room with the lights on and off, in the helicopter while stationary on the ground and unbelted during both daytime and nighttime, and finally in the aircraft while in flight belted during both daytime and nighttime. emergency intubations performed in the emergency department, helicopter, and prehospital ground environment. endotracheal intubation is a frequently performed procedure for securing the airway in critically injured or ill patients. prehospital intubations had a significantly higher success rate when performed by helicopter physicians. 
Prostatic syndrome and pleural effusion: are they different diseases? [SEP] in this paper we will give an overview of the different pleural effusion etiologies that may be encountered including catamenial hemothorax, ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, the different meigs' syndromes and benign peripartum pleural effusion. diagnosis of pleural effusion secondary to metastatic prostate cancer can be achieved by direct cytology evaluation and/or psa level elevation in the fluid. pleural effusions are a rare complication of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate and have not been noted to resolve with endocrine therapy. in a patient with massive bilateral pleural effusions as the initial manifestation of underlying prostatic cancer, lung biopsy specimens documented the presence of lymphangitic carcinomatosis and pleural biopsy tissue was normal. we conclude that massive pleural effusions occasionally complicate prostatic lymphangitic carcinomatosis and that they may resolve with endocrine therapy. malignant pleural effusions due to prostatic carcinoma are rare. we examined the cytologic and clinical presentations of 14 malignant pleural effusions caused by prostate cancer. we conclude that prostatic carcinoma in pleural effusions occurs most commonly in high grade, high stage tumors and has a characteristic cytologic appearance. we describe the case of a 72-year old male with pleural effusion associated with prostate cancer. this report aims to describe the occurrence of massive pleural effusion due to metastasis of prostate cancer and emphasizes the role of pleural biopsy with immunohistochemical studies to characterize this diagnosis. 
Telemedicine and type 1 diabetes: is technology per se sufficient to improve glycaemic control? [SEP] the informatics for diabetes education and telemedicine (ideatel) project is a demonstration project to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of telemedicine with diverse, medically underserved, older diabetes patients. telemonitoring of glucose metrics has been widely used during the pandemic in people with diabetes, including adults and children with t1d, allowing an exploration of the impact of covid-19 inside and outside the hospital setting on glycaemic control. periodic consultations using telemedicine enables care of people with diabetes while limiting the need for in-person attendance at diabetes clinics. therefore, in this paper we have critically reviewed reports concerning use of telemonitoring in the acute hospitalized setting as well as during daily diabetes management. furthermore, we discuss the indications and implications of adopting telemonitoring and telemedicine in the present challenging time, as well as their potential for the future. the increasing use of innovative technological devices together with data sharing systems and interaction with multidisciplinary diabetes team through telemedicine allowed paediatric patients with t1d to improve glucose metrics during the lockdown period. patient therapeutic decision making is supervised by doctors through a multiaccess telemedicine central server that provides to diabetics and doctors a web-based access to continuous glucose monitoring and insulin infusion data. the aim of the present study is to examine whether telemedicine conferences with a nurse can contribute to achieving good diabetes control among patients with poorly regulated type 2 diabetes. the study will examine whether telemedicine technology can contribute to achieving good diabetes regulation. the purpose of this study is to investigate the families' satisfaction and effectiveness resulted from the use of telehealth services that are provided to children with diabetes mellitus type 1. 
Is controlled ovarian stimulation in intrauterine insemination an acceptable therapy in couples with unexplained non-conception in the perspective of multiple pregnancies? [SEP] controlled ovarian stimulation (cos) with intrauterine insemination (iui) is a common treatment in couples with unexplained non-conception. couples with unexplained subfertility are often treated with intrauterine insemination (iui) with ovarian stimulation, which carries the risk of multiple pregnancies. couples that have been trying to conceive unsuccessfully are often treated with intrauterine insemination (iui) and medication to improve egg production (ovarian stimulation). intrauterine insemination with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation is commonly used as first-line treatment for couples with unexplained subfertility. we aimed to assess the incremental effectiveness of intrauterine insemination with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation compared with expectant management in couples with unexplained subfertility and an intermediate prognosis of a spontaneous ongoing pregnancy. 253 couples with unexplained subfertility and a 30-40% probability of a spontaneous ongoing pregnancy within 12 months were randomly assigned either intrauterine insemination with controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for 6 months or expectant management for 6 months. all patients underwent controlled ovarian stimulation and intrauterine insemination: 148 patients were randomized to start with a supported cycle and 142 patients with an unsupported cycle. nine hundred couples with unexplained infertility who participated in the assessment of multiple intrauterine gestations from ovarian stimulation (amigos) clinical trial. evidence-based recommendations were developed for the following treatments for couples with unexplained infertility: natural cycle with intrauterine insemination (iui); clomiphene citrate with intercourse; aromatase inhibitors with intercourse; gonadotropins with intercourse; clomiphene citrate with iui; aromatase inhibitors with iui; combination of clomiphene citrate or letrozole and gonadotropins (low dose and conventional dose) with iui; low-dose gonadotropins with iui; conventional-dose gonadotropins with iui; timing of iui; and in vitro fertilization and treatment paradigms. for most couples, the best initial therapy is a course (typically 3 or 4 cycles) of ovarian stimulation with oral medications and intrauterine insemination (os-iui) followed by in vitro fertilization for those unsuccessful with os-iui treatments. 
Is half-dose contrast-enhanced three-dimensional MR angiography sufficient for the abdominal aorta and pelvis? [SEP] this study was conducted to determine the efficacy and safety of four different doses of gadobenate dimeglumine for contrast-enhanced three-dimensional mr angiography of the abdominal aorta and renal arteries. to evaluate the usefulness of half-dose contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) angiography for depicting the abdominal aorta and its major branches. half-dose mr angiography using diluted contrast medium injected at a rate of 1 ml/second depicted the abdominal aorta and its branches as clearly as using a full single dose. contrast-enhanced peripheral mr angiography from the abdominal aorta to the pedal arteries: combined dynamic two-dimensional and bolus-chase three-dimensional acquisitions. to obtain reliable contrast-enhanced peripheral mr angiography for imaging peripheral vascular disease from the abdominal aorta to the pedal arteries. the clinical gadolinium dose of 0.1 mmol/kg is sufficient for diagnostic assessment of the aorta and its major branches at contrast-enhanced mr angiography. three-dimensional gadolinium-enhanced mr angiography demonstrates the renal arteries along with the abdominal aorta, iliac arteries, and mesenteric arteries in a 20-30-second acquisition that can be performed during breath holding. three-dimensional contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) angiography is a relatively new technique that uses the transient shortening in blood t1 following the intravenous injection of gadolinium chelates to image blood vessels irrespective of flow. for many applications, 3d contrast-enhanced mr angiography is developing into a safe, fast, and cost-effective alternative to conventional diagnostic angiography. this article is designed to familiarize the reader with the theory of 3d contrast-enhanced mr angiography and the application of the technique to different vascular territories. 
Digital Tomosynthesis: A Viable Alternative to Noncontrast Computed Tomography for the Follow-Up of Nephrolithiasis? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to compare dt with noncontrast computed tomography (ncct) and to evaluate its potential role for the follow-up of patients with nephrolithiasis in a nonemergent setting. a retrospective review of patients with nephrolithiasis at our institution that underwent ncct and dt from july 2012 to september 2013 was performed. dt appears to be an ideal alternative for following patients with nephrolithiasis due to its acceptable stone detection rates, low radiation exposure, and decreased cost compared to ncct. to compare the accuracy of plain abdominal radiography (kidneys, ureter, and bladder [kub]) with digital tomosynthesis (dt) to noncontrast computed tomography (ncct), the gold standard imaging modality for urinary stones. noncontrast-enhanced computer tomography (ct) provides the highest value of diagnostic accuracy for urinary stones. noncontrast-enhanced computer tomography has been increasingly used for the diagnosis and management of urinary stones. this case illustrates the use of digital tomosynthesis as a smart, timely, cost-effective, and low-dose alternative to conventional computed tomography (ct) that can be conveniently employed in the ed for foreign body localization. objective: to investigate the diagnostic value of digital tomosynthesis in urolithiasis compared with multidetector computed tomography (mdct). the diagnostic performance of urinary stones with digital tomosynthesis and mdct was compared. conclusions: digital tomosynthesis has great diagnostic value in urolithiasis. 
High cumulative insulin exposure: a risk factor of atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes? [SEP] since insulin therapy might have an atherogenic effect, we studied the relationship between cumulative insulin dose and atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetes. these findings provide evidence that a high cumulative dose of regular insulin is a risk factor for atherosclerosis. the aim of this study was to test our hypothesis that insulin resistance determines systemic atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetic patients. in conclusion, the daily insulin dose is associated with peripheral atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetic patients with high insulin resistance, but not in type 1 diabetes. insulin resistance may provide a crucial link between type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. we hypothesized that insulin resistance, but not hyperinsulinemia, would be associated with carotid atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes. insulin resistance measured by short insulin tolerance test, but not hyperinsulinemia, is independently associated with carotid atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes. in adjusted models including insulin resistance, diabetes remained associated with risk for subclinical atherosclerosis (2.8, 1.2-6.7); diagnosed diabetes (6.0, 1.4-25.2) had a larger effect than ogtt-detected diabetes (2.1, 0.8-5.5). individuals with diabetes have an elevated burden of subclinical coronary atherosclerosis. in addition to classic risk factors (e.g., hypertension), insulin resistance is an important risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis. 
Are hepatitis G virus and TT virus involved in cryptogenic chronic liver disease? [SEP] to investigate the rate of infection with hepatitis g virus and tt virus in patients with cryptogenic chronic liver disease. hepatitis g virus-rna was detected in 4 out of 23 patients with cryptogenic chronic hepatitis and in 6 out of 40 with hepatitis c virus chronic hepatitis (17.4% vs 15% p=ns). at least one marker of hepatitis g virus infection (hepatitis g virus-rna and/or anti-hepatitis g virus, mostly mutually exclusive) was present in 6 out of 23 patients with cryptogenic hepatitis and 16 out of 40 with hepatitis c virus liver disease (26. t virus-dna was present in serum in 3 subjects, 1 with cryptogenic and 2 with hepatitis c virus-related chronic liver disease. its frequency in subjects with cryptogenic liver disease parallels that observed in hepatitis c virus chronic liver disease, thus ruling out an aetiologic role of hepatitis g virus. hepatitis g virus (hgv) is a flavivirus that can cause acute hepatitis and persistent infection but its role in chronic liver disease or primary liver cancer is unproven. in this study we have examined the prevalence of hgv rna in the serum of patients with hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection and in patients with cryptogenic chronic liver disease, including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash), and in patients with hcv-related hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) and hcc arising in patients with cryptogenic liver disease. the purpose of this review is to analyze new data that have recently been published on the epidemiology and associations between hgv and liver diseases such as posttransfusion hepatitis, acute and chronic non-a-e hepatitis, fulminant hepatitis, cryptogenic cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. ttv dna was detected in 6/25 and 15/127 patients with cryptogenic non a-non g acute and chronic liver disease, respectively. ttv prevalence was increased in patients with cryptogenic non a-non g acute and chronic liver disease compared to blood donors (6/300; p<0.001) and non-viral-related chronic liver diseases (6/137; p<0.05). 
Do older patients who refuse to participate in a self-management intervention in the Netherlands differ from older patients who agree to participate? [SEP] in this article, a comparison is made between patients who, after having been invited, agreed to participate in a self-management intervention (participants) and those who refused (refusers). older patients from a dutch outpatient clinic were invited to participate in a self-management intervention, and their characteristics were assessed. therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term and longer-term effects of the program among chronically ill older people in the netherlands. to compare patients characteristics, rates of acute readmission, and mortality after one and six months among older persons who agreed and those who declined to participate in a randomized controlled trial and to describe subgroups of nonparticipants. we recommend that intervention studies among older people or other fragile patient groups include analysis of relevant risk and subgroup analyses of refusers. the aim of this study was (i) to study the determinants of participation in and adhesion to a prevention trial in a population of older individuals via a quantitative approach using a questionnaire, (ii) to study the representations and practices of prevention in this population using a qualitative approach using semi-structured interviews and focus groups. to evaluate the effectiveness of a nurse-supported self-management programme to improve social participation of dual sensory impaired older adults in long-term care homes. older patients were more likely to refuse participation at the first stage of recruitment. in this study, the characteristics of patients who agreed to participate in a clinical trial of disease self-management education for asthma were compared to the characteristics of those who declined, and among the former group patients who actually attended were compared to those who did not. lower confidence in the patient's own current treatment regimen and a more severe baseline asthma attack were independently associated with participation in the trial. 
Preoperative locoregional staging of gastric cancer: is there a place for magnetic resonance imaging? [SEP] although magnetic resonance imaging (mri) was not previously used to evaluate gastric cancer due to the modality's limitations, the development of high-speed sequences has made mri a feasible tool for the staging of gastric cancer. a total of 31 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma, which underwent preoperative staging with 3tesla magnetic resonance imaging (mri), were enrolled. to investigate the clinical value of 2-d magnetic resonance imaging (mri) with 3-d reconstruction techniques for the preoperative diagnosis and tnm-staging of gastric cancer. 2-d mri with 3-d reconstruction is an effective method for the preoperative diagnosis and tnm staging of gastric cancer. the aim of this study was to prospectively compare the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance imaging (mri), multidetector computed tomography (mdct) and endoscopic ultrasonography (eus) in the preoperative locoregional staging of gastric cancer. fifty-two patients with biopsy-proven gastric cancer underwent preoperative 1.5-t mri, 64-channel mdct and eus. mri has an emerging role in the evaluation of intestinal diseases, although its role in the staging of gastric cancers is still to be defined. the aim of our study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of mdct and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in the diagnosis and preoperative staging of gastric cancer, in comparison with histopathology. the treatment option for gastric cancer is usually based on preoperative staging by imaging modalities. the purpose of this article is to provide summarized information on preoperative staging using eus, multi-detector row ct (mdct), mri and pet for gastric cancer. 
Do familiar teammates request and accept more backup? [SEP] the present study investigated factors that explain when and why different groups of teammates are more likely to request and accept backup from one another when needed in an environment characterized by extreme time pressure and severe consequences of error: commercial air traffic control (atc). the present study investigated whether this theory could help to explain between-team differences in requesting and accepting backup when needed. teammates with greater experience working together requested and accepted backup from one another more than those with lesser experience working together. teammates' shared mental models about one another increase the likelihood that they will request and accept backup. teammate familiarity should be considered when choosing among potential replacement team members. increased teammate familiarity in emergency medical services (ems) promotes development of positive teamwork and protects against workplace injury. teamwork factor partner adaptability and backup behavior is a likely mediator (odds ratio = 1.03, p = .05). when dyad familiarity is high and there are high levels of backup behavior, the likelihood of injury is increased. the relationship between teammate familiarity and outcomes is complex. teammate adaptation and backup behavior is a likely mediator of this relationship in ems teams with greater familiarity. 
Transsphenoidal pituitary surgery in Cushing's disease: can we predict outcome? [SEP] transsphenoidal surgery for cushing's disease from a pituitary adenoma is an effective and safe treatment. we present the outcome of transsphenoidal surgery in patients with presumed cushing's disease and a normal pituitary magnetic resonance imaging scan. the endocrinological, surgical, and histological findings of patients with acth-dependent cushing's disease were correlated with the pulsatile secretion pattern of acth and cortisol and the outcome after transsphenoidal pituitary surgery. this article discusses recently reported studies on the surgical outcomes from transsphenoidal surgery for cushing's disease. currently, transsphenoidal surgery is the primary treatment of cushing disease associated with an acth-secreting pituitary tumor, resulting in remission rates ranging from about 50 to 90%. in this article, the authors review the treatment options for patients who have persistent or recurrent cushing disease after unsuccessful transsphenoidal surgery. the presence of pituitary corticotropin-cell antibodies in patients with cushing's disease is associated with an unsuccessful outcome after transsphenoidal selective adenectomy. twenty-eight patients underwent transsphenoidal pituitary surgery for cushing's disease. we conclude that 24-h urinary free cortisol performed at 1 to 4 weeks postoperatively whilst on low-dose dexamethasone and the histological findings may predict outcome following transsphenoidal pituitary surgery in cushing's disease. here, we review the treatment options and latest surgical, medical, and radiosurgical advances for patients who have persistent or recurrent cushing disease after transsphenoidal surgery. 
Can bedside assessment reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke? [SEP] to investigate the ability of a bedside swallowing assessment to reliably exclude aspiration following acute stroke. bedside assessment of swallowing lacks the necessary sensitivity to be used as a screening instrument in acute stroke, but there are concerns about the use of videofluoroscopy as a gold standard. the relative importance of aspiration and bedside assessment in predicting complications and outcome needs to be studied. this study reviews the available bedside screening tools for detecting swallowing status and aspiration risk in acute stroke by qualitatively observing reference population study design, clinical flexibility, reliability and applicability to acute-care settings. bedside tests to exclude aspiration in patients with acute stroke are necessary. to assess the incidence of lung aspiration in acute stroke, and attempt to identify factors which render such patients at risk of aspiration, consecutive patients admitted to hospital within 24 h of their first symptomatic stroke were studied prospectively. aspiration is common in the early period following acute stroke; disordered pharyngeal sensation is an important concomitant of this and should be carefully tested in each patient admitted with acute stroke. the aim of this study was to investigate aspiration in acute stroke patients, who are safe for oral intake as assessed by bedside swallow test and videofluoroscopy, using tracheal ph monitoring. tracheal acidification, which could represent aspiration, has been observed in 9 of 32 stroke patients assessed as safe to take diet and fluids orally by bedside assessment and videofluoroscopy. however, in some patients, aspiration pneumonia occurs without any problems on bedside swallowing assessments and some patients do not suffer aspiration pneumonia despite abnormal results of bedside swallowing assessments in acute stroke. 
Are UK radiologists satisfied with the training and support received in suspected child abuse? [SEP] to determine current practice and perceptions of the adequacy of training and support received for the reporting of skeletal surveys in suspected physical child abuse. the survey shows significant dissatisfaction amongst consultant radiologists with the current service, confirms a low number of paediatric radiologists taking on this work, and suggests the potential to increase numbers of radiology child abuse experts by 27% if given improved training and support. to identify the training in, experience of and barriers to reporting child abuse among dental therapists in the uk. pediatric radiologists serve an important role in the radiologic diagnosis, investigation, and in legal proceedings in cases of child abuse. the society for pediatric radiology should evaluate and insure the adequacy of training of pediatric radiologists for this important role. the society for pediatric radiology committee on child abuse, 2002, conducted a 24-question survey to evaluate the scope and perceived adequacy of training received by pediatric radiology fellows regarding the radiologic diagnosis of child abuse and the associated legal process. respondents' perception of adequacy of training was best for the radiologic diagnosis of child abuse. current pediatric radiology training programs do not sufficiently prepare pediatric radiologists for their role in the legal system regarding child abuse. a standardized program to train pediatric radiologists about the imaging diagnosis of child abuse and their role in the legal system is recommended. radiologists play a key role in the recognition of child abuse. 
Artefacts in 24-h pharyngeal and oesophageal pH monitoring: is simplification of pH data analysis feasible? [SEP] ambulatory 24-h dual-channel pharyngeal and oesophageal ph monitoring is the standard test for measuring gastro-oesophageal and gastropharyngeal reflux. artefacts caused by the intake of food may result in falsely positive gastropharyngeal reflux, which necessitates a manual review of 24-h ph data. patients referred for otolaryngological complaints, suspected to have been caused by gastro-oesophageal reflux, underwent 24-h dual-channel ph monitoring. the aim of the present study was therefore to quantify the occurrence of pharyngeal acid exposure (ph < 4) in healthy volunteers and, further, to examine its relation to acid exposure of the oesophagus and oesophageal motility and its occurrence in relation to age, sex, and body position. forty healthy volunteers underwent ambulatory 24-h ph-metry, using antimony electrodes positioned 2 cm above the upper oesophageal sphincter and 5 cm above the lower oesophageal sphincter on the basis of manometry. to determine the reliability of pharyngeal ph alone for the detection of pharyngeal reflux events. 24-h ph-impedance recordings performed in 45 healthy subjects with a bifurcated probe for detection of pharyngeal and oesophageal reflux events were reviewed. this study demonstrates that pharyngeal ph alone is not reliable for the detection of pharyngeal reflux and that adding distal oesophageal ph analysis is not helpful. standard ph monitoring is performed over 24 h with a naso-oesophageal catheter (c-ph). subsequently, patients underwent ambulatory 24-h oesophageal ph monitoring and an 'omeprazole test.' 
Can the condition of the cell microenvironment of mediastinal lymph nodes help predict the risk of metastases in non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] the purpose of our study was to describe our preliminary experience of evaluating mediastinal lymph node metastases with diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) imaging in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. diffusion-weighted mr imaging demonstrated mediastinal lymph node metastasis in 4 (80%) of 5 patients with pathologically proven metastasis and accurately identified 36 (97%) of 37 patients without mediastinal lymph node metastasis. our preliminary results show that diffusion-weighted mr imaging has a high negative predictive value for excluding mediastinal lymph node metastases from non-small cell lung cancer and has the potential to be a reliable alternative non-invasive imaging method for the preoperative staging of mediastinal lymph node in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. the incidence of metastases to mediastinal lymph nodes was evaluated in patients with normal sized mediastinal nodes on the computed tomographic (ct) scan who underwent thoracotomy. the use of hilar lymph nodes in predicting mediastinal lymph node metastases was also assessed. mediastinal lymph node metastases were present at thoracotomy in 19 patients (21%). to assess the utility of endoscopic ultrasonography, fine-needle aspiration biopsy guided by endoscopic ultrasonography, and computed tomography for the detection of metastases to the posterior mediastinal lymph nodes in non-small-cell lung cancer. we analyzed whether hilar/mediastinal lymph node metastases were present in 30 small-sized pnsclcs. mediastinal lymph node metastases were histologically observed in 3 (10%) of 30 pnsclc patients with tumor diameters of 1.5 cm or less. patients without distant metastases are subjected to various diagnostic methods to detect metastases in mediastinal lymph nodes that make up the path of lymph drainage from the lungs. 
Are wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation equivalent? [SEP] the authors examined equivalence of wandering and physically nonaggressive agitation (pna) as concepts. overall wandering correlated significantly with pna factor 1 (df =179, r = 0.68, p <0.001) and factor 2, but at a lower value (df = 179, r = 0.26, p <0.01). findings depict wandering and pna as overlapping, but nonequivalent phenomena. evidence supporting construct validity of wandering was more robust than that for pna. results have implications for accuracy in scientific and clinical detection and labeling of wandering and agitation. four types of agitation have been identified: physically aggressive behaviors, physically nonaggressive behaviors, verbally aggressive behaviors, and verbally nonaggressive behaviors. agitation can be divided into aggressive agitation, physically nonaggressive agitation, and verbal agitation. agitation and wandering are related to more severe cognitive impairment and psychosocial variables, and neurochemical variables that may be related to behavior disturbance require further study. in the demented elderly, these symptoms are often defined as agitation. it is suggested that each category may have a different etiology and treatment; verbal agitation is often related to underlying medical conditions, physically nonaggressive behavior responds to behavioral treatment, and aggressive agitation is more likely to respond to a combination of behavioral and pharmacologic treatment. 
Is size-reducing ascending aortoplasty with external reinforcement an option in modern aortic surgery? [SEP] as demonstrated in this study, size reduction of the ascending aorta using aortoplasty with external reinforcement is a safe procedure with excellent long-term results. the purpose of the article is to draw conclusions on the applicability of reduction ascending aortoplasty in modern cardiovascular surgery. we found that given proper indications (ie, poststenotic dilatations of <6 cm in diameter, absence of cystic medial necrosis, and a technique that decreases aortic diameter to <3.5 cm), nonreinforced reduction ascending aortoplasty performed concomitantly with aortic valve replacement appears to be a simple and safe procedure, with low morbidity and mortality and rare late complications. between 1999 and 2009, reduction aortoplasties with or without external reinforcement associated with aortic valve surgery were performed in 82 patients. reduction ascending aortoplasty has been advocated as a possible alternative to traditional graft replacement for treatment of aneurysms of the ascending aorta and root. ascending aortoplasty is effective in reducing ascending aortic dimensions and recurrent aortic regurgitation in pediatric patients. between january 2000 and january 2008, 71 patients with fusiform ascending aortic aneurysms and aortic valve disease underwent reinforced reduction aortoplasty associated with aortic valve replacement (rra group, n = 32) or ascending aortic replacement combined with aortic valve replacement (aar group, n = 39). reduction aortoplasty of the ascending aorta with external wrapping resulted in a significant reduction of the ascending aorta in all patients (p = 0.000). we present early results and long-term follow-up after reduction aortoplasty with external wrapping of the ascending aorta. reduction aortoplasty with external wrapping of the ascending aorta is a simple and promising surgical method. 
Does depression diagnosis and antidepressant prescribing vary by location? [SEP] the outpatient data of a large german statutory health insurance company were analysed for regional differences in (a) the prevalence of depression diagnosis, (b) prescription rates of antidepressants and (c) risk factors of being diagnosed with depression or prescribed antidepressants. odds ratios were calculated for the likelihood of being diagnosed with depression and of being prescribed antidepressants whilst considering socio-demographic and regional variables. regional distribution rates of antidepressant prescriptions largely follow the same pattern as rates for depression diagnosis, with the exception of berlin where prescription rates are 10% below the expected mean rate. more research into factors impacting on regional differences in the prevalence of depression is needed. for patients with a diagnosis of depression, logistic regression was used to examine whether hispanic ethnicity influenced whether patients received antidepressant treatment while controlling for other patient characteristics twenty-seven percent of patients received a prescription for one or more antidepressants. this study aimed to describe the pattern of antidepressant medication use among nh residents from 7 european countries and israel and to examine patient and facilities characteristics that may account for it. antidepressant medication use varied by country, with a prevalence in the overall sample of 35.6% (n = 1431). we examined concordance by provider specialty and provider identifier between (a) the first antidepressant prescription fill and most proximal depression diagnosis, and (b) the initial antidepressant and benzodiazepine prescription fills among simultaneous benzodiazepine and antidepressant initiators. the vast majority of patients who received antidepressant prescriptions and depression diagnoses appear to have received both diagnosis and antidepressants from the same provider, suggesting that when antidepressants are issued around the time a patient is diagnosed with depression, the antidepressant was likely prescribed for depression. antidepressants are commonly prescribed by general practitioners as treatment for depression. 
Can routinely collected ambulance data about assaults contribute to reduction in community violence? [SEP] sharing emergency department data on victims of violence is associated with reductions in community violence and is well established throughout the uk. we undertook a critical literature review to determine whether sharing ambulance data was useful to identify violence hotspots and offered unique information for violence prevention. although the interventional evidence base is currently weak, ambulance data provide a unique source of information about the epidemiology of community violence and have the potential to improve current violent crime surveillance methods. information sharing of emergency department data with community safety partnerships (csp) has been associated with substantial reductions in assault attendances in emergency departments supported by academic institutions. to examine emergency department (ed) data sharing via a local injury surveillance system and assess its contribution to the prevention of violence and alcohol-related harms. the collection of additional ed data on assault details and alcohol use prior to injury, and its integration into multi-agency policy and practice, played an important role in driving local violence prevention activity. can police-ed interagency data-sharing be used to reduce community-violence using a hotspots methodology? practically, at least half of ambulance hotspots are unknown to the police; if causal, it suggests that data sharing leads to both reduced community violence by way of prevention (such as through anticipatory patrols or problem-oriented policing), particularly of more severe assaults, and improved efficiency of resource deployment. strategies should be devised and studied to reduce violent events toward paramedics and to mitigate the impact such events have on the wellbeing of paramedics. to investigate whether sharing and linking routinely collected violence data across health and criminal justice systems can provide a more comprehensive understanding of violence, establish patterns of under-reporting and better inform the development, implementation and evaluation of violence prevention initiatives. 
Volume change of uterine myomas during pregnancy: do myomas really grow? [SEP] to estimate changes in uterine myoma volume during pregnancy. we analyzed the change in volume of uterine myomas between the first half of pregnancy (up until 19 weeks), third quarter (20-30 weeks), and last quarter (31 weeks to term). contrary to common belief, we found that uterine myomas commonly decrease in volume over the course of pregnancy. to evaluate volumetric changes of uterine myomas (fibroids) during pregnancy. mean myoma volume increased significantly throughout pregnancy. taking a volumetric change of > 10% between gestational periods to be an increase in size, 71.4% of uterine myomas increased in size between the first and second gestational periods, while this percentage was slightly lower (66.6%) between the second and third periods. myoma growth was analyzed in different periods of gestation. the number and changes in size of the uterine myomas during pregnancy, and perinatal complications were documented. we suggest that in contrast with the general opinion there is not much effect of pregnancy on uterine myoma size, and most cases are not affected by the presence of uterine fibroids resulting in severe perinatal complications. childbirth can block the blood supply of giant uterine myomas and reduce mass size. 
Is laparoscopic adrenalectomy safe and effective for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm? [SEP] laparoscopic adrenalectomy can be performed safely for adrenal masses >4 cm and size is not a contraindication to the laparoscopic approach. laparoscopic adrenalectomy (la) has become the gold standard treatment for small (less than 6 cm) adrenal masses. la for adrenal masses larger than 7 cm is a safe and feasible technique, offering successful outcome in terms of intraoperative and postoperative morbidity, hospital stay and cosmesis for patients; it seems to replicate open surgical oncological principles demonstrating similar outcomes as survival rate and recurrence rate, when adrenal cortical carcinoma were treated. laparoscopic adrenalectomy is indicated in benign adrenal masses, and it is routinely performed in masses smaller than 5 to 7 cm. in this study we report our experience in laparoscopic adrenalectomy for adrenal masses larger than 6 cm. this experience and the results of literature suggest that laparoscopic approach is safe and feasible for adrenal masses larger than 6 cm with a longer operative time. our aim was to evaluate the outcome of laparoscopic v open adrenalectomy for large-volume (> or =5 cm) adrenal masses and to compare laparoscopic adrenalectomy for large- and small-volume (<5 cm) masses. laparoscopic adrenalectomy is an excellent choice for tumors smaller than 6 cm. laparoscopic adrenalectomy is accepted by many as the standard of care for the majority of adrenal masses less than 8 cm. we feel laparoscopic adrenalectomy is the preferred approach for primary adrenal masses less than 8 cm. 
Upstream solutions: does the supplemental security income program reduce disability in the elderly? [SEP] although children's supplemental security income benefits have reduced poverty in families with disabled children, there is some evidence that parents are encouraging their children to behave poorly so they can qualify. this article presents the findings from an empirical study that investigated the degree to which the current social security and supplemental security income (ssi) programs provide a safety net, separately and in combination, to the elderly poor. the major findings were that the social security program not only increases the income statuses of both posttransfer and pretransfer poor elderly people considerably, but that the program also significantly equalizes the distribution of income among them. in addition, the ssi program supplements the social security program in establishing an even greater safety net, especially for posttransfer poor elderly people. this summary is designed for those who are unfamiliar with the many current features of federally sponsored disability and health programs under the social security act, including the social security disability insurance (di) program, the supplemental security income (ssi) program, medicare, and medicaid. in addition, public benefit programs such as medicare, social security disability insurance, medicaid, and supplemental security income are examined. we explore the potential of the supplemental security income (ssi) program to reduce poverty among elderly women. for a given cost increase, modifying the ssi asset test is the most effective option for reducing severe poverty among elderly women, but several reforms of the ssi income test are also highly effective. the ssi program is target efficient in providing a broad safety net to economically vulnerable elderly women. supplemental security income (ssi) program. 
Profiling quality of care: Is there a role for peer review? [SEP] the oversight of medical care, in the form of peer review, has traditionally been used to ensure that the highest standards of care are maintained. peer review, usually involving unstructured judgments by a single peer reviewing medical records, was the backbone of quality management in health care organizations until recent years. although other approaches to quality management, such as continuous quality improvement, are now being widely adopted, peer review can still play a role in identifying dysfunctional organizational processes and individuals delivering poor care. the focus of peer review can be expanded beyond individual practitioner performance to include assessment of the operational environment in which the clinician functions. this paper draws on information gained from literature on the peer review process and the authors' knowledge and experience of contributing as peer reviewers and editors in the field of health care, including nursing. peer review has a critical role in improving the quality of nursing's published knowledge base and ultimately the quality of patient care. despite the intended purpose of improving quality medical care, the peer review process has suffered several setbacks throughout its tenure. as chief nursing officers partner with physician colleagues to create collaborative models of practice across the care continuum, the role of peer review in achieving quality outcomes cannot be overlooked. this article describes how an integrated healthcare system approached the creation of a unique integrative model for physician/nurse practitioner peer review. peer review is essential for ensuring quality medical care. 
Eyelid-parotid metastasis: do we screen for coexisting masses? [SEP] to report three cases illustrating that it is not unusual for a primary eyelid tumour to metastasise to the parotid gland and vice versa. two patients with malignant parotid tumours underwent radical parotidectomy and presented subsequently with eyelid lesions. these cases illustrate that tumours involving eyelids and parotid glands can present simultaneously or sequentially, and either of these structures could be the focus of primary or metastatic tumour. submandibular area metastases were seen only in the patients with the primary tumor originating in the medial half of the eyelid, but parotid area metastases were seen in both the patients whose tumors had a medial-half origin and those with a lateral-half origin. continued surveillance and optimal management of regional lymph node metastases are important for the control and survival of eyelid carcinomas. we report the case of a 37-year-old woman with the history of left lower eyelid bcc (diagnosed 9 years ago), who had left parotid lymph nodes metastases and local recurrence twice. while local recurrences are well- documented in empsgc, metastases had not been encountered until very recently; two reports in the past year have described metastases from eyelid empsgc to the parotid gland after a prolonged interval from the primary presentation. we report the case of a 78-year-old male with eyelid empsgc metastatic to the parotid gland nine years after excision of the primary tumor, which had initially been diagnosed as a poorly differentiated carcinoma. we describe a case of parotid gland salivary duct carcinoma metastatic to the eyelid and orbit, as confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis. diagnosis was metastatic paratoid duct carcinoma to the left lower eyelid and left inferior orbit. 
Will CT ordering practices change if we educate residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine if educating residents about the potential effects of radiation exposure from computed tomographic (ct) imaging alters ordering patterns. this study also explored whether referring physicians are interested in radiation education and was an initial effort to address their ct ordering behavior. two to four months after a radiologist's lecture on the potential effects of radiation exposure related to ct scans, urology and orthopedic residents were surveyed regarding the number and types of ct scans they ordered, the use of alternative imaging modalities, and whether they used the lecture information to educate patients. radiation education allowed clinicians to discuss ct benefits and risks with their patients and to choose appropriate ct protocols. in this pilot study, we assessed the educational effect using unmatched, anonymous preintervention and postintervention questionnaires that assessed fund of knowledge, participant self-reported imaging ordering practices in several clinical scenarios, and trainee comfort level in discussing radiation risks with patients. in the context of increasing availability of computed tomography (ct) scans, judicious use of ionising radiation is a priority to minimise the risk of future health problems. exposure to a simple non-directional educational message for 1 year improved doctors' awareness of risks associated with ct scans. defensively ordered ct scan in the workup of trauma patients is a prevalent and costly practice that exposes patients to potentially unnecessary and harmful radiation. radiology literature reports potential cancer risk from radiation exposure from computed tomography (ct). to investigate residents' knowledge of adverse effects of ionizing radiation, frequency of their education on radiation safety, and their use of radioprotective equipment. 
Does context matter for the relationship between deprivation and all-cause mortality? [SEP] we find that deprivation and social capital partly but not completely account for why inequality is positively associated with mortality and that spatial modeling generates more accurate predictions than does the traditional approach. we advance the literature by unveiling the intervening roles of social capital and deprivation in the inequality-mortality relationship and offering new evidence that inequality matters in us county mortality rates. there was an association between deprivation and mortality which was clear for all cause mortality, more noticeable for respiratory disease, and less clear for deaths from accident, violence, and poison. using postcode sector data for scotland (uk), this study tests the hypothesis of spatial heterogeneity in the relationship between area-level deprivation and mortality to determine if contextual differences in the west vs. the rest of scotland influence this relationship. we find that income tends to be protective of, and relative deprivation detrimental to health, but the latter often gives a better account of mortality than does income alone. relative deprivation is especially significant when age is the reference group, suggesting that the comparison of socio-economic standing that has an impact on health tends to happen within cohorts. the relationship between deprivation and mortality is long established and many studies report higher death rates in more deprived areas. thus, our findings indicate that in terms of mortality, regional deprivation does matter. the following study aimed to analyze the role of individual-level relative deprivation for all-cause mortality in the swedish population. relative deprivation, based on social comparisons of income, is significantly associated with premature mortality in sweden, over and above the effect of absolute income. 
Does stress increase imitation of drinking behavior? [SEP] this study focuses on the role of psychosocial stress in attempting to explain individual differences in the propensity to imitate alcohol consumption. with a 2 (confederate's drinking condition: alcohol vs. soda) × 2 (participant's stress condition: stress vs. no stress) experimental design, we tested whether the tendency to imitate other people's drinking was related to participants' induced stress levels. participants in both stress and no-stress conditions consumed substantially more alcohol when confederates drank alcohol than when they drank soda. no moderating effect of stress on the tendency to drink along with peers was found. generally, it appears that among young male adults, imitation of alcohol consumption is a robust phenomenon not dependent on individual stress levels. being exposed to other people's drinking behavior has been demonstrated to influence individual's drinking levels. imitation/non-imitation by adult offspring of alcohol-related parent behavior was examined in the context of the 'fall-off effect' and of sensible/problem alcohol use, two processes which tend to constrain drinking. we investigated whether imitation is more evident when peers drink alcohol compared to other beverages. findings showed that participants imitated the sips of the confederates, but that the likelihood of participants imitating a sip was lower when confederates were drinking alcoholic beverages and participants non-alcoholic beverages compared to when both were consuming alcohol. in order to study the role of imitation in relation to drinking, alcohol consumption among two peers was examined with experiments in a naturalistic drinking setting. 
School food policy at Dutch primary schools: room for improvement? [SEP] the aim of this study is to detect opportunities to improve the school food policy and/or implementation at dutch primary schools. therefore, this study explores the school food policy and investigates schools' (teachers and principals) and parents' opinion on the school food policy. dutch primary schools could play a more important role in fostering healthy eating habits among children. to outline the evolution of school food standards and their implementation and evaluation in each of the four countries of the uk since 2000. review of relevant policies, surveys and evaluations, including country-specific surveys and regional evaluations. currently there is an increasing number of dutch primary schoolchildren who are transitioning from eating lunch at home to school. to investigate differences in content and quality of lunches consumed by dutch primary schoolchildren at home and at school. cross-sectional study among 363 dutch primary schoolchildren aged 4-12 years based on the first two years of the 2012-2016 dutch national food consumption survey. school meal improvement is a major component of uk government policy to improve children's diets. to review the effectiveness of school food and nutrition policies world wide in improving the school food environment, student's dietary intake, and decreasing overweight and obesity. school food-related monitoring and evaluation research has been highly influential in influencing legislation and policy, leading to improvements in the foods and beverages available to children at school as part of planned meals and individual items sold outside the meal programmes. 
Is the atopy patch test with house dust mites specific for atopic dermatitis? [SEP] we therefore performed atopy patch tests with house dust mite antigens (dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (dp) and/or dermatophagoides farinae (df)) in scabies patients without atopy and healthy controls. twenty-two of 25 patients with scabies (88%) had skin prick test and/or intradermal test positivity against house dust mites, whereas 17/25 patients (68%) had atopy patch test positivity against house dust mites (dp and/or df). in this study, we have shown that a positive atopy patch test to house dust mite antigens is not specific for patients with atopic dermatitis, but also occurs in scabies patients without a history of atopic dermatitis. skin prick and radioallergosorbent tests with the house dust mite were performed in 120 patients with atopic dermatitis. the patch test with airborne allergic agents or the atopy patch test was suggested to evaluate the role of these allergens in atopic dermatitis. it was found that the atopy patch test with dust mites showed higher positivity in individuals with atopic dermatitis when compared to those with allergic rhinitis. the atopy patch test shows statistically significant results when performed with dust mites in patients with atopic dermatitis, p = 0.035, odds ratio (or) = 3.35 and ci (95%) = [1.18, 9, 47]. the atopy patch test (apt) has been defined as an important tool in the diagnosis of cutaneous hypersensitivity caused by house dust mites in atopic dermatitis (ad). only one out of 13 atopic patients without history of atopic dermatitis but with seasonal allergic rhinitis had a positive patch test reaction to birch pollen and no patient had positive test reactions to house dust mite. patch testing with dust mite antigens might identify mite-sensitive individuals, particularly those with atopic dermatitis who can benefit from avoidance measures. 
Juvenile osteochondritis dissecans: is it a growth disturbance of the secondary physis of the epiphysis? [SEP] similarly, epiphysial growth relies on endochondral ossification from the circumferential secondary physeal [corrected]. we hypothesized that juvenile ocd results from an insult affecting endochondral ossification from the secondary physis. our finding that disorders of epiphyseal ossification may lead to the development of osteochondritis dissecans. the presence of an open growth plate differentiates juvenile osteochondritis dissecans from adult form of osteochondritis. osteochondritis dissecans (od) is a syndrome that can be characterized as a non-infectious disturbance of enchondral ossification or as a post-traumatic event. anomalies of ossification in the lower femoral epiphysis are often radiographically indistinguishable from juvenile osteochondritis dissecans. to clarify the mri characteristics of the anomalies of ossification in the posterolateral femoral condyle that distinguish it from juvenile osteochondritis dissecans. this multicenter retrospective study examined 24 patients (25 medial condyles), including cases both before (juvenile osteochondritis dissecans, jocd; n=17) and after closure of the physis (adult osteochondritis dissecans, aocd; n=8). osteochondritis dissecans of the knee is being seen with increased frequency in pediatric and young adult athletes and is thought to be, in part, owing to earlier and increasingly competitive sports participation. the cases of 106 patients with osteochondritis dissecans of the capitellum were studied retrospectively. 
Do preoperative statins reduce atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of preoperative statin therapy on new onset of postoperative atrial fibrillation in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. preoperative statin is associated with a significantly higher incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation compared with no statin treatment in patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting. to evaluate the effect of perioperative statin treatment on postoperative atrial fibrillation and cardiac mortality in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of preoperative atorvastatin on postoperative atrial fibrillation following coronary artery bypass grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass (ccabg). preoperative atorvastatin administration may inhibit inflammatory reactions to prevent atrial fibrillation following coronary artery bypass grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass. there is no agreement on whether statins influence the incidence of atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting. statin therapy significantly reduced the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation (poaf) (odds ratio, 0.50; 95% confidence interval, 0.35-0.73) and length of hospital stay (weighted mean difference, -0.72; 95% confidence interval, -0.99 to -0.45), an effect that survived detailed subgroup analysis. preoperative administration of statins in these patients substantially reduces the risk of postoperative atrial fibrillation and shortens hospital and intensive care unit (icu) stay. to review the published literature evaluating the effectiveness of statin therapy for preventing postoperative atrial fibrillation (poaf) after coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) surgery. preoperative atrial fibrillation has been associated with less favorable outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. 
Is there a uniform basal endometrial gene expression profile during the implantation window in women who became pregnant in a subsequent ICSI cycle? [SEP] to understand which genes are really involved in the implantation process, we planned to study the gene basal expression profile during the window of implantation (woi) of patients who became pregnant in a subsequent icsi cycle. to determine the human endometrial transcriptome during embryonic implantation. gene expression analysis of the endometrium during the window of implantation (during the implantation of an embryo) in a natural cycle. endometrial gene expression of a pregnant patient in a natural cycle is significantly different from nonpregnant patients during the midsecretory phase. this study aimed at identifying genes expressed in human endometrium during the implantation window that could be used as such markers. five genes have been identified for the first time as being up-regulated during the implantation window and are proposed as new biomarkers for exploration of endometrial receptiveness. endometrial expression of 47 selected genes biopsied during the window of implantation in natural cycles was compared between patients who achieved a successful pregnancy spontaneously or after subsequent intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi) cycles and patients who did not achieve a pregnancy after at least two failed icsi cycles. to achieve this aim, the objective of the present paper was the comparison of endometrial expression in natural cycles of 47 selected genes between the biopsies of patients who achieved a successful pregnancy, either spontaneously or after subsequent icsi cycles, and those of patients who did not achieve a pregnancy after at least two failed icsi cycles. women attending for ivf (n = 25) and icsi (n = 25) treatment were recruited, and timed endometrial biopsies were taken during the 'implantation window' (cycle day 20-24). women with increased vdr expression in the endometrium, especially during the implantation window of the menstrual cycle, were significantly more likely to be pregnant than women with decreased expression. 
Can decisional algorithms replace global introspection in the individual causality assessment of spontaneously reported ADRs? [SEP] the usefulness of algorithms for assessing the causality of suspected adverse drug reactions (adrs) has yet to be established and, since the validation of causality algorithms depends upon their sensitivity and specificity, our study was carried out to evaluate these measures. in this study, an expert panel assessed causality of adverse reports by using the who global introspection (gi) method. decisional algorithms are sensitive methods for the detection of adrs, but they present poor specificity. to evaluate agreement between causality assessments of reported adverse drug reactions (adrs) obtained from decisional algorithms, with those obtained from an expert panel using the who global introspection method (gi), according to different levels of imputability and to evaluate the influence of confounding variables. an independent researcher used decisional algorithms, while an expert panel assessed the same adr reports using the gi, both aimed at evaluating causality. to compare the results of causality assessments of reported adverse drug reactions (adr's) obtained from decisional algorithms with those obtained from an expert panel using the who global introspection method (gi) and to further evaluate the influence of confounding variables on algorithms ability in assessing causality. hence, precise and accurate assessment of adrs' causality which can differentiate signal from noise is crucial in screening, management and minimisation of adrs. the current study reported our attempt to improve the scoring system of a previously published algorithm of adr assessment by our group using a genetic algorithm approach so that the final score can measure the probability of adr causality. using a quantitative method of assessing causality in the new algorithm allows rare and new adrs to be more readily identified since a quantitative score can give a more precise degree of adr causality. using ten causality algorithms, four judges independently assessed the first 44 cases of adrs reported during the first year of implementation of a risk management service in a medium complexity hospital in the state of sao paulo (brazil). 
Can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery? [SEP] arterial catheters are routinely used to sample blood for clotting studies in most cardiothoracic intensive care units. the clotting profile in surgical bleeding after cardiac surgery influences further management. the morning following cardiac surgery, simultaneous arterial line and peripheral venous blood samples were taken for activated plasma thromboplastin time (aptt) ratio and international normalized ratio (inr) in 49 randomly selected patients. to examine differences between prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time values obtained from blood drawn by venipuncture and from an indwelling intra-arterial line using three discard volumes. we recommend that when drawing prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time samples from an arterial line, a 5.3-ml discard volume be used. we conclude that samples from arterial lines provide valid activated partial thromboplastin time results using a discard volume of either 4.5 ml or 16 ml. to determine the accuracy of activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time studies when samples are drawn through heparinized arterial lines. how much blood must be discarded from a heparinized arterial line to obtain accurate coagulation studies, specifically activated partial thromboplastin time? investigators compared activated partial thromboplastin time values from arterial and venous blood samples using various discard volumes, sites and sizes of catheters, and heparin flush concentrations. the analysis indicated that a) a randomly determined partial thromboplastin time obtained from the blood-conserving arterial line would lie between 3.32 and -5.11 of the partial thromboplastin time taken from the conventional arterial line value with 95% confidence; and b) a randomly determined hematocrit obtained from the blood-conserving arterial line would lie between 1.97 and -1.85 of the hematocrit taken from the conventional arterial line value with 95% confidence. 
Does timing of initial surfactant treatment make a difference in rates of chronic lung disease or mortality in premature infants? [SEP] as part of the nitric oxide chronic lung disease trial of inhaled nitric oxide, we examined surfactant in a subpopulation of enrolled infants. our goals were to identify the trend of surfactant use over a 6-year period and to determine whether a relationship exists between the incidence of chronic lung disease in infants born weighing <1000 g who receive surfactant and those who do not. infants who received surfactant were more likely to develop chronic lung disease. those who received >1 dose of surfactant were more likely to develop chronic lung disease when compared with infants treated with only 1 dose. infants who receive surfactant are more likely to develop chronic lung disease, and chronic lung disease rates are stable in those infants not treated with surfactant. surfactant therapy improves the short-term respiratory status of premature infants, but its use is traditionally limited to infants being mechanically ventilated. whilst pulmonary surfactant therapy has been highly successful in reducing mortality from respiratory distress syndrome of the newborn, a significant proportion of infants born at less than 28 weeks' gestation develop neonatal chronic lung disease. these data suggest that small infants, while initially responding to surfactant therapy with clearing of their lungs, are still at considerable risk of developing chronic lung disease in the form of pulmonary edema and bronchopulmonary dysplasia. to compare two treatment strategies in preterm infants with or at risk of respiratory distress syndrome: early surfactant administration (within one hour of birth) versus late surfactant administration, in a geographically defined population. early surfactant administration is associated with shorter duration of ventilation but does not appear to be significantly protective against cld/mortality among premature infants. 
Clinician assessment for acute chest syndrome in febrile patients with sickle cell disease: is it accurate enough? [SEP] acute chest syndrome is a frequent complication of sickle cell disease, as well as a major cause of morbidity and the greatest single cause of mortality in children with sickle cell disease. acute chest syndrome is a frequent complication of sickle cell disease, as well as a major cause of morbidity and the greatest single cause of mortality in children with sickle cell disease. to investigate whether attacks of acute chest syndrome affected pulmonary artery pressure in patients homozygous for sickle cell disease. 20 patients with homozygous sickle cell disease with a history of at least six episodes of acute chest syndrome and in 20 age, sex, and height matched controls with homozygous sickle cell disease without a history of acute chest syndrome. the purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of bacterial pneumonia as a cause of the acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease based on bronchoscopically obtained lower airway cultures and to describe the clinical, laboratory, and roentgenographic features of the acute chest syndrome in a series composed entirely of adult patients with sickle cell disease. we reviewed the hospital records from 19 episodes (18 patients) of acute chest syndrome in adult patients with sickle cell disease (greater than or equal to 19 years of age) who had undergone flexible bronchoscopy to obtain lower airway cultures between january 1979 and july 1987. clinicians should consider acute chest syndrome and sickle cell trait in the differential diagnosis of patients with unexplained respiratory failure and pulmonary infiltrates. bronchial hyper-responsiveness may be a component of the acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease. acute chest syndrome in the patient with sickle cell anemia is characterized by fever, leukocytosis, cough, chest pain, and pulmonary infiltrates in the chest radiograph. bronchial hyper-responsiveness may be a component of acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease. 
Outcome Feedback within Emergency Medicine Training Programs: An Opportunity to Apply the Theory of Deliberate Practice? [SEP] we critically review how medical education can benefit from systematic use of the expert performance approach as a framework for measuring and enhancing clinical practice. we discuss how the expert performance approach can be used to better understand the mechanisms underpinning superior performance among health care providers and how the framework can be applied to create simulated learning environments that present increased opportunities to engage in deliberate practice. we highlight the role of simulation-based training in conjunction with deliberate practice activities such as reflection, rehearsal, trial-and-error learning and feedback in improving the quality of patient care. deliberate practice has been shown to be effective in training clinical skills. we used simulation with deliberate practice and feedback to train residents in difficult patient encounters. simulation-based learning with deliberate practice has the potential to improve resident management of difficult patient encounters. despite the growing body of health care simulation literature documenting the efficacy of mastery learning models, to date insufficient details have been reported on how to design and implement the feedback and debriefing components of deliberate-practice-based educational interventions. using simulation-based training for adult and pediatric advanced life support as case studies, this article focuses on how to prepare learners for feedback and debriefing by establishing a supportive yet challenging learning environment; how to implement educational interventions that maximize opportunities for deliberate practice with feedback and reflection during debriefing; describing the role of within-event debriefing or "microdebriefing" (i.e., during a pause in the simulation scenario or during ongoing case management without interruption), as a strategy to promote performance improvement; and highlighting directions for future research in feedback and debriefing for mastery learning. a thematic analysis revealed five themes: 1) supervision and assessment skills were acquired passively through modelling, 2) the training available in these areas is variably used, creating a diversity of comfort levels, 3) competing priorities in the emergency department represent significant barriers to improving supervision and assessment; 4) providing negative feedback is difficult and often avoided; and 5) competence by design will act as an impetus for formal curriculum development in these areas. as programs transition to competence by design, there will be a need for formal training in supervision and assessment, with a focus on negative feedback, to achieve a standardized level of competence among emergency physicians. 
Can multiple SNP testing in BRCA2 and BRCA1 female carriers be used to improve risk prediction models in conjunction with clinical assessment? [SEP] recent studies have found direct associations between specific snps and breast cancer in brca1/2 mutation carriers. we evaluated the association of this snp with ovarian cancer risk among brca1 or brca2 mutation carriers by use of data from the consortium of investigators of modifiers of brca1/2. we assessed the associations of these prs with breast and prostate cancer risks for male brca1 and brca2 pathogenic variant carriers. a cohort of 1,019 brca1 and 500 brca2 mutation carriers were genotyped for 99 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snp) in 13 genes. the best fit for the association of snp rs13387042 at 2q35 with breast cancer risk was a dominant model for both brca1 and brca2 mutation carriers (brca1: hr = 1.14, 95% ci: 1.04-1.25, p = 0.0047; brca2: hr = 1.18 95% ci: 1.04-1.33, p = 0.0079). the lsp1 and 2q35 snps appear to interact multiplicatively on breast cancer risk for brca2 mutation carriers. we aimed to determine whether these predict breast cancer incidence in women with brca1/brca2 mutations. the 18 validated breast cancer snps differentiate breast cancer risks between women with brca2 mutations, but not brca1. it may now be appropriate to use these snps to help women with brca2 mutations make maximally informed decisions about management options. bc and oc prs are predictive of cancer risk in brca1 and brca2 carriers. 
Does a special interest in laparoscopy affect the treatment of acute cholecystitis? [SEP] a laparoscopy was undertaken and the dual pathologies of acute acalculous cholecystitis and acute appendicitis were discovered and a laparoscopic cholecystectomy and appendectomy were performed. over the past 4 years, laparoscopy has become the preferred approach for cholecystectomy in the majority of patients. most of the early articles described laparoscopic cholecystectomy for chronic cholecystitis or presented only a limited number of patients with an acute process. this paper reviews our experience with laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute and gangrenous cholecystitis. the length of stay for acute cholecystitis was significantly shorter for laparoscopy compared with the open method. laparoscopy was evaluated in critically ill patients with suspected acute cholecystitis, mesenteric ischemia, or gastrointestinal perforation. the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of surgical subspecialization on the outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. in patients with acute cholecystitis, a significant difference in conversion rate (3.6 vs. 15.6%, p = 0.003) and operating time (68 vs. 76 min, p = 0.02) favored the laparoscopic surgeons. patients who present with acute cholecystitis have a greater chance of a laparoscopically completed cholecystectomy if operated on by a laparoscopy-oriented surgeon. percutaneous cholecystostomy offers a potentially important type of therapy for critically ill patients with acute cholecystitis who present high risk when undergoing laparotomy or laparoscopy under general anesthesia. 
Can progression of valvar aortic stenosis be predicted accurately? [SEP] it was the aim of the present study to elaborate criteria for the assessment of rapid hemodynamic progression of valvar aortic stenosis. hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and clinical data of 169 men and 88 women with aortic stenosis, aged 55.2 +/- 15.7 years at their first and 63.4 +/- 15.6 years at their second cardiac catheterization, were analyzed. the progression rate of aortic valve obstruction was found to be dependent on the degree of valvar calcification ([vc] scoring 0 to iii) and to be exponentially correlated with the aortic valve opening area (ava) at initial catheterization. if ava decreases below 0.75 cm(2) with a present degree of vc = 0, or ava of 0.8 with vc of i, ava of 0.9 with vc of ii, or ava of 1.0 with vc of iii, it is probable that aortic stenosis will have to be operated upon in the following years. the present data indicate that for clinical purposes and planning of valvar surgery the progression of asymptomatic aortic stenosis can be sufficiently predicted by the present aortic valve opening area and the degree of valvar calcification. we present potentially useful equations to help predict the need for interventional catheterization for valvar aortic stenosis. we report our experience with asymptomatic valvar aortic stenosis diagnosed during infancy. during the period between november 1, 1986 and october 31, 1992 a total of 13 infants were diagnosed with asymptomatic aortic stenosis, 5 of whom showed rapid progression over the first 2 years of life. echocardiographic predictors of mitral stenosis included smaller mitral valvar annuluses, presence of a mean transmitral gradient between 2.5 and 5.0 mmhg, and elongation of the area of intervalvar fibrous continuity. predictors of aortic stenosis were smaller mitral valvar annuluses, an initial aortic valvar gradient between 15 and 20 mmhg, and obliteration of the commissure between the right and non-coronary leaflets of the aortic valve. 
Does automatic transmission improve driving behavior in older drivers? [SEP] the objective of this study was to investigate whether automatic transmission, compared with manual transmission, may improve the driving behavior of older drivers. however, and contrary to the younger drivers, automatic transmission improved the older participants' driving behavior as demonstrated by safer speed adjustment in urban areas, greater maneuvering skills, safer lane position and driving in accordance with the speed regulations. switching to automatic transmission may be recommended for older drivers as a means to maintain safe driving and thereby the quality of their transport mobility. this study tests the hypotheses that manual transmission, compared to automatic transmission, would be associated with better attention and performance on a driving simulator. subjectively, participants report being more attentive while driving in manual transmission mode. studies using self-reports, survey data, and hazard and risk perception tests have shown that driving behavior feedback can help older drivers assess their limitations and adjust their driving behavior. thus providing older drivers with tailored feedback of their driving behavior and crash risk could help them appropriately self-regulate their driving behavior, and improve their crash risk outcomes. by promoting self-regulation in individuals, it may be possible to help older adults continue to drive, thereby improving older adult's mobility and quality of life. the results suggest that the reduction in driving and avoidance of driving situations are separate types of self-regulatory behavior; that self-regulation of driving is an automatic process, in which older drivers are not aware that they are compensating for functional loss; and that it is important to acknowledge gender differences when designing interventions aimed at enhancing safe mobility. the potential implications on driving performance of older drivers and on driving cessation and are discussed. 
Birth characteristics and risk of low intellectual performance in early adulthood: are the associations confounded by socioeconomic factors in adolescence or familial effects? [SEP] there was a graded association between lower parental socioeconomic position in childhood and adolescence and higher systolic bp in adulthood for men and women in different birth cohorts and across different socioeconomic indicators. in this study we investigated whether the association between measures of fetal growth restriction and intellectual performance was mediated by socioeconomic or familial factors. compared with men born with appropriate birth weight for gestational age, men born light for gestational age suffered an increased risk of low intellectual performance after adjustment for maternal and socioeconomic factors. the increase in risk of low intellectual performance related to a decrease in birth weight for gestational age was similar between families and within families. men born short or with a small head circumference for gestational age were also at increased risk of low intellectual performance, both when adjusting for maternal and socioeconomic factors and within families. we found that all of the studied dimensions of restricted fetal growth are independently associated with increased risks of low intellectual performance and that these associations are only partly mediated by socioeconomic or familial factors. unfavorable childhood socioeconomic conditions were particularly associated with large artery atherosclerotic stroke in adulthood (odds ratio 2.13; 95% confidence interval 1.24-3.67). since low birth weight is associated with adult metabolic disease, particularly in obese subjects, the question emerges whether obesity has an additional negative effect on cognitive function in subjects with low birth weight. the aim was to analyse whether overweight or obesity influence intellectual performance in young adults with particular focus on those with a low birth weight. overweight and obesity are associated with an increased risk of subnormal intellectual performance in young adult males. 
Is scintigraphy a guideline method in determining amputation levels in diabetic foot? [SEP] in this study, we aimed to evaluate the potential use of a 3-phase bone scintigraphy method to determine the level of amputation on treatment cost, morbidity and mortality, reamputation rates, and the duration of hospitalization in diabetic foot. patients underwent 3-phase bone scintigraphy using technetium-99m methylene diphosphonate, and the most distal site of the region displaying perfusion during the perfusion and early blood flow phase was marked as the amputation level. amputation level was determined by 3-phase bone scintigraphy, doppler ultrasound, and inspection of the infection-free clear region during surgery. we conclude that 3-phase bone scintigraphy prior to surgery could be a useful method to determine the amputation level in a diabetic foot. to identify the extent of risk factors for major and minor amputations in patients with diabetic foot ulcers. our aim was to investigate changes in the amputation rate in patients with dm at the karolinska university hospital in solna (ks) following the introduction of consensus guidelines for treatment and prevention of diabetic foot complications, and to identify risk groups of lower extremity amputations that should be targeted for preventive treatment. these findings indicate a reduced rate of major amputations in diabetic patients, which suggests an implementation of the consensus guidelines of foot care. the early and accurate diagnosis of diabetic foot complications can help reduce the incidence of infection-related morbidities, the need for and duration of hospitalization, and the incidence of major limb amputation. conventional radiography, computed tomography, nuclear medicine scintigraphy, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasonography, and positron emission tomography are the main procedures currently in use for the evaluation of diabetes-related foot complications. the present study is a review of the current concepts in imaging of diabetes-related foot complications and an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of each method. 
Is determination between complete and incomplete traumatic spinal cord injury clinically relevant? [SEP] two clinical scenarios-of complete and incomplete cervical spinal cord injuries-were given to determine local treatment policies. approximately 70% of neurosurgeons will admit patients with incomplete spinal cord injury immediately, but only 40% will admit patients with complete spinal cord injury immediately. at least two-thirds of spinal cord injury cases are anatomically incomplete, without complete spinal cord transection, although the initial injuries cause complete loss of sensory and motor functions. the recovery strategies for anatomically incomplete spinal cord injuries are relevant and may be applicable to traumatic brain injury and stroke. we present the results of a prospective study of 20 patients followed for one year who had presented with traumatic spinal cord injury involving initially acute neurological symptoms and cervical canal stenosis defined in the imaging by a torg ratio<0.8 and a medullary canal ratio>0.65, without vertebral fracture. however, the extent of spinal cord compression and its relationship to neurological recovery following traumatic thoracolumbar spinal cord injury is unclear. multivariate logistic regression identified mean spinal cord compression as independently influencing the likelihood of complete spinal cord injury (p < 0.01). the correlation between the radiological parameters and the spinal cord injury status classified into four categories, a (complete), b (incomplete), c (radiculopathy), and d (normal) was assessed. similar differences between complete and incomplete spinal cord injuries were seen for the other groups. incomplete spinal cord injuries result in lower healthcare costs compared with complete injuries across all groups during the first 2 years after injury. 
Improvements in survival of gynaecological cancer in the Anglia region of England: are these an effect of centralisation of care and use of multidisciplinary management? [SEP] the adoption of the 1999 guidance on gynaecological cancer, which included multidisciplinary case management and centralisation of surgery, resulted in a marked step-change improvement in survival of gynaecological cancer in an area of eastern england in 2000. to assess the effectiveness of centralisation of care for patients with gynaecological cancer. similarly, another meta-analysis of three studies assessing over 50,000 women, found that teaching centres or regional cancer centres may prolong survival in women with any gynaecological cancer compared to community or general hospitals (hr 0.91; 95% ci 0.84 to 0.99). we found low quality, but consistent evidence to suggest that women with gynaecological cancer who received treatment in specialised centres had longer survival than those managed elsewhere. research should also assess the quality of life associated with centralisation of gynaecological cancer care. we analysed the incidence, tumour types, management and outcome of gynaecological cancer diagnosed from 1995-2004 in females <21 years in south-west england. this systematic review assesses the effectiveness of centralisation of care for patients with gynaecological cancer, in particular, survival advantage. the meta-analysis provides evidence to suggest that women with gynaecological cancer who received treatment in specialised centres had longer survival than those managed elsewhere. the recommendation in 1999, by the national health service executive (nhse) that the management of gynaecological cancer be centralised, led to a reorganisation of services for women with gynaecological malignancies. the surgical management of epithelial ovarian cancer in the south west of england was studied in the two years 1997-1998 in order to determine the factors that influence the outcome of surgery and to provide a baseline from which to assess the effect of centralisation of cancer services. 
Do symptoms matter when considering patients for phase I clinical trials? [SEP] clinical symptoms were also assessed. interstitial cystitis symptom score changes in the phase pii treatment groups increased in a dose-dependent manner and showed an almost linear relationship with interstitial cystitis symptom score changes observed in placebo groups of 2 phase piii studies. appropriate guidelines for clinical trials in irritable bowel syndrome are needed because of the inadequacy of previously performed trials, the use of new and more adequate patient definition, new emerging pathophysiological models and the unique requirements related to the assessment of treatment outcome that, in the absence of a biological marker, can rely only on the evaluation of clinical manifestations. (e) patients eligible for inclusion should comply with the rome ii diagnostic criteria for irritable bowel syndrome. to focus on instruments and endpoints that have been used to evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic agents in functional dyspepsia (fd) trials, also considering the newly defined rome iii fd criteria. we examined patient-reported symptom severity and symptom interference with activity- (waw: work, general activity, walking) and mood-(rem: relations with others, enjoyment of life, mood) related functioning, and their association with factors known to influence symptom severity reporting, in early-phase clinical trials clinic patients. patients completed the validated md anderson symptom inventory, containing 13 severity items and six interference items, each rated on a 0-10 scale (higher scores = worse symptom severity/interference). in 248 phase i patients (51% female, 90% ecog 0-1, and 74% ≤65 years), 67% of patients had ≥seven concurrent symptoms of any severity level, and 51% of patients described ≥three concurrent symptoms as moderate-to-severe (severity rating ≥ 5). composite symptom severity, waw and rem were worse in patients with ecog-ps ≥ 2 vs. 0-1, and worse in patients with ecog-ps = 1 than in patients with ecog-ps = 0. the variation of symptom burden by performance status and age suggest that these factors need to be considered in the design of early-phase trials, particularly if patient-reported symptoms are used as primary/secondary/exploratory endpoints. 
Is vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency related to the development of osteochondritis dissecans? [SEP] the aim of this prospective pilot study was to analyse whether vitamin d insufficiency, or deficiency, might be a contributing etiological factor in the development of an ocd lesion. osteochondritis dissecans is a form of osteochondrosis limited to the articular epiphysis and the relationship of osteochondritis dissecans and discoid lateral meniscus has been clearly identified. meniscal or ligamentous anomalies of the knee may be associated with osteochondritis dissecans. we have previously demonstrated that juveniles diagnosed with osteochondritis dissecans (ocd) have a high prevalence of vitamin d deficiency. moreover, there is evidence that ocd might be related to vitamin d deficiency in general. several aetiological theories have been proposed for the development of osteochondritis dissecans. we hypothesise that the fluoroquinolone therapy disrupted normal endochondral ossification, resulting in development of osteochondritis dissecans. the aetiology of osteochondritis dissecans is still unclear, and this case describes an association between fluoroquinolone use and osteochondritis dissecans development. the incidence of osteoarthritis following osteochondritis dissecans is 0.39 (95% ci 0.19-0.59). in osteochondritis dissecans, the disease originates in the subchondral bone and secondarily affects the articular cartilage. 
Do episodic migraineurs selectively attend to headache-related visual stimuli? [SEP] to assess pain-related attentional biases among individuals with episodic migraine. limited research has implicated attentional biases among chronic headache patients, but no studies have been conducted among episodic migraineurs, who comprise the overwhelming majority of the migraine population. three hundred and eight participants (mean age = 19.2 years [standard deviation = 3.3]; 69.5% female; 36.4% minority), consisting of 84 episodic migraineurs, diagnosed in accordance with international classification of headache disorders (2(nd) edition) criteria using a structured diagnostic interview, and 224 non-migraine controls completed a computerized dot probe task to assess attentional bias toward headache-related pictorial stimuli. given modest evidence of attentional biases among chronic headache samples, these findings suggest potential differences in attentional processing between chronic and episodic headache subforms. recent research has revealed abnormal visual-spatial attention in migraineurs in between headache attacks. people with migraine headache have altered interictal visual sensory-level processing in between headache attacks. here we examined the extent to which these migraine abnormalities may extend into higher visual processing such as implicit evaluative analysis of visual images in between migraine events. our results suggest migraineurs have abnormal implicit evaluative processing of visual stimuli. our findings show that visual processing is differentially altered depending on migraine cycle and type. patients with migraine present alterations in feedback and feedforward visual signaling that differ with the presence of headache. 
Mitral replacement or repair for functional mitral regurgitation in dilated and ischemic cardiomyopathy: is it really the same? [SEP] surgical management of mitral valve regurgitation in dilated cardiomyopathy may carry a high risk and can be very challenging. clinical outcome of mitral valve surgery in non-ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy compares well with cardiac transplantation in the early-to-intermediate term, but the long-term results are less satisfactory. mitral valve operation can give satisfying survival and good palliation of dilated cardiomyopathy. unfortunately, mitral valve surgery for mitral regurgitation (mr) in patients with advanced dilated cardiomyopathy is generally associated with a high operative risk and a poor outcome. from september 1998 to may 2001, 24 consecutive patients (mean age 65.7 +/- 11.0 years) with mr > 2+ and advanced dilated cardiomyopathy (left ventricular ejection fraction < 0.35) underwent mitral repair (n = 11) or replacement (n = 13). whether mild ischemic mitral regurgitation should be repaired at the time of either coronary artery bypass grafting or surgical ventricular restoration is controversial. dilated cardiomyopathy is often complicated by severe mitral regurgitation (mr) caused by dilation of the annulus. the intermediate-term outcome of mitral reconstruction in 15 patients who had ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy with mitral regurgitation requiring surgical intervention was studied. functional mitral regurgitation is common in ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. surgical approaches and technical outcomes of mitral repair in ischemic mitral regurgitation are illustrated in 5 patients using operative images and echocardiograms. 
Do nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles exist? [SEP] to study whether nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles truly exist. we conducted a reevaluation of pathology and ploidy in 19 putative nontriploid partial hydatidiform moles using standardized histologic diagnostic criteria and repeat flow cytometric testing by the hedley technique. of 23 specimens originally diagnosed as complete hydatidiform mole (cm), 21 were diploid, and two were aneuploid (nontriploid/tetraploid). of 22 partial hydatidiform moles (pms), 20 were triploid, and two were diploid. five patients had an initial complete hydatidiform mole followed by a partial hydatidiform mole; two developed persistent post-molar disease after the partial mole. two patients had repetitive partial hydatidiform mole, and neither developed post-molar disease. two hundred two hydatidiform moles were classified by pathologic features and ploidy into partial or complete moles. among 51 partial hydatidiform moles, 44 triploids, two tetraploids, and one diploid were identified. informative triploid partial hydatidiform moles had one maternal and two paternal sets of chromosomes, the likely origin being dispermy. a case of partial hydatidiform mole diagnosed by histologic findings was revealed to be complete hydatidiform mole by deoxyribonucleic acid fingerprinting. 
Is cholecystectomy really an indication for concomitant splenectomy in mild hereditary spherocytosis? [SEP] the british committee for standards in haematology currently recommends concomitant splenectomy in children with mild hereditary spherocytosis (hs) undergoing cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones. the advice to perform a concomitant splenectomy in children with mild hs undergoing cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones needs revisiting. accordingly, this review marshals the evidence favouring a conservative approach to splenectomy in spherocytosis. we present the case of single incision laparoscopic surgical (sils) concomitant splenectomy and cholecystectomy performed with conventional laparoscopic instruments in an 11-year-old girl with the diagnosis of hereditary spherocytosis. our experience shows that sils splenectomy and cholecystectomy is feasible even in young children and despite the small number of cases in the world, we consider the combined laparoscopic approach safe and effective for the treatment of hereditary spherocytosis. all patients less than 18 years old with hereditary spherocytosis who underwent splenectomy without cholecystectomy at our institution during the past 27 years were included in this study. prophylactic cholecystectomy at the time of splenectomy is not indicated in patients with hereditary spherocytosis who do not have gallstones. in conclusion, we present a combined laparoscopic cholecystectomy and splenectomy for hereditary spherocytosis associated with splenomegaly, cholelithiasis, and cholecystitis. expert guidelines recommend performing synchronous splenectomy in patients with mild hereditary spherocytosis (hs) and symptoms of gallstone disease. we report our experience with seven patients (one male and six female, average age 12 years) who underwent combined laparoscopic splenectomy and cholecystectomy for hereditary spherocytosis. 
Does surgery or radiation therapy impact survival for patients with extrapulmonary small cell cancers? [SEP] we report 18 patients with extrapulmonary small-cell carcinoma, which we regard as a distinct clinicopathologic entity. another patient with small-cell carcinoma in a cervical lymph node metastasis has survived more than 7 years after receiving radiation as the only modality of therapy. an association between smoking and extrapulmonary small-cell carcinoma is postulated. extrapulmonary small-cell cancer is a distinct clinicopathological entity from small-cell anaplastic carcinoma of the lung. the majority of patients with extrapulmonary small-cell neoplasms have only been treated with local modalities of therapy, surgery, radiation, or a combination of both. lastly, recommendations for therapy of patients with regionally confined extrapulmonary small-cell cancer by primary site are outlined. surgery has only a limited role in the management of small-cell lung cancer. epscc extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma is diagnosed by demonstrating pathologic features of small cell carcinoma in an extrapulmonary site. to help radiologists increase their familiarity with epscc extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma , this article provides (a) a background for epscc extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma based on the literature and (b) a pictorial review of epscc extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma in multiple organs, with radiologic-pathologic correlation. management of early stages non-small cell lung carcinoma has traditionally been surgery with radiation selected for medically inoperable patients. 
MR Diagnosis of Bone Metastases at 1.5 T and 3 T: Can STIR Imaging Be Omitted? [SEP] to date, no prospective comparative study of the diagnostic value of stir versus t1-weighted (t1w) sequences at both 1.5 t and 3 t has been performed with special focus on the detectability of bone metastases. 212 oncological patients had a whole-body mri at 1.5 t and/or at 3 t. the standard protocol comprised stir and t1w sequences. in 53% (38/72) of all patients, stir detected fewer bone metastases in comparison with t1w at 3 t. at 1.5 t, stir showed inferior results in 37.5 % (18/48) of all patients. qualitative analysis indicated a significantly better lesion conspicuity, lesion delineation and an improved image quality on t1w compared to stir imaging at both field strengths (p < 0.05) with similar results for t1w at 1.5 t and 3 t, but inferior results for stir especially at 3 t. the whole-body mri protocol for the detection of bone metastases could safely be limited to the t1w sequence in adults, especially at 3 t. there is no need for an additional stir sequence. in a routine mr protocol, t1w imaging is sufficient for the detection of bone metastases. stir is inferior to t1w in the detection of metastases, especially at 3 t. the mr characteristics that had significant (p<or=0.05) associations with metastases were homogeneous low t1-signal intensity, homogeneous high stir-signal intensity, and heterogeneous pattern on t1, stir, or gad. normal stir images allow contrast-enhanced t1-weighted images for detection of bone marrow abnormalities to be omitted, whereas further imaging is needed in case of abnormal stir images. to evaluate the usefulness of in-phase/opposed-phase and short ti inversion recovery (stir) magnetic resonance imaging (mri) of bone marrow for differentiation between benign and malignant vertebral compression fractures. diffusion-weighted imaging appears to be equal, if not superior, to stir and t1-weighted se sequences and equally as effective as (11)c-choline pet/ct in detection of bone metastases in these patients. 
Histologic evaluation of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome: is surgical management necessary? [SEP] there is controversy surrounding the optimal management of the testicular remnant associated with the vanishing testes syndrome. vanishing testis syndrome or testicular regression syndrome (trs) is defined as the absence or an incomplete development of the testis of varying degrees in 46xy patients with normal external genitalia.trs or vanishing testis syndrome may be seen in less than 5% of all patients of cryptorchidism. vanishing testes syndrome is often referred to as testicular regression syndrome (trs) in the recent medical literature. we reviewed histopathological studies of the testicular nubbins associated with the vanishing testis syndrome, and determined whether surgical removal is indicated based on the histological findings. between 1983 and 1997 a unilateral testicular nubbin consistent with a vanishing testis was excised in 29 patients an average of 28.6 months old. in this series testicular nubbins in vanishing testes contained no viable testicular tissue. the testis was absent twice as often on the left side, the solitary testis was hypertrophic in 25 of 42 boys in whom it was evaluated, and tissue grossly or histologically consistent with a testicular 'nubbin' was removed in 52 boys. physical examination or scrotal exploration demonstrates tissue nubbins or small nodules that constitute the vanishing testis syndrome. although published studies suggest the risk for future tumor development is low, possibly absent, the definitive removal of a testicle is established by an awareness of the histologic spectrum exhibited by testicular remnants. three testes were considered as vanishing and in two patients (two testes) due to previous surgical exploration elsewhere testicular remnants were totally atrophic and were resected with the adjacent vas. 
Does pain intensity predict a poor opioid response in cancer patients? [SEP] the aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that initial pain intensity is not a predictive factor of poor opioid response in advanced cancer patients, as suggested by a recent work. a prospective study was carried out on a cohort of consecutive cancer patients who were receiving opioids but had an unacceptable balance between analgesia and adverse effects, despite symptomatic treatment of side effects. intensity of pain and symptoms associated with opioid therapy were recorded. we examined whether cancer patients taking opioids differ in their sensitivity to a clinical pain stimulus using a local anesthetic injection compared to those not taking opioids. the results of this study suggest that opioid medication is an important contributing factor to pain perception accompanying la injection, and cancer patients using high-dose opioids may be highly susceptible to hyperalgesic responses to this clinical stimulus. the aim of this study was to prospectively assess the prognostic value of initial pain intensity and its duration in advanced cancer patients. an international, multicentre, cross-sectional study with 604 adult patients with cancer pain using who step iii opioids. cancer patients with pain may not respond to increasing doses of opioids because they develop adverse effects before achieving an acceptable analgesia, or the analgesic response is poor, despite a rapid dose escalation. opioid escalation, symptoms associated with opioid therapy, pain mechanism, and pain intensity were recorded. the tools used in this study may be useful in monitoring the effects of opioid therapy in cancer pain patients. 
Do prerecorded lecture VODcasts affect lecture attendance of first-yearpre-clinical Graduate Entry to Medicine students? [SEP] there is increasing concern amongst educators that the provision of recorded lectures may reduce student attendance of live lectures. we therefore sought to determine if the provision of prerecorded lecture video podcasts (vodcasts) to first-year graduate entry to medicine (gem) students, affected attendance at 21 physiology lectures within three separate pre-clinical modules. data on lecture attendance, utilization of vodcasts, and whether vodcasts should replace live lectures were drawn from three surveys conducted in academic years 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 on all first-year gem students in two first-year pre-clinical modules where prerecorded physiology vodcasts were available for viewing or downloading prior to scheduled live lectures. therefore, we conclude that the attendance of pre-clinical gem students at live lectures is not significantly impacted upon by the provision of lecture vodcasts, with most students viewing them as useful revision tools rather than as a replacement for live lectures. in the present study, we investigated the influence of lecture attendance on the exam success. this study presents quantitative and qualitative data relating to attendance at non-compulsory plenary lectures in order to understand factors affecting the value placed by students on this component of the first 2 years of a contemporary medical curriculum. this study aims to determine those factors which affect the lecture attendance. this study was designed to identify factors in student decisions to attend live lectures, ways in which students use recorded lectures, and if their use affects live lecture attendance. a total of 213 first (m1) and second year (m2) medical students completed a survey about lecture attendance, and rated factors related to decisions to attend live lectures and to utilize recorded lectures. lectures, both live and recorded, are important for student learning. 
Is there an intrauterine influence on obesity? [SEP] this review summarizes evidence that the intrauterine environment influences the risk of later obesity and considers the mechanisms by which this may occur. the association between birth weight and adult weight suggests that there are enduring effects of the intrauterine environment on later obesity risk. we examine whether the maternal factors of diabetes, obesity, and pregnancy weight gain alter the intrauterine environment and thereby increase the risk of later obesity in the offspring. this review addresses the increasingly prolific literature from studies in man and animals suggesting that maternal obesity, a diet rich in calories or excess gestational weight gain may, through perturbation of the intrauterine environment, lead to lifelong risk of obesity and related disorders in the child. in this paper, we review the effect of diet, the intrauterine environment, and the genetic inheritance on obesity. 2012;176(2):83-92) investigate whether the intrauterine environment plays a role in the development of adiposity by comparing the association between maternal prepregnancy body mass index (bmi; measured as weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared) and offspring bmi at 3 years of age with the paternal-offspring association at the same age in the norwegian mother and child cohort study. while these associations are partly mediated by shared genes and behaviors, the abundance of human evidence, supported by extensive data from experimental animal studies, suggests that intrauterine exposure to an obese intrauterine environment programs offspring obesity risk by influencing appetite, metabolism, and activity levels. the intrauterine environment may influence the development of obesity, but as yet, the long-term effect of growth in utero is unclear. findings are consistent with a long-term effect of intrauterine environment on adiposity, possibly through fetal nutrition, although other mechanisms should be investigated in future studies of obesity. maternal obesity offers an altered genetic, hormonal and biochemical environment for the developing fetus/embryo and influences fetal growth and organ development. 
Assessing Patient Reported Outcomes Measures via Phone Interviews Versus Patient Self-Survey in the Clinic: Are We Measuring the Same Thing? [SEP] a convenience sample of patients presenting to an urban public hospital diabetes clinic was surveyed and contacted by phone 6 months later. over the years, surveys have become powerful tools for assessing a wide range of outcomes among patients. using a contextualized version of the consumer assessment of healthcare providers and systems (cahps) hospital survey, data was collected through either a phone interview, face to face interview or self-administered questionnaire. variations in response between phone interview and self-administered questionnaire accounted for 87.5% of the observed differences. our purpose was to: (1) assess the level of consistency between the quality-of-life (qol) scores of men with prostate cancer for urinary/bowel/sexual bother, collected via telephone versus self-administered survey; (2) determine factors associated with variation in level of agreement; and (3) assess the efficacy of telephone interview as a mode of administration against the "gold standard" tool, epic-26. more research is required to determine the differences between self-administered and telephone interviews in men with prostate cancer. we conducted a randomized trial of patients discharged from the inpatient medicine service of an urban teaching hospital to compare telephone interview with mailed self-administration of a detailed instrument for measuring patients' experiences with hospital care. patients then were randomized to receive a 116-item satisfaction survey via one of two survey methods: mail-first (mailed surveys with follow-up on nonrespondents by telephone) or telephone-first (telephone interviews with follow-up of nonrespondents by mail). in this survey of patients served by an urban teaching hospital, a strategy of telephone interviews with mail follow-up proved less expensive and yielded a higher response rate with more complete data than using a method where mailed surveys were followed by back-up telephone interviews. in addition, we believe that the improved response rate for telephone interviews compared with those reported in the literature for similar populations is the result of informing inpatients of the survey and obtaining telephone numbers and addresses in the hospital. 
Is cytokeratin immunoreactivity useful in the diagnosis of short-segment Barrett's oesophagus in Korea? [SEP] cytokeratin 7/20 staining has been reported to be helpful in diagnosing barrett's oesophagus and gastric intestinal metaplasia. to determine the diagnostic usefulness of cytokeratin 7/20 immunostaining for short-segment barrett's oesophagus in korea. barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern was observed in 28 out of 36 cases (77.8%) with short-segment barrett's oesophagus, 11 out of 28 cases (39.3%) with intestinal metaplasia at the cardia, and nine out of 61 cases (14.8%) with gastric intestinal metaplasia. barrett's cytokeratin 7/20 pattern can be a useful marker for the diagnosis of short-segment barrett's oesophagus, although the false positive or false negative rate is approximately 25%. cytokeratin (ck) 7 and 20 phenotypes differentiate intestinal metaplasia in long segment barrett's oesophagus from gastric intestinal metaplasia. ck7/20 immunoreactivity for patients with intestinal metaplasia of the distal oesophagus without long segment barrett's oesophagus suggests a heterogeneous group, with an association between barrett's ck7/20 pattern and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease in both short segment barrett's and intestinal metaplasia of the gastro-oesophageal junction. seventy-nine patients who had undergone upper digestive endoscopy were recruited: 16 had short-segment barrett's oesophagus, 13 had long-segment barrett's oesophagus, 25 had grade iii oesophagitis according to the savary-miller classification and 25 were used as controls. to study distal oesophagus function, and acid and bile exposure in patients with long segment (>3 cm), short segment (1 to 2 cm) and ultra-short segment (<1 cm) barrett's oesophagus, and in patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease without intestinal metaplasia. cytokeratin (ck) 7 and 20 patterns are specific for long and short segments of barrett's oesophagus but their use has not been assessed in intestinal metaplasia arising in macroscopically normal gastro-oesophageal junction (goj). in patients presenting with intestinal metaplasia in normal appearing goj, the cytokeratin pattern identifies two groups of patients, one with features identical to those of long segment barrett's oesophagus and one with features seen in h pylori gastritis. 
Is routine dissection of the station 9 lymph nodes really necessary for primary lung cancer? [SEP] mediastinal lymph node dissection is an essential component of lung cancer surgery; however, choosing mediastinal lymph nodes stations to be dissected is subjective. we carried out this research to investigate the need for dissection of station 9 lymph nodes during lung cancer surgery. routine dissection of station 9 lymph nodes may not be necessary, especially in patients with a low t stage, upper or middle lobe tumors, or without intrapulmonary lymph node metastasis. the aim of the study was to assess if systematic nodal dissection is necessary in order to stage non-small cell lung cancer correctly or whether mediastinal lymph node sampling can be used and whether in selected cases it could replace systematic nodal dissection for the treatment of lung cancer. it remains unknown whether dissecting the intrapulmonary lymph nodes (stations 13 and 14) when resecting peripheral non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) is necessary for accurate tumor node metastasis (tnm) staging. this study investigated intrapulmonary lymph node dissection (stations 13 and 14) on the pathological staging of peripheral nsclc and the metastatic pattern of the lymph nodes.this retrospective study included patients with primary peripheral nsclc who underwent radical dissection between january 2013 and december 2015. in patients with early-stage non-small cell lung cancer, surgery offers the best chance of cure when a complete resection, including mediastinal lymph node dissection, is performed. with the popularity of minimally invasive techniques, preoperatively determining whether mediastinal lymph node dissection (mld) is necessary for patients with cn1/2 nonsmall cell lung cancer (nsclc) has sparked controversy once again. mediastinal lymph node dissection is an essential component of lung cancer surgery. we conducted this study to investigate the need for dissection of station 9 lymph nodes during upper lobectomy for non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) and to find out the operative results of inferior pulmonary ligament division. 
Cutaneous melanoma in a multiethnic population: is this a different disease? [SEP] cutaneous melanoma in nonwhite persons has a manifestation and a prognosis that are different than those of cutaneous melanoma in white persons. the anatomic distribution between the 2 populations was significantly different (p<.001), with a high incidence of melanoma on the sole and subungual locations and a substantially less frequent occurrence on the head and neck, trunk, and extremities in the nonwhite population when compared with the white population. in a multiethnic population, cutaneous melanoma in nonwhite persons is unusual but not rare. acral cutaneous melanoma has peculiar epidemiological features in the spanish population. during the past several decades, there has been a substantial increase in the incidence of cutaneous melanoma among all caucasian populations. trends in melanoma incidence worldwide are examined. the incidence and age-specific rates of cutaneous, ocular and visceral melanoma were compared in blacks, whites and other ethnic groups using data obtained from the surveillance, epidemiology and end results (seer) program of the national cancer institute for the years 1973-2001. in all three racial/ethnic groups, age-specific rate patterns were different between cutaneous, ocular and visceral melanoma, suggesting a different pathogenesis. the worldwide incidence of cutaneous melanoma (cm) has been continuously increasing over the last decades. we aimed to compare the differences in demographic features, clinicopathologic features, and survival in patients with vulvar/vaginal melanoma versus cutaneous melanoma with a special emphasis on race. 
Marital status, living arrangement and mortality: does the association vary by gender? [SEP] evaluation of living arrangements is crucial for identifying and explaining gender differences in mortality risks by marital status. in a follow-up study of 1265 women and men aged 50, 60 and 70 years, we analysed how mortality was associated with cohabitation status (living alone/not living alone), living with/without a partner, and marital status respectively. we suggest that in future studies of social relations and mortality, cohabitation status is considered to replace marital status as this variable may account for more of the variation in mortality. it is well known that marital status is significantly associated with mortality risk. marital status and living arrangements, along with changes in these in mid-life and older ages, have implications for an individual's health and mortality. the results demonstrate greater fatality associated with living alone in men and suggest that cohabitation in midlife may be associated with a greater fatality risk in women. mortality risk for older persons is associated with marital status and living arrangements, for example, living alone, with a spouse, with others but without a spouse, or in a collective household. this study compares the marital history and living arrangement trajectory of centenarians with people who did not live as long to determine associated mortality risks confirming that men are often not able to live by themselves, whereas women seem to have few problems to manage on their own. we study the role of marital status and living arrangements in mortality among a 50+ population living in europe by gender and welfare states. in the first half, living arrangement was not significantly associated with mortality for men, and marital status and job were not for women, but in the later half, the association of those became apparent. 
Does somatostatin confer insulinostatic effects of neuromedin u in the rat pancreas? [SEP] aim of our current study is to investigate the role of somatostatin at mediating the effects of nmu on insulin secretion. neuromedin u reduced insulin secretion from in situ perfused rat pancreas and stimulated somatostatin secretion from isolated pancreatic islets. neuromedin u stimulated somatostatin secretion at both physiological and supraphysiological glucose concentrations. cyclosomatostatin increased insulin secretion and reduced nmu-induced inhibition of insulin secretion. neuromedin u reduces insulin and increases somatostatin secretion. blockade of somatostatin action abolishes the inhibition of insulin secretion by nmu. the results of the study suggest that somatostatin mediates the inhibitory action of nmu on insulin secretion. studies on isolated pancreatic islets suggest that neuromedin u (nmu), a brain and gastrointestinal peptide, acts as a decretin hormone, inhibiting glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. moreover, nmu neither changed insulin, glucagon, or somatostatin secretion from isolated perfused rat pancreas, nor affected glp-1-stimulated insulin and somatostatin secretion. in the perfused rat pancreas, infusion of urotensin-ii (uii), a somatostatin-like peptide, inhibits glucose-induced insulin secretion. 
Kell alloimmunization in pregnancy: associated with fetal thrombocytopenia? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence and clinical significance of fetal thrombocytopenia in pregnancies complicated by kell alloimmunization. in this retrospective cohort study, fetal platelet counts were performed in 42 pregnancies with severe kell alloimmunization prior to the first intrauterine blood transfusion. in contrast to fetuses with severe anaemia and hydrops due to rhd alloimmunization, fetuses with severe anaemia due to kell alloimmunization are generally not at risk for substantial thrombocytopenia. to evaluate the usefulness of the obstetric history and the maternal serum kell antibody titer in the management of pregnancies with kell alloimmunization. in a retrospective cohort study of 41 pregnancies complicated by kell alloimmunization, the obstetric history, divided into presence or absence of a previous kell-positive child, and kell antibody titers in the index pregnancy were correlated with the gestational age at the onset of fetal anemia. in this prospective study, 27 fetuses at risk for anemia due to kell alloimmunization were evaluated with ultrasound and doppler imaging. few reports have been published of the current clinical management of anti-kell alloimmunization in pregnancy; its low frequency of occurrence means that the few long series published have covered very ample time periods in which different kinds of clinical management have overlapped. fetal/neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia results from a maternal alloimmunization against fetal platelet antigens. anti-kell alloimmunisation is an uncommon cause of serious anaemia in a significant proportion of affected pregnancies. our purpose was to test the hypothesis that maternal anti-kell alloimmunization produces fetal anemia by erythroid suppression. 
Application of computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) in MR-mammography (MRM): do we really need whole lesion time curve distribution analysis? [SEP] we describe the implementation in several italian hospitals of a computer aided detection (cad) system, named gpcalma (grid platform for a computer aided library in mammography), for the automatic search of lesions in x-ray mammographies. an application of an unsupervised neural network-based computer-aided diagnosis (cad) system is reported for the detection and characterization of small indeterminate breast lesions, average size 1.1 mm, in dynamic contrast-enhanced mri. in this paper, we compare the conventional segmentation analysis with unsupervised classification for the evaluation of signal intensity time courses for the differential diagnosis of enhancing lesions in breast mri. the results suggest that the computerized analysis system based on unsupervised clustering has the potential to increase the diagnostic accuracy of mri mammography for small lesions and can be used as a basis for computer-aided diagnosis of breast cancer with mr mammography. the aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of a dedicated software tool for automated volume measurement of breast lesions in contrast-enhanced (ce) magnetic resonance mammography (mrm). the volume of all lesions was measured automatically (avm) from ce 3d mrm examinations by means of a computer-aided detection (cad) system and compared with the size estimates based on maximum diameter measurement (mdm) on mrm, ultrasonography (us), mammography and histopathology. to explore the clinical value of 3.0t magnetic resonance (mr) imaging compared with computer-aided mr diagnosis (mr-cad) in differential diagnosis of benign and malignant breast tumors. mri method and mr-cad method was used in the diagnosis of a total of 93 breast lesions of 78 patients, based on the morphological and time-intensity-curve (tic) analysis. the present study aimed to determine suitable optimal classifiers and investigate the general applicability of computer-aided diagnosis (cad) to compare magnetic resonance (mr)-cad with mr imaging (mri) in distinguishing benign from malignant solid breast masses. the aim of this study was to evaluate imaging-based response to standardized neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nact) regimen by dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance mammography (dce-mrm), whereas mr images were analyzed by an automatic computer-assisted diagnosis (cad) system in comparison to visual evaluation. 
Vaccine protection in the elderly: are Austrian seniors adequately protected by vaccinations? [SEP] this analysis examines the potential for the elderly to receive indirect protection from pneumonia and influenza (p&i) from vaccination of children. the consistent associations between influenza in the elderly and vaccination coverage in children suggest that routine vaccination of children may impart some indirect protection to the elderly. due to decreasing immunity, re-vaccination of youngsters and adults is recommended and is also considered for seniors 60 years and over. routine immunization of seniors against pertussis every ten years yields a high level of protection of older individuals, and at the same time contributes to epidemiological control of pertussis in the population. the age-associated increased susceptibility to infectious disease would suggest that vaccination should be a route to promote healthy aging and keep our seniors autonomous and independent. in this review, the current burden of vaccine-preventable diseases in the aging and aged population will be detailed with the aim to identify the ideal vaccine candidates over the age of 50 years. we investigated trends in influenza-related mortality among the elderly population in italy associated with increased vaccination coverage. these findings suggest that either the vaccine failed to protect the elderly against mortality (possibly due to immune senescence), and/or the vaccination efforts did not adequately target the frailest elderly. this study assessed the immunogenicity and safety of hepatitis a vaccine in elderly compared to young adults. influenza vaccination of elderly people has been shown to be useful. 
Vitamin D supplementation and regulatory T cells in apparently healthy subjects: vitamin D treatment for autoimmune diseases? [SEP] vitamin d may prevent autoimmunity by stimulating naturally occurring regulatory t cells. this immunomodulatory effect of vitamin d might underlie the associations of vitamin d deficiency and autoimmune diseases. we selected studies on the environmental, genetic and epidemiologic association of vitamin d with autoimmune diseases. basic, genetic, and epidemiological studies indicate a potential role of vitamin d in the prevention of autoimmune diseases, but randomized and controlled trials are necessary to establish the clinical efficacy of vitamin d supplementation in ill or at-risk subjects. supplementation with vitamin d, which has immune-regulatory properties, may support our therapies and improve the outcomes in different diseases. upcoming vitamin d supplementation trials will further elucidate the in vivo effects of vitamin d on the immune system and its potency to serve as an immune regulating agent in autoimmune diseases. epidemiological, genetic, and basic studies indicated a potential role of vitamin d in the pathogenesis of certain systemic and organ-specific autoimmune diseases. in this context, we address the rational for vitamin d supplementation in patients suffering from autoimmune diseases. this review discusses the accumulating evidence pointing to a link between vitamin d and autoimmunity. compared to vitamin d-deprived mice, its moderate supplementation reduced the severity of subsequent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, which was associated with an expansion of regulatory t cells. 
Gynecological cancer alarm symptoms: is contact with specialist care associated with lifestyle and socioeconomic status? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine the proportion of patients who were referred to specialist care after reporting gynecological cancer alarm symptoms to their general practitioner. we sought to investigate whether contact with specialist care was associated with lifestyle factors or socioeconomic status. the study included 25 866 nonpregnant women; 2957 reported the onset of at least one gynecological cancer alarm symptom, and 683 of these (23.1%) reported symptoms to their general practitioner. educational level influences contact with specialist care among patients with gynecological cancer alarm symptoms. a prerequisite for general practitioners (gps) being able to refer patients with gynecological cancer alarm symptoms for further investigations is that individuals present the symptoms to the gp. the aim of this study was to analyze associations between age, socioeconomic status, and common barriers ("being too embarrassed", "being too busy", "worried about wasting the doctors time" and "worried what the gp might find") towards gp contact with gynecological alarm symptoms. a web-based questionnaire regarding experience of four predefined alarm symptoms of gynecological cancer, decisions about contact to gps, and barriers towards gp contact was distributed. to determine the proportion of contacts to general practitioner (gp) with recent onset gynaecological cancer alarm symptoms (pelvic pain, postmenopausal bleeding, bleeding during intercourse or pain during intercourse) and to analyse the associations between lifestyle factors, socioeconomic status and gp contact for these symptoms. socioeconomic and demographic differences exist concerning knowledge and awareness of cancer alarm symptoms in the general population and socioeconomic differences are found in cancer incidence and survival. to analyse associations between health care seeking and socioeconomic and demographic factors among people reporting cancer alarm symptoms. 
Does elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae decrease peripheral thrombophlebitis? [SEP] the aim of this prospective randomised study was to investigate the effect of elective change of intravenous cannulae on the incidence of pvt in hospital in-patients. elective change of cannulae resulted in a significant reduction in the incidence of infusion phlebitis. a prospective, randomised, controlled clinical study was performed to compare the incidence and severity of postoperative peripheral venous thrombophlebitis associated with a single intravenous cannula used for both intra-operative and postoperative purposes, and two cannulae, one used intra-operatively and the other postoperatively. these results indicate that the use of a dedicated cannula for postoperative use decreases the incidence and severity of postoperative, peripheral, cannula-related phlebitis. this paper is a report of a study conducted to investigate the most suitable location of peripheral venous cannulae to reduce the incidence of thrombophlebitis. we evaluated the effect of elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae every 48 hours on the incidence and severity of pvt in patients receiving intravenous fluids/drugs. elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae every 48 hours results in a significant reduction in the incidence and severity of pvt. the frequency of peripheral intravenous cannulae without signs of thrombophlebitis increased by 21% (p < 0.01) and the use of cannula size 0.8 mm increased by 22% (p < 0.001). these results suggest that local application of topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory gel to cannula sites may have a significant role to play in the prevention of peripheral vein thrombophlebitis. limited scientific evidence suggests that elective replacement of peripheral intravenous catheters reduces the incidence and severity of thrombophlebitis. 
Can third trimester ultrasound predict the presentation of the first twin at delivery? [SEP] first trimester ultrasound, third trimester growth velocity and third trimester efw do not accurately predict the delivery of twins with discordant birthweight. the aim of this study was to describe a standard method of twin labeling in the first trimester of pregnancy and to assess the robustness of such a technique in predicting the presenting twin in subsequent scans and at delivery. in the first trimester, ultrasound allows to diagnose the number of multiples, chorionicity and amnionicity, the presence or absence of nuchal translucency, early growth discordance, severe malformations and the origin of activities and contacts between multiples. retrospective cohort study of twin pregnancies prior to 14 weeks at a single institution from 2005 to 2019, all of whom had a first trimester ultrasound. twenty-five twin pregnancies were discovered at delivery, 15 of them in the second stage of labour, and 27 were diagnosed accidentally in the third trimester. most twin pregnancies are detected only in the third trimester or at delivery. first twin presentation at early-third trimester had the same presentation at birth in 87.6% (360/411) of the study population. in the clinical care of a patient with twins, it is reasonably standard to confirm chorionicity with ultrasonography in the first or early second trimester. we conducted a retrospective study involving 196 twin pregnancies with an ultrasound examination between 18 and 25 weeks of gestation and one within 14 days prior to delivery. about two thirds of the twin pregnancies with a relevant bwd can be detected prior to delivery. 
Risk factors for major depression during midlife among a community sample of women with and without prior major depression: are they the same or different? [SEP] this study evaluated whether family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women above and beyond static risk factors (such as personal history of depression prior to midlife) and risks that may change dynamically across midlife (such as menopausal, psychosocial, and health profiles). random effects logistic regression was used to assess the relationship between family history of depression and midlife depression, controlling for baseline sociodemographic characteristics and time-varying risk factors. family history of depression was associated with midlife depression after adjusting for participant's history of major depression prior to midlife, trait anxiety and baseline age, and time-varying menopausal status, body mass index, very upsetting life events, and chronic difficulties (or = 2.24, 95% ci = 1.17-4.29, p = .02). higher odds of major depression were found when women were late perimenopausal or postmenopausal relative to when they were premenopausal or early perimenopausal (or = 3.01, 95% ci = 1.76-5.15, p < .0001). family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women independent of the menopausal transition and other time-varying covariates. this study aims to determine whether family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women independent of psychosocial and health profiles at midlife. family history of depression predicts major depression in midlife women generally, but particularly in those with a lifetime history of depression prior to midlife. women's vulnerability for a first lifetime-onset of major depressive disorder (mdd) during midlife is substantial. this study indicated several combined characteristics of midlife women at high risk for depressive symptoms that could provide directions for future interventions. studies reported sociodemographic, physical, psychological, cultural and sexual risk factors for depressive symptoms in middle-aged women. 
Totally implantable venous access device placement by interventional radiologists: are prophylactic antibiotics necessary? [SEP] a total of 30 implantable venous access devices (25 venous ports, five tunneled catheters) were placed by interventional radiologists. the purpose of this article is to familiarize the reader with the role of interventional radiology in the placement and management of intravascular or implantable access devices, with a focus on discussing indications for central venous catheter placement, implantation techniques, potential complications, and management of catheter dysfunction. the role of the interventional radiologist in the care of patients requiring placement of central venous access devices is rapidly evolving. with experience gained from diagnosing and treating central venous catheter-related complications, interventional radiologists are assuming an increasing role in the placement of these devices. with imaging guidance, catheter and guidewire skills, and a commitment to providing a clinical service that includes management of catheter malfunctions and complications, central venous access by the interventional radiologist has proven a safe and effective alternative to standard surgical techniques. to determine the rate of early infection for totally implantable venous access devices (tivads) placed without antibiotic prophylaxis. to determine if ending the practice of administering prophylactic antibiotics prior to the placement of totally implantable venous access devices (tivads) is correlated with an increase in 30-day bloodstream infection-related tivads removals. patients with cystic fibrosis who have totally implantable venous access devices often have other consequences of their multi-system disease which predispose them to catheter-associated systemic infection. establishing and maintaining venous access forms an increasing proportion of the workload in interventional radiology. technical efficacy and complications are documented and compared with surgical and radiologic series involving other long-term venous access devices. 
Starting insulin in type 2 diabetes: continue oral hypoglycemic agents? [SEP] however in type-2 diabetes, metformin with lifestyle modifications should be the first line therapy, thereafter combined with oral hypoglycemic agents or shifting to insulin gradually if diabetes remains uncontrolled. metformin is recommended to be prescribed with insulin as compared to oral hypoglycemic agents which should be discontinued while starting insulin. in total, we identified 2585 patients with incident cases of type 2 diabetes who began treatment with oral hypoglycemic agents between 1991 and 1997 and had a medication history of at least 2 years after diagnosis of diabetes. a change in treatment from oral hypoglycemic agents alone to insulin therapy (with or without continuation of oral hypoglycemic agents) was considered a proxy for deterioration of beta-cell function. in type 2 diabetes mellitus, oral hypoglycemic agents and analogues of glucagon-like peptide-1 provide adequate glycemic control early in the disease. further, some experts recommend electively starting insulin therapy in early diabetes. we compared the efficacy of insulin detemir and biphasic insulin aspart-30 given in the morning as an add-on to oral hypoglycemic agents in type 2 diabetes patients. this has led to the exploration of oral hypoglycemic agents as an alternative to insulin therapy. short-course insulin therapy with subsequent oral hypoglycemic agent could obviate the need for continuous insulin therapy in poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. to assess whether switching to insulin therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus is associated with medication refill compliance of oral hypoglycemic agents. 
Clinical identifiers for early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis: are we seeing the real picture? [SEP] adhesive capsulitis often is difficult to diagnose in its early stage and to differentiate from other commonly seen shoulder disorders with the potential to cause pain and limited range of movement. the purpose of this study was to establish consensus among a group of experts regarding the clinical identifiers for the first or early stage of primary (idiopathic) adhesive capsulitis. this is the first study to use the delphi technique to establish clinical identifiers indicative of the early stage of primary (idiopathic) adhesive capsulitis. although limited in differential diagnostic ability, these identifiers may assist the clinician in recognizing early-stage adhesive capsulitis and may inform management, as well as facilitate future research. to evaluate patients clinically diagnosed with early stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis to determine the existence of any pattern of movement loss and associated pain that may facilitate early recognition. fifty-two patients clinically diagnosed with early stage adhesive capsulitis by a medical practitioner or physiotherapist. the aim of this study was to validate any or all of the 8 clinical identifiers of early-stage primary/idiopathic adhesive capsulitis established in an earlier delphi study. none of the clinical identifiers for early-stage adhesive capsulitis previously proposed by expert consensus have been validated in this study. prompt recognition of stage 1 and stage 2 idiopathic adhesive capsulitis and early injection of corticosteroid with local anesthesia may be both diagnostic and therapeutic. demographic and clinical characteristics from a consecutive series of 41 patients diagnosed with early-stage adhesive capsulitis were recorded and examination with pdus was undertaken. 
Does delaying surgery in immature adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients with progressive curve, lead to addition of fusion levels? [SEP] this article reviews the diagnosis, cause, and treatment recommendations for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. to analyze the changes in the curve extent, pattern and the fusion level in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais) patients who undergo delayed surgery instead of early surgery. to report the feasibility, safety, and utility of vertebral body stapling without fusion as an alternative treatment for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. skeletally immature patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis are at risk for curve progression. a retrospective follow-up study of spine geometry after posterior instrumentation and fusion for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (ais). anterior fusion of the spine is often recommended for skeletally immature scoliotic patients to avoid the risk of a crankshaft phenomenon, a long-term loss of curve correction caused by residual growth of the spine combined with the constraints of a posterior fusion. spinal growth as indicated by an increase in spinal length can be measured in a significant proportion of adolescents with idiopathic scoliosis after posterior instrumentation and fusion. to compare the usefulness of supine side bending and traction radiographs in assessing curve flexibility and determining fusion levels in patients undergoing posterior spinal fusion for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. the selection of fusion levels in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is best determined by a combination of standing posteroanterior and lateral radiographs and the supine maximum voluntary bend films. sixteen months after surgery the patient underwent posterior spinal fusion to address her scoliosis progression during the growth spurt. 
Bactericidal activity of 3 cutaneous/mucosal antiseptic solutions in the presence of interfering substances: Improvement of the NF EN 13727 European Standard? [SEP] our objective was to suggest trial conditions adapted from the nf en 13727 standard, for the evaluation of antiseptics used in gynecology and dermatology. three antiseptic solutions were tested in vitro: a chlorhexidine-benzalkonium (cb) combination, a hexamidine-chlorhexidine-chlorocresol (hcc) combination, and povidone iodine (p). this study proved the possibility of validating antiseptic choice in vitro, in current practice conditions, for adjunctive treatment of skin and mucous membranes disorders, primarily of bacterial origin or with a potential of superinfection. in this study, the antibacterial and antifungal properties of the five most commonly used antiseptic formulations were evaluated in terms of different contact times and organic conditions. when the results of the five different active substances were quantitatively evaluated regarding their bactericidal and fun-gicidal activities, it was found that contact time and organic load significantly affected the antiseptic efficacy. evaluation of the biocidal activity of chemical disinfectants and antiseptics according to european standards (en) is based on determination of the reduction of the number of viable test microorganisms under defined conditions. the antimicrobial efficacy of antiseptics used in wound management is tested in vitro under standardised conditions according to din en 13727, with albumin and sheep erythrocytes used as organic challenge. the tested antiseptic agents were reduced to different extents based on their bactericidal efficacy, when challenged with human wound exudate compared with standardised conditions. we tested the in vitro bactericidal activity of four commonly used topical antiseptics against staphylococcus aureus, using a modified version of the european standard en 1276, a quantitative suspension test for evaluation of the bactericidal activity of chemical disinfectants and antiseptics. our procedures followed those specified by european norm (en) 12791 for evaluating surgical hand antiseptics and using cotton swab for fingertips and fingernails. 
Empiric treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection with fluoroquinolones in older women in Israel: another lost treatment option? [SEP] current guidelines for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uti) in women recommend empiric therapy with antibiotics for which local resistance rates do not exceed 10-20%. we hypothesized that resistance rates of escherichia coli to fluoroquinolones may have surpassed this level in older women in the israeli community setting. to identify age groups of women in which fluoroquinolones may no longer be appropriate for empiric treatment of uti. physicians who opt to treat uti in postmenopausal women empirically should consider prescribing drugs other than fluoroquinolones. the recommended first-line empiric therapies for acute uncomplicated bacterial cystitis in otherwise healthy adult nonpregnant females is a 5-day course of nitrofurantion or a 3-g single dose of fosfomycin tromethamine. the fluoroquinolones, in particular norfloxacin, have also been shown to be effective as prophylactic agents for patients with recurrent symptomatic urinary tract infections. treatment of acute pyelonephritis is less controversial and fluoroquinolones are recommended as first-line agents in the empiric treatment of community-acquired pyelonephritis. of concern, the increased use of fluoroquinolones for the treatment of utis and other infectious processes has resulted in an increasing prevalence of fluoroquinolone-resistant uropathogens worldwide. ciprofloxacin was the first member of the fluoroquinolone class of antibiotics to be widely available and is effective for the management of urinary tract infections. cases of women aged 18 to 75 with a diagnosis of acute cystitis or uti that were empirically treated with antibiotics from january 2001 to june 2002 were identified. 
Do risk calculators accurately predict surgical site occurrences? [SEP] patients with higher predicted risk scores in all measures except surgical site infection were found to have a statistically significant association with increased actual in-hospital costs (p < 0.0005).conclusionsprevious work has demonstrated that the acs nsqip surgical risk calculator can accurately predict mortality after neurosurgery but is poorly predictive of other potential adverse events and clinical outcomes. the nsqip calculator may not accurately predict the occurrence of surgical complications (as demonstrated previously), but future iterations of the acs universal risk calculator may be effective in predicting actual in-hospital costs, which could be advantageous in the current value-based healthcare environment. this study aims to determine if the risk calculator accurately predicts complications in acute care surgical patients undergoing laparotomy. this should be taken into account when using the risk calculator to predict postoperative risk in this population. patient preoperative risk factors were entered into the acs surgical risk calculator, and predicted outcomes were compared with actual morbidities. within the study population of patients with complications (n=104), the calculator accurately predicted an above average risk for 20.90% of serious complications. for surgical site infections, the average predicted risk for the study population was 3.30%; this prediction was proven only 24.39% accurate. while most frequent outcomes fall into general risk calculator categories, the difference in predicted versus actual complication rates indicates that this tool does not accurately predict outcomes in plastic surgery. the american college of surgeons risk calculator (acsrc) was created based on data from the national surgical quality improvement program to predict the risk of surgical complications on a patient-specific level. this study aimed to assess the predictive accuracy of the american college of surgeons' (acs) risk calculator in patients undergoing open ventral hernia repair (vhr). 
Can EMS Providers Provide Appropriate Tidal Volumes in a Simulated Adult-sized Patient with a Pediatric-sized Bag-Valve-Mask? [SEP] the tidal volumes recorded with the pediatric bvm were more consistent with lung-protective ventilation volumes. the adult bvm provided a mean tidal volume of 807.7ml versus the pediatric bvm providing 630.7ml, both of which exceeded the upper threshold of 560ml of tidal volume necessary for lung protective ventilation of an adult male with an ideal body weight of 70kg. small tidal volumes applied with a pediatric self-inflating bag and 100% oxygen resulted in adequate oxygenation and ventilation. our results indicate that smaller tidal volumes of about 8 ml x kg(-1) (approximately 600 ml), given with a new medium-size self-inflatable bag and room-air, maintained adequate carbon dioxide elimination and oxygenation during bag-valve-mask ventilation. lung tidal volumes were below the european resuscitation council recommendation with both self-inflatable bags in the bag-valve-face mask group (paediatric versus adult self-inflatable bag 256 +/- 77 ml versus 334 +/- 125 ml). esophageal tidal volumes were significantly (p < 0.05) lower using the paediatric self-inflatable bag in the bag-valve-face mask group; almost no gastric inflation occurred with the laryngeal mask airway, and none with the combitube. in conclusion, use of the paediatric self-inflating bag may reduce gastric inflation, but measured lung tidal volumes are below the european resuscitation council recommendation when used with either, the laryngeal mask airway, combitube, or bag-valve-face mask. tidal volumes, 4-point sealing forces of the mask, peak pressure, and c length of the c shape in the one-hand ec grip were measured using the mechanical lung model under a simulated adult respiratory arrest. the paediatric versus adult self inflating bag resulted with the laryngeal mask airway and combitube in significantly (p<0.001) lower mean (sem) lung tidal volumes (376 (30) v 653 (47) ml, and 368 (28) v 727 (53) ml, respectively). the paediatric versus adult self inflating bag with the bag-valve-facemask resulted in comparable lung tidal volumes (245 (19) v 271 (33) ml; p=ns); but significantly (p<0.001) lower gastric tidal volume (149 (11) v 272 (24) ml). 
Can students' scores on preclerkship clinical performance examinations predict that they will fail a senior clinical performance examination? [SEP] this study was designed to determine whether preclerkship performance examinations could accurately identify medical students at risk for failing a senior clinical performance examination (cpe). students' low performances relative to their class on the year 2 cpes were a strong predictor that they would fail the senior cpe. under the conditions of this study, preclerkship (year 2) cpes strongly predicted medical students at risk for failing a senior cpe. evidence has suggested that preclerkship courses in clinical skills and clinical reasoning are predictive of student performance on the clerkship. we hypothesized that a combination of outcome measures from preclerkship clinical skills and clinical reasoning courses (objective structured clinical examination scores, preceptor evaluations, national board of medical examiners subject examination scores, and small group participation grades) would be correlated to performance in internship (program director [pd]evaluation form at end of first postgraduate year). outcome measures from preclerkship clinical skills and clinical reasoning courses and pd evaluation forms from 514 medical students graduating between 2009 and 2011 were analyzed in a multiple linear regression model. this study examines whether a preclerkship portfolio review is a valid method of identifying problematic student behavior affecting later performance in clerkships. students with concerning behavior preclerkship received significantly lower clerkship grades than students progressing satisfactorily (p = .002). oeq examinations predict performance on subsequent high-stakes mcq examinations. the data were analyzed to determine if a correlation exists between student performance on the senior comprehensive, and their future performance on the mt(ascp) national certification examination. 
Recovery Outcome Measures: Is There a Place for Culture, Attitudes, and Faith? [SEP] utilization of the recovery knowledge inventory (rki) and recovery attitudes questionnaire (raq) in southeastern australia raised questions about the raq, including links between attitudes, faith, and culture in supporting the recovery journey. this paper discusses the cultural appropriateness of the raq in australian settings, and identifies the need to develop rigorous, inclusive recovery outcome measures. it is important to identify what best motivates people in their recovery journey, and to find a way to harness these motivating factors to achieve the best possible outcomes. considering the lack of existing measures on attitudes toward personal recovery and the need to acknowledge the cultural milieu in recovery attitude assessment, the present study developed and validated the attitudes towards recovery questionnaire (arq) in a sample of people in recovery of mental illness, family carers, and mental health service providers in hong kong. findings of the multi-sample confirmatory factor analyses supported a five-factor structure: (1) resilience as a person in recovery, (2) self-appreciation and development, (3) self-direction, (4) family involvement, and (5) social ties and integration. the arq was positively correlated with recovery outcomes, empowerment, recovery knowledge, and recovery orientation of mental health services. attitudes to recovery (using the recovery attitudes questionnaire) and stigma (using the opening minds scale for healthcare providers) were measured at the beginning and end of the attachments for each year and compared both within and between the cohorts using wilcoxon signed-rank or wilcoxon rank-sum tests. significant differences between the programme cohorts and the control cohorts were found for recovery attitudes (median difference of 2, p < 0.05 in both fifth and sixth year), with particularly large differences being found for the 'recovery is possible and needs faith' subdomain of the recovery attitudes questionnaire. the most commonly referred cultural treatment response was church healing session (12%). the relationship between religious beliefs, mood improvements, and functional recovery was explored by means of a multiple linear regression. 
Can surgeon familiarization with current evidence lead to a change in practice? [SEP] we sought to investigate the current standard of perioperative care in canadian vascular surgery by assessing surgeons' perceptions of evidence supporting eras practices, identifying barriers to aligning them and identifying aspects of perioperative care that require research specific to vascular surgery before they could be broadly applied. one-third of surgeons were not familiar with the national health and medical research council recommendations for thromboprophylaxis in hip and knee arthroplasty patients. acquisition of familiarity and skill with these new technologies will be necessary for the endocrine head and neck surgeon wishing to stay abreast of modern surgical techniques and provide quality care. this study aimed to establish whether an easy and practical intervention, mailing out a summary of current evidence to surgeons, can change surgeons practice to bring it more in line with current evidence. this study has shown that mailing out a summary of current evidence to surgeons concerning a certain issue is not sufficient to lead to a change in practice. the objective of this review paper is to alert colorectal surgeons to new surgical technologies available to them, to encourage colorectal surgeons' familiarization with these many technologies, and to support evidence-based consideration for the clinical use of such. secondary objectives included determining knowledge and attitudes of surgeons to evidence-based medicine and concordance of current practice with level i evidence. evidence-based surgery (ebs) is stressed to increase efficiency and health care quality, but not all surgeons and surgical nurses use ebs in clinical practice. to define future tailor-made interventions to improve evidence-based behavior, the aim of this study was to determine the attitude and awareness among surgeons and surgical nurses as to the paradigm of ebs and the barriers experienced when practicing ebs. an evidence quiz was composed for the surgeons. 
Advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma in Thai women: should we continue to offer second-look laparotomy? [SEP] between 1977 and 1984, second-look laparotomy to evaluate disease status after adjuvant chemotherapy was performed in 134 patients originally presenting with advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma. in the present work the authors analyse the role and significance of second-look laparotomy in the management of epithelial ovarian cancer. eighty-three patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (stage iii-iv) followed at the institutes of gynecology of padua and pisa universities underwent a negative second-look at a median time of 6 months after first surgery. we sought to describe the survival of women with persistent stage iii-iv ovarian cancer as documented by positive second-look laparoscopy or laparotomy and to see whether the laparoscopic approach with co(2) pneumoperitoneum has a negative effect on overall survival. we conducted a retrospective review of all patients with figo stage iii-iv invasive epithelial ovarian cancer who were found to have persistent disease at second-look surgery. transperitoneal laparoscopy with co(2) pneumoperitoneum does not appear to reduce the overall survival of women with persistent metastatic intra-abdominal carcinoma of ovarian/peritoneal origin. eighty-eight women with epithelial ovarian carcinoma, treated by first-line chemotherapy, achieved a complete clinical response and underwent second-look laparotomy to assess the true pathologic status of their disease. the value of secondary cytoreductive surgery at the time of second-look laparotomy in patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma is not established. secondary cytoreductive surgery at the time of second-look laparotomy in patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma may result in improved survival of patients who are reduced to microscopic residual disease. forty-two patients underwent a second-look laparotomy to assess response to systemic chemotherapy for epithelial ovarian cancer. 
Is high-sensitivity C-reactive protein associated with carotid atherosclerosis in healthy Koreans? [SEP] there is a positive association between chronic inflammation and the risk of cardiovascular disease, but whether there is an association between c-reactive protein (crp) and carotid atherosclerosis is controversial. we investigated the relationship between high-sensitivity crp (hscrp) levels and carotid intima-media thickness (imt) in healthy koreans. both hscrp levels and the carotid imt were strongly correlated with conventional cardiovascular risk factors, but there was no independent association between hscrp levels and carotid imt in healthy korean adults. we assessed the relationship between sua and subclinical atherosclerosis in korean men (n = 3010). high-sensitivity c-reactive protein was positively correlated with sua (r = .125, p < .001). in addition, high concentration of low density lipoprotein cholesterol and total cholesterol (p less than 0.01), c-reactive protein and fibrinogen (p less than 0.001) were also associated with carotid atherosclerosis, while other laboratory parameters considered (high density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides) were not significantly associated with carotid atherosclerosis. inflammatory biomarkers such as high-sensitivity c-reactive protein have been identified as predictors of first stroke and prognosis after stroke. a recent randomized, clinical trial suggests that the use of rosuvastatin therapy in otherwise healthy patients with high-sensitivity c-reactive protein >2 mg/dl can reduce the risk of a first stroke by 50%. we compared several "new" risk factors (autoantibodies to oxidatively modified low density lipoprotein (ldl), sialic acid content of ldl, bilirubin and c-reactive protein) with "conventional" risk factors (apolipoprotein (apo) ai, aii and b, lipoprotein(a), triglycerides, and total, ldl and high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol) for the presence and the extent of coronary or carotid atherosclerosis. increase in c-reactive protein indicated the presence (but not the extent) of coronary or carotid atherosclerosis with a similar power as lipoprotein(a). 
Validation of the 2009 TNM version in a large multi-institutional cohort of patients treated for renal cell carcinoma: are further improvements needed? [SEP] the prognostic accuracy of the current tnm 2002 staging system for locally advanced renal cell carcinoma has been questioned. however, despite continual revisions to the methodology to incorporate evidence from new clinical studies, the optimum stratification of patients with renal-cell carcinoma (rcc) using the tnm staging system remains controversial and further revisions, in our opinion, are needed. objective of the study is to review the current 7th edition of the tnm classification of renal tumors and to perform a critical analysis of the recent evidence  in order to identify the limitations of this new staging system. further improvements of the tnm classification for renal tumors are needed especially with regard to locally advanced tumors and node-positive  disease, in order to improve the accuracy of this important prognostic tool in renal oncology. we evaluated the outcome in 237 consecutive patients with localized renal cell carcinoma operated on between january 1985 and december 1997. we retrospectively enrolled 293 patients (130 in the training cohort and 163 in the validation cohort) with early-stage (tnm stage i + ii) clear-cell renal cell carcinoma undergoing nephrectomy at a single institution. we determine independent prognostic indicators for renal cell carcinoma using the revised 1997 tnm staging criteria. multivariate analysis revealed that overall tnm stage and grade of disease were the most important prognostic indicators for renal cell carcinoma (p<0.001). the revised 1997 tnm criteria manifest an appropriate adjustment in staging renal cell carcinoma based on these improvements, with overall stage correlating with cancer specific survival. based on our recent experience with patients treated for renal cell carcinoma in the era of enhanced technology and improved survival, tumor grade and molecular markers may serve as useful adjuncts to tnm staging in guiding treatment and predicting survival outcomes. 
Are interstitial fluid concentrations of meropenem equivalent to plasma concentrations in critically ill patients receiving continuous renal replacement therapy? [SEP] current meropenem dosage recommendations for children on continuous renal replacement therapy are extrapolated from pharmacokinetic (pk) studies done in adults. meropenem concentrations were measured from blood and effluent fluid samples. to describe the effect of different renal replacement therapy modalities and settings on the clearance of meropenem, piperacillin, and vancomycin in critically ill patients and to evaluate the frequency with which current dosing regimens achieve therapeutic concentrations. original research articles describing the pharmacokinetics of meropenem, piperacillin, and vancomycin in critically ill patients receiving renal replacement therapy. meropenem is predominately excreted unchanged in the urine, and thus dosage adjustments are necessary in patients with renal insufficiency and those undergoing intermittent haemodialysis (ihd) or various forms of continuous renal replacement therapy (crrt), such as continuous venovenous haemodialysis, continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration (cvvhdf), continuous venovenous haemofiltration (cvvhf) or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (capd). plasma meropenem concentrations reach a peak of between 53 and 62 mg/l after the administration of meropenem 1g intravenously to healthy volunteers, up to 53 mg/l after meropenem 0.5g in haemodialysis patients, and between 18 and 45 mg/l after meropenem 1g during crrt in critically ill patients. in patients with acute renal failure, the pharmacokinetics of meropenem depend on the operational characteristics of the renal replacement therapy. eight critically ill patients with acute renal failure were treated by continuous veno-venous hemofiltration with a filtrate flow of 1,600 ml/h and received 500 mg of meropenem every 12 h. plasma and hemofiltrate concentrations of meropenem at steady state were determined by hplc. the aim of this study was to assess pharmacokinetic data of meropenem in patients with acute renal failure and to determine the amount of drug removed by continuous venovenous hemofiltration, an often-used renal replacement therapy in patients with acute renal failure. the aim of this study was to evaluate pharmacokinetics of meropenem and vancomycin in critically ill patients with renal failure undergoing edd. 
Does Sensation Return to the Nasal Tip After Microfat Grafting? [SEP] patients usually complain about numbness in the nasal tip after microfat injections. the present study evaluated the severity of the numbness in the nasal tip after the procedure. postoperative numbness occurs in most patients receiving nasal microfat injections. partial to complete recovery of nasal tip sensation can be expected to occur over a 3-month period. use of microfat in rhinoplasty has tremendous potential for camouflage and to promote healing of compromised tissues. the author conducted a study of injectable autologous microfat grafting to the nose in patients with secondary nasal deformities. during a 5-year period, 313 patients who had secondary nasal deformities with slight skin irregularities or severe nasal skin damage were treated with microfat grafting. autologous microfat injection appears to be safe and effective for correcting slight irregularities of the nose. the present study investigated postoperative changes in nasal skin sensation among primary and revision rhinoplasty patients and evaluated the recovery outcomes for both groups. this study found that the sense of touch on pressure returned to normal, aside from at the tip and infratip, by the end of month 12 in primary rhinoplasty patients. 
Do older men benefit from curative therapy of localized prostate cancer? [SEP] the frequently indolent nature of early-stage prostate cancer in older men and in men with low- or moderate-grade tumors and the demonstration that the survival benefits of radical prostatectomy are primarily among men younger than 65 years have led to concerns about prostate cancer overtreatment. curative treatment is an effective treatment option for selected elderly with localized prostate cancer. conversely, most elderly men with prostate cancer received hormonal therapy, although the benefit of hormonal therapy in localized cancer is not clear and is associated with severe toxicities in some patients. potentially curative therapy results in significantly improved le and qale for older men with few comorbidities and moderately or poorly differentiated localized prostate cancer. furthermore, controlling for age, comorbidity, and risk, older men with high-risk tumors receiving local therapy had a 46% reduction in mortality compared with those treated conservatively. older patients are more likely to have high-risk prostate cancer at diagnosis and less likely to receive local therapy. with the pervasive use of prostate-specific antigen-based screening, many men in the us are now diagnosed with prostate cancer in their 50s or earlier. senior adults with intermediate/high risk tumours and a life expectancy of >10 years may benefit from curative local therapy such as radical prostatectomy or combined external beam irradiation/androgen ablation therapy. treatment of prostate cancer is associated with risk and complications that negatively affect the quality of life of men with localized disease. to evaluate whether older age in men with low-risk prostate cancer increases the risk of prostate cancer-specific mortality (pcsm) when non-curative approaches are selected as initial management. 
Pituitary apoplexy: do histological features influence the clinical presentation and outcome? [SEP] a retrospective analysis of a contemporary series of patients with pituitary apoplexy was performed to ascertain whether the histopathological features influence the clinical presentation or the outcome. a retrospective analysis was performed in 59 patients treated for pituitary apoplexy at the university of virginia health system, charlottesville, virginia, or groote schuur hospital, university of cape town, south africa. the aim of this study was to correlate the magnetic resonance (mr) imaging findings in pituitary apoplexy with histopathological results and determine whether the histopathology influences clinical presentation and outcome. the clinical features and management of three patients presenting with pituitary apoplexy are described. to review the clinical and biochemical characteristics and clinical outcome of patients presenting with pituitary apoplexy to a tertiary centre. we retrospectively reviewed the clinical features, predisposing factors, biochemistry and clinical outcome of patients presenting with pituitary apoplexy to imperial college healthcare nhs trust between 1991 to 2015. pituitary apoplexy predominantly occurred in patients with non-functioning pituitary adenomas (47/52). in conclusion, these data describe the clinical features of pituitary apoplexy to aid the clinician in diagnosing this rare emergency presentation of pituitary disease. prospective multicentre studies of the presentation of pituitary apoplexy are required to further characterise presentation and outcomes. in this case study, we review the presentation, evaluation, diagnosis, and management of a case of pituitary apoplexy in the setting of dhf. 
Do African American women require fewer calories to maintain weight? [SEP] the high prevalence of obesity in african american (aa) women may result, in part, from a lower resting metabolic rate (rmr) than non-aa women. if true, aa women should require fewer calories than non-aa women to maintain weight. our objective was to determine in the setting of a controlled feeding study, if aa women required fewer calories than non-aa women to maintain weight. these results do not support the view that aa women are at greater risk for obesity because they require fewer calories to maintain weight. the euro-american women engaged in weight loss methods for significantly longer periods of time and were found to weigh significantly less than the african american women. in the general population, african-american females are more obese and resistant to weight loss than caucasian women. the greater degree of obesity of african-american, as compared to caucasian, females is not due to ethnic differences in calorie intake, diet composition, age or age of obesity onset, number of childbirths, and psychological distress. african-american females with morbid obesity have greater adiposity than do caucasian women and lose significantly less body fat after rygbp. percentage of participants who achieved long-term weight-loss maintenance reporting various dietary and physical activity strategies, motivations for and social-cognitive influences on weight loss and maintenance, current eating patterns, and self-monitoring practices compared to african americans who lost weight but regained it. influences and practices differ among educated african american women who maintain weight loss compared to those who regain it. 
Emergency double-balloon enteroscopy combined with real-time viewing of capsule endoscopy: a feasible combined approach in acute overt-obscure gastrointestinal bleeding? [SEP] the development of capsule endoscopy and double balloon enteroscopy has transformed the approach to the evaluation and management of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding over the past decade. emergency capsule endoscopy and balloon-assisted enteroscopy have a high diagnostic and therapeutic yield in these situations. this narrative review analyses the usefulness and impact of small bowel endoscopic techniques in the emergency setting for severe overt obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. capsule endoscopy and balloon-assisted enteroscopy, have revolutionized our approach to the diagnosis and management of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, largely replacing intraoperative enteroscopy and conventional barium studies. despite its limitations, capsule endoscopy may well be the most reasonable initial diagnostic strategy to evaluate most patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, leaving balloon-assisted enteroscopy in reserve as a complementary tool. this article reviews the data on enteroscopy, with particular emphasis on the use of capsule endoscopy and balloon-assisted enteroscopy for the diagnosis and management of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. the authors report a rare case of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding from a combined hemangioma and angiodysplasia identified by double-balloon enteroscopy. a total of 424 patients with overt obscure gastrointestinal bleeding were diagnosed by numerous blood tests or stool examinations as well as esophagogastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, capsule endoscopy or double-balloon enteroscopy. in case of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding sources missed by capsule endoscopy, laparoscopic-assisted balloon enteroscopy plays an essential role, allowing both to assess a precise diagnosis and to resect the intestinal bleeding tract. new techniques such as wireless capsule endoscopy and double balloon enteroscopy are feasible and provide a valuable adjunct to the diagnostic investigation of children with obscure enteral blood loss. 
Cardiopulmonary bypass temperature does not affect postoperative euthyroid sick syndrome? [SEP] alterations in serum concentration of thyroid hormones occur even in euthyroid patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. these results indicate that cardiopulmonary bypass simulates the "euthyroid sick syndrome" as seen in severely burned patients and critically ill patients, which is characterized by depression of t3 and free t3 concentrations with a concomitant increase in reverse t3 levels and normal concentrations of thyroid-stimulating hormone, thyroxine, and free thyroxine. the purpose of this cohort study was to investigate the independent relationship between euthyroid sick syndrome and in-hospital outcomes in high-risk patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting, and we also examined the direct correlation between pre- or intra-operative variables and the incidence of coronary artery bypass grafting-associated euthyroid sick syndrome. coronary artery bypass grafting-associated euthyroid sick syndrome exerted detrimental effects on short-term clinical outcomes in high-risk patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting. early after deep hypothermia circulatory arrest, thyrotopin concentrations increase appropriately, responding to decreased concentrations of t3; however, all children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass eventually develop a "sick" euthyroid syndrome by postoperative day 1. the objective was to examine the effect of temperature (28 degrees vs 36 degrees c) during cardiopulmonary bypass on postoperative cognitive functions in a prospective, double-blind, and randomized manner. preoperative and postoperative (7 days) neuropsychologic evaluations were performed by an observer unaware of cardiopulmonary bypass temperature. temperature during cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary operations does not influence postoperative cognitive function. to determine if temperature during cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb) has an effect on perioperative and postoperative thyroid function. studies determining the association of cardiopulmonary bypass to thyroid function showed changes in line with this euthyroid sick syndrome. 
Body dysmorphic disorder: does it have a psychotic subtype? [SEP] the present review provides an update on current research into body dysmorphic disorder. recent findings can be considered under four groupings: the classification of body dysmorphic disorder, its current inclusion under the somatoform disorders, and its relationship to obsessive compulsive disorder and other obsessive compulsive spectrum disorders; the psychotic 'variant' of body dysmorphic disorder, and whether it is simply a more severe form of the nonpsychotic type; the cognitive aspects of body dysmorphic disorder; and the treatment of body dysmorphic disorder, both in terms of pharmacological and psychological parameters. body dysmorphic disorder does not sit comfortably in the somatoform disorder category, and there is a good case for it being considered part of the obsessive compulsive spectrum, although it is not merely a subtype of obsessive compulsive disorder. although body dysmorphic disorder (bdd) is classified in dsm-iii-r as a nonpsychotic somatoform disorder, controversy exists as to whether bdd can present with psychotic features. body dysmorphic disorder may have a closely related psychotic subtype that significantly overlaps with, or may even be the same disorder as, the bdd variant of delusional disorder, somatic type. with regard to delusional disorder-somatic subtype there may be a relationship with body dysmorphic disorder. a controversial issue that was debated for dsm-iv is whether body dysmorphic disorder (bdd)--a preoccupation with an imagined defect in appearance--can be psychotic. body dysmorphic disorder, a preoccupation with an imagined or slight defect in appearance, is classified as a somatoform disorder, but has been hypothesized to be related to obsessive-compulsive disorder. body dysmorphic disorder appears to be relatively common among patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder. dsm-iii-r introduced the term "body dysmorphic disorder" to describe a non-psychotic condition in which there is pathological preoccupation with physical appearance and with the intention of replacing the term "dysmorphophobia". 
Does receipt of hospice care in nursing homes improve the management of pain at the end of life? [SEP] to estimate the extent to which receipt of hospice in nursing homes (nhs) increases the receipt of pain management for residents with cancer at the end of life. we developed conditional logistic models to estimate the association between hospice use and pain management, stratified by self-reported and staff-assessed pain. hospice is associated with increased pain management among those with documented pain. to test whether a quality improvement (qi) intervention in nursing homes increases hospice, pain management, and advance care planning. to explore hospice, acute care and nursing home nurses' experiences of pain management for people with advanced dementia in the final month of life. nurses considered pain management fundamental to end-of-life care provision; however, nurses working in acute care and nursing home settings may be undersupported and under-resourced to adequately manage pain in people dying with advanced dementia. the purpose of this study was to investigate pain management among 42 hospice and 65 non-hospice residents in two proprietary nursing homes. to compare analgesic management of daily pain for dying nursing home residents enrolled and not enrolled in medicare hospice. findings suggest that analgesic management of daily pain is better for nursing home residents enrolled in hospice than for those not enrolled in hospice.the prescribing practices portrayed by this study reveal that many dying nursing home residents in daily pain are receiving no analgesic treatment or are receiving analgesic treatment inconsistent with amda and other pain management guidelines. improving the analgesic management of pain in nursing homes is essential if high-quality end-of-life care in nursing homes is to be achieved. 
Fulfilling human resources development goal in West Africa: can the training of ophthalmologist diplomates be improved? [SEP] as recent as 1986, acute shortage of qualified manpower was one of the major difficulties in the prevention of blindness in africa. following the who sub-regional workshop on manpower development for prevention of blindness, the west african health community in collaboration with the national prevention of blindness programmes in anglophone west africa made concerted efforts at developing appropriate manpower at all levels of eye care. to ascertain the perspectives of trainee ophthalmologists about a community eye health (ceh) module in west africa. most of the trainees believe ceh is important to ophthalmology, rate most of the resource persons as being good, want course duration reduced, decry inadequate sponsorship and wanted msc (ceh) programme introduced in west africa. a serious limiting factor to the development of prevention of blindness programmes is lack of trained manpower. initiatives that will help to overcome this dilemma are specific post-graduate courses in community ophthalmology in africa, plans to develop a one-year diploma in ophthalmology course for english-speaking west african countries, and a proposal to upgrade a similar course in zimbabwe. to critically review the numbers, distribution, staff mix, and productivity of eye care workers (ecw) in kwara state, north central nigeria. to evaluate the effectiveness of the american board of ophthalmology's quality improvement program-maintenance of certification part 4 (improvement in medical practice)-in assisting its diplomates with quality improvement in their practices. a retrospective analysis was conducted of the performance of 1046 american board of ophthalmology diplomates on practice improvement modules between september 1, 2012, and december 31, 2014. the goal was to develop sustainable capacity to tackle mdg 6 targets in west africa through better postgraduate medical education. 
Does binge drinking during early pregnancy increase the risk of psychomotor deficits? [SEP] to study whether binge drinking affects cognitive abilities and behavior of exposed children, a prospective observational study comparing 51 children exposed to binge drinking during the first trimester of pregnancy to 51 children not exposed to any teratogens was conducted. temperament test results showed that children exposed in utero to maternal binge drinking displayed a greater degree of disinhibited behavior and that this behavior was associated with early drinking variables. although binge alcohol drinking by non-alcohol-dependent women during the first trimester of pregnancy does not appear to affect intelligence or cognitive and language development of young children, binge drinking in pregnancy does increase the likelihood of certain behavioral characteristics that might predispose these children to later behavioral dysfunction. repeated binge drinking in early pregnancy was associated with late recognition of the pregnancy, while binge drinking in late pregnancy was associated with smoking. to examine whether the frequency and timing of binge drinking episodes (intake of five or more drinks on one occasion) during the first 16 weeks of pregnancy increase the risk of fetal death. binge drinking three or more times during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of stillbirth, but neither frequency nor timing of binge drinking was associated with an increased risk of spontaneous abortion in clinically recognized pregnancies. alcohol binge drinking is common in early pregnancy and is a well-established risk factor for subsequent child health. the objective of this study was to assess the potential effect of binge drinking and different drinking patterns (timing and number of binge drinking episodes) in early pregnancy on fetal growth estimated by birthweight and birth length. this study was designed to investigate the possible effects of weekly low to moderate maternal alcohol consumption and binge drinking episodes in early pregnancy on choice reaction time (crt) and information processing time (ipt) in young children. we examined the association between alcohol binge drinking and weekly alcohol intake in early pregnancy and the risk of adhd in children followed from birth to 19 years of age. 
Does tranexamic acid reduce desmopressin-induced hyperfibrinolysis? [SEP] combined use of desmopressin with prior administration of the antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid may decrease fibrinolytic activity and might improve postoperative hemostasis. tranexamic acid administration significantly reduces desmopressin and bypass-induced hyperfibrinolysis. combined use of tranexamic acid and desmopressin decreases both postoperative blood loss and transfusion requirement. this article reviews the efficacy and tolerability of tranexamic acid in conditions amenable to antifibrinolytic therapy and briefly overviews the pharmacological properties of the drug. therefore, while high-quality published evidence is limited for some approved indications, tranexamic acid is an effective and well tolerated antifibrinolytic agent. tranexamic acid is used to prevent hyperfibrinolysis and reduce postoperative bleeding and blood transfusions in on-pump cardiac surgery. administration of low-dose tranexamic acid is as effective as higher doses in hyperfibrinolysis prophylaxis and the prevention of postoperative bleeding in cardiac surgery. prior administration of the antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid might unmask such an effect, and combination therapy might thereby improve postoperative hemostasis. tranexamic acid is used to prevent hyperfibrinolysis and reduce postoperative bleeding and blood transfusions in on-pump cardiac surgery. administration of low-dose tranexamic acid is as effective as higher doses in hyperfibrinolysis prophylaxis and the prevention of postoperative bleeding in cardiac surgery. 
Does ultrasound-scored synovitis depend on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous anti-TNF agents in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? [SEP] this study aimed to evaluate the risk of ultrasound-detected synovitis after antitumor necrosis factor (tnf) tapering in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. one hundred and twenty-two patients who received a tapered dose of anti-tnf were enrolled, of whom 96 (78%) had ultrasound-detected synovitis and 26 had no inflammation. moderate tapering of anti-tnf (tapering 50%) was more common in the patients with ultrasound-detected synovitis than mild tapering (tapering 25%) (68.8% vs 38.5%, p=0.005). to determine and compare the degree of synovial inflammation by ultrasound (us) in patients with ra in clinical remission, treated with dmard or combination therapy with dmard and anti-tnf. this study compares the clinical, ultrasonography, radiography, and laboratory outcomes of painless and painful chronic synovitis in patients with established rheumatoid arthritis. the rheumatoid arthritis patients with both painless and painful synovitis exhibited similar disease histories and radiographic and ultrasound findings. synovitis and synovial/tenosynovial vascularity were scored semiquantitatively (grade 0-3) by gray-scale (gs) and power doppler (pd) ultrasound. the purpose of our study was to test the hypothesis that synovitis on magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and ultrasound (us) observed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) who meet remission criteria reflects active inflammation on histopathology. to investigate the dynamics of response of synovitis to interleukin (il)-17a inhibition with secukinumab in patients with active psoriatic arthritis (psa) using power doppler ultrasound. the randomised, placebo-controlled, phase iii ultimate study enrolled psa patients with active ultrasound synovitis, and clinical synovitis and enthesitis having an inadequate response to conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (dmards) and naïve to biologic dmards. 
Counter sampling combined with medical provider education: do they alter prescribing behavior? [SEP] to observe if medical providers alter their prescribing patterns of three relatively expensive categories of medications provided as samples by manufacturers (focus medications) when they receive additional education from pharmacists concerning the appropriate use of lower cost alternatives (counter samples) that are made available to dispense. medical providers in the active intervention group had: 1) education from pharmacists concerning the appropriate use of lower-cost alternatives compared with expensive focus medications 2) counter samples and patient sample handouts available to dispense to patients at their own discretion. the prescribing behavior of medical providers in the active intervention and control groups were significantly different at baseline in all three categories of focus medications. education and counter sampling did not stop medical providers from significantly increasing the total yearly prescriptions for antihistamines and acid-relief medications that consisted of focus-nonsedating antihistamines (86.7% versus 93.1%, p < 0.05) and ppis (68.9% versus 86.2%, p < 0.05). education by pharmacists, combined with access to counter samples, may or may not have an effect on medical provider prescribing, depending on the category of medication targeted for cost control. this study aimed to explore public perceptions about pharmacists' educational and prescribing role, and the medication delivery service provided during covid-19 outbreak. this study indicates that the public positively endorsed the impact of the educational role of the pharmacist, medication delivery services, and extending pharmacist prescribing authority during covid 19 pandemic. prescribing rates, net savings and prescribers' attitudes were assessed. the group counter-detailing dur educational program was effective in improving prescribing rates. the aim of this study was to determine the attitudes about and prevalence of non-prescribed medication for those attending community pharmacies in qassim province, saudi arabia. 
Global Longitudinal Pathway: has medical education curriculum influenced medical students' skills and attitudes toward culturally diverse populations? [SEP] there is increasing recognition that, in addition to acquiring knowledge of basic sciences and clinical skills, medical students must also gain an understanding of health disparities, and develop a defined skill set to address these inequalities. it is our hope this curriculum empowers students with the knowledge, skills and attitudes to care for patients while helping patients navigate the socioeconomic and cultural issues that may affect their health. medical education has been shown to negatively influence student attitudes toward certain types of patient populations. the current study was designed to extend this work into medical education, examining student body diversity and school-supported cross-cultural experiences on students' attitudes about diversity. four-hundred forty-one rising fourth-year medical students from three schools with differing levels of student body diversity completed a 55-item questionnaire on their background, experiences, and attitudes related to cross-cultural diversity. medical students' attitudes about culture and health and their perspectives on societal issues related to diversity were influenced by their medical school experiences. contact with diverse communities inculcates-in medical students with predispositions toward helping underserved populations-the self-efficacy and skills to positively influence underserved, urban communities. medical schools and their guiding bodies have met this challenge of educating future physicians to provide effective care to diverse populations with varying response and successes. we provide 12 tips on how to teach social determinants of health and cultural competency to undergraduate medical students. medical students must be taught to think critically about the social and cultural issues impacting health, and the intersection with the basic biology and clinical skills. 
Failed IUD insertions in community practice: an under-recognized problem? [SEP] to determine risk factors affecting the incidence of intrauterine device (iud) insertion-related complications and failures and, in particular, whether postcoital iud insertions have a higher incidence of complications than routine iud insertions. failed insertions were statistically more likely in women who had never previously had a vaginal delivery and also when a less experienced doctor performed the insertion. to improve the quality of intrauterine device (iud) services at title x clinics. as most insertions were successful, failed iud insertion was not considered a high-risk failure. the objective of this article is to report on the outcomes of a competency-based iud training program by family planning nsw for general practitioners (gps). a number of barriers to iud insertion in general practice can be addressed to improve community access. we also reported number of failed iud insertions. failed iud insertion occurred in two cases of dinoprostone group (2%) versus four cases in control group (4%) (p-value; 0.68). eligible studies reported event rates or practical problems relating to iud usage in post-placental or interval insertion (>90 days) after cs. in this paper, an epidemiological analysis was performed, using an international data set, exclusively on the expulsion problem associated with postpartum iud insertions. 
Type II supracondylar humerus fractures: can some be treated nonoperatively? [SEP] a total of 200 anteroposterior and lateral radiographs of pediatric supracondylar humerus fractures were retrospectively reviewed by 3 fellowship-trained pediatric orthopaedic surgeons and 2 orthopaedic residents and then classified as type i, iia, iib, or iii. inclusion criteria were patients below 18 years of age who sustained supracondylar humerus fractures (gartland type ii, iii, iv) who were operatively treated from 2008 to 2013 with adequate radiographic follow-up. although flexion-type supracondylar humerus fractures account for a minority of all supracondylar humerus fractures, they warrant special attention because of their relatively high rate of requirement for open reduction and their potential for ulnar nerve injury or entrapment. displaced flexion-type supracondylar humerus fractures require surgical reduction and stabilization. we advise nonoperative treatment in type 2 supracondylar fractures if stable reduction is achieved. the range of injury severity that can be seen within the category of type ii supracondylar humerus fractures (schfs) raises the question whether some could be treated nonoperatively. the treatment of gartland type ii pediatric supracondylar humerus fractures remains controversial. the purpose of this radiographic outcomes study was to determine whether closed reduction and cast immobilization could successfully obtain and maintain acceptable reduction of extension type ii supracondylar humerus fractures. the guidelines provided answers for the following questions regarding the treatment for type iii supracondylar fractures (1) which is the preferred treatment for displaced supracondylar fractures of the humerus: reduction and casting versus closed reduction and percutaneous pinning; (2) which is the preferred method for fixing displaced supracondylar fractures of the humerus: medial (crossed) versus lateral pinning; and lastly, (3) does open reduction cause increased stiffness or have a high rate of complication? on the basis of the results from the systematic review: (1) we suggest closed reduction with pin fixation for patients with displaced (eg, wilkins type ii and iii and displaced flexion) pediatric supracondylar fractures of the humerus. 
The promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: are they worth the price? [SEP] novel specialty biopharmaceuticals hold promise for patients living with complex and chronic conditions. this study sought to assess the value of specialty pharmaceuticals through an examination of the clinical, functional, and economic benefits of these treatments for the top 3 disease areas by pharmaceutical spend: rheumatoid arthritis (ra), multiple sclerosis (ms), and breast cancer (bc). novel specialty therapies hold promise for arresting disease progression and improving quality of life for the 3 conditions associated with the highest specialty pharmaceutical spend. these findings demonstrate a strong value proposition for specialty pharmaceuticals, and suggest even greater potential individual patient benefit with consideration of patient heterogeneity. the high prices of specialty pharmaceuticals are causing some public programs to ration care and many private insurers, including medicare drug plans, to place specialty drugs on high cost-sharing tiers. high profits and high drug costs have brought increased scrutiny of the pharmaceutical industry over the issue of whether the drugs they produce are worth the costs. an important component of the rise in costs will be specialty pharmaceuticals, including a group of drugs that are self-administered and that cost at least 1,000 dollars/month. the pharmaceutical industry is shifting its focus from blockbuster small molecules to specialty pharmaceuticals. specialty pharmaceuticals are novel drugs and biologic agents that require special handling and ongoing monitoring, are administered by injection or infusion, and are sold in the marketplace by a small number of distributors. we examine the economic and policy issues related to specialty pharmaceuticals, taking care to consider the impact on patients. 
Does invasive diagnosis of nosocomial pneumonia during off-hours delay treatment? [SEP] this article seeks to clarify the issues surrounding the use of invasive fiberoptic bronchoscopic techniques in the diagnosis and treatment of nosocomial pneumonia. treatment for nosocomial pneumonia is common among patients in the icu who are receiving high levels of respiratory support, yet more than one-half of patients who are treated do not fulfill standard diagnostic criteria for pneumonia. most patients complete their course of intravenous therapy for nosocomial pneumonia leaving little or no time for completion of their therapy by oral antibiotics. the development of nosocomial pneumonia prolongs hospitalization, which may cause additional days in the intensive care unit, thereby increasing overall health care costs. empiric treatment of nosocomial pneumonia with therapies that are subsequently shown to be inappropriate therapy (defined as antimicrobial therapy that does not cover the infecting pathogens) has a detrimental effect on patient survival and can increase morbidity, length of hospital stay, and mortality. background: little evidence exists for de-escalation of nosocomial pneumonia therapy without positive cultures. little data are available regarding the impact that prolonged prophylactic antibiotic use (>48 hours) has on the development of nosocomial pneumonia. this retrospective study was conducted to assess the effect that prolonged prophylactic antibiotic use has on the development of nosocomial pneumonia and antibiotic use complications. this review highlights recent advances in the aetiology of nosocomial pneumonia, and in strategies to increase accuracy of diagnosis and antibiotic prescription while limiting unnecessary antibiotic consumption. treating physicians should be both aggressive in initiating antimicrobials when suspecting nosocomial pneumonia but willing to discontinue antimicrobials when diagnostic results point to an alternative diagnosis. 
Undescended testes: does age at orchiopexy affect survival of the testis? [SEP] orchiopexy was performed in 57 of 132 acquired undescended testes (43%). acquired undescended testes showed an increasing chance of descending spontaneously with increasing age (p trend = 0.002). a conservative wait and see approach to acquired undescended testis until puberty could prevent more than half of the boys from undergoing orchiopexy and it does not seem detrimental in terms of testicular volume. outcomes of orchiopexy include (1) having a viable, palpable testis in the scrotum, (2) fertility, as measured by paternity rates or semen analysis in adulthood and (3) risk of testicular cancer. the undescended testis does not mature normally after the age of 2 years and may produce adverse effects on the contralateral descended testis, possibly by an autoimmune mechanism. this rate is even higher in patients with bilateral undescended testes, with intra-abdominal undescended testis, or who underwent delayed orchiopexy. if the testis remains undescended by the second year, the most probable means of scrotal placement is orchiopexy. to guide recommendations for screening examinations, we aimed to (1) specify the ratio of acquired undescended testes in orchiopexy cases and to (2) identify a predisposing age for the development of acquired undescended testis. three-hundred-forty cases of orchiopexy were retrospectively analyzed and classified as congenital or acquired cases of undescended testis. mean age at orchiopexy was lower in patients without appendix testis (39 months) compared to those patients who were found with appendix (61 months). 
Do lipids, blood pressure, diabetes, and smoking confer equal risk of myocardial infarction in women as in men? [SEP] the associations between smoking, serum lipids, blood pressure, and myocardial infarction were examined in a population-based prospective study of 11,843 men and women aged 35 to 52 years at entry. smoking was a stronger risk factor for myocardial infarction in middle-aged women than in men. relative risks associated with serum lipids and blood pressure were similar despite large sex differences in myocardial infarction incidence rates. elevated cholesterol and elevated blood pressure are major risk factors, and diabetes seems to have a stronger impact on risk in women than in men. diabetic men were more than twice as likely to have an electrocardiography (ecg)-documented myocardial infarction than were nondiabetic men, while diabetic women were more than three times as likely to have a myocardial infarction than were nondiabetic women. in both ethnic groups diabetes was also more strongly associated with conventional chd risk factors (e.g., triglycerides, systolic blood pressure, and high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol) in women than in men. to compare risk of myocardial infarction associated with smoking in men and women, taking into consideration differences in smoking behaviour and a number of potential confounding variables. compared with non-smokers, female current smokers had a relative risk of myocardial infarction of 2.24 (range 1.85-2.71) and male smokers 1.43 (1.26-1.62); ratio 1.57 (1.25-1.97). this large study of the major risk factors compared between the sexes demonstrates similar relative risk of myocardial infarction associated with cholesterol for both sexes, however, the relative risk is higher in women for many other risk factors such as smoking, diabetes, elevated triglycerides and left ventricular hypertrophy. we found linear age-adjusted relationships between both active and passive smoking and myocardial infarction incidence in both sexes. 
Does family practice at residency teaching sites reflect community practice? [SEP] a retrospective review of hospital records for 333 patients admitted to a large community teaching hospital by family physicians and family practice residents was performed to determine whether teaching programs in family practice led to a significant increase in the cost of care to patients. how can a teaching practice develop a referral service and incorporate educational opportunities for family medicine residents, clinical clerks, and community family physicians? the program took place in an urban family medicine residency program. in order to exploit this potential, the department of family practice at the university of british columbia has developed a community-based program in which second-year residents in family practice spend the year in rural communities under the supervision of a family physician preceptor. colposcopy and related therapeutic modalities are taught in many family practice residency programs. the role of the following two factors in a family practice residency program's decision to teach these procedures was evaluated: 1) the coexistence of an obstetrics and gynecology (ob-gyn) residency program at the affiliated hospital and 2) the perceived attitude of community obstetrician-gynecologists toward family physicians performing the procedures. the preceptoral resident practice better approximated community demographic patterns than did the established residency practice. some educators have expressed concern about the quality of inpatient training received by family practice residents in community-based residency programs because of insufficient patient numbers and resources in those programs. this study compared the number, diagnoses, and lengths of stay of patients seen by first-year family practice residents in a large inner-city, university-based medical center's internal medicine service versus those in a family practice teaching service in a smaller, community-based suburban regional hospital. to explore the elements necessary for a high-quality educational experience in a family practice residency program with respect to scheduling, learning environment, and approaches to teaching and learning. 
Midwives' competence: is it affected by working in a rural location? [SEP] a key consideration is that midwives have the skills to competently and confidently provide maternity services in rural areas, which may be geographically isolated and where the midwife may only see a small number of pregnant women each year. our objective was to compare the views of midwives in rural and urban settings, regarding their competence and confidence with respect to 'competencies' identified as being those which all professionals should have in order to provide effective and safe care for low-risk women. midwives in the rural group were more likely to report competence for breech delivery (p = 0.001), while more urban midwives reported competence in skills such as intravenous fluid replacement (p <0.001) and initial and discharge examination of the newborn (p <0.001). it is often assumed that midwives in rural areas where there are fewer deliveries, will be less competent and confident in their practice. this has implications for the skills and competencies that are needed to practice midwifery in remote and rural settings. whereas most rural midwives reported that their skills in risk assessment and decisions to transfer were well developed and appropriate to practising in their particular settings, they perceived these decisions to be under scrutiny by urban-based colleagues and felt the need to stress their competence in the face of what they imagined to be stereotypes of rural incompetence. this study aims to explore midwives' work experiences and challenges through time from initial professional choice to future career aspiration in rural ituri province, north-eastern drc. midwives play a critical role in supporting women to deliver babies safely in rural ituri province. to present and compare midwives' self-perceived essential competencies in regions with different maternal mortality ratios, and explore possible competency-related factors. this paper addresses the requirement for midwives in some rural facilities to work across roles of general nurse and midwife and outlines the issues that arise as a result. 
The effective orifice area/patient aortic annulus area ratio: a better way to compare different bioprostheses? [SEP] clinically, these data suggest that during aortic valve replacement, placing a valve whose internal orifice closely matches the aortic annulus will provide the optimal hemodynamic performance. the aim of this prospective, randomized study was to compare the hemodynamic performance of the medtronic mosaic and edwards perimount bioprostheses in the aortic position, and to evaluate prosthesis-specific differences in valve sizing and valve-size labeling. as the aim of avr is to achieve a maximal effective orifice area (eoa) within a given aortic annulus, the ratio of eoa to patient aortic annulus area was calculated, the latter being based on annulus diameter measured intraoperatively. when indexing eoa by calculating the ratio of eoa to patient aortic annulus area to adjust for variables such as patient anatomy and valve dimensions, there was no significant difference between the two bioprostheses. the eoa:patient aortic annulus area ratio provides a new hemodynamic index which may facilitate objective comparisons between different valve types. the present study evaluates complete supra-annular bioprostheses in patients with an aortic annulus of 18 to 23 mm in diameter. in patients with an annulus 21 to 23 mm, the magna was significantly superior to the other investigated devices in mean pressure gradient, effective orifice area, and incidence of patient-prosthesis mismatch. stentless aortic valves had a larger indexed effective orifice area compared with conventional stented bioprostheses and mechanical valves (p < 0.0001). to evaluate the potential benefit of this design, the present study compared the effectiveness of 1 intra-supra-annular bioprosthesis and 3 completely supra-annular bioprostheses in patients with an aortic annulus diameter of 23 mm or less. the hemodynamic performance of the second-generation carpentier-edwards supraannular porcine and pericardial (perimount) bioprostheses and the third-generation medtronic mosaic porcine bioprosthesis were compared for mean gradient and effective orifice area index. 
Evaluation of pediatric VCUG at an academic children's hospital: is the radiographic scout image necessary? [SEP] there is heterogeneity in how pediatric voiding cystourethrography (vcug) is performed. to demonstrate that the radiographic scout image does not augment vcug interpretation or contribute management-changing information but nonetheless carries a non-negligible effective dose. we evaluated 181 children who underwent vcug in 2012, with an age breakdown of less than 1 year (56 children), 1-5 years (66 children), 6-10 years (43 children) and 11-18 years (16 children), with a mean age of 4.0 years. voiding cystourethrogram (vcug) provides a wealth of data on urinary tract function and anatomy, but few standards exist for reporting vcug findings. we aimed to assess variability in vcug reports and to test our hypothesis that vcug reports from pediatric facilities and pediatric radiologists are more complete than those performed at other facilities or by non-pediatric radiologists. we analyzed original vcug reports from children enrolled in the randomized intervention for children with vesicoureteral reflux (rivur) trial. although pediatric radiologist and pediatric hospitals generated more complete vcug reports compared with those having non-pediatric origins, the differences are small when considering the substantial underreporting of vcug findings in general. the imaging evaluation changed from the previous guideline to recommend voiding cystourethrogram (vcug) only for patients with an abnormal renal and bladder ultrasound (rbus). both the cyclic nature of this study and the results indicated that vcug without real-time fluoroscopic monitoring could be used where adequate fluoroscopic examination is not possible for children in whom vur detection is necessary and impacts treatment. voiding cystourethrography (vcug) is a widely accepted radiographic imaging technique that has been traditionally used for identifying vesicoureteral reflux in children. 
Are endometrial polyps from pre-menopausal women similar to post-menopausal women? [SEP] do endometrial polyps from pre- and post-menopausal women have similar immunohistochemical expression of oestrogen and progesterone receptors (er, pr) and markers of cellular proliferation/apoptosis (ki67 and bcl-2). fourteen pre-menopausal and 16 post-menopausal women who presented with abnormal bleeding with endometrial polyps. endometrial polyps from pre- and post-menopausal women had significant differences in their expression of hormone receptors and ki67. pre- and post-menopausal polyps exhibit differing hormone receptor and proliferation markers, presumably a result of their hormonal milieu. in the 792 recruited patients, the symptom-free focal masses within the uterine cavity detected by tvus included 558 patients with pre- or post-menopausal endometrial polyps and 234 patients with postmenopausal endometrial thickening. our data showed that post-menopausal and older women (>60y) with endometrial polyps have a higher risk of developing a related endometrial cancer (or: 3.05, 95% ci [1.54, 6.19], p<0.001 and or: 2.8, 95% ci [1.38, 5.56], p≤0.003. symptomatic pre-menopausal women and asymptomatic post-menopausal women with polyps may be a group with intermediate-risk. to evaluate the risk factors for endometrial hyperplasia concomitant endometrial polyps in pre- and post-menopausal women. according to the current study; menopause and diabetes mellitus are strong risk factors for the presence of concomitant endometrial polyps and endometrial hyperplasia. the incidence of taken together: atypical hyperplasia and endometrial cancer was significantly higher in postmenopausal group (8.58%) than in pre- and perimenopausal (1.35%, p = 0.0001). 
Does accompanying metabolic syndrome contribute to heart dimensions in hypertensive patients? [SEP] when compared with patients with no metabolic syndrome or diabetes, patients with metabolic syndrome had higher pulse pressure (59±14 vs. 55±14 mm hg) and heart rate (75.2±11.0 vs. 72.5±10.0 beats per min) (p<0.001 for both), independent of the concomitant presence or absence of diabetes, despite a more prevalent use of β-blockers. in conclusion, in hypertensive outpatients the presence of metabolic syndrome is associated with increased heart rate and pulse pressure, which may at least in part reflect increased arterial stiffness and increased sympathetic tone. this may contribute, to some extent, to explaining the increased cardiovascular risk attributed to the presence of metabolic syndrome. the metabolic syndrome is a constellation of signs and symptoms which increase a patient's risk of developing heart disease and diabetes mellitus. one area of controversy is the question: does the metabolic syndrome as a whole increase risk more than the sum of its parts? metabolic syndrome is an obesity-associated collection of disorders, each of which contributes to cardiovascular risk. hyperhomocysteinemia and the metabolic syndrome are established cardiovascular risk factors and are frequently associated with hypertension. elevated plasma hcy is associated with the metabolic syndrome in hypertensive patients. multiple metabolic components contribute to hypertension. metabolic syndrome includes elevated blood pressure, increased triglycerides, decreased high-density lipoprotein (hdl)-cholesterol, and central obesity. 
The Prevalence of Incidentally Detected Idiopathic Misty Mesentery on Multidetector Computed Tomography: Can Obesity Be the Triggering Cause? [SEP] misty mesentery appearance is commonly reported in daily practice, usually as a secondary finding of various pathological entities, but sometimes it is encountered as an isolated finding that cannot be attributed to any other disease entity. we aimed to assess the prevalence of cases with incidentally detected idiopathic misty mesentery on computed tomography (ct) and to summarize the pathologies leading to this appearance. medical records and initial and follow-up ct features of patients with misty mesentery appearance between january 2011 and january 2013 were analysed. the results of the present study show that idiopathic incidental misty mesentery appearance has a significant prevalence. also, the high body mass index of these patients and the growing evidence of obesity-induced inflammatory changes in adipose tissue are suggestive of an association between obesity and misty mesentery appearance on ct. the term "misty mesentery" indicates a pathological increase in mesenteric fat attenuation at computed tomography (ct). this article describes the mdct features of misty mesentery in different diseases in order to provide a rational approach to the differential diagnosis. to determine the natural history of incidentally detected misty mesentery on computed tomography (ct) and to correlate the risk of malignancy with size of mesenteric lymph nodes. a retrospective review of all ct abdomen/pelvic examinations from january 1, 2004 through december 31, 2008 identified cases of misty mesentery. abdominal computed tomography in both patients showed "misty mesentery", which could not be explained by other etiologies. 
Are pediatric concussion patients compliant with discharge instructions? [SEP] the primary objective of this study was to evaluate compliance with ed discharge instructions for concussion management. pediatric patients discharged from the ed are mostly compliant with concussion instructions. many children are discharged from the pediatric emergency department (ped) with incomplete or inappropriate instructions following a concussion. to evaluate the effect of the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) heads-up concussion campaign on appropriateness of discharge instructions for youth sports-related concussion (src) patients presenting to a pediatric emergency department (ed). to evaluate the medical care, especially the discharge instructions regarding return to participation, received by youth athletes hospitalized for a closed head injury. overall, discharge instructions were appropriate for only 10 patients (30.3%), including all with grade 1 concussions, but only 2 with a grade 2 (20.0%) and none with a grade 3 concussion. providing concussion discharge instructions to patients and families is part of routine standard of care. recognition and diagnosis of concussion is increasing, but current research shows these patients are discharged from the emergency department (ed) with a wide variability of recommendations and instructions. to assess the adequacy of documentation of discharge instructions given to patients discharged from the ed with concussions. the objective of this study was to describe discharge instructions given to school-aged patients evaluated in a children's emergency department (ed) following concussion. 
Is the zeolite hemostatic agent beneficial in reducing blood loss during arterial injury? [SEP] we developed a new compound zeolite hemostat and tested it against controls in a modified swine model of battlefield injury. mortality in the group treated with the application of the compound hemostat composed of ag.zn-zeolite and alginate was 10% versus 100% in the nd group and 71% in the sd group (p < 0.001 vs. nd group, p < 0.05 vs. sd group). addition of an alginate into the modified zeolite hemostat reinforced the strength of clots to 18.52 n +/- 1.33 n. application of the compound zeolite hemostat can effectively control hemorrhage and dramatically reduce mortality from a lethal groin wound. in addition to its antibacterial properties, ag- and zn-substituted zeolite hemostat can decrease the exothermic reaction and greatly attenuate the heat-induced tissue injury. we have previously shown that a zeolite mineral hemostatic agent (zh) can control aggressive bleeding through adsorption of water, which is an exothermic process. the use of zeolite hemostatic agent (1% residual moisture, 3.5 oz) can control hemorrhage and dramatically reduce mortality from a lethal groin wound. we have previously identified a granular zeolite hemostat (zh) as an effective agent for control of severe bleeding, and it is currently being used by the us troops in the battlefield. the use of zeolite hemostat can control hemorrhage and dramatically reduce mortality from a lethal groin wound. modifications of zeolite hemostat can decrease the exothermic reaction and attenuate tissue damage. feichuang zeolite hemostatic gauze effectively controlled bleeding as well as combat gauze, without excessive heat as found in other zeolite-based products. 
Treatment as prevention in resource-limited settings: is it feasible to maintain HIV viral load suppression over time? [SEP] maintaining viral load suppression over time in resource-limited-settings is feasible. induction of long-term immune control with only limited rebounds of the wild-type hiv virus was found to be feasible and achievable, albeit in very limited cases. a lower viral load maintained by the patient's own immune system following treatment interruption could offer a favorable prognosis and represent an alternative additional approach to antiretroviral drugs. given the high risk of treatment failure among adolescents and the limited drug regimens available in limited resource settings, hiv viral load monitoring in adolescents could prevent unnecessary and costly switches to second-line therapy in virologically suppressed adolescents. we report the design and analysis of a streamlined approach to the delivery of antiretroviral therapy (art) that minimized risk for emergence of art drug resistance (art-dr) in a resource-limited setting. most patients (97%) with hiv suppression at month 6 had viral loads < or =50 copies/ml at month 18; all had > or =75% visit compliance and 192 (98%) had > or =75% adherence measured by pill counts. achieving population-level control through treatment as prevention (tasp) may be feasible, but requires considerable investment of resources devoted to hiv testing, linkage to care, art accessibility, and retention in care. despite the advent of effective combination antiretroviral drug therapy (art) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, many doubt the feasibility of art treatment programs in resource-poor settings. we evaluated the effects of highly-active-antiretroviral-therapy (haart) in a resource-limited settings. plasma viral load (vl) was suppressed to undetectable level or more than 1.5 log(10) from baseline levels in 53 (70.7%) children within 24 months. 
Are octogenarians at high risk for carotid endarterectomy? [SEP] however, advanced age resulted to be associated with an increased risk of complications after carotid endarterectomy. we compared patients and results for carotid endarterectomy in octogenarians and younger patients. carotid endarterectomy was performed for asymptomatic disease in 27% of the octogenarians and 33% of the younger patients (p =.31). octogenarians represented an increasing fraction of the carotid endarterectomies performed during the study period. octogenarians selected for carotid endarterectomy were similar to younger patients with respect to indications for carotid endarterectomy and comorbidities. a total of 103 carotid endarterectomies were performed in 95 octogenarians. the aim of the present study was to determine the trends and early outcome of carotid endarterectomy performed in octogenarians at a single institution. there was a significant increase in the proportion of octogenarians undergoing carotid endarterectomy (p = 0.03) in the second half of the study period. controversy surrounds the role of carotid endarterectomy in octogenarians. to evaluate the presumed detrimental effect of advanced age on the mortality-morbidity of carotid endarterectomy, the authors reviewed their common experience with carotid surgery in patients aged 80 years or more. 
Has the mammography quality standards act affected the mammography quality in North Carolina? [SEP] during 1995, its first year in implementation, we examined the impact of the mqsa on the quality of mammography in north carolina. in 1995, the first year that the mqsa was in effect, there was a significant improvement in the quality of mammography in north carolina. to determine which factors affected the increase in average glandular dose recorded at the annual us food and drug administration mammography quality standards act inspections of mammography equipment in north carolina from 1997 to 2001. the purpose of this project was to develop and evaluate an educational program targeted at mammography facilities in rural areas of north carolina that were having difficulty complying with the 1992 mammography quality standards act (mqsa). some of the issues being addressed in mammography quality assurance are 1) that image quality is the most important technical aspect of mammography; 2) that image quality has improved steadily over the past two decades and will continue to improve at most mammography sites in the united states; 3) that the american college of radiology's mammography accreditation program is the best way to ensure high quality mammogram; 4) that access to high quality mammography is not geographically restricted, with over half the mammography sites in the united states now acr accredited and another 30% participating in the accreditation process; 5) that regular and effective quality assurance, as described in the acr mammography quality control manuals and as required of acr accredited sites, is the only way to ensure that superior mammography image quality is maintained; and 6) that sites with higher mammography volume have better quality assurance practices and lower failure rates than others within the acr mammography accreditation program. two bills passed by the united states congress, the medicare coverage of screening mammography (1990) and the mammography quality standards act (1992), contain mammography quality assurance provisions. the mammography quality standards act is scheduled to go into effect on october 1, 1994. the status of mammography quality assurance in the united states has been reviewed briefly. the history, goals, current status, and possible future directions of the acr mammography accreditation program have been described, and other acr activities in mammography quality assurance have been discussed, including acr standards of practice in mammography, acr mammography quality control manuals, and the acr/cdc cooperative agreement on quality assurance in mammography. the quality assurance provisions of recently adopted federal legislation on mammography have been reviewed, including the medicare legislation on screening mammography, along with the proposed women's health equity act mammography quality assurance provisions. 
Do hospitals provide lower quality care on weekends? [SEP] many studies provide evidence for the so-called weekend effect by demonstrating that patients admitted to hospital during weekends show less favourable outcomes such as increased mortality, compared with similar patients admitted during weekdays. we conclude that the observed weekend effect could be explained either by lower quality of health care or higher severity of stroke admissions at the weekend. we compared the outcomes of weekend versus weekdays' admission for these patients on risk-adjusted mortality. we compared risk-adjusted in-hospital mortality of guideline-concordant care between patients admitted weekdays and patients admitted on weekends. to determine whether there is a difference in the quality or aggressiveness of care for patients experiencing ais on weekends vs weekdays. variations in the organisation and delivery of in-hospital care between weekends and weekdays have been identified, but this is not always to the detriment of weekend admissions, and the impact on mortality is uncertain. this article reports a qualitative study of patients and clinicians, to explore their views on quality and safety of care at weekends. previous studies suggested that quality of care may be lower on weekends than during the week. these results highlight the health care efficiency of hospitals during weekends as an area for further improvement. background research findings indicate that hospital volume affects the quality of care, that quality and demand for care on weekends differs from weekdays, and that giving birth on the weekend increases odds of neonatal mortality. 
Screening History Among Women with Invasive Cervical Cancer in an Academic Medical Center: Will We Miss Cancers Following Updated Guidelines? [SEP] we sought to examine updated pap test screening guidelines and how they may affect the detection of invasive cervical cancer, especially among women <30 years of age. patients diagnosed at brigham and women's hospital with invasive cervical cancer between 2002 and 2012 were retrospectively identified. a total of 288 patients with invasive cervical carcinoma were identified. this study aimed to provide an updated examination of women's screening and diagnostic practices five years prior to an invasive cervical cancer diagnosis. this retrospective study examined the rates of cervical cancer screening in hiv-positive women, conducted according to the current guidelines, from 2014 to 2016 in an inner-city clinic. evaluate the characteristics and screening history of patients diagnosed with cervical cancer over age 65. following the latest update of cervical cancer screening guidelines in 2012, we estimate the prevalence of guideline adherent cervical cancer screening and examine its associated factors among a nationally representative sample of us women aged 21-65 years. we examined cervical cancer screening and follow-up data among 363,546 women enrolled in the centers for disease control and prevention's national breast and cervical cancer early detection program from 2009 to 2017. this study aimed to evaluate the screening histories and compare barriers to screening between women with newly diagnosed early-stage cervical cancer versus advanced stage cervical cancer. between august 2010 and august 2011, women with invasive cervical cancer were identified at a single urban academic referral center and surveyed regarding access to health care, screening history, and barriers to screening services. 
Oral mucocele/ranula: Another human immunodeficiency virus-related salivary gland disease? [SEP] to describe clinical characteristics of oral mucoceles/ranulas, with a focus on human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-related salivary gland diseases. this study presents a different clinical picture of oral mucoceles/ranulas, as observed in hiv-positive patients. the authors strongly support the suggestion that oral mucocele/ranula is an hiv-related salivary gland disease. oral mucoceles and ranulas are also frequently described as oral manifestations, in association with hiv infection. this prospective study has investigated the possibility that oral mucoceles in general, and ranulas in particular, could be the initial symptoms of an underlying and undiagnosed hiv infection. oral mucoceles and ranulas should, in the context of hiv-salivary gland diseases, be considered as initial symptoms and early manifestations of hiv infection. oral mucoceles (ranulas) were also associated with hiv in some publications. we present a case of intraoral mucocele, coexisting with bilateral parotid gland lymphoepithelial lesions, on a 2-year-old hiv-positive patient. conversely to benign lymphoepithelial lesions of parotid glands, the regression of oral mucocele on hiv-positive patient, following antiretroviral drugs therapy appears to be a rare phenomenon. mucoceles are common salivary gland disorders. 
Is there an increase in the incidence of gbs carrier rates among pregnant women in northern Israel? [SEP] in spite of this policy, there are indications that many pregnant women in israel undergo bacteriological screening for gbs. the objective of this study is to assess the rate and characteristics of pregnant women who undergo screening for group b streptococcus (gbs) colonization in israel. survey of expectant mothers who came to give birth in 29 delivery rooms throughout israel during the month of july 2012 regarding gbs screening practice and demographics. a substantial number of pregnant women in israel undergo screening for gbs colonization despite the national policy against universal screening. the carrier rate in arab pregnant women in northern israel is higher than the national average, at least partially due to the more sensitive method of gbs detection used in the present study. to determine the risk factors for maternal carriage in order to clarify this discrepancy and further examine the different aspects of gbs in southern israel. the incidence of neonates with signs of infection born to gbs-carrier women in each group was 28.6% and 8.8%, respectively. increased maternal genital gbs carrier rate and difference in serotype distribution pattern of gbs may be related to the recent increase of late-onset gbs disease in korea. a high prevalence of maternal group b streptococcus (gbs) carriage and an extremely low incidence of invasive neonatal disease have been reported from southern israel. the incidence rates of maternal gbs colonization and neonatal gbs-eod were investigated. 
Does a dedicated discharge coordinator improve the quality of hospital discharge? [SEP] to evaluate the effectiveness of the role of a discharge coordinator whose sole responsibility was to plan and coordinate the discharge of patients from medical wards. an intervention study in which the quality of discharge planning was assessed before and after the introduction of a discharge coordinator. the quality and out come of discharge planning. the discharge coordinator resulted in an improved discharge planning process, and there was a reduction in problems experienced by patients after discharge, and in perceived need for medical and healthcare services. there was no evidence that the discharge coordinator resulted in a more timely or effective provision of community services after discharge, or that the appropriateness or efficiency of bed use was improved. the introduction of a discharge coordinator improved the quality of discharge planning, but at additional cost. a unit-based discharge coordinator can play an important part in enhancing the overall discharge experience for the patient and families by providing an effective and efficient approach to discharge, providing the patients and families with a feeling of preparedness. preliminary data showed that requiring a placement on discharge proved to be the most significant factor in increased length of stay and so the team took on a new role of discharge coordinator after around a year of operating. the perception and understanding of hospital discharge by health professionals is important in developing effective discharge planning. improving hospital discharge has become a national priority for teaching hospitals, yet little is known about physician perspectives on factors limiting the quality of discharge care. 
Can dobutamine stress echocardiography induce cardiac troponin elevation? [SEP] dobutamine stress echocardiography was performed in group ii. an elevated cardiac troponin i (ctni) and a positive dobutamine echocardiography are powerful predictors for future cardiac events in patients with coronary artery disease. the aim of our study was to assess whether dobutamine echocardiography can induce myocardial damage detected by an increase in the cardiac troponin t level in blood. to exclude minor myocardial damage, an increase in the cardiac troponin t blood level was assessed qualitatively by the trop t sensitive rapid test 20 h after dobutamine echocardiography. in patients with coronary artery disease and severe stenosis of a major coronary artery supplying dysfunctional but viable myocardial segments, dobutamine echocardiography does not induce myocardial damage detectable by an increase in cardiac troponin t level. a dobutamine stress echocardiography was performed for diagnostic purpose, with a negative result. dobutamine stress echocardiography results were stratified as follows: group i, no wall motion abnormalities; group ii, resting wall motion abnormalities unchanged with stress; group iii, stress-induced worsening of resting wall motion abnormalities; group iv, new-onset wall motion abnormalities with stress. dobutamine stress echocardiography is a new, safe, rapid, relatively low cost, noninvasive, nonexercise cardiac stress test for risk stratification before major vascular surgery. entitled "dobutamine stress echocardiography and cardiac troponin t for the detection of significant coronary artery disease and predicting outcome in renal transplant candidates". 005), chest pain score (p<0.005), stress-induced angina (p<0.001) and positive dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography (p<0.005). 
Cigarettes and cinema: does parental restriction of R-rated movie viewing reduce adolescent smoking susceptibility? [SEP] the hypothesis that parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing is associated with lower adolescent smoking susceptibility was tested. a zero-order correlation for parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing and smoking susceptibility showed a strong association (r = -.36, p < .001). parental restriction of r-rated movie viewing is associated with both lower adolescent smoking susceptibility and lower smoking rates. to evaluate the extent to which parents restrict the exposure of adolescents to r-rated movies and to determine whether such restrictions are associated with decreased tobacco and alcohol use in adolescents. even after controlling for other factors, including grade, parental disapproval of smoking, maternal supervision, maternal responsiveness, peer and family smoking, and child personality characteristics, children who were completely restricted from viewing r-rated movies were significantly less likely to smoke (relative risk, 0.29; 95% ci, 0.19 to 0.45) or drink (relative risk, 0.30; ci, 0.21 to 0.42) compared with those who had no restrictions on viewing r-rated movies. parental restrictions on r-rated movies significantly reduces youth exposure to movie smoking and subsequent smoking uptake. there was a strong and statistically significant effect of parental r-rated movie restriction on adolescent smoking even after controlling for sociodemographics, social influences (friend smoking, receptivity to tobacco promotions), parenting style (maternal support and control, parental disapproval of smoking), and characteristics of the adolescent (school performance, sensation seeking, rebelliousness, self-esteem). in addition, we assessed the relationship between parental r-rated movie restrictions and adolescents' sensation seeking and how this interplay is related to smoking onset. parental r-rated movie restrictions were found to decrease the risk of smoking onset directly and indirectly by changing children's sensation seeking. much of the protective effect of parent r-rated movie restriction on adolescent smoking was mediated through lower exposure to movie smoking. 
Are laboratories reporting serum quantitative hCG results correctly? [SEP] correctly reporting results for the various forms of hcg is clinically important. we identified errors in participant reporting of intact hcg results as total beta hcg (9.3%; 22 of 235 laboratories) and total beta hcg as intact hcg (13.1%; 8 of 61 laboratories). many factors contribute to the erroneous reporting of hcg results, including (a) the complexity of hcg molecule and confusion of nomenclature on the various forms of hcg; (b) laboratory personnel's lack of awareness of the distinctions of the forms of hcg and failure to recognize the specificity of assays for their measurement; (c) lack of clarity and uniformity in manufacturers' reagent labeling; and (d) most product inserts' lack of information on the specificity of each method to the various forms of hcg. patients were asked to give two serum samples early in pregnancy to establish the accuracy of a semiquantitative serum hcg test in diluted and undiluted serum samples. quantitative hcg concentrations could be estimated in pregnancy serum samples, but not urine samples, through determination of the time elapsed from the sample application or addition of the final reagent to the first appearance of a positive result. commercially available rapid human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) immunoassays are validated for use with urine and serum, but not whole blood. urines were assayed for total hcg. we also examined the use of quantitative urine hcg in confirming false positive serum hcg results in 80 clinical cases. this test equally recognized urine and serum hcg. quantitative urinary hcg proved critical in detecting cancer in 3 of 80 cases complicated by false positive serum hcg. 
Steroids in aminoglycoside-containing ear drops: do they reduce cochlear toxicity? [SEP] although effective, this procedure causes hearing loss in almost one third of the patients due to the aminoglycosides cochlear toxicity. topical aminoglycoside ear drops are theoretically acknowledged to be potentially ototoxic when administered in the presence of a tympanic membrane perforation. a group of 39 patients presenting with otitis externa were randomized in a double-blind manner into those receiving drops containing an aminoglycoside and steroid preparation and those receiving the same preparation without the aminoglycoside. although rare, ototoxicity from the use of aminoglycoside drops is well recognized. this report describes the inner ear damage that occurred after direct application of aminoglycoside-containing otic drops to the middle ears of experimental animals. topical administration of aminoglycoside antibiotic drops containing neomycin and polymyxin b disrupts cochlear structure and function in rodents, possibly as a result of reactive oxygen species generation. this study investigated the ability of a spin trap, alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl-nitrone (pbn), to prevent acute aminoglycoside antibiotic drop-induced cochlear dysfunction. these data suggest that acute aminoglycoside antibiotic drop-induced cochlear disruption primarily affects high frequency compound action potential function and may be partially reactive oxygen species-mediated and preventable. aminoglycosides are known to exert toxicity through interaction with polyphosphoinositides found in high concentrations in the inner ear. many commonly employed otic drops contain aminoglycoside antibiotics that may be toxic to the inner ear. 
Does having a regular primary care clinician improve quality of preventive care for young children? [SEP] this study examines whether having a regular clinician for preventive care is associated with quality of care for young children, as measured by interpersonal quality ratings and content of anticipatory guidance. bivariate and multivariate analyses evaluate associations between having a regular clinician for well child care and interpersonal quality, the content of anticipatory guidance, and timely access to care. in bivariate analysis, parents of children with a regular clinician for preventive care reported slightly higher interpersonal quality (69 vs. 65 on a 0-100 scale, p = 0.01). in multivariate analyses, controlling for factors that could independently influence self-reports of experiences with care, interpersonal quality but not anticipatory guidance content was higher for children with a regular clinician. having a regular primary care clinician is embraced in pediatrics, although team care among physicians is also widely practiced. for young children, having a regular clinician is associated with modest gains in interpersonal quality and no differences in content of anticipatory guidance. the benefit of having a regular clinician may primarily occur in interpersonal quality for subgroups of young children. nearly all young children aged 4 to 35 months in the united states (98%) have a regular setting, but only 46% have a specific clinician for well-child care. adolescents with a regular source of primary care had a lower risk of scoliosis surgery (hazard ratio 0.60, 95% confidence interval 0.40-0.89), especially those whose regular source of primary care was a pediatrician (hazard ratio 0.48, 95% confidence interval 0.30-0.76). young children visit primary care providers at regular intervals from an early age. 
Does performance in selection processes predict performance as a dental student? [SEP] it is important for dental schools to select students who will complete their degree and progress on to become the dentists of the future. the interview is an integral part of uk dental schools student selection procedures. the admissions selection data for two dental schools (cardiff and newcastle) were collected and analysed alongside student performance in academic examinations in year 1 of the respective schools. measures used in the selection of international dental students to a u.s. d.d.s. the aims of this study were to determine whether different student profiles would emerge in terms of high and low gpa performance in each year of dental school and to investigate the utility of preadmissions variables in predicting performance and performance stability throughout each year of dental school. overall, the findings suggest that selection committees should consider pre-dental gpa and dat chemistry scores as important tools for predicting dental school performance and stability across time. the aim of this investigation was to examine the suitability of this process for the selection of dental students in ireland. the present study examines the question whether the selection of dental students should be based solely on average school-leaving grades (gpa) or whether it could be improved by using a subject-specific aptitude test. the purpose of this study was to examine the use of personality measures to predict the success of dental students (n = 87) in clinical and academic courses and to compare their personality profiles to those of dental practitioners (n = 130). finally, the validity of these selection tools in predicting first-year dental exam performance was assessed. 
Is it time to reconsider lobectomy in low-risk paediatric thyroid cancer? [SEP] following this approach, thyroid lobectomy has been proposed as a means of decreasing short- and long-term postoperative morbidity while maintaining an excellent prognosis for tumors meeting specific macroscopic and microscopic criteria. this article will examine the pros and cons of thyroid lobectomy for low to intermediate risk cancers and discuss, in detail, criteria for patient selection and oncological outcomes. background: lobectomy with preservation of the contralateral lobe has already become the most preferred surgical method for patients with low-risk thyroid cancer. lobectomy is a cost-effective strategy in middle-aged patients with low-risk papillary thyroid cancer. the recently published 2015 american thyroid association guidelines recognize lobectomy as a viable alternative for low-risk cancers and advise more conservative use of radioactive iodine. despite the tightened regulations for radioactive iodine, about 20% of patients with apparently "low-risk" well-differentiated thyroid cancer who are eligible for lobectomy may need completion total thyroidectomy because of pathologic findings for which radioactive iodine use is listed as considered or favored by the current guidelines. this article explores the controversies over the extent of surgery for patients with very low-risk and low-risk differentiated thyroid cancer. the american thyroid association recommended thyroid lobectomy as an alternative for low-risk differentiated thyroid cancer. this study was designed to describe clinical outcomes in a cohort of low and intermediate risk thyroid cancer patients treated with thyroid lobectomy. properly selected thyroid cancer patients can be treated with lobectomy with excellent clinical outcomes. 
Is an advance care planning model feasible in community palliative care? [SEP] this article reports a study to determine the feasibility of an advance care planning model developed with australian community palliative care services. three community palliative care services: one regional and two metropolitan services in victoria, australia. an advance care planning model is feasible for community palliative care services. the study aim was to develop a service evaluation tool for an advance care planning model implemented in community palliative care. the advance care planning-service evaluation tool was useful to nurse managers in community palliative care. the advance care planning-service evaluation tool enables nurses in community palliative care to monitor, evaluate and plan quality improvement of their advance care planning model to improve end-of-life care. we studied the effects of a novel approach to palliative care program development with 10 rural minnesota community teams over 18 months. the statewide palliative care clinical network and the sa palliative care plan provided a policy framework that supported involvement and advocacy in the planning of the advanced practice pharmacist roles. the objective of the study was to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and perceived effectiveness of an oncology nurse-led care management approach to improve primary palliative care. an oncology nurse-led care management intervention is feasible, acceptable, and was perceived to be effective for improving provision of primary palliative care. 
Do preoperative serum C-reactive protein levels predict the definitive pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer? [SEP] clinical stage, gleason score and serum prostate specific antigen (psa) levels are used separately to predict pathological stage in patients with localized prostate cancer. from these analyses probability plots and nomograms have been constructed to assist urologists in the preoperative prediction of final pathological stage for patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. the preoperative prognostic factors that could predict pathological stage and outcome of individual patients with clinically localized prostate cancer are reviewed. preoperative serum levels of shbg were analyzed in 288 consecutive patients who were scheduled to undergo rrp for clinically localized prostate cancer. preoperative serum prostate-specific antigen (psa) was measured in 63 men who had clinically localized, previously untreated adenocarcinoma of the prostate and underwent subsequent radical prostatectomy and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection. a multivariate analysis is used to determine the predictive value of pretreatment clinical indicators on pathologic features associated with local failure after radical prostatectomy in patients with prostate cancer. the preoperative clinical data including the serum prostate specific antigen, clinical stage, gleason sum, and endorectal magnetic resonance scan findings are used to identify patients prior to definitive treatment who would be at high risk for having pathologic features associated with local failure at radical prostatectomy. • a total of 107 patients with clinically localized prostate cancer had an assay of total testosterone before laparoscopic rp at our institution. • low serum testosterone appears to be predictive of aggressive disease (gleason score >7 and extraprostatic disease, pathological stage > pt2) in patients who underwent rp for localized prostate cancer. to examine the association between the complexed-to-total (c:t) prostate-specific antigen (psa) ratio and prostate cancer pathological stage to assess whether the c:t psa ratio may predict the final pathological stage in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. 
Sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma: is it clinically meaningful? [SEP] the objectives were to identify prognostic factors for the survival of children with cerebellar astrocytoma, and to evaluate the reproducibility and prognostic value of histological sub-classification and grading. discordant observations due to interobserver variability make histological sub-classification of low-grade cerebellar astrocytomas in children insufficient for predicting prognosis and biological behaviour. similar survival rates in a population of paediatric low-grade cerebellar astrocytomas of grades i and ii indicate that tumour grade has no prognostic significance within this group of patients. among 106 cerebellar low-grade astrocytomas (who grade i and ii) operated on at the mayo clinic (1984-2010), we identified 19 such cases: 8 pa, "diffuse variant," 5 da, and 6 that we were unable to classify further (low-grade astrocytomas, subtype indeterminate). attempts to classify cerebellar astrocytomas in a manner which does not rely upon any specific cell type but which depends instead upon the degree of homogeneity or heterogeneity of cell growth is of limited value. 5 children with six recurrences of cerebellar astrocytoma are reviewed. all cerebellar astrocytomas studied, even though well differentiated (grade i/ii), were highly vascularised tumors (mvc: 41.1. a 26-year-old male presented with a rare cerebellar pilocytic astrocytoma with multicompartmental subarachnoid metastases. cerebrospinal fluid dissemination of low grade astrocytoma at presentation is rare in adults. the clinical data of 102 patients under the age of 12 years with cerebellar astrocytomas were retrospectively analyzed. 
After CLASS--Is a voluntary public insurance program a realistic way to meet the long-term support and service needs of adults with disabilities? [SEP] the u.s. congress is considering the community living assistance services and supports (class) act, a voluntary insurance program that would help pay for long-term services and supports to disabled americans. the class act, which was part of the affordable care act of 2010, established a voluntary personal assistance services (pas) insurance program. the current lack of publicly subsidized insurance for long-term care and personal assistance services remains a serious gap in the disability service system. the community living assistance services and supports (class) act was a voluntary public insurance strategy intended to help people pay for long-term care. experience with the long-term care insurance market and state partnership programs provide insights about how to make class fiscally viable. the affordable care act (aca) established a voluntary public insurance program for long-term care: the community living assistance services and supports (class) act. finally, universalistic public insurance programs do well in meeting the goals of long-term care reform, but all social insurance programs are expensive and seem politically infeasible in the current political environment. the author's objective is to summarize and synthesize what is known about the private long-term care insurance market and its impact on public expenditures, policyholders, their families, and providers. service delivery and provider issues are critical to making money work for disabled persons and insurers will be increasingly called on to help address this issue. over time, this insurance will likely play a more meaningful role in meeting the needs of disabled elders and their families. 
Is intraoperative neuromonitoring associated with better functional outcome in patients undergoing open TME? [SEP] intraoperative neuromonitoring (ionm) aims to control nerve-sparing total mesorectal excision (tme) for rectal cancer in order to improve patients' functional outcome. recently, the use of neuromonitoring has been increasingly employed to predict and document nerve function at the end of thyroidectomy. intraoperative neuromonitoring (ionm) was registered for 91 patients. intraoperative neuromonitoring has an excellent specificity and negative predictive value in which an unchanged positive signal is highly predictive of intact nerve function. continuous intraoperative neuromonitoring may facilitate reversal of intraoperative injurious operative maneuvers in comparison with intermittent intraoperative neuromonitoring. the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of the routine use of continuous intraoperative neuromonitoring on intraoperative injuries to the recurrent laryngeal nerve. we reviewed the outcomes of 603 patients (466 female patients) comprising 236 who underwent intermittent intraoperative neuromonitoring and 367 who underwent continuous intraoperative neuromonitoring. the routine use of continuous intraoperative neuromonitoring improves the rate of intraoperative adverse electromyography events but does not impact significantly the rates of loss of signal and recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy. intraoperative neuromonitoring and direct stimulation should be performed during the mmc repair in order to obtain a better neurological outcome. the purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of various extra- and intraoperative factors on the ability of neuromonitoring to predict neurological complications. 
Can we predict which head and neck cancer survivors develop fears of recurrence? [SEP] fears of recurrence are one of the major concerns of cancer survivors that endure and can influence the patients' ability to adjust and plan for the future. the objectives of this study were to investigate longitudinal predictors of fear of recurrence in survivors of head and neck cancer (hnc) using leventhal's common sense model (csm) as a framework. path analyses demonstrated that fears of cancer recurrence after treatment were directly predicted by pre-treatment fears and optimism. to examine the impact of fear of recurrence (for) on health-related quality of life (hrqol) and tobacco use among head and neck cancer (hnc) survivors. fear of recurrence (for) is a primary concern for both cancer survivors and their caregivers, yet little is known about what care-related factors exacerbate this worry. fear of cancer recurrence (fcr) is common among individuals treated for cancer. the aim was to investigate how head and neck cancer survivors in follow-up consultations express fcr, investigate how a healthcare professional addresses recurrence fears, and examine how survivors experience this interaction. perceived risk of recurrence, trait anxiety, and breast cancer reminders explained significant variance in fear of recurrence and breast cancer survivor self-efficacy. the fear of cancer recurrence inventory has shown adequate psychometric properties to assess for fear of cancer recurrence among cancer survivors. the validated fear of cancer recurrence inventory is applicable to cancer survivors in singapore. 
The secular growth acceleration: does it appear during fetal life? [SEP] to test if secular growth acceleration occurs during fetal life. anova kruskal-wallis and mann-whitney u-test have been used for the biometric characteristics comparison of nowadays fetal population with those three decades ago and to test the hypothesis about the existence of secular growth acceleration during fetal life. it is possible that secular growth acceleration does not exist in prenatal period but also the observed time period could have been short for this phenomenon to manifest. patterns of fetal growth predict non-communicable disease risk in adult life, but fetal growth variability appears to have a relatively weak association with maternal nutritional dynamics during pregnancy. we hypothesized that associations of maternal size and nutritional status with neonatal size are mediated by the dimensions of the maternal pelvis. selection on fetal adaptation to relatively inflexible components of maternal phenotype, rather than directly to external ecological conditions, may help explain high levels of growth plasticity during late fetal life and early infancy. slow growth during fetal life and infancy is followed by accelerated weight gain in childhood. offspring growth patterns are sensitive to the magnitude of maternal capital during early windows of plasticity. over the last century, these factors have induced a taller stature and a more rapid maturity in europe, north america, and australia; a phenomenon which has been referred to as "the secular trend" in growth. this paper describes in more detail the different hereditary and environmental factors that act during the fetal period and postnatally, and which play a role in human growth and pubertal development. 
Does hippocampal atrophy on MRI predict cognitive decline? [SEP] previous cross-sectional studies examining the relationship between cognitive impairment and dementia have shown that hippocampal and cortical gray matter atrophy are the most important predictors of cognitive impairment, even in cases with scvbi. in the present study we investigate the relationship between whole brain and hippocampal atrophy rates and longitudinal changes in cognition, including verbal episodic memory and executive function, in older women. in addition, higher whole brain and hippocampal atrophy rates are correlated with a decline in verbal episodic memory. these findings indicate that in addition to atrophy rate, smaller regional grey matter volumes even 10 years prior is associated with increased rates of cognitive decline. hippocampal-sparing and limbic-predominant atrophy were also associated with incident dementia, with faster cognitive decline in the limbic predominant atrophy group. studies suggest that smaller hippocampal volume predicts alzheimer's disease (ad) in mild cognitive impairment (mci). the annual hippocampal atrophy rate was correlated with a decline in memory test scores. therefore, accelerated hippocampal atrophy rates may be an early and important presentation in mci subjects. global hippocampal atrophy is a hallmark of alzheimer's dementia and has been similarly reported in parkinson's disease dementia (pdd). hippocampal atrophy, as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (mri), may be a marker for hippocampal pathology in patients with mci and predict a more rapid deterioration to clinical ad. 
Chemoradiotherapy in the management of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma esophagus: is surgical resection required? [SEP] combined chemoradiotherapy has been used with encouraging results in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal and esophagus, and limited reports suggest that this management may show promise in the control of squamous cell carcinoma of the urethra. chemoradiotherapy has been clinically indicated for patients with resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma who refuse surgical resection and in locally advanced unresectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients. therefore, chemoradiotherapy is recognized as the standard non-invasive treatment for patients with localized esophageal cancer who opt for non-surgical treatment. but there are some problems about chemoradiotherapy for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. targeted therapy has not shown adding effect for chemoradiotherapy for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma yet. the second patient underwent a resection of the cervical esophagus and interposition of a free jejunal segment after neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy for a locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma in the cervical esophagus. we conducted a retrospective review of all patients who underwent resection for recurrent or persistent squamous cell carcinoma of the proximal esophagus after chemoradiotherapy at the mayo clinic, rochester, minnesota, between january 1, 1990 and december 31, 2005. we herein report a case of mediastinoscopic salvage esophagectomy for recurrent esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after definitive chemoradiotherapy in a previously pneumonectomized patient. the optimal regimen of preoperative chemoradiotherapy for resectable esophageal cancer has not been established. we evaluated accelerated hyperfractionated radiotherapy (rt) concurrent to low-dose weekly cisplatin and continuous infusion fluorouracil (ldci-fu) followed by esophagectomy in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma (scc) of the esophagus. 
Does quantitative left ventricular regional wall motion change after fibrous tissue resection in endomyocardial fibrosis? [SEP] we compared left ventricular regional wall motion, the global left ventricular ejection fraction, and the new york heart association functional class pre- and postoperatively. although left ventricular global systolic function is preserved, patients exhibit wall motion abnormalities in the apical and inferoapical regions. fibrous tissue resection in new york heart association fc iii and iv endomyocardial fibrosis patients has been shown to decrease morbidity and mortality. left ventricular wall motion in the five regions did not differ between pre- and postoperative measurements. although endomyocardial fibrosis patients have improved clinical symptoms after surgery, the global left ventricular ejection fraction and regional wall motion in these patients do not change. features associated with right ventricular endomyocardial fibrosis include: (i) exaggerated motion and thickening of the anterior right ventricular wall; (ii) increased right ventricular end-diastolic dimension; and (iii) paradoxical septal motion. six patients with left ventricular endomyocardial fibrosis had diminished left ventricular end-diastolic dimension. a new surgical technique for removal of ventricular fibrous tissue with preservation of the mitral and tricuspid valves was used in nine consecutive patients with endomyocardial fibrosis. in normal hearts the mean collagen content of the subendocardial region of the right side of the interventricular septum (site of right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy) correlates well with the mean collagen content of the right ventricular wall and the center of the interventricular septum, but it does not reliably reflect the mean collagen content of the left ventricular free wall. a case of right ventricular endomyocardial fibrosis from west bengal is reported here. 
Bridge experience with long-term implantable left ventricular assist devices. Are they an alternative to transplantation? [SEP] at that point, left ventricular assist devices began to be used as bridges to transplantation. as left ventricular assist devices were used for longer periods of time, we realized that the ventricular function and overall health of the patients awaiting transplant improved. used as a bridge to transplantation, left ventricular assist devices often increased a patient's chances of survival and recovery. recently, implantation of left ventricular assist devices as definitive therapy has been recognized as a better option than pharmacological treatment in patients who are not candidates for heart transplantation. this unique experience shows that left ventricular assist device support can be extended beyond 4 years with good quality of life and low risk, making it a good alternative for non-transplant candidates. early and late complications after left ventricular assist device as a bridge to transplantation and present factors associated with long-term support and long-term outcomes of patients supported for at least 1 year were compared. prolonged left ventricular assist device support as bridge to transplantation is associated with lower mortality and lower incidence of device failure requiring device exchange. herein we review our 12-year clinical experience with the heartmate left ventricular assist systems as a bridge to transplantation and as a long-term circulatory assist device that aids in cardiac repair. this study sought to evaluate the long-term outcomes in patients receiving continuous-flow left ventricular assist devices. between march 2004 and june 2010, 140 patients underwent continuous-flow left ventricular assist device insertion as a bridge to transplantation or a destination therapy. 
Does occupational nuclear power plant radiation affect conception and pregnancy? [SEP] to determine the effect of occupational exposure in a nuclear power plant in griefswald, germany on male and female fecundity. the frequency of men and women exposed to ionizing radiation through work in a nuclear power plant among 270 infertile couples was retrospectively compared to a control fertile population using a pair-matched analysis. the data suggest that occupational exposure due to ionizing radiation should be investigated as a possible cause for involuntary temporary sterility and as a risk factor for early pregnancy disorders. the aim of this analysis was to investigate the association between occupational exposure to ionizing radiation and the risk of autoimmune thyroid disease as well as thyroid nodules and dysfunction in workers of a former nuclear power station. workers of a nuclear power plant with occupational exposure to ionizing radiation within the upper allowed dose range have an increased risk of elevated serum tsh levels. we aimed to assess whether the offspring of men and women who are occupationally exposed to ionising radiation are at increased risk of fetal death and congenital malformation. we analysed pregnancies reported by an occupational cohort of nuclear industry workers in the uk, employed at establishments operated by the atomic energy authority, atomic weapons establishment, and british nuclear fuels. we found no evidence of a link between exposure to low-level ionising radiation before conception and increased risk of adverse reproductive outcome in men working in the nuclear industry. nuclear power plant workers are exposed to ionizing radiation at relatively low doses and for prolonged periods of time. in conclusion, a dose-related association between mn frequency and exposure to ionizing radiation was evident in nuclear power plant workers, encouraging the application of the cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay in biomonitoring studies of human populations with prolonged exposure to ionizing radiation. 
Lloyd-Davies position with Trendelenburg--a disaster waiting to happen? [SEP] a medline search was performed using the keywords 'compartment syndrome', 'laparoscopic surgery' and 'lloyd-davies position' between 1970 and 2008. the following are believed to be risk factors for acute lower limb compartment syndrome: the lloyd-davies operating position with exaggerated trendelenburg tilt, prolonged operative times and improper patient positioning. current knowledge related to the risk of cs when operating in these positions (lloyd davies and trendelenburg tilt) is such that it can be deemed negligent to keep patients in this position (with legs higher than the heart) when not absolutely necessary. the lloyd davies position was developed to facilitate access to the pelvis for gynaecological, urological and colorectal procedures. these case reports stress the dangers of use of the lloyd davies position for prolonged procedures and demonstrate that some patients are at risk after relatively short periods (< 3 h). we review the pathophysiology of compartment syndrome and consider factors other than a decrease in arterial pressure that may predispose to compartment syndrome during adoption of the lloyd davies position. the patient was in a modified lloyd-davis position, with the table tilted in trendelenburg position, left side up. with the introduction of laparoscopic-assisted abdominoperineal resection (lapr), the traditional lloyd-davies position with the mayo two-team combined approach is being adapted. the lloyd-davies position allows two teams of surgeons to work simultaneously, minimizing operating time. patients were positioned in a modified lloyd-davies position, allowing perineal access, and steep trendelenburg to aid displacement of small bowel from the pelvis. 
Is patient outcome compromised during the initial experience with robot-assisted radical cystectomy? [SEP] we reviewed operative management of robot-assisted radical cystectomy specific complications during our 10-year experience with this procedure and assessed the feasibility, safety and outcomes of robot-assisted reoperations. a total of 92 patients (23%) underwent surgical intervention after robot-assisted radical cystectomy. our initial experience with robot-assisted management of robot-assisted radical cystectomy complications appears safe and feasible, although the decision to proceed is determined primarily by surgeon experience. we compared the surgical technique, perioperative and oncological outcomes, and learning curve of robot-assisted radical cystectomy with those of open radical cystectomy. the purpose of this paper is to review recent advances and outcomes related to robot-assisted radical cystectomy. robot-assisted radical cystectomy is a reproducible, minimally invasive approach to radical cystectomy. the prevalence of robot-assisted radical cystectomy is steadily increasing. within the last year, numerous robot-assisted radical cystectomy case series with larger cohorts have been published, providing new insights regarding perioperative morbidity and early oncologic outcomes. robot-assisted radical cystectomy is an emerging minimally invasive approach to radical cystectomy. the experience at the university of virginia with robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical cystectomy will be discussed. 
Is the Retromandibular Transparotid Approach a Reliable Option for the Surgical Treatment of Condylar Fractures? [SEP] this article describes the surgical details and postoperative results of the mini-retromandibular transparotid approach for treating extracapsular condylar fractures of the mandible. in a 1-year period, 16 patients affected by extracapsular condylar fractures with surgical indication were treated with the mini-retromandibular transparotid approach. the mini-retromandibular transparotid approach offers advantages and should be included as an option for the open treatment of extracapsular condylar fractures of the mandible. this study evaluated the outcomes and complications of the surgical treatment of condylar fractures by the retromandibular transparotid approach. according to the results of the present study, the retromandibular transparotid approach is a viable and safe approach for the surgical treatment of condylar fractures. the retromandibular transparotid approach appears to be a safe and effective method for the internal fixation of extracapsular condylar fractures. a retrospective study of patients surgically treated for mandibular condylar fractures using the retromandibular transparotid approach over seven years was conducted. the retromandibular transparotid approach with open reduction and rigid internal fixation for displaced condylar neck fractures of the mandible is a feasible and safe, minimally invasive surgical technique that provides reliable clinical results. the aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and morbidity of the retromandibular transparotid approach for open reduction and internal fixation of sub-condylar mandibular fractures. the retromandibular transparotid approach is safe and effective with rare major complications in the management of sub-condylar fractures of the mandible. 
Appendectomy timing: Will delayed surgery increase the complications? [SEP] extended time interval from the onset of initial symptoms to appendectomy is associated with increased complications per cci, duration of surgery, and hlos in acute appendicitis. with varied reports on the impact of time to appendectomy on clinical outcomes, the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of preoperative in-hospital delay on the outcome for patients with acute appendicitis. patients were divided into three groups according to the time of surgery after hospital admission: the early appendectomy (ea) group underwent surgery within 12 h, the early-delayed appendectomy (eda) group between 12 and 24 h and the delayed appendectomy (da) group more than 24 h. the perioperative data and pathological state of the appendix were evaluated and compared. controversy surrounds appendectomy timings and their effects on postoperative outcomes. although delaying appendectomies for >18 hours had no statistically significant impact on perforation rates (25.3 vs 19.4%, p = 0.133), it caused more complications (8.7 vs 3.8%, p = 0.023) compared with cases delayed for 12 to 18 hours. this study was to evaluate the effect of timing of surgery on complications, length of stay (los) and cost in patients undergoing appendectomy. although it is controversial whether appendectomy can be safely delayed, it is often unnecessary to postpone operation as a shorter delay may increase patient comfort, enables quicker recovery, and decreases costs. the purpose of this study was to determine whether the time of day of the procedure and preoperative delay in appendectomy have significant impacts on morbidity and mortality rates. however, the rates of complications, in-hospital mortality, and conversion were all significantly higher in patients with a preoperative delay of >24 h. the time of day of performing an appendectomy does not seem have any significant effect on complication and mortality rates. this study was aimed to evaluate the effect of time of surgery for acute appendicitis on surgical outcomes to optimize the timing of appendectomies. 
Treatment of vitamin D deficiency in CKD patients with ergocalciferol: are current K/DOQI treatment guidelines adequate? [SEP] patients treated with ergocalciferol as recommended by k/doqi guidelines. 88 patients with ckd were treated with ergocalciferol. fifty-two patients with stage 3 or stage 4 ckd with vitamin d deficiency and elevated pth concentrations received ergocalciferol dosed per a modified k/doqi guidelines protocol and adjusted every 3 months. ergocalciferol therapy is a reasonable initial therapy for vitamin d deficiency associated with elevated pth levels in stage 3 ckd. it is not clear whether the kidney disease outcomes quality initiative (k/doqi) recommended doses of ergocalciferol are adequate for correction of vitamin d insufficiency and hyperparathyroidism. in addition to improving vitamin d levels, oral high-dose ergocalciferol was safe and had a beneficial effect in decreasing pth in patients with stage iii-iv of ckd. the proteinuria lowering effect of ergocalciferol in ckd patients with vitamin d deficiency was demonstrated. oral high-dose ergocalciferol supplementation has achieved higher vitamin d sufficiency than standard dose in end stage renal disease patients on dialysis. we performed a systematic review to investigate the effects of vitamin d supplementation, in the form of ergocalciferol or cholecalciferol, on various health outcomes in early ckd. the national kidney foundation kidney disease outcomes quality improvement guidelines recommend the use of ergocalciferol in the treatment of vitamin d insufficiency in ckd stages 3 and 4, and the use of active vitamin d hormone in the treatment of vitamin d deficiency in patients with ckd stage 5 who also have secondary hyperparathyroidism. 
Comparing femoral version after intramedullary nailing performed by trauma-trained and non-trauma trained surgeons: is there a difference? [SEP] as with some procedures, trauma fellowship training and greater surgeon experience may result in better outcomes following intramedullary nailing (imn) of diaphyseal femur fractures. the purpose of this study is to determine whether trauma training affects the post-operative difference in femoral version (dfv) following imn. postoperative computed tomography (ct) scanograms of 267 patients who underwent femoral intramedullary (im) nailing with corresponding radiology attending reads for femoral version were collected and de-identified. they were assessed using the validated "touch surgery™" application assessment tool on femoral intramedullary nailing. consecutively treated patients with fractures of the femoral shaft were treated with intramedullary nails from june 1986 to march 1996. reamed intramedullary nailing of the femoral shaft was performed with the use of a fracture table or with the leg draped free on a radiolucent table. length of anesthesia time, prep and drape time (from the point the anesthetized patient is turned over to the surgeons until incision), and intramedullary nailing time (from incision until end of surgery) for reamed intramedullary nailing of the femoral shaft performed with and without the use of a fracture table were compared. reamed intramedullary nailing of the femoral shaft performed without the use of a fracture table is significantly faster than when the procedure is performed with a fracture table. this may have important implications in proper alignment restoration and successful clinical outcomes after intramedullary nailing of femur fractures. level 1 trauma center patients:: ninety-eight consecutive patients with a comminuted femoral shaft fracture underwent statically locked intramedullary nailing, with a focused attempt at minimizing lld during surgery. 
Does Viral Co-Infection Influence the Severity of Acute Respiratory Infection in Children? [SEP] virus co-infection in young children hospitalized with an acute febrile respiratory infection is common but does not appear to be associated with illness severity. although assessing the overall contribution of bacteria to disease severity is complicated by the presence of many confounding factors in clinical studies, understanding the role of viral/bacterial co-infections in defining the outcome of paediatric ari will potentially reveal novel treatment and prevention strategies, improving patient outcomes. this review summarizes current evidence for the clinical significance of respiratory viral/bacterial co-infections in young children, discusses possible mechanisms of cooperative interaction between these pathogens and highlights areas that require further investigation. the clinical significance of viral load and co-infections in children with respiratory infections is not clear. to evaluate the correlation of viral load as well as viral and bacterial co-infections with disease severity in hospitalized children with lower respiratory tract infections (lrtis). this investigation aims to understand the role and burden of viral co-infections for acute respiratory illnesses in children. viral infections can influence both the development and the severity of asthma. the impact of viral co-infections and recently discovered viruses on the epidemiology of respiratory infections in children is still unclear. we conclude that viral co-infections are involved in a significant proportion of children with an acute respiratory infection and may increase the severity of clinical presentation and the risk for hospitalization. this study provides a basic profile of the epidemiology of acute respiratory viral infection in hospitalized children in shenzhen. 
Will clinical studies elucidate the connection between the length of storage of transfused red blood cells and clinical outcomes? [SEP] during storage, red blood cells intended for transfusion undergo progressive changes affecting survival and function. we evaluated publications of clinical studies comparing storage times in connection with red blood cell transfusion using physiological or clinical outcomes. studies in adults suggest that prolonged storage of red blood cell units is associated with worse clinical outcome. our objectives were to assess the clinical impact of the length of storage of red blood cell units on clinical outcome of critically ill children. the association of postoperative morbidity with the length of storage of perioperatively transfused rbcs was studied in 268 consecutive patients receiving a blood transfusion for coronary artery bypass graft surgery. although storage alters red blood cells, several recent, randomized trials found no differences in clinical outcomes between patients transfused with red blood cells stored for shorter versus longer periods of time. to assess the clinical benefits and harms of prolonged storage of packed red blood cells, in comparison with fresh, on recipients of blood transfusion. recognising the limitations of the review, relating to the size and nature of the included trials, this cochrane review provides no evidence to support or reject the use of packed red blood cells for blood transfusion which have been stored for ≥ 21 days ('prolonged' or 'older') compared with those stored for < 21 days ('fresh'). to review the current literature on the role of storage time of transfused red blood cells on microcirculation and tissue oxygenation in critically ill patients. depending on the storage solution and national regulatory requirements, red blood cells can be stored in the refrigerator up to 42 days before transfusion. 
Cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction in elderly patients: does admission to a tertiary center improve survival? [SEP] the objectives of our study were to examine 3-decade-long trends (1975 to 2005) in the incidence rates of cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction, patient characteristics and treatment practices associated with this clinical complication, and hospital death rates in residents of a large central new england community hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction at all area medical centers. hospital survival of patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock has improved during recent years. cardiogenic shock is the leading cause of death in patients with acute myocardial infarction, with short-term mortality of approximately 50%. patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock admitted at two tertiary centres in denmark from 2010 to 2017 were individually identified through patient charts, resulting in the inclusion of 1716 cardiogenic shock patients. here, we suggest systems of care with a treatment pathway for patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. early revascularization is the cornerstone treatment of acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. we present a case of acute myocardial infarction complicated with cardiogenic shock that underwent primary percutaneous coronary intervention and also review the incidence, pathophysiology, management and outcome of cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction. cardiogenic shock resulting from acute myocardial infarction is a serious complication with a high mortality rate, but little is known about whether its incidence or outcome has changed over time. as part of an ongoing population-based study of acute myocardial infarction, we examined trends over time in the incidence and mortality rate of cardiogenic shock after acute myocardial infarction. this retrospective observational review compares patient characteristics and in-hospital and long-term outcomes of cohorts of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) for cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction (mi) prior to the use of stents (as well as glycoprotein iib/iiia inhibitor and dual-antiplatelet therapy) with pci in the stent era. 
Learning needs of postpartum women: does socioeconomic status matter? [SEP] although few differences in identified concerns were evident, women of low socioeconomic status were significantly more likely to report unmet learning needs related to 9 of 10 topics compared with women of higher socioeconomic status. the findings highlight the need for accessible and appropriate community-based information resources for women in the postpartum period, especially for those of low socioeconomic status. to assess mothers' learning needs and concerns after giving birth and to examine whether these needs were met at 6-8 weeks postpartum. a convenience sample of 150 postpartum women have completed perceived leaning needs scale prior to hospital discharge, at southern region of jordan, and have completed perceived met learning needs scale at 6-8 weeks after giving birth. at 6-8 weeks postpartum, the primary unmet learning needs postpartum were danger signs post-caesarean section, physical changes, breastfeeding and new baby care. postpartum women who experience socioeconomic disadvantage are at higher risk for poor health outcomes than more advantaged postpartum women, and may benefit from access to community based postpartum health services. this study examined socioeconomically disadvantaged (sed) postpartum women's health, and health service needs and utilization patterns in the first four weeks post hospital discharge, and compared them to more socioeconomically advantaged (sea) postpartum women's health, health service needs and utilization patterns. the purpose of this longitudinal study was to analyze the relationship between stressful life conditions and postnatal depression in a group of women of low socioeconomic status from the third week to the sixth month postpartum. additional research is needed to understand postpartum depression among understudied populations. a total of 50 first time pregnant women were randomly sampled and were divided into different socioeconomic strata following the kuppuswamy socioeconomic status scale. 
Pitfalls in urinary stone identification using CT attenuation values: are we getting the same information on different scanner models? [SEP] evaluate the capability of different computed tomography scanners to determine urinary stone compositions based on ct attenuation values and to evaluate potential differences between each model. for all tested ct scanners, when the classification of the various types of stones was arranged according to the mean ct-attenuation values and to the confidence interval, large overlappings between stone types were highlighted. some types of stones presented mean ct attenuation values significantly different from one ct scanner to another. at 120kv mean ct attenuation values of uric acid, cystine and struvite stones obtained with the philips model are significantly different from those obtained with the siemens and the toshiba but equal to those obtained with the ge 64. this review briefly describes dect principles, scanner types and acquisition protocols for the evaluation of urinary calculi as they relate to imaging pitfalls (inconsistent characterization of small stones, small dual-energy field of view, and mischaracterization from surrounding material) and stone mimics (drainage devices) that may adversely impact clinical decisions. urinary calculi are now commonly detected with helical computed tomography (ct), and it has been proposed that stone composition can be determined from ct attenuation values. stone composition and stone size, relative to ct collimation, independently influenced ct attenuation. multidetector ct is not an accurate method for detection of human stone compositions; however a high stone ct attenuation value is s significant predictor of failure to fragment renal stones by swl. to investigate the diagnostic accuracy of cascading convolutional neural network (cnn) for urinary stone detection on unenhanced ct images and to evaluate the performance of pretrained models enriched with labeled ct images across different scanners. ct remains the gold standard for diagnosis of urinary calculi, but has not reliably differentiated varying stone compositions. 
Laminoplasty outcomes: is there a difference between patients with degenerative stenosis and those with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament? [SEP] a retrospective study of the long-term results from double-door laminoplasty (kurokawa's method) for patients with myelopathy caused by ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and cervical spondylosis was performed. in this study, 35 patients with cervical myelopathy caused by ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament in the cervical spine and 25 patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy, including 5 patients with athetoid cerebral palsy, underwent double-door laminoplasty from 1980 through 1988 and were followed over the next 10 years. the short-term results of laminoplasty for cervical stenotic myelopathy were maintained over 10years in 78% of the patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament, and in most of the patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy, except those with athetoid cerebral palsy. this study was performed to clarify the relationship between the progression of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and the clinical results following en bloc cervical laminoplasty. thirty-three (73%) of the patients had progression of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament after laminoplasty. progression of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament was often observed during the long-term follow-up period after laminoplasty. to evaluate occupational recovery after open-door type laminoplasty for patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. the literature contains numerous reports on the surgical results of laminoplasty for ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament, but very few reports are available on postoperative quality of life, and even fewer on occupational recovery after laminoplasty. a cross-sectional survey was conducted of 301 patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament in the cervical spine who were employed before open-door type laminoplasty. based on the results of this study and a review of previous literature, no significant differences existed between different approaches and techniques for patients with mild ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament, but anterior corpectomy and fusion had significantly better results in patients with severe ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. 
Immunohistochemical assessment of steroid hormone receptors in tissues of the anal canal. Implications for anal incontinence? [SEP] assessment of the anal sphincters in patients with fecal incontinence and documentation of perianal inflammatory masses and tracts in those with perianal inflammatory disease are the major indications for imaging the anal canal. this technique may not only aid the investigation of fecally incontinent subjects, but it may also improve our understanding of anal canal physiology during both the process of defecation and maintenance of continence. a prerequisite for a hormonal influence on anal continence in women is the presence of hormone receptors in the tissues of the anal canal. using immunohistochemical techniques, we demonstrated and localized estrogen and progesterone receptors (er, pr) in tissue sections of the anal canal. estrogen receptors were found in the smooth muscle cells of the internal sphincter of all females (10/10) and in four of the seven males. the presence of er in the stroma and smooth muscles of the anal canal suggests that these tissues are targets for estrogen. anal canal pressure gradient and ileal pouch motor activity were studied in continent and incontinent patients after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis. incontinent patients had lower resting pressure, more prolonged anal canal relaxation, higher amplitude high-pressure waves and a non-responsive anal canal; the anal canal pressure gradient was therefore frequently reversed. faecal incontinence in ssc patients is associated with poor ias function, causing increased distensibility of the middle anal canal. anal canal sensation is impaired in incontinent patients. 
Is acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia the expression of immune dysregulation? [SEP] acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia is a histopathologic entity of lung injury with the hallmark feature of intra-alveolar fibrin "balls." we report 2 cases of acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia in patients without a significant medical history, who presented with cough and worsening dyspnea and experienced a fulminant course of disease progression with diffuse lung parenchymal abnormalities on chest computed tomography. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia, a recently described form of diffuse acute lung injury, sometimes affects adults with inflammatory myopathy. acute fibrinous organizing pneumonia (afop) is a rare, non-infective lung pathology histologically characterized by patchy distribution of intra-alveolar fibrin "balls" and organizing pneumonia. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia is a newly recognized pattern of lung injury. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia (afop) is a new histopathological pattern of acute lung injury first described by beasley et al. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonitis (afop) is a disease with histopathological pattern characterized by the presence of intra-alveolar fibrin in the form of fibrin "balls" and organizing pneumonia represented by inflammatory myofibroblastic polyps. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia (afop) is a histological pattern characterized by intra-alveolar fibrin deposition and associated organizing pneumonia. acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia is a rare entity characterized by the histological pattern suggestive of diffuse alveolar damage, eosinophilic pneumonia and organizing pneumonia; the presence of intra alveolar "fibrin balls" distinguishes it from these conditions. herein, we describe the association of acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia with a respiratory tract infection. 
Hypotension in patients with coronary disease: can profound hypotensive events cause myocardial ischaemic events? [SEP] to determine whether anginal episodes might be related to extremes of hypotension in patients with ischaemic heart disease taking drugs to treat angina and heart failure. observational study of patients with ischaemic heart disease attending an urban tertiary referral cardiology centre. hypotension induced ischaemic (hii) events were defined as episodes of st segment ischaemia occurring at least one minute after an ambulatory blood pressure measurement (systolic/diastolic) below 100/65 mm hg during the day, or 90/50 mm hg at night. in patients with ischaemic heart disease and hypotension, symptomatic and silent ischaemia occurred in a temporally causal relation with hypotension, particularly for diastolic pressures, suggesting that patients with coronary disease may be susceptible to ischaemic events incurred as a result of low blood pressure caused by excessive hypotensive drug treatment. ischaemia can also occur as the result of decreased coronary perfusion pressure caused by hypotension or coronary artery spasm. perioperative hypotension is associated with cardiovascular events in patients having noncardiac surgery. hypotension was independently associated with cardiovascular events (hazard ratio, 3.17; 95% ci, 1.99 to 5.06; p < 0.001). in patients having noncardiac surgery, perioperative hypotension was associated with cardiovascular events regardless of the degree of coronary artery disease on preoperative coronary computed tomographic angiography. profound hypotension correlated with a significantly higher cardiac event rate (p < 0.02). alternatively, coronary spasm may have been the primary event, inducing sufficient myocardial ischaemia to cause a marked drop in blood pressure. 
An HIV1/2 point of care test on sputum for screening TB/HIV co-infection in Central India - Will it work? [SEP] in india, to increase human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) case detection, the national technical working group on tb /hiv had made it mandatory to screen for hiv infection among presumptive tuberculosis (tb) cases. the aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of hiv-tb co-infection among a less studied population of eastern india. an operational research was conducted in karnataka state (south india, population 64 million, accounts for 10% of india's hiv burden), to test processes and learn results and challenges of screening presumptive tb patients for hiv within routine health care settings. in this cross-sectional study conducted between january-march 2012, all presumptive tb patients attending public sector sputum microscopy centres state-wide were offered hiv testing by the laboratory technician, and referred to the nearest public sector hiv counselling and testing services, usually within the same facility. we compared the yield and efficiency of novel icf algorithms inclusive of point-of-care crp-based tb screening and confirmatory testing with urine tb-lam (if cd4 count ≤100 cells/μl), sputum xpert, and/or a single sputum culture among consecutive people living with hiv with cd4 counts less than or equal to 350 cells/μl initiating antiretroviral therapy in uganda. addition of tb-lam and a single culture to xpert confirmatory testing could enable hiv programs to increase the speed of tb diagnosis and icf yield. the current indian policy of offering hiv testing only to tb cases may limit opportunities for early hiv diagnosis and treatment. diagnosis of pulmonary tb by ziehl-neelsen staining of sputum smears; diagnosis of smear negative and extrapulmonary tb based on consistent clinical and radiological features; hiv-1 and hiv-2 testing of patients clinically suspected to be infected and all blood donors. to determine the yield of tb screening during community-based hiv testing campaigns (chc) in 7 rural ugandan communities within an ongoing cluster-randomized trial of universal hiv testing and treatment (search, nct:01864603), we offered sputum microscopy to participants with prolonged cough (>2 weeks). in a rural ugandan setting, tb screening as an adjunct to large-scale mobile hiv testing campaigns provides an opportunity to increase tb case detection. 
Do inhaled corticosteroids affect perception of dyspnea during bronchoconstriction in asthma? [SEP] to investigate whether the perception of dyspnea during histamine-induced bronchoconstriction might be used to identify patients with asthma who sense dyspnea poorly during exacerbation. this study investigated the influence of the chronic use of short-acting and long-acting beta(2)-agonists, compared with the additional use of inhaled corticosteroids on the perception of histamine-induced bronchoconstriction. the additional use of inhaled corticosteroids during the second year resulted in an improved perception of histamine-induced bronchoconstriction (slope alpha) compared with the first year for only the long-acting beta(2)-agonists group (p value 0.036). the additional use of inhaled corticosteroids during chronic use of long-acting beta(2)-agonists improves the perceptive "sensitivity" for changes in fev(1) during histamine-induced bronchoconstriction, which was not observed for short-acting bronchodilators. we studied the perception of bronchoconstriction in asthmatic subjects who were randomly treated with inhaled beta 2 agonist given either alone (n = 9) or associated with inhaled corticosteroids (n = 9). subjects without corticosteroids had good perception of methacholine but poor perception of bradykinin-induced bronchoconstriction. in subjects with corticosteroids, bronchoconstriction was well perceived whatever the agonist. we conclude that in asthmatic patients perception of bronchoconstriction is related to eosinophilic inflammation and to epithelial damage in airways and that corticosteroid treatment is associated with improved perception of bronchoconstriction induced by bradykinin, a mediator endogenously produced in asthma. perception of bronchoconstriction in asthma patients measured during histamine challenge test. dyspnea at baseline was positively related to dyspnea intensity during induced bronchoconstriction. 
Is routine chest radiography after transbronchial biopsy necessary? [SEP] routine chest radiography (cxr) following tbb is therefore requested by most pulmonologists in an attempt to detect complications, particularly pneumothorax. the objective of this study was to determine if routine cxr after bronchoscopy and tbb is necessary. we conclude that routine cxr after bronchoscopy with tbb is necessary only in patients with symptoms suggestive of pneumothorax. a chest roentgenogram is commonly obtained after a transbronchial biopsy to exclude a pneumothorax. given this low incidence of unsuspected pneumothorax, we conclude that routine chest roentgenograms have a low diagnostic yield and may not be necessary in all patients after fluoroscopically guided tbb. transbronchial lung biopsy was performed via the fibreoptic bronchoscope in 433 patients. in 225 patients with solitary chest radiography opacity, a diagnosis of bronchial carcinoma was finally made in 130, of whom 82 (63%) had a histological diagnosis established by transbronchial biopsy. for each of 100 transbronchial biopsies performed on 25 lung transplant recipients (single lung in three, double lung in 22), chest radiographs obtained within 24 hours before the biopsy were reviewed retrospectively without knowledge of clinical or biopsy information. a total of 185 patients underwent thoracentesis (n = 60), transbronchial biopsy (n = 48), and computed tomography-guided needle lung biopsy (n = 77). these patients had undergone computed tomography-guided needle lung biopsy (n = 7) and transbronchial needle lung biopsy (n = 1). 
Is it safe to perform rectal anastomosis in gynaecological debulking surgery without a diverting stoma? [SEP] the aim of this study was to assess the safety of colorectal anastomosis, and especially low rectal anastomosis, in the absence of a protective stoma in patients with gynaecological cancer and peritoneal metastasis. low rectal resection during debulking procedures for gynaecological cancers with peritoneal carcinomatosis can safely be performed by an experienced surgeon without a diverting stoma. this study has been designed to evaluate any possible anastomosis complications after a rectum resection and a low or ultralow anastomosis when no diverting stoma is applied in patients with rectal cancer. the very low incidence of complications in this study, such as those not preventable by a diverting stoma, suggest a very low chance of leakage in low or ultralow anastomosis in patients with rectal cancer and in those who were treated with neoadjuvant radiotherapy. although a temporary diverting stoma is a frequent surgical procedure for the protection of anastomosis in a sphincter-preserving operation for lower rectal cancer, its impact on anastomotic leakage is not conclusive. this study was designed to evaluate anastomotic complications after ultralow anterior resection and handsewn coloanal anastomosis without a diverting stoma for lower rectal cancer patients. this study suggests that a diverting stoma is not necessary when performing a handsewn coloanal anastomosis for lower rectal cancer however, an effort should be made for healthy anastomotic healing in patients with rectal cancer who are preoperatively radiated. we recommend a diverting stoma for an anastomosis within 5.0 cm of the anal verge and strongly recommend it for a very low anastomosis within 2.0 cm. this study assesses the safety of rectal anastomoses during cytoreductive surgery (crs) and hipec, with and without fecal diversion, and its morbidity when performed. anastomotic leakage after rectal cancer surgery raises the problem of the timing of diverting stoma reversal. 
Does angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 (ACE-1) gene polymorphism lead to chronic kidney disease among hypertensive patients? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to investigate the role of angiotensin converting enzyme tagging - single nucleotide polymorphisms (ace tag-snps) in progression of ckd in patients with adpkd. the angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) gene insertion/deletion (i/d) polymorphism has been associated with susceptibility to the development of some renal diseases. we investigated the association of ace gene polymorphism with the progression to hypertension and esrd in 108 patients with adpkd. this study was carried out to determine angiotensin-converting enzyme levels and angiotensin-converting enzyme gene polymorphism in turkish hypertensive patients, and to establish whether there is an association of angiotensin-converting enzyme gene polymorphism with clinical and echocardiographic parameters. there are conflicting results about the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) gene polymorphism on the progression of renal failure in adpkd. there was an association in our study population between hypertension and the a1166c polymorphism at the angiotensinogen ii type 1 receptor gene locus. the c1166 variant of the angiotensin ii type 1 receptor gene was associated with hypertension in our study population, while the a1166 variant seems to be protective as regards susceptibility to hypertension. we investigated the association between polymorphisms of the angiotensin converting enzyme-1 (ace-1) and angiotensin ii type one receptor (at1ra1166c) genes and the causation of renal disease in 76 advanced chronic kidney disease (ckd) pediatric patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (mhd) or conservative treatment (ct). the objective of this study was to evaluate the renin-angiotensin system genetic effects and pharmacogenetic interactions for angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors in hypertensive coronary artery disease (cad) patients. angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors; coronary artery disease; hypertension; pharmacogenetic. 
Does laparoscopic antireflux surgery improve quality of life in patients whose gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is well controlled with medical therapy? [SEP] both medical therapy and laparoscopic antireflux surgery have been shown to improve quality of life in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. laparoscopic antireflux surgery significantly improved quality of life in reflux patients whose symptoms were well controlled on medical therapy. to evaluate: a. outcome of laparoscopic antireflux surgery in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease patients with concomitant anxiety disorders, b. potential effects of laparoscopic antireflux surgery on psychiatric comorbidities. severity of most gastro-oesophageal reflux disease-related symptoms decreased significantly after laparoscopic antireflux surgery, but severity of some symptoms remained stable in patients with continuing anxiety disorders. in these patients, surgery significantly improves quality of life and eliminates gastro-oesophageal reflux disease-related symptoms. this review evaluated the efficacy and outcomes of laparoscopic antireflux surgery in routine clinical practice. recent improvement in the understanding of gastro-oesophageal antireflux mechanisms and the pathophysiology of the gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (gerd) has warranted the concept that antireflux surgery provides a valid, and sometimes superior, alternative to medical therapy in selected patients. the majority of patients who have undergone antireflux surgery report an improvement in reflux symptoms and in quality of life. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is now well established as a treatment of moderate to severe gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. this review on antireflux surgery examines the best evidence for surgical treatment of gastro-esophageal reflux disease. 
Is semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in case of insufficient venous material an acceptable alternative for limb-threatening ischemia? [SEP] the aim of this study was to analyse the results of infragenual arterial revascularisation using semiclosed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short venous bypass in patients with critical leg ischemia and insufficient venous material for a straightforward femorocrural reconstruction. in patients with limb-threatening ischemia and lack of venous material for a straightforward venous femorocrural bypass, semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short popliteo-crural bypass provides a good alternative. although femoropopliteal bypass is the accepted treatment for diffuse atherosclerotic disease of the superficial femoral artery, endarterectomy may be appropriate for short segmental lesions at the level of the adductor tendon. over a 25-year period, 94 patients underwent localized endarterectomy of short (less than 15 cm) segments of the distal superficial femoral artery. patency rates and limb salvage rates were retrospectively analysed for 21 consecutive patients who underwent distal bypass for severe lower limb ischemia and in whom the proximal superficial femoral artery was reopened with an eversion endarterectomy. even if fair results may be obtained when semi-closed endarterectomy is performed between 2 arteriotomies above the knee in limbs with good run off, we recommend this method only to be used in cases with insufficient vein for by-pass grafting and sometimes for the treatment of short obstructions of the superficial femoral artery. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the results of combining superficial femoral artery endovascular therapy with distal bypass originating from the popliteal artery as a method of lower extremity revascularization in patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia. the records of patients undergoing combined superficial femoral artery endovascular therapy with popliteal-to-distal bypass for chronic limb-threatening ischemia from january 2014 to april 2020 at a single institution were retrospectively reviewed. combined superficial femoral artery endovascular therapy with popliteal-to-distal bypass may be a promising approach for patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia because of durable patency, acceptable wound healing, and good limb salvage. remote endarterectomy from an inguinal incision was the primary treatment option for all patients considered surgical candidates for vascular reconstruction of the external iliac and superficial femoral arteries. 
Can biofeedback training of psychophysiological responses enhance athletes' sport performance? [SEP] in recent years, biofeedback has become increasingly popular for its proven success in peak performance training - the psychophysiological preparation of athletes for high-stakes sport competitions, such as the olympic games. the aim of this research was to test whether an 8-week period of exposure to biofeedback training could improve the psychophysiological control over competitive anxiety and enhance athletic performance in participating subjects. in 85.71% of the studies (n = 6) the athletes enhanced psychophysiological variables that allowed them to improve their sport performance thanks to training with heart rate variability biofeedback. enhancing the interplay between autonomic and cognitive functions through biofeedback may become a key principle for obtaining excellence and well-being in sports. in this study, three psychoregulative procedures of relaxation and excitation were provided in combination with biofeedback to examine their role on physiological and athletic performance variables. biofeedback was found to have a significant augmenting effect on physiological components and athletic performance when accompanied by autogenic, imagery and music training. biofeedback demonstrates the potential of control to oneself, creating confidence in one's ability to establish enhanced and peak performance in athletics, education, and psychophysiologic therapy. biofeedback training)-centred applied sport psychology implications are advanced. thus, the present study aims at determining the reconstitution of psychomotor and performance skills in basketball players through biofeedback training. the results of the study suggest that biofeedback training may help to train stressed athletes to acquire a control over their psychophysiological processes, thus helping an athlete to perform maximally. 
Do cytokines have any role in epilepsy? [SEP] pro-inflammatory cytokines may play an important pathophysiological role in patients with epilepsy. in recent years, studies have shown that epileptic seizures can induce the production of cytokines, which in turn influence the pathogenesis and course of epilepsies. in this review, we summarize the current knowledge regarding these cytokines and their potential roles in epilepsy. although variety of factors influence the incidence and prevalence of seizures, cytokines are considered to play an important role in seizures. proinflammatory cytokines like il-1, il-6, tnf-alpha and growth factor vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) as well as anti-inflammatory cytokine il-10 and related molecules have been described in cns and plasma of experimental models of seizures and clinical cases of epilepsy. these inflammatory cytokines and growth factors are also known to have dual roles in affecting seizure susceptibility. excessive neuronal activity and seizures directly stimulate cytokine expression. rapid activation of proinflammatory cytokines is observed after single seizures, but there is also evidence of chronic overproduction of cytokines and other inflammatory mediators in patients with tle, suggesting a neuromodulatory role of inflammation in epilepsy. this study aims to investigate the correlations between cytokine levels and severe epilepsy. our findings pointed out crucial roles of cytokine levels in epilepsy. 
Cue-induced behavioural activation: a novel model of alcohol craving? [SEP] alcohol-associated cues elicit craving in human addicts but little is known about craving mechanisms. cue-induced behavioural activation was specific to alcohol cues, reproducible, persistent and could be blocked by naltrexone, and its correlation with human self-report of craving makes it a potentially useful model for studying alcohol craving. the present study investigated the nature of physiological cue reactivity and craving in response to alcohol cues among alcohol-dependent patients (n = 80) who were enrolled in detoxification treatment. the results indicated that the presence of alcohol cues such as the portrayal of the drug and drinking behaviour induced physiological cue reactivity and craving. it is concluded that the presence of alcohol cues such as portrayal of alcoholic beverages and drinking behaviour induces cue reactivity and craving in alcohol dependence through a conditioned appetitive response. the finding of a relationship between subjective craving and cognitive biases for alcohol cues is consistent with incentive models of addiction. craving induction in a controlled environment is helpful in the research of craving mechanism and its role in development of alcohol dependence (ad). we describe a novel tool visual image-induced craving for ethanol (vice) and its effects on brain activation with pilot functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri). in an effort to induce alcohol craving and to maximize detection of hf-rtms effects to cue-induced alcohol craving, patients were exposed to a block and event-related alcohol cue-reactivity paradigm while being scanned with fmri. hence, we assessed the effect of right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlpfc) stimulation on cue-induced and general alcohol craving, and the related craving neurocircuit. 
Can routine offering of influenza vaccination in office-based settings reduce racial and ethnic disparities in adult influenza vaccination? [SEP] also, vaccinated minorities are more likely to receive influenza vaccinations in office-based settings and less likely to use non-medical vaccination locations compared to non-hispanic white vaccine users. to assess the number of "missed opportunities" for influenza vaccination in office-based settings by race and ethnicity and the magnitude of potential vaccine uptake and reductions in racial and ethnic disparities in influenza vaccination if these "missed opportunities" were eliminated. the frequency of "missed opportunities" for influenza vaccination in office-based settings was significantly higher among racial and ethnic minorities than non-hispanic whites. improved office-based practices regarding influenza vaccination could significantly impact healthy people 2020 goals by increasing influenza vaccine uptake and reducing corresponding racial and ethnic disparities. the objective of this study was to assess trends in racial/ethnic disparities in influenza vaccination coverage among adults in the united states. during the 2011-12 season, influenza vaccination coverage was significantly lower among non-hispanic blacks and hispanics compared with non-hispanic whites among most of the adult subgroups, with smaller disparities observed for adults age 18-49 years compared with other age groups. influenza vaccination coverage among most racial/ethnic groups increased from the 2007-08 through the 2011-12 seasons, but substantial racial and ethnic disparities remained in most age groups. this systematic review analyzes research examining racial/ethnic disparities in influenza and pneumococcal vaccination coverage between white and racial/ethnic minority (black and hispanic) nursing home residents. we model racial and ethnic parity in influenza vaccination on reduction in annual minority deaths among the elderly using age-, sex-, race-, and ethnicity-specific influenza vaccination data from the 2002 medicare current beneficiary survey, national mortality data and a relative risk (0.89; 95% confidence interval 0.80-0.98) for all-cause mortality during influenza season associated with vaccination. based on conservative estimates, elimination of racial and ethnic disparities in influenza vaccination would significantly reduce elderly minority mortality and save substantial years of minority life. 
Colorectal cancer in young patients: is it a distinct clinical entity? [SEP] the incidence of colorectal cancer in young patients is increasing. this was a single-center, retrospective cohort study which included patients diagnosed with colorectal cancer at age ≤40 years in 1997-2013 matched 1:2 by year of diagnosis with consecutive colorectal cancer patients diagnosed at age >50 years during the same period. colorectal cancer among young patients may constitute a distinct clinical entity. this study was designed to characterize the entity of colorectal cancer (crc) in young patients and to evaluate whether it has any unique epidemiological or clinicopathological features. colorectal cancer in young patients was found to display a cluster of unique characteristics but fewer than previously reported and young age by itself was not found to impact patient outcome. this observation suggested a differential activity of the mmr pathway in colorectal carcinogenesis in different age groups. on multivariate analysis, young age at cancer diagnosis, proximal tumour location, a strong family history of colorectal cancer, and a personal history of metachronous cancer were independent predictors for msi status. this knowledge may have an impact on the management of young colorectal cancer patients and their families. colorectal cancer is the third most common neoplasm diagnosed in the usa, with less than 3% of patients younger than 40 years. in this case report, we report a case of aggressive colorectal cancer metastasizing in a young afro-caribbean woman with no known risk factors. 
Can implant retention be recommended for treatment of infected TKA? [SEP] implant retention without infection is ideal and dair has been reported to have variable success rates depending on patient factors, duration of infection, infecting micro-organisms, choice of procedure, single or multiple debridement procedures, arthroscopic or open, antibiotic choice and duration of antibiotic use. whether surgical débridement and parenteral antibiotics with prosthesis retention for infected revision tka eradicates infection is not well established. we recommend early débridement and retention of the prosthesis with type i or type iii infections in revised tkas, but primary removal for type ii infections. in this study, intraarticular antibiotic infusion into the infected joints after débridement, while retaining the implants, was performed for six well-fixed total knee arthroplasties (tkas), one revision tka, and five tumor megaprostheses with an average follow-up period of 47.5 months (range 20-82 months). although some patients experienced recurrence of infection, successful implant salvage was achieved in all cases with the same treatment procedure. the present report provides orthopedic surgeons and infectious diseases specialists with a treatment algorithm consisting of a two-stage revision of a tka and a second-line iv antibiotic regimen that may be able to eradicate a lactobacillus infection of an orthopedic prosthesis with retention of the extremity containing the implant and re-implantation of a functioning prosthesis. debridement, antibiotics, and implant retention (dair) is the recommended treatment for acute hematogenous periprosthetic joint infection (pji) after total knee arthroplasty (tka). acutely infected total knee arthroplasty (tka) is commonly treated with debridement, antibiotics, and implant retention (dair). the role of irrigation and debridement, modular exchange, and implant retention for the treatment of periprosthetic joint infection (pji) after total knee arthroplasty (tka) remains controversial. with these advances, infection presently appears to be the main cause of failure in cemented tka. 
Long-term significance of postictal psychotic episodes II. Are they predictive of interictal psychotic episodes? [SEP] the incidence of well-directed violent behavior against human beings was significantly higher (23%) during postictal psychotic episodes than during acute interictal episodes (5%) and postictal confusion (1%). presurgically, two episodic psychotic syndromes, acute interictal and postictal psychosis, were defined operationally. a correlation was confirmed between presurgical acute interictal psychosis and postsurgical psychotic disorder, as well as between presurgical postictal psychosis and postsurgical mood disorder. postictal manic episodes lasted for a longer period than postictal psychotic episodes. to assess prospectively episodes of postictal psychosis. specifically, the clinical characteristics of interictal poe and ictal, postictal, and alternative psychotic episodes are highlighted together with their potential pathogenic mechanisms and the associated treatment issues. this review highlights these relationships, including (a) interictal psychosis, in which the presence of psychotic episodes is not temporally related to the occurrence of seizures, (b) postictal psychosis, characterized by an increased number of seizures followed by a period of lucidity and subsequent psychotic symptoms, and (c) ictal psychosis, in which psychotic symptoms occur in association with ictal discharges on eeg. it was suspected that postictal neuronal processes and a predisposition to endogenous psychosis both contributed to the psychopathology of this episode. this report describes two patients with postictal psychosis and correlates their behavior with the pattern of seizures, electroencephalographic discharges, and anticonvulsant and psychotropic medications. the findings suggest that postictal psychosis results from increased epileptiform activity and continued cerebral dysrhythmia, has a latency in onset and is not due to the immediate postictal delirium, and reflects an exacerbation of underlying psychopathological tendencies. 
Do primary care physicians underprescribe antibiotics for peptic ulcer disease? [SEP] as primary care physicians take a larger role in management of these infections, they need to understand the importance of identifying and treating patients with h pylori-associated peptic ulcer disease. to determine how often primary care physicians prescribe eradication therapy for peptic ulcer disease (pud) and nonulcer dyspepsia (nud). while italian primary care physicians appropriately target eradication therapy for h pylori infection in patients with peptic ulcer disease rather than nonulcer disease, the intervention was still underused in these patients. the authors examine how specialist and generalist physicians adapted their practice patterns to emerging information on the role of helicobacter pylori in peptic ulcer disease (pud). gastroenterologists were more likely than primary care physicians to adopt antibiotic therapy for pud, even before the evidence of this therapy's effectiveness was conclusive. gastroenterologists adopted h. pylori therapy for peptic ulcer earlier and more comprehensively than primary care physicians. in routine clinical practice, there appears to be significant under-treatment of peptic ulcer disease with h. pylori therapy, but extensive use for non-ulcer indications. prescription of h. pylori treatment regimens of doubtful efficacy appears commonplace, and are more likely in primary care. the family physician who sees many children with vague abdominal pain must include peptic ulcer disease in the differential diagnosis. in confirmed peptic ulcer disease, between 88% and 100% of physicians would treat the h. pylori infection, depending on the physician group and whether or not the presentation of an ulcer was recurrent. 
Blunt trauma in intoxicated patients: is computed tomography of the abdomen always necessary? [SEP] to investigate the necessity of intensive evaluation of the intoxicated patient with normal mentation for intra-abdominal injury after blunt torso trauma. adult victims of blunt trauma more than 17 years old, admitted between january 1, 1986, and december 31, 1989, with suspected blunt abdominal injury and serum ethanol of more than 100 mg/dl and glasgow coma score of 15. in the intoxicated blunt trauma patient with normal mentation, the physical examination is a reliable indicator of abdominal injury. elevated alcohol level, per se, should not be considered an absolute indication for dpl or abdominal ct. duodenal injury should always be suspected in blunt upper abdominal trauma, especially in those presenting with epigastric pain and vomiting. the widespread availability of computed tomography (ct) in the diagnosis and management of blunt trauma has created the possibility of overuse without clear indications. some clinicians believe that patients with head injury, intoxication, and/or distracting injury have an unreliable abdominal examination and should undergo combined head and abdomen ct. consecutive blunt trauma patients, with a glasgow coma scale (gcs) of 14 or 15, who underwent concomitant head and abdomen ct upon admission to a level i trauma center over a 2-year period were retrospectively reviewed. intraperitoneal urinary bladder perforation due to blunt trauma in intoxicated patients requires quick and accurate diagnosis. a 66-year-old intoxicated man stumbled, tripped on a stone step and landed on his lower abdomen, but felt no pain at the time. 
Chronic progressive cervical myelopathy with HTLV-I infection: Variant form of HAM/TSP? [SEP] to investigate the role of human t-lymphotrophic virus type i (htlv-i) infection in four patients who developed slowly progressive myelopathy with abnormal mri lesions in the cervical cord levels. clinical and neuroradiologic examinations were performed, and the odds that an htlv-i-infected individual of specified genotype, age, and provirus load had htlv-i-associated myelopathy (ham)/tropical spastic paraparesis (tsp) were calculated. human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is a chronic progressive myelopathy characterized by bilateral pyramidal tract involvement with sphincteric disturbances. human t lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is chronic progressive myelopathy characterized by bilateral pyramidal tracts involvement with sphincteric disturbances. although only a small proportion of htlv-i-infected individuals develops ham/tsp, neurological symptoms are certainly progressive once myelopathy develops, leading to deterioration of the quality of life. htlv-i associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is a chronic myelopathy, usually with adult-onset. this study investigated the role of human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i htlv-i infection in 11 patients who developed slowly progressive myelopathy with abnormal spinal cord lesions. the authors performed clinical and neuroradiological examinations and calculated the odds that an htlv-i-infected individual of a specific genotype, age, and provirus load has htlv-i-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp). htlv-i associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is a chronic myelopathy characterized by a slowly progressive spastic paraparesis and sphincter disturbances beginning in adulthood. human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i (htlv-i)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp) is caused by htlv-i infection and characterized by spastic paraparesis and urinary disturbance with perivascular htlv-i-infected and activated cd4+ t-cell infiltration. 
Gender difference in survival of resected non-small cell lung cancer: histology-related phenomenon? [SEP] we aimed to investigate whether patient sex and histology type are important factors determining survival in patients undergoing a wedge resection for stage i lung cancer. long-term survival of patients with stage i non-small-cell lung cancer who undergo a wedge resection is affected by gender and histological type. it remains controversial whether there is a gender difference in survival of patients with resected non-small cell lung cancer. a gender difference in survival was studied in all patients, in those divided according to histology or pathologic stage, and in propensity-matched gender pairs. a gender difference in survival was observed only in the adenocarcinoma subset, suggesting pathobiology in adenocarcinoma in women might be different from that of men. adenocarcinoma or bronchioloalveolar carcinoma histologic diagnosis (adenocarcinoma or bronchioloalveolar carcinoma versus squamous, 75% versus 67% 3-year survival; p = 0.0026), female gender (66% versus 49% for males, 5-year survival; p = 0.041), and absence of vascular invasion (no invasion versus vascular invasion, 74% versus 20% 5-year survival; p = 0.0101) were significant predictors of better survival. a retrospective study including all patients with non-small cell lung cancer carcinoma in a population-based registry was performed to characterize gender differences in lung cancer and to analyze the factors influencing prognosis in women. we compared the prognosis within 464 non-small lung cancer women and 1,798 men in a population-based case series. lung cancer was more frequent in men than in women, but overall survival is similar. differences in lung cancer histology and rate of pneumonectomies were found between men and women. 
Is lumbar drainage of postoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistula after spine surgery effective? [SEP] cerebrospinal fluid diversion by lumbar drainage in five pseudomeningoceles and over-sewing of wounds in seven cerebrospinal fluid fistulas employed in 12 patients. the aim of this paper was to assess the efficacy and safeness of bed rest and lumbar drainage in treating postoperative csf fistula. postoperative cerebrospinal fluid (csf) fistula is a well-known complication in spine surgery which lead to a significant change in length of hospitalization and possible postoperative complications. lumbar drainage seems to be effective and safe both in preventing csf fistula in cases of large dural tears and debilitated/irradiated patients and in treating csf leaks. cerebrospinal fistulas and pseudomeningoceles can occur after lumbar spinal surgery, and are sometimes refractory to direct repair, external drainage, and blood patches. postoperative cerebrospinal fluid fistula occurred only in 1 case of the open group and was treated with lumbar drainage without the need for a reoperation. this case report illustrates the development of a cerebrospinal fluid fistula and pseudomeningocele in a patient after lumbar discectomy and fusion with instrumentation. postoperative pseudomeningocele and cerebrospinal fluid fistula in patients with spinal instrumentation can be treated successfully with epidural blood patch and a brief course (4 days) of spinal drainage. the craniospinal magnetic resonance imagining revealed subarachnoid-pleural fistula and lumbar external cerebrospinal fluid drainage was performed. spinal fluid drainage was maintained for 5 days via this route, and this proved effective in resolving the cerebrospinal fluid fistula. 
Is obesity a risk factor for wheezing among adolescents? [SEP] obesity and smoking were associated with wheezing and asthma in all rural adolescents. to investigate the effect of obesity at the start of adolescence on the prevalence, incidence and maintenance of chest wheezing among individuals aged 11-15 years in a birth cohort in a developing country. independent of the effect of various confounding variables, the prevalence of wheezing at 15 years was 50% greater among obese individuals than among eutrophic individuals at 11 years (rr 1.53; 95% ci: 1.14-2.05). after controlling for confounding factors, the risk of persistent wheezing among obese individuals at 11 years was 1.82 (95% ci: 1.30-2.54). data stratified by gender showed that obesity in girls and an atopic constitution in boys were independently associated with increased risk of developing wheeze within four years. obesity has been pointed out as a risk factor for higher prevalence of asthma and asthma-related symptoms in adolescents. analyzing all adolescents, we observed a significant positive relationship between the prevalence of obesity and affirmative responses to "wheeze ever" (or = 1.28; 95% ci 1.08-1.52), "wheezing with exercise" (or = 1.36; 95% ci 1.11-1.66), "asthma ever" (or = 1.29; 95% ci 1.03-1.62), and severe asthma (or = 1.55; 95% ci 1.12-2.14). among the boys, there was a significant positive association between obesity and "wheeze ever" (or = 1.49; 95% ci 1.13-1.86). studies suggest an association between obesity and asthma. compared with girls of normal weight (bmi 15 to >or=85 percentile), obese girls (bmi>or=95 percentile) had an increased risk of current wheezing of 19% (or=1.19; 95% ci 0.97-1.46). 
Dose end-tidal carbon dioxide measurement correlate with arterial carbon dioxide in extremely low birth weight infants in the first week of life? [SEP] to study the correlation and agreement between end-tidal carbon dioxide (etco2) and arterial carbon dioxide (paco(2)) in ventilated extremely low birth weight (elbw) infants in the first week of life. there is good correlation and agreement between end-tidal co(2) and arterial co(2) in elbw infants in the etco(2) range 30-50 mmhg. end-tidal co(2) monitoring can be helpful in trending or for screening abnormal paco(2) values in elbw infants in first week of life. to assess the agreement of transcutaneous carbon dioxide (tcpco(2)) and end tidal carbon dioxide (petco(2)) with arterial carbon dioxide (paco(2)) values in infants < 28 weeks gestational age. to determine the accuracy of end-tidal carbon dioxide levels as a measure of arterial carbon dioxide levels in nonintubated patients presenting to an emergency department for care. measurements of end-tidal carbon dioxide concentrations correlate well with paco2 values in nonintubated patients presenting with a variety of conditions to eds. end-tidal carbon dioxide values showed a moderately acceptable correlation with arterial blood gas measurements. to explore the correlation and concordance between end-tidal carbon dioxide and arterial carbon dioxide partial pressure, and confirm the experience of the general consensus among service environments. our data indicate that, while ventilating infants under 10 kg with lma, end-tidal carbon dioxide is an accurate indicator of arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide. to study ventilatory control in these infants we measured minute ventilation, respiratory frequency, tidal volume, end-tidal oxygen pressure and carbon dioxide pressure, and transcutaneous oxygen pressure before and during the fifth minute of breathing 4% carbon dioxide in air. 
Is CA72-4 a useful biomarker in differential diagnosis between ovarian endometrioma and epithelial ovarian cancer? [SEP] the aim of this study was to establish if the serum marker ca72-4 could be helpful in the differential diagnosis between ovarian endometriosis and epithelial ovarian cancer. serums ca125 and ca72-4 were measured in 72 patients with ovarian endometriomas and 55 patients with ovarian cancer. a marked difference in ca72-4 values was observed between women with ovarian cancer (71.0%) and patients with endometriosis (13.8%) (p < 0.0001). this study suggests that ca72-4 determination can be useful to confirm the benign nature of ovarian endometriomas in women with high ca125 levels. blood samples from 50 healthy women, 17 patients with benign ovarian tumors, 57 patients with ovarian endometrioma and 39 patients with ovarian cancer were analyzed and serum values were measured for the following biomarkers: ca125, he4 and ca72-4. a marked difference in ca72-4 values was observed between women with ovarian cancer (67%) and those with endometriosis (p < 0.05). the role of the tumor markers ca125 and ca72-4 has been evaluated in the diagnosis and management of ovarian cancer. ca72-4 could complement the standard tumor marker ca125 both in diagnosis and follow up of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. the aim of this study was to investigate the role of biomarkers ca125, he4, and ca72.4 at diagnosis and throughout the follow-up in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer (eoc). ca72-4 may have a potential role as an adjunct to conventional biomarkers in disease monitoring of pancreatic, ovarian and colorectal carcinomas. 
Preservation of the PCL when performing cruciate-retaining TKA: Is the tibial tuberosity a reliable predictor of the PCL footprint location? [SEP] the aim of this study now was to analyze whether the tibial tuberosity can serve as a reliable referencing landmark to estimate the pcl footprint height prior to tibial cut. the probability of partial or total pcl removal was calculated for different vertical distances between tibial tuberosity and tibial cutting surface. tibial tuberosity is a useful anatomical landmark to locate the pcl footprint and to predict the probability of its detachment pre-, intra-, and postoperatively. the hypothesis of our study is that a routine tibial cut during cruciate retaining tka may result in a partial or a total removal of the pcl footprint. based on our results 11 (7%) knees were considered at high risk of an entire pcl removal after implantation of a cruciate retaining tka design. does the pcl prevent posterior tibial displacement when it is retained after a single-design, cruciate-sparing tka? prior studies have shown that the posterior cruciate ligament (pcl) may be partially resected during cruciate retaining (cr) total knee arthroplasty (tka) using highly experienced hands and standard surgical technique; therefore, proper surgical technique is aimed at preservation and balance of the pcl during cr tka. tibial and femoral insertions of pcl are relatively well preserved after bone cuts are made in a posterior cruciate retaining tkr. it is questionable how much of the pcl is really preserved following a complete transverse tibial cut during a cruciate-retaining (cr) total knee arthroplasty (tka). in this study, tibial component angle (tca) and tibial rotational angle (tra) were determined in dependence of retention or resection of the posterior cruciate ligament (pcl). 
The English antibiotic awareness campaigns: did they change the public's knowledge of and attitudes to antibiotic use? [SEP] our results show that receiving information does increase the general awareness of antibiotic resistance among our respondents. this study was conducted to examine public level of knowledge and attitudes regarding antibiotic use and potential drug resistance. the results of this study demonstrate that the general public has misunderstandings and a lack of knowledge with regard to antibiotic use, despite a national educational campaign. however, the campaign may have had an effect on the public's attitudes towards antibiotics. to assess knowledge by the general public in poland regarding antibiotics, amr, and the impact of the european antibiotic awareness day campaigns. to determine the effect of the 2008 english public antibiotic campaigns. to assess changes in public knowledge, attitudes, and reported behaviour of antibiotic use in the management of the common cold and to compare with results of a 1998 study. the objectives were 1) to assess public attitudes to antibiotic use in a district with high antibiotic prescribing where a nationwide public education campaign was locally enhanced; 2) to assess the impact of the campaign on prescribing of antibiotics locally. 2) prescribing data analysis to assess the impact of the campaign on prescribing of antibiotics. 1) differences in public attitudes to antibiotic prescribing pre and post the locally enhanced campaign. 
Does increased nerve length within the treatment volume improve trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery? [SEP] to test the hypothesis that increasing the nerve length within the treatment volume for trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery would improve pain relief. increasing the treatment volume to include a longer nerve length for trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery does not significantly improve pain relief but may increase complications. the present cases demonstrate a tethered effect of tumor shrinkage after srs, which was considered to play a role in trigeminal neuralgia. gamma knife radiosurgery has been increasingly used in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia as a non-invasive alternative to microvascular decompression and rhizotomies. the growing body of literature suggests that the low rates of complications of gamma knife radiosurgery, coupled with the high success rates and patient satisfaction, allow it to be increasingly used as primary intervention for trigeminal neuralgia for appropriate patients. from an initial group of 78 patients with trigeminal neuralgia treated with gamma knife radiosurgery using a 90-gy dose, we analyzed a subgroup of 65 patients for whom 6-month follow-up mri showed focal contrast enhancement of the trigeminal nerve. focal enhancement of the trigeminal nerve after radiosurgery occurred in 83% of our patients and was not associated with clinical outcome. we evaluated pain relief and treatment morbidity after trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery. the trigeminal nerve often enhances at the target site after radiosurgery. this case supports the contention that trigeminal nerve injury is required to provide long lasting pain relief after trigeminal neuralgia radiosurgery. 
Is the affinity column-mediated immunoassay method suitable as an alternative to the microparticle enzyme immunoassay method as a blood tacrolimus assay? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the analytical performance among commercially available immunoassay methods, which were microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia), chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay (clia), and affinity column-mediated immunoassay (acmia), compared with an assay using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms). tacrolimus concentrations obtained by affinity column-mediated immunoassay are 3- to 7-fold higher than measurements with the enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique assay. we investigated the comparability of the results of 2 immunoassay systems, affinity column-mediated immunoassay (acmia) and microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia), comparing differences in the tacrolimus concentrations measured by the 2 methods in relation to the hematologic and biochemical values of hepatic and renal functions. his whole blood tacrolimus concentrations were measured by the acmia, microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa), and the enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique (emit). the aim was to compare blood tacrolimus concentrations in anaemic patients between affinity column-mediated immunoassay (acmia) and microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia). whole-blood samples from 118 patients were assayed by 3 commercial assays: chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay (clia), affinity column-mediated immunoassay (acmia), and enzyme-multiplied immunoassay technique (emit). we compared the results of 2 immunoassay systems (affinity column-mediated immunoassay [acmia] and microparticle enzyme immunoassay [meia]), regarding hematologic and biochemical values at 2 weeks after liver transplantation. we conducted an evaluation for assay interference by using an alternative assay method(microparticle enzyme immunoassay), by testing plasma samples that were not hemolyzed, and by analyzing levels of an unrelated drug that uses the same technology as the initial tacrolimus assay. the dade behring syva(r) emit (enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique) method for the measurement of tacrolimus in whole blood was evaluated against the abbott imx(r) microparticle enzyme immunoassay (meia) method. estimation of whole blood tacrolimus concentrations from the washed erythrocytes concentrations is proposed as a tentative approach for obtaining reliable results using the antibody conjugated magnetic immunoassay assay in these cases, leading to analogous blood tacrolimus concentrations to those produced by the microparticle enzyme immunoassay from abbott laboratories. 
Should tumor depth be included in prognostication of soft tissue sarcoma? [SEP] most staging systems for soft tissue sarcoma are based on histologic malignancy-grade, tumor size and tumor depth. we analyzed the associations between tumor size and depth and the prognostic importance of grade, size and depth in a population-based series of 490 adult patients with soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or trunk wall with complete, 4.5 years minimum, follow-up. tumor depth influenced the prognosis in the subset of high-grade and large tumors. most of the prognostic value of tumor depth in soft tissue sarcomas of the extremity or trunk wall can be explained by the association between tumor size and depth. whole-tumor sections from 239 soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities were reviewed for the following prognostic factors: size, vascular invasion, necrosis, and growth pattern. prognostic variables in soft tissue sarcoma have been defined for local recurrence, distant recurrence, and disease-specific and overall survival. univariate analysis of soft tissue sarcomas showed that tumor size and depth, histologic type, mib-1 score, grades based on three criteria (tumor differentiation/histologic type, necrosis, and either mitosis or mib-1 score) and disease stage, as assessed by tumor size, depth, and grade, were associated with overall survival. in 140 mixed primary soft tissue sarcomas with a median follow-up of 6 years, the prognostic importance of tumor size, tumor depth, grade, necrosis, vascular invasion, and peripheral growth pattern (pushing versus infiltrating) was evaluated on whole-tumor sections. several prognostic markers have been identified for soft tissue sarcomas. to investigate histologic prognostic factors in soft tissue sarcomas (sts), multivariate analysis was performed on 236 patients with complete clinical information. 
Is amoxapine an atypical antipsychotic? [SEP] amoxapine is marketed as an antidepressant. amoxapine has also shown efficacy as an atypical antipsychotic in open trials. these data support previous reports about the efficacy of amoxapine as an atypical antipsychotic. amoxapine is marketed as an antidepressant. to examine if this leads to an atypical antipsychotic effect in the clinical context, the authors examined the antipsychotic and side-effect profile of amoxapine in acutely psychotic patients with schizophrenia. these clinical data lend support to the pre-clinical suggestions that amoxapine may be an atypical antipsychotic. these data, together with amoxapine's in vitro pharmacologic profile, effectiveness in animal models, and efficacy in psychotic depression raise the possibility of amoxapine as an "atypical" antipsychotic agent in the treatment of schizophrenia. the results suggest that amoxapine may be as effective an antipsychotic as haloperidol as predicted by its affinity for d2 and 5ht2 receptors, supporting earlier studies. amoxapine, a dibenzoxazepine antidepressant, has been suggested to have atypical antipsychotic properties. the results confirm and lend further support to the results of previous studies on amoxapine, suggesting that amoxapine might possess antipsychotic activity with little propensity for producing eps. 
Does topical N-acetylcysteine application after myringotomy cause severe otorrhea? [SEP] n-acetylcysteine may cause severe otorrhea in the healing process of tympanic membrane perforations. otorrhea also appeared to be associated with earlier myringotomy closure. after myringotomy, either mitomycin c (0.4 mg/ml) or saline pledgets were applied topically. five (13.1%) ears developed purulent otorrhea; 3 were mitomycin c-treated and 2 were treated with saline solution.- distortion-product otoacoustic emissions testing did not document any evidence of ototoxicity. topical mitomycin c appears to be safe and effective at prolonging the duration of myringotomy patency in the guinea pig. for patients with npc who underwent myringotomy, there was a significant risk of otorrhea (49%) and persistent perforation (29%), and these complications were difficult to manage. myringotomy and tube insertion, a common pediatric surgical procedure, is frequently complicated by purulent otorrhea. seventeen children with mrsa otorrhea after bilateral myringotomy with tympanostomy tube insertion (bm&t) and 19 age- and sex-matched control subjects who demonstrated mssa otorrhea. myringotomy with tube insertion provided more disease-free time and better hearing than either myringotomy alone or no surgery; however, some subjects who underwent myringotomy with tube insertion developed otorrhea or persistent perforation of the tympanic membrane. myringotomy with the insertion of tympanostomy tubes has become the most frequently performed otolaryngologic procedure, and otorrhea is the most common post-tympanostomy complication. 
Is non-HDL-cholesterol a better predictor of long-term outcome in patients after acute myocardial infarction compared to LDL-cholesterol? [SEP] non-hdl cholesterol and ldl cholesterol as predictors of first nonfatal myocardial infarction were compared in 303 patients and 297 controls matched for age, gender, and community within the boston area health study. in conclusion, given that non-hdl cholesterol accounts for ldl cholesterol plus other atherogenic particles but does not require a fasting sample, this study suggests that non-hdl cholesterol may be at least as useful as ldl cholesterol to initially screen patients for risk of a first nonfatal myocardial infarction. this study sought to determine if elevated apob and/or non-hdl cholesterol are superior to elevated ldl cholesterol in identifying statin-treated patients at residual risk of all-cause mortality and myocardial infarction. high apob and non-hdl cholesterol were associated with increased risk of all-cause mortality and myocardial infarction, whereas no such associations were found for high ldl cholesterol. based on known ethic differences in lipid parameters and cardiovascular risk prediction, we sought to study the predictability of attaining non-hdl-c target and long-term major adverse cardiovascular event (mace) in thai patients after acute myocardial infarction (ami) compared to attaining ldl-c target. in order to test the independent predictive value for in-hospital events of low-density lipoprotein (ldl)-cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (hdl)-cholesterol and triglycerides measured at hospital admission, 97 individuals with unstable angina or non-st-elevation acute myocardial infarction were evaluated. in-hospital events, defined as death, non-fatal myocardial infarction or recurrent unstable angina, were significantly predicted by hdl-cholesterol (c-statistics=0.69; 95% ci=0.55-0.83, p=0.018), contrary to ldl-cholesterol (c-statistics=0.40; 95% ci=0.24-0.56, p=0.23) and triglycerides (c-statistics=0.48; 95% ci=0.31-0.65, p=0.83). in conclusion, as opposed to ldl-cholesterol and triglycerides, hdl-cholesterol level adds prognostic value to the prediction of in-hospital recurrent events during non-st-elevation acute coronary syndromes. non-hdl cholesterol was a better predictor of cardiovascular diseases than ldl-c, hdl-c or total cholesterol. non-hdl and remnant cholesterol are strongly associated with an unfavourable outcome in patients with premature myocardial infarction and might be the preferred treatment target for lipid-lowering therapy. 
Is intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation an effective predictor of fetal acidosis? [SEP] intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation testing (vast) had a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 59.6% and a positive predictive value of 27.6% for the detection of fetal acidosis in this study of 60 cases. the hypothesis of this prospective study is that intrapartum vibroacoustic stimulation (vas) is an effective predictor of fetal acidosis during labor. it was observed that negative vas responses for predicting fetal acidosis (ph < 7.20) were comparable between term (> or = 37 weeks) and preterm (< 37 weeks, > or = 34 weeks) fetuses. we found that intrapartum vas was an effective predictor of fetal acidosis in cases of fhr variable decelerations, but its predictability for fetal acidosis in cases of fhr late decelerations was limited. to review the literature on fetal vibroacoustic stimulation as a method of changing the fetal sleep state during nonstress testing. the use of vibroacoustic stimulation for antepartum and intrapartum fetal assessment and safety issues are also reviewed. subsequent delivery of a nonhypoxic, nonacidotic infant suggests that maternal administration of beta-blockers should be considered in the interpretation of results of fetal vibroacoustic stimulation. to assess the performance of stimulation tests for the prediction of intrapartum fetal acidemia. intrapartum stimulation tests appear to be useful to rule out fetal acidemia in the setting of a nonreassuring fhr pattern. additional investigations of fetal habituation to a vibroacoustic stimulus may be helpful in the intrapartum risk assessment of uncomplicated term pregnancies. 
The association of puberty and young adolescent alcohol use: do parents have a moderating role? [SEP] to explore the extent to which parent-adolescent emotional closeness, family conflict, and parental permissiveness moderate the association of puberty and alcohol use in adolescents (aged 10-14). puberty and family factors were strong predictors of adolescent alcohol use, but family factors did not account for variation in the association of pubertal stage and alcohol use. the authors explored the predictive influence of both parental attachment and parental control on early onset of alcohol consumption in adolescence by use of a longitudinal sample of 1,012 young adolescents. moreover, puberty has been associated with an increase in alcohol use of adolescents. from this study, it can be concluded that both puberty and sleep regulation are important factors in explaining alcohol use in early adolescence. information on pubertal development, parental drinking, peer characteristics, network structure, alcohol expectancies, and alcohol consumption was assessed in a three-wave longitudinal study of 779 6th graders (~12 years of age) randomly selected from northern taiwan. we tested the hypothesis that there is a mediational pathway from parental alcohol use during the participants' adolescence to the participants' psychological symptoms in young adulthood. structural equation modeling showed that parental alcohol use was related to early adolescent alcohol use, which was associated with late adolescent alcohol use. findings suggest that parents' and adolescents' alcohol use should be a focus in interventions designed to prevent or treat psychological symptoms in late adolescence and young adulthood. using a large and nationally representative sample, we examined how adolescents' 5-httlpr genotype and perceived parenting quality independently and interactively associated with trajectories of alcohol use from early adolescence to young adulthood and whether/how gender may moderate these associations. 
Must early postoperative oral intake be limited to laparoscopy? [SEP] recovery of the amount of oral intake for the ladg group occurred earlier than for the odg group; significant differences were seen at months 1 and 6 postoperatively. previous analyses of non-prospectively randomized trials have suggested that early oral postoperative feeding might be a benefit unique to laparoscopic surgery. however, some authors have indicated that early feeding can be tolerated by the majority of patients after elective open surgery. this prospective randomized study was undertaken to assess whether the time prior to oral intake of food after laparoscopy-assisted surgery is shorter than that after standard laparotomy. this study invalidates the claim by laparoscopic surgeons that earlier oral intake of food is tolerated by their patients than by patients who undergo standard procedures. timing of oral intake after total laryngectomy (tle) is mostly delayed until postoperative day 10-12, under the assumption that this limits the incidence of pharyngocutaneous fistulization (pcf). comparison of pcf incidence in traditional 'late' oral intake protocol (start at postoperative day 10-12; loi) and in early oral intake protocol (start at postoperative day 2-4; eoi). addition of fft multimodal management to laparoscopic approach with early oral intake and mobilization does not reduce postoperative morbidity after colorectal cancer surgery. the amounts of oral intake in the dp-ladg group were significantly higher on postoperative days 9 and 10. she started oral intake on postoperative day 3 but developed abdominal pain after the meal. 
Does loss of consciousness predict neuropsychological decrements after concussion? [SEP] loss of consciousness and anterograde amnesia significantly predicted more severe neuropsychological deficits within 10 days of concussion in studies using pre-injury baseline, but not control group, comparisons. most used loss of consciousness and post-traumatic amnesia as markers for grading concussion. investigate the relationship between on-field markers of concussion severity and postinjury neuropsychological and symptom presentation in an athlete-specific population. the presence of amnesia, not loss of consciousness, appears predictive of symptom and neurocognitive deficits following concussion in athletes. the results indicate that minor head injury patients who report post-concussive symptoms possess measurable neuropsychological deficits and the severity of these deficits is independent of neurological status immediately following injury. to investigate the importance of loss of consciousness (loc) in predicting neuropsychological test performance in a large sample of patients with head injury. neuropsychological testing procedures have been shown to be sensitive in measuring cognitive sequelae of mild traumatic brain injury (concussion) in athletes. repeated concussion is associated with reliable decrements in cognitive performance--even after a three month window for recent recovery. objective: concussion is a clinical syndrome of biomechanically induced alteration in brain function. concussion (as defined by pta < 1 h) was later found to cause a transient lowering of neuropsychological test scores in memory and executive function. 
Does body mass index (BMI) influence morbidity and long-term survival in gastric cancer patients after gastrectomy? [SEP] this study aimed to explore the role of sarcopenia in predicting postoperative complication and long-term survival in gastric cancer patients with normal bmi. sarcopenia is an independent predictor for postoperative complication and long-term survival in patients with normal bmi after radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer. among patients undergoing resection for gastric cancer, the impact of body mass index (bmi) on outcomes is not well understood. we sought to define the impact of non-normal bmi on short- and long-term outcomes after gastric cancer resection. the aim of this study was to assess the surgical and survival outcomes of laparoscopic gastrectomy in obese patients with gastric cancer. our study evaluated the clinical impact of body mass index (bmi) on the long-term outcomes of advanced gastric cancer (stage ii and iii). our findings suggest that preoperative bmi may have an influence on the long-term outcomes of advanced gastric cancer after radical surgery and chemotherapy. clinicopathological characteristics and 5-year survival rate of overweight (bmi >or= 25 kg/m2; h-bmi; n = 1126) and nonoverweight (bmi < 25 kg/m2; n-bmi; n = 6799) patients who underwent gastrectomy with curative intent at the cancer institute hospital between 1970 and 2004 were compared. this study aimed to investigate the effects of a high body mass index (bmi) on the outcomes of radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer. a high bmi increased the operative morbidity after radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer. 
Does patella position influence ligament balancing in total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] the influence of patellar position on the balance of the knee is controversial. our findings give a new insight on the role of the patellar position while balancing a total knee arthroplasty. although the patella reduced or everted position has recently been recognised as an important factor influencing soft tissue balance during assessment in total knee arthroplasty (tka), the influence of patella height on soft tissue balance has not been well addressed. although the patella reduced or everted position has recently been recognized as an important factor in influencing soft tissue balance during the assessment in total knee arthroplasty (tka), the influence of patella height on soft tissue balance has not been well addressed. surgeons should be aware of the influence in surgical exposure of the joint gap and ligament balance during patella shift in minimal incision tka. intraoperative patellar position (eversion, lateralization, or in situ) influences the ligamentous balancing in knee flexion and thereby the correct positioning of the femoral component during total knee arthroplasty. balancing both the lateral/medial and extension/flexion joint gaps is a prerequisite for soft tissue balance in total knee arthroplasty. the purpose of this study was to quantify the effects of patellar positioning and quadriceps load during total knee arthroplasty on knee joint gap measurements. patellar positions of eversion, reduction, and following repair of the arthrotomy were examined. the patellar positioning and quadriceps muscle loading in total knee arthroplasty have a strong influence on intraoperative joint gap measurements. 
Is the advanced age a contraindication to GERD laparoscopic surgery? [SEP] recent developments in minimal access surgery have modified the surgical approach to the treatment of gerd. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is indicated in young patients with medication-dependent gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), both because of their need for lifelong medical treatment and the need to prevent the complications of gerd. many elderly patients with gerd have similar concerns. we compared the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic antireflux surgery in the elderly with the results achieved in patients <65 yr. a total of 359 patients have had laparoscopic antireflux surgery in our hospital, 42 of whom were > or = 65 yr of age. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is a safe and effective treatment of gerd in the elderly and should not be refused solely on the basis of age. laparoscopic antireflux surgery is a safe and effective alternative surgical approach for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd). laparoscopic antireflux surgery is an important and significant advancement in the evolution of gerd therapy, its definitive role in the surgeon's armamentarium is dependent on evaluation of long-term data. among the lsg cohort, the presence of preoperative gerd was associated with increased postoperative complications (15.1% vs 10.6%), gastrointestinal adverse events (6.9% vs 3.6%), and increased need for revisional surgery (0.6% vs 0.3%) (all p < .05). here, we report our early experiences of using a recently introduced method of laparoscopic antireflux surgery for the treatment of gerd in korean patients. the use of laparoscopic surgery for the treatment of gerd is safe and feasible. 
Ultra high risk (UHR) for psychosis criteria: are there different levels of risk for transition to psychosis? [SEP] cox regression analyses revealed that uhr status significantly predicted conversion to psychosis. the chance of transition to psychosis in patients at ultra high risk for developing psychosis (uhr) is 10-15%. the aim of present study was to investigate differences in baseline clinical symptomatology, general level of functioning (gaf-score) and genetic risk between uhr patients who did (uhr+t) or did not (uhr+nt) make a transition to psychosis. sharpening uhr inclusion criteria may aid in improving prediction of transition to psychosis. ], our study indicates that severity of specific symptoms at baseline is related to transition to psychosis in uhr subjects. individuals are considered ultra-high-risk (uhr) for psychosis if they meet a set of standardised criteria including presumed genetic vulnerability (trait), or a recent history of attenuated psychotic symptoms (aps) or brief limited intermittent psychotic symptoms (blips). concurrently, it has become clear that the uhr status confers clinical risk beyond transition to psychosis. these variations in uhr criteria are described and discussed with reference to the rates of transition to psychosis, their prevalence in the general population and the proposed new operationalization of the attenuated psychosis syndrome. this article reviews recent findings on predictors of conversion to psychosis among youth deemed at ultra high risk (uhr) based on the presence of subpsychotic-intensity symptoms or genetic risk for psychosis and a recent decline in functioning. despite the growing interest in the prodromes of psychosis, the proper identification of those ultra high risk (uhr) subjects who will convert to psychosis remains an unresolved issue. 
Has the 80-hour workweek improved surgical resident education in New England? [SEP] to evaluate the effect of the 80-hour workweek restrictions on resident education within surgical programs in the new england area. only 25% of programs felt that surgical education was improved after the implementation of the 80-hour workweek, whereas 31% felt education was worse. despite the positive effects the 80-hour workweek has had on resident quality of life and patient care, it does not seem that either significant improvements or detrimental effects have occurred on surgical education within residency programs in new england. we surveyed surgical residents from all four state university of new york (suny) surgical programs to determine their perceptions of the impact of the 80-hour workweek on patient care, surgical education, and personal life. the objective of this statistical analysis was to test the hypothesis that implementation of the 80-hour workweek restrictions for general surgery residents at riverside methodist hospital after july 2003 decreased their operative experience relative to surgical residents trained at riverside before these changes. this curriculum, over the course of the surgical residency, can provide residents with the necessary tools to deliver efficient quality of care while working within the 80-hour workweek mandate in a more collaborative style environment. we sought to identify trends in resident trauma training since the inception of the 80-hour workweek. in this study, we evaluated the learning styles of general surgery residents to determine how learning styles changed after the implementation to the 80-h workweek. surgical residents were also more likely to be team-based learners after the start of the 80-h workweek (odds ratio = 2.13, p = 0.0016). this study examines the impact of the 80-hour workweek on the number of surgical cases performed by pgy-2 through pgy-5 orthopedic residents. 
Can continuous physical training counteract aging effect on myoelectric fatigue? [SEP] to compare the myoelectric onset of muscle fatigue in physically active trained young skiers with respect to elderly skiers and to test whether continuous training can counteract the selective loss of type ii muscle fibers usually observed with aging. an observational, cross-sectional study of the myoelectric onset of muscle fatigue in the left tibialis anterior muscles. fatigue indices did not differ significantly between younger and older subjects and, thus, did not show a correlation between myoelectric manifestations of muscle fatigue and age in physically active subjects. the aim of this study was to assess if muscles in pd show a different myoelectric fatigue pattern compared to the muscles of healthy age-matched subjects. our results show that parkinsonian muscles do not differ from the muscles of healthy age-matched subjects in developing peripheral myoelectric fatigue. based on these observations, it was hypothesized that compared to healthy people, myoelectrical manifestation of fatigue in the performing muscles would be less significant in these individuals while sustaining a prolonged motor task to self-perceived exhaustion (spe) since their central fatigue was more prominent. even in old age physical training can have a favourable effect, giving increased motility, better muscular strength and endurance as well as a higher maximal aerobic power. the purpose of this study is to correspond to the change in the myoelectric potential by the muscle fatigue and keep the high discrimination precision. rates of change of myoelectric signal variables were adopted to assess myoelectric manifestations of fatigue during stimulation trains with constant current. in this paper, a deeper exploration of the effects of myoelectric training was performed by following the progress of 30 participants as they completed a series of ten 30-min training sessions over multiple days. 
Does ischemic preconditioning require reperfusion before index ischemia? [SEP] in ischemic preconditioning transient, nonlethal episodes of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion before the index ischemic episode reduce infarct size. interestingly, studies suggest that ischemic preconditioning and postconditioning activate the same signaling pathway at the time of reperfusion, thereby offering a common target for cardioprotection. therefore, the pharmacologic recruitment of this signaling pathway at the time of myocardial reperfusion might allow one to harness the cardioprotective potential of ischemic preconditioning and postconditioning. in this review, we discuss the potential application of ischemic preconditioning and postconditioning in the clinical arena of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion, and examine the common signaling pathways by which this might be achieved. ischemic preconditioning was achieved by subjecting the hearts to four cycles of 5-min ischemia followed by 5-min reperfusion prior to index ischemia. ischemic preconditioning attenuated ischemia/reperfusion injury in wild-type but not p21-knockout mice. in p21-knockout mice, ischemic preconditioning did not change the number of proliferating cells before but decreased them after ischemia/reperfusion. ischemic preconditioning, consisting of three cycles of 2-min ischemia followed by 5-min reperfusion, was performed before the 45-min ischemia. ischemic preconditioning was performed, involving three 5-min periods of ischemia, each followed by a 5-min reperfusion just before a sustained ischemia. these results suggest that the cardioprotective effect of ischemic preconditioning against the ischemia/reperfusion injury is attributed partly to the reduction of mitochondrial oxygen radical generation and prevention of the respiratory impairment during ischemia and reperfusion. 
Are sports medicine journals relevant and applicable to practitioners and athletes? [SEP] exercise physiology plays an important role in the practice of clinical sports medicine. increasingly, sports medicine physicians and other practitioners are using the findings of this research to help athletes achieve peak performance, and nonathletes achieve better health through exercise. many areas of sports medicine practice, including exercise testing, safety, performance evaluation, correction of training problems, and prevention of problems that affect specific populations (eg, older athletes, women, children), benefit from the application of exercise physiology theory and research. statistical analyses compared the frequency of treating athletes or sports people against a wide range of relevant practitioner and practice characteristics. the current and potential role of chiropractors in sports medicine appears significant. accordingly, the sports medicine practitioner will have an increasing opportunity and responsibility to serve the unique needs of the mountain sport athlete. this article discusses the medical care unique to athletes participating in these environments. these standards can also be used to assist practitioners in sports medicine clearance for participation and return-to-play decisions. it will be a welcome adjunct to the sports medicine professional's tool box when assessing athlete's status and outcome after injury and intervention. it is part of the chapter on sports medicine in the self-directed medical knowledge program for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation. 
Does head positioning influence anterior chamber depth in pseudoexfoliation syndrome? [SEP] phacodonesis can occur in pseudoexfoliation syndrome because of impaired zonular support. this study investigates whether the increased mobility of the lens influences anterior chamber depth in patients with pseudoexfoliation while assuming a prone position. central anterior chamber depth was measured in 39 patients with clinically apparent unilateral pseudoexfoliation and elevated intraocular pressure. anterior chamber depth in eyes with pseudoexfoliation decreased from a mean of 3.08 mm in the supine position to a mean of 2.95 mm in the prone position, whereas mean anterior chamber depth in the fellow eyes decreased from 3.01 mm to 2.97 mm. the decrease in anterior chamber depth when facing down in the eyes with pseudoexfoliation was significantly greater than in the fellow eyes. in eyes with pseudoexfoliation, an anterior chamber depth of less than 2.5 mm was associated with a risk of 13.4% for intraoperative complications compared with an overall incidence of intraoperative complications of 6.9% and an incidence of 2.8% for an anterior chamber depth of 2.5 mm or more. a small anterior chamber depth may indicate zonular instability in eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome and should alert the cataract surgeon to the possibility of intraoperative complications. the purpose of this study was to determine the differences in the morphology of the anterior chamber angle in people with pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma compared to a control group. to assess long-term positioning of posterior chamber intraocular lenses within the capsular bag in eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome. it was found that, 6-7 years following cataract surgery, posterior chamber intraocular lenses were positioned lower in eyes with pseudoexfoliation syndrome than in control eyes. 
Are polymorphisms in oestrogen receptors genes associated with lipid levels in response to hormone therapy? [SEP] moreover, we investigated an association between oestrogen receptor gene dinucleotide (ta) polymorphism and serum lipid levels. polymorphisms of the oestrogen receptor genes have previously been associated with variation in bone mineral density, likelihood of fractures, risk of developing alzheimer's disease, endometrial cancer and response to hormone replacement therapy. a high degree of inter-individual variability in plasma lipid level response to hormone therapy (ht) has been reported. variations in the oestrogen receptor alpha gene (esr1) and in genes involved in lipid metabolism may explain some of the variability in response to ht. oestrogens are important modulators of lipid metabolism, inflammation and vascular homeostasis. endogenous oestrogens are important regulators of lipid metabolism and inhibit inflammation, vascular cell growth and plaque progression in premenopausal women. apoe epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 coding and -219 g/t promoter polymorphisms influenced binding to the oestrogen receptor and altered transcriptional activity in response to oestrogen. additionally, in a subpopulation of 280 women, who completed 1 year of treatment with estrogen plus progestin, the association between genotypes and the response to treatment in both plasma lipids and bone was investigated. polymorphisms in the oestrogen receptor 1 (esr1) and oestrogen receptor 2 (esr2) genes are associated with intermediate or endpoint markers of cardiovascular disease and with the efficacy of postmenopausal hormone therapy (ht). our findings suggest that, in ht+ postmenopausal women, the rs2813544 polymorphism may influence ldl-c levels and, as previously described, esr2 rs1256049 is associated with t-chol and ldl-c. no previous study has investigated the association of this snp set with lipoprotein levels in women while taking into account the hormonal status of the patients. 
Sternal plating for primary and secondary sternal closure; can it improve sternal stability? [SEP] this study tests the hypothesis that sternal closure stability can be improved by adding plate fixation in a human cadaver model. transverse sternal plating with 1 or 4 plates significantly improves sternal stability closure in human cadaver model. adding a single sternal plate to primary closure improves the strength of sternal closure with traditional wiring potentially reducing the risk of sternal dehiscence and could be considered in high risk patients. to explore a potential solution to this problem, we examined the utility of transverse sternal plating for primary sternal closure in morbidly obese cardiac surgical patients. sternal stability at hospital discharge was achieved more often using sternal plating (90 vs. 50%, p = 0.005), mainly in patients closed after treatment of poststernotomy mediastinitis (100 vs. 22%, p = 0.002). the utilization of a combination plate-and-band rigid fixation system for primary closure is safe and may be an effective method to reduce sternal complications following transverse thoracosternotomy for lung transplantation. sternal closure with rigid titanium plates (primary sternal plating) may reduce sternal wound complications in high-risk patients. primary sternal plating appears to provide benefits over wire closure during the early postoperative period, but may not prevent late wound complications in patients with osteoporosis or extreme obesity. a novel approach to enhance the mechanical stability of primary sternal closure is described. sternal plating is an effective alternative to wire closure in sternum with fractures, chronic and acute instability, or poor bone quality. 
Can dose reduction to one parotid gland prevent xerostomia? [SEP] typically, xerostomia is modeled by the mean dose-response characteristic of parotid glands and prevented by mean dose constraints to either contralateral or both parotid glands. reduction of the mean dose to parotid glands below quantec guidelines resulted in low g2 + xerostomia rates. minimising the radiation dose to one of the parotid glands with the help of imrt in patients with advanced head and neck cancers can prevent xerostomia in most patients and parotid scintigraphy is a useful method of documenting xerostomia. the reduction of xerostomia may be achieved by sparing the salivary glands on the noninvolved oral cavity and keeping the mean parotid gland dose of < 26-30 gy if the treatment of disease is not compromised and parotid function preservation is desired. reduction of xerostomia can be achieved by sparing the salivary glands on the uninvolved oral cavity and keeping the mean parotid gland dose of less than 26 to 30 gy as a planning criterion if the treatment of disease is not compromised and parotid function preservation is desired. considering the individual salivary glands, only the mean dose in the contralateral parotid gland (md(parcl)) is associated with xerostomia (or: 1.04; p<0.0001). the shift in the p50 observed for xerostomia suggests that sparing of the contralateral parotid gland is compensated by hyperfunction of the contralateral parotid gland. parotid gland surface reduction was associated with late xerostomia. severe xerostomia (defined as long-term salivary function of <25% of baseline) is usually avoided if at least one parotid gland is spared to a mean dose of less than approximately 20 gy or if both glands are spared to less than approximately 25 gy (mean dose). submandibular gland sparing also significantly decreases the risk of xerostomia. 
Is the histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) gene a candidate for schizophrenia? [SEP] the histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 1 (hint1) is a potential candidate, as genetic association and expression studies implicate the gene in both schizophrenia and nicotine dependence; however, the behavioral role of hint1 in nicotine dependence is unknown. although many studies have investigated the functions of histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (hint1), its roles in neurobiological processes remain to be fully elucidated. accumulating clinical and preclinical evidence suggests that hint1 may play an important role as a neuroplastic mediator in neuropsychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia, inherited peripheral neuropathies, mood disorders, and drug addiction. recent findings in the literature suggest a relation between histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein-1 (hint1) and psychiatric disorders such as major depression, anxiety, and schizophrenia, although its physiological roles are not completely comprehended. using western blot, we compared hint1 protein expression in the postmortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and thalamus of schizophrenia patients and healthy controls for contributing to elucidate the role of hint1 in schizophrenia pathophysiology. the histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein-1 gene (hint1) is implicated in schizophrenia and in the behavioral effects of morphine and amphetamine. the human hint1 gene is located on chromosome 5q31.2, a region implicated in linkage studies of schizophrenia. : in this work, we studied 8 snps around the hint1 gene region using the irish study of high density schizophrenia families (ishdsf, 1350 subjects and 273 pedigrees) and the irish case control study of schizophrenia (iccss, 655 affected subjects and 626 controls). : data from both association and expression studies suggested that variants at hint1 may be associated with schizophrenia and the associations may be sex-specific. microarray expression studies have reported decreased mrna expression of histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein (hint1) and cytosolic malate dehydrogenase (mdh1) in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlpfc) of individuals with schizophrenia. 
Increased neutrophil migratory activity after major trauma: a factor in the etiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome? [SEP] neutrophil infiltration of the lung is characteristic of early posttraumatic acute respiratory distress syndrome (ards). this study examines the ability of neutrophils isolated (over the first 24 hrs) from the peripheral blood of patients admitted after major trauma to migrate in response to interleukin-8. interleukin-8 is elevated in the lung within 2 hrs of major trauma in patients who later develop ards, and thus it plays a central role in the recruitment of neutrophils to the lung and their subsequent activation. neutrophils were isolated from citrated blood from 17 adult blunt major trauma patients at admission (0 hrs) and 8 and 24 hrs later. significantly greater numbers of trauma patients' neutrophils migrated to concentrations of interleukin-8 (30 and 100 ng/ml) at each time point when compared with normal volunteers (mann-whitney u test, p <.05). neutrophils isolated from major trauma patients exhibited an enhanced migratory response to high concentrations of interleukin-8 throughout the first 24 hrs of admission, in contrast to the normal physiologic attenuation of migration seen in neutrophils isolated from normal laboratory volunteers. these data indicate that major blunt trauma enhances the migratory capacity of circulating neutrophils. here, we discuss the emerging role of the neutrophil, the most abundant leucocyte in human circulation and the first line of defence against microbial challenge, in the initiation and propagation of the inflammatory response to trauma. we review the findings of the most recent studies to have investigated the impact of trauma on neutrophil function and discuss how alterations in neutrophil biology are being investigated as potential biomarkers by which to predict the outcome of hospitalised trauma patients. furthermore, with trauma-induced changes in neutrophil biology linked to the development of such post-traumatic complications as multiple organ failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome, we highlight an area of research within the field of trauma immunology that is gaining considerable interest: the manipulation of neutrophil function as a means by which to potentially improve patient outcome. 
BCRABL transcript detection by quantitative real-time PCR : are correlated results possible from homebrew assays? [SEP] quantitative real-time pcr has become the predominant molecular technique to monitor bcrabl levels in response to treatment in ph(+) leukemia patients. the detection of bcrabl-positive results spanned a dynamic range from 10(0) to 10(5)/100,000 cells. these results suggest that quantitative real-time pcr assays for bcrabl detection can be comparable between laboratories despite significant differences in methodologies if the same positive control cell line and quality control gene are used. real-time polymerase chain reaction (pcr) is a rapid and reliable method to quantify dna and is widely used not only as a diagnostic tool, but also as a management tool for ebv-associated diseases. the results of real-time q-rt-pcr and qc-rt-pcr assays showed a positive correlation. presently, a becv-specific sybr green real-time rt-pcr assay was evaluated and optimized. using becv rna standards generated by in vitro transcription, the sybr green real-time rt-pcr assay sensitively detected becv rna to 1.1 x 10(0)copies/microl (correlation coefficiency=0.98). these results indicate that the sybr green real-time rt-pcr assay is more sensitive than conventional rt-pcr and nested pcr assays, and has potential as a reliable, reproducible, specific, sensitive and rapid tool for the detection, quantitation and diagnosis of unclassified becv. real-time quantitative rt-pcr values correlated well with both these methods. in conclusion, the direct quantitative ema real-time pcr assay based on molecular beacon described in this research is a rapid and quantitative method. 
Does higher body mass index contribute to worse asthma control in an urban population? [SEP] determine whether obesity or increasing level of body mass index (bmi) are associated with worse asthma control in an ethnically diverse urban population. obesity is associated with increased asthma morbidity, lower drug responsiveness to inhaled corticosteroids, and worse asthma control. in adjusted analyses, boys who were obese had a 33% greater chance of having worse asthma control than their normal-weight counterparts (or, 1.33; 95% ci, 1.04-1.71). worse asthma control is uniformly associated with increased body mass index in boys. urban minority populations experience increased rates of obesity and increased asthma prevalence and severity. the authors sought to determine whether obesity, as measured by body mass index (bmi), was associated with asthma quality of life or asthma-related emergency department (ed)/urgent care utilization in an urban, community-based sample of adults. in a community-based sample of urban asthmatic adults, obesity was related to worse asthma-specific quality of life and increased ed/urgent care utilization. obesity is a risk factor for asthma. recent research evidence from the general population has shown that tobacco smoking and raised body mass index (bmi) are associated with worse asthma outcomes. patients diagnosed with asthma were also more likely to be obese (bmi >or= 30) than patients with id but no asthma (42.7% vs. 31.6%). 
Does a physician's specialty influence the recording of medication history in patients' case notes? [SEP] to determine the impact of a physician's specialty on the frequency and depth of medication history documented in patient medical records. a cross-sectional assessment of the frequency and depth of medication history information documented by 123 physicians for 900 randomly selected patients stratified across cardiology, chest, dermatology, endocrine, gastroenterology, haematology, neurology, psychiatry and renal specialties was carried out at a 900-bed teaching hospital located in ibadan, nigeria. physicians' specialties significantly influenced the depth of documentation of the medication history information across the nine specialties (p < 0.0001). physicians' specialties also significantly influenced the frequency of documentation of the medication history across the nine specialties (p < 0.0001). physicians appear to document more frequently and in greater depth medication history information that may aid the diagnostic tasks in their specific specialty. researchers and other users of medication history data documented in patients' medical records by physicians may want to take special cognizance of this phenomenon. to identify probable factors underlying inadequacy of medication history information recorded in patients' case notes by physicians in an ambulatory tertiary care setting in nigeria. a majority of physicians opined that a detailed medication history is an essential component of optimal and patient-specific care; and they were able to identify correctly the key components of a detailed medication history. the majority (75%) of physicians also considered detailed documentation of patient medical history to be more important than medication history. physicians' heavy workload, due to the large number of patients, and their belief that medical history is more important than medication history, appear to be the probable factors underlining the inadequacy of physician-acquired medication history in a developing sub-saharan tertiary care setting. 
Living in an urban environment and non-communicable disease risk in Thailand: Does timing matter? [SEP] there is limited evidence on the influence of living in an urban environment in early life on obesity and obesity related conditions later in life in developing countries such as thailand. we used data from two cohort studies conducted in thailand, the thai cohort study (tcs) and the chiang mai university (cmu) health worker study, to investigate the association between early life urban (vs rural) exposure and the later development of obesity. we additionally explored the association between early life urban exposure and impaired fasting glucose in adulthood using data from the cmu health worker study. early life urban exposure was associated with increased risk of developing obesity in adulthood in both cohorts. early life urban exposure was associated with increased risk of developing obesity in adulthood. this paper offers theoretical and substantive contributions to migration-health scholarship by employing rich panel data with biomarkers to estimate the effect of migration and urban living on non-communicable disease risk in south africa. as urbanization increases in low- and middle-income countries (lmics), urban populations will be increasingly exposed to a range of environmental risk factors for non-communicable diseases. inadequate living conditions in urban settings may influence mechanisms that regulate gene expression, leading to the development of non-communicable respiratory diseases. the beneficial effect of urban residence for non-married people is related to their lower cancer and heart disease mortality. living in urban, microbe-poor environment may have a profound influence on the immune function and eventually also on carcinogenesis. 
Is renal warm ischemia over 30 minutes during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy possible? [SEP] although the maximal safe duration for warm ischemia during open partial nephrectomy is commonly accepted to be 30 minutes, the maximal safe ischemic time during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy has not been previously determined. renal ischemic times up to 90 minutes during laparoscopy were well tolerated by the solitary porcine kidney. in multivariate analysis warm ischemia time was 9 minutes longer (p <0.0001) and the chance of postoperative complications was 2.54-fold higher (p <0.05) with laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. while laparoscopic partial nephrectomy is technically feasible for tumor in a solitary kidney, warm ischemia time was longer and complication rates higher compared with open partial nephrectomy. the kidney is often exposed to warm ischemia during laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. we evaluated the effect of warm ischemia time on early postoperative renal function following laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. a warm ischemia time of 40 minutes appears to be an appropriate cutoff, after which a significantly greater decrease in renal function occurs after laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. following clamping of the renal hilus, warm ischemia is an issue in laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. the newly developed technique expands the armamentarium of the urologist in laparoscopic partial nephrectomy, if the anticipated time of ischemia exceeds 30 min and renal hypothermia is indicated. during elective partial nephrectomy a warm ischemia time of less than 20 minutes is not associated with clinically relevant functional loss compared to that of alternative techniques. 
Does a febrile reaction to platelets predispose recipients to red blood cell alloimmunization? [SEP] evaluation of the diagnosis, transfusion history, and treatment of the study patients; the methods and results of leukocyte reduction; and specific outcomes, including development of alloimmunization to leukocytes, febrile reactions to transfusion, and platelet refractoriness. alloimmunization may result in febrile transfusion reactions, platelet refractoriness, and acute lung injury. findings suggest that the use of leukocyte-reduced cellular blood components may minimize or prevent recurrent febrile reactions and alloimmunization to leukocyte antigens. we investigated whether rbc alloimmunization in humans was affected by transfusion of blood products in temporal proximity to experiencing a febrile transfusion reaction (ftr) to platelets (plts), an event predominantly mediated by inflammatory cytokines. these preliminary data support our hypothesis that recipient inflammation may affect rbc alloimmunization in humans; however, a more detailed understanding of the pathophysiologic association between inflammation and alloimmunization is required before definitive conclusions can be reached. leukocyte reduction prevents many febrile reactions that occasionally occur following red cell transfusion and prevents some febrile reactions following platelet transfusion. although platelets do not express rh antigens, they contain small numbers of intact red blood cells or fragments, which can lead to alloimmunization in the recipient. platelet alloimmunization causes a poor transfusion response, refractoriness and, more rarely, post-transfusion purpura. transfusion of passenger leukocytes may be associated with alloimmunization to leukocyte antigens, febrile transfusion reactions, refractoriness to platelet transfusion, severe pulmonary dysfunction, graft-vs-host disease, the transmission of infectious diseases, and immune modulation. clinical trials suggest that the use of leukocyte-reduction filters may prevent or diminish the probability of febrile transfusion reactions, alloimmunization, and cytomegalovirus infection, but controversy exists regarding the effectiveness of leukocyte reduction in preventing immune modulation. 
Maternal creatine homeostasis is altered during gestation in the spiny mouse: is this a metabolic adaptation to pregnancy? [SEP] we hypothesise that alteration of maternal creatine homeostasis occurs during pregnancy to ensure adequate levels of this essential substrate are available for maternal tissues, the placenta and fetus. this study aimed to describe maternal creatine homeostasis from mid to late gestation in the precocial spiny mouse. plasma creatine concentration and urinary excretion were measured from mid to late gestation in pregnant (n = 8) and age-matched virgin female spiny mice (n = 6). this study assessed the impact of creatine supplementation on creatine homeostasis, body composition, capacity for de novo creatine synthesis and renal excretory function in non-pregnant and pregnant spiny mice. mid-gestation pregnant and virgin spiny mice were fed normal chow or chow supplemented with 5 % w/w creatine for 18 days. creatine supplementation had minimal impact on creatine homeostasis in either non-pregnant or pregnant spiny mice. using the spiny mouse as a model of human perinatal development, the purpose of the present study was to comprehensively examine the development of the creatine synthesis and transport systems. our results suggest that in the spiny mouse, a species where, like the human, considerable organogenesis occurs before birth, there appears to be a limited capacity for endogenous creatine synthesis until approximately 0.9 of pregnancy. pregnant spiny mice were fed a 5% creatine monohydrate diet from midgestation (day 20) to term (39 days). maternal dietary creatine supplementation from midgestation in the spiny mouse did not alter the capacity for creatine synthesis or transport. 
Pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities: Are they detected by rapid prescreening? [SEP] pap smears with glandular cell abnormalities are often flagged as abnormal by rps, and this results in a sensitivity of 36.4% (at the agc threshold). we conducted this study to assess the diagnostic accuracy of cervical papanicolaou (pap) smears for uterine glandular lesions and to compare the diagnostic utility of conventional and liquid-based cytology (lbc) smears for glandular lesions. the presence of glandular abnormality on pap smear significantly correlated with the tumor type, myometrial invasion and cervical involvement on histopathology (p < .05). glandular abnormality was detected by pap smears in 22 women (43.1%). among 29 women with squamous lesions on pap smears, 9 additional glandular abnormalities were detected on cdb and/or ecc. these data demonstrate that the sensitivity of combining pap smear, cdb and/or ecc in detecting glandular lesions before conization containing ais appears to be suboptimal. we assessed the detection of high-risk human papillomavirus dna (hpv-dna) in women examined by a second pap smear due to atypical glandular cells (agc) detected in their screening pap smear. herein, we present the results of 61 smears containing a mixture of known diagnostically important benign, dysplastic, and malignant glandular cellular abnormalities which were reviewed by the papnet technology. we recommend that pathologists and cytotechnologists be vigilant in screening pap smears in our population, particularly for glandular abnormalities. prevalence of abnormal pap smears in central saudi arabia is relatively low, while advanced glandular abnormalities prevalence was observed to be high. 
The HELPP syndrome--evidence of a possible systemic inflammatory response in pre-eclampsia? [SEP] the evidence that maternal syndrome of pre-eclampsia is caused by a maternal systemic inflammatory response (msir) is reviewed. the maternal syndrome of pre-eclampsia is characterised by a systemic inflammatory response and its sequelae. we have proposed that the maternal syndrome of pre-eclampsia is caused by a systemic inflammatory response involving both leucocytes and endothelium. it was suggested that activation of cell-mediated immunity may play the key role in the etiology of pre-eclampsia. it seems possible that higher expressions of b7-h4 molecule on cd1c(+) myeloid dcs and b7-h1 molecule on lymphoid bdca-2(+) dcs in pre-eclampsia may be the tolerogenic mechanism secondary to the pro-inflammatory response which is observed in this syndrome. maternal systemic inflammation is a feature of pre-eclampsia, a condition in pregnancy characterized by hypertension and proteinuria. here we investigate more recently identified il-1 family cytokines and regulatory molecules, il-1racp, il-37, il-18bp, il-36α/β/γ/ra and il-38 in pre-eclampsia. in the current study, the effects of csa on pre-eclampsia manifestation, eclampsia-like seizure activities and systemic inflammation were examined in a pre-eclampsia model. systemic inflammation and abnormal/poor placentation represent hallmarks of pre-eclampsia. recent data directly implicate signaling by toll-like receptors in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia, and establish a crucial link between pre-eclampsia and defense against both foreign pathogens and endogenously generated inflammatory ligands. 
Spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. Should one rely on the short gastric arteries? [SEP] knowing the collaterals is essential for a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. to ascertain the sources of the blood supply to the spleen after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. ct angiography of the gastric and splenic vessels before and after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy (n=10). experimental, intra- and postoperative instrumental investigations did not show the short gastric arteries to be engaged in the blood supply to the spleen after a spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with resection of the splenic vessels. we describe a case of chronic pancreatitis treated by laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy with conservation of the spleen involving the resection of the splenic vessels. spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy can be performed safely and effectively by resecting both splenic vessels (warshaw procedure). laparoscopic spleen-preserving extended distal pancreatectomy with resection of both the splenic vessels is feasible and safe. successful distal pancreatectomy with splenic conservation has been reported for treatment of benign pancreatic diseases of the distal pancreas. this report presents the results of spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with conservation of the splenic artery and vein. spleen-preserving distal pancreatectomy with splenic vessel conservation can be safely performed and should be indicated in the surgical management of benign pancreatic diseases of the distal pancreas. 
Delayed peripheral facial palsy in the stapes surgery: can it be prevented? [SEP] delayed facial paralysis after stapes surgery is uncommon and has been reported after traditional, nonlaser techniques for stapedotomy. presentation and resolution of the facial palsy is similar to other types of delayed facial palsy resulting from nonlaser techniques of stapes surgery and other types of middle ear and neurotologic surgeries previously reported. delayed facial palsy following conventional stapes surgery is a rare event, but this complication appears to be more common when a laser is used. the present study examined eight patients who exhibited delayed facial palsy after dental treatment or oro-facial surgery. the authors report the case histories of a 55-year-old female, and a 45-year-old male who presented with a delayed facial palsy following laser stapedotomy. delayed facial palsy has been reported following various types of otologic surgery. to study the incidence, pathogenesis, and prevention of delayed facial palsy after stapedectomy. delayed facial palsy after stapedectomy was studied. delayed facial palsy occurred from 5 to 16 days (mean 8) after stapedectomy. delayed facial palsy occurred in 0.51% of patients after stapedectomy. 
Hepatic arterial embolization for unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas: do technical factors affect prognosis? [SEP] to assess the efficacy of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using autologous blood clot as an embolizing agent (short-tae [s-tae]) for the treatment of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma less than 2 cm. transcatheter arterial embolization is a major palliative treatment for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma, but the survival benefit of transcatheter arterial embolization is controversial. to evaluate the role of transcatheter arterial embolization in different stage of unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma and to select patients who can get the best benefit from the treatment. for patients who fulfilled the criteria of transcatheter arterial embolization, embolization can serve as a primary treatment for patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. a randomized controlled trial of hepatic arterial embolization was conducted in 63 consecutive patients who had unresectable but still embolizable hepatocellular carcinoma. the results suggest that hepatic arterial embolization is an effective palliative treatment that prolongs survival of patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. to evaluate the role of embolization in unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas larger than 10 cm. embolization-related mortality is low for huge hepatocellular carcinoma, and the technique provides survival benefit in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas larger than 10 cm in diameter. ninety-two consecutive patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) greater than 2 cm and less than 5 cm in diameter were treated by transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using autologous blood clot as an embolizing agent (short-tae; s-tae). provided liver function is maintained, embolization alone appears a feasible long term and effective therapy for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Are pelvic anatomical structures in danger during arthroscopic acetabular labral repair? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to histologically examine the human healing response of arthroscopically repaired acetabular labrum tears. in this study the histologic aspects of arthroscopically repaired human labral tears were addressed. the purpose of this study was to evaluate safe depth for suture anchor insertion during acetabular labral repair and to determine the neighbouring structures at risk during drilling and anchor insertion. it is anatomically possible that some pelvic structures sustain iatrogenic injury during acetabular drilling for anchor placement. to define the location and size of labral tears identified during hip arthroscopy for acetabular labral treatment in a large multicenter cohort. the most common cause of arthroscopic surgery in the study group was an isolated acetabular labral tear without any bony structural abnormalities (68.2%, 15 of 22 hips). arthroscopic treatment in patients with hypertrophic acetabular labral tears should be carefully performed to prevent iatrogenic injury during the surgery, and isolated hypertrophic labral tears can have good results after repair. the indications to repair a torn acetabular labrum are highly variable among hip arthroscopic surgeons. it has been established that the restoration of labral anatomy and function are key factors to improve patient-reported outcome measurements (proms) and psychometric tools following arthroscopic hip arthroscopy in the context of fai syndrome. this review presents an analysis of the indications, techniques, and outcomes for arthroscopic acetabular labral reconstruction. 
Staging laparoscopy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: is it useful? [SEP] we present here our first experience of fluorescence-based diagnostic laparoscopy in a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma. fluorescence-based laparoscopy provided additional information in the staging of hepatocellular carcinoma. to assess the value of laparoscopy compared with that of ultrasonography, we compared data obtained from a series of 54 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, all of whom had both procedures performed at nearly the same time. in our study, ultrasonography proved superior to laparoscopy in detecting the presence and extent of the hepatocellular carcinoma. we conclude that ultrasonography is the primary diagnostic method of choice in the assessment of hepatocellular carcinoma and that laparoscopy should be reserved for only selected cases. we studied 27 cases of presumptive hepatocellular carcinoma by means of laparoscopy and fine needle aspiration. laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasonography may decrease unnecessary exploratory laparotomy, thus increasing the resection rate of previously ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma. current uses of staging laparoscopy include the following: (1) in the staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma, laparoscopic staging allows for the identification of sub-radiographic metastatic disease in locally advanced cancer in approximately 30% of patients and, in radiographically resectable cancer, may identify metastatic disease in 10%-15% of cases; (2) in colorectal liver metastases, selective use of laparoscopic staging in patients with a clinical risk score of over 2 identifies unresectable disease in approximately 20% of patients; (3) in hepatocellular carcinoma, laparoscopic staging could be selectively used in high-risk patients such as those with clinically apparent liver cirrhosis and in patients with major vascular invasion or bilobar tumors; and (4) in biliary tract malignancy, staging laparoscopy may be used in all patients with potentially resectable primary gallbladder cancer and in selected patients with t2/t3 hilar cholangiocarcinoma. laparoscopy is a very reliable diagnostic procedure for diagnosing hepatocellular carcinoma occurring in the cirrhotic liver. with the increasing use of ultrasonically guided fine needle biopsy, laparoscopy finds new indications, particularly in the preoperative staging of small hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Can echocardiography and ECG discriminate hereditary transthyretin V30M amyloidosis from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? [SEP] the patient was diagnosed with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and several years passed before establishment of the accurate diagnosis of hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis caused by the rare mutation attr phe33leu, previously described in only five case reports. hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis is likely underdiagnosed, especially in patients presenting with cardiomyopathy. transthyretin (ttr)-related cardiac amyloidosis is a progressive infiltrative cardiomyopathy that mimics hypertensive, hypertrophic heart disease and may go undiagnosed. identifying transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis requires increased awareness of the prevalence, signs and symptoms, and diagnostic tools available for discrimination of this progressive form of cardiomyopathy associated with left ventricular hypertrophy. hereditary transthyretin (attr) amyloidosis with increased left ventricular wall thickness could easily be misdiagnosed by echocardiography as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hcm). our combined echocardiographic and ecg model could increase the ability to identify attr cardiac amyloidosis in clinical practice. among them, a sporadic case of hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis with cardiac-predominant phenotype is very rare, progressive, and potentially fatal if left undiagnosed. here we report the case of a patient with hereditary cardiac amyloidosis associated with a pro24ser mutation in transthyretin, which is the first case reported in japan. transthyretin-related cardiac amyloidosis is a progressive infiltrative cardiomyopathy that mimics hypertensive and hypertrophic heart disease and often goes undiagnosed. in an effort to improve awareness and explore unique characteristics, we review the pathophysiology, epidemiology, and therapeutic strategies for transthyretin amyloidosis and highlight diagnostic pitfalls and clinical pearls for identifying patients with amyloid heart disease. 
Does pediatric housestaff experience influence tests ordered for infants in the neonatal intensive care unit? [SEP] to assess the relationship between the experience of pediatric housestaff and tests ordered on infants in the neonatal intensive care unit (icu). additional study is required to see if the experience of housestaff is associated with a broader array of neonatal outcomes, such as morbidity and mortality. owing to resident work-hour reductions and more permanent personnel in the newborn intensive care unit (nicu), we sought to determine if pediatric housestaff are missing learning opportunities in procedural training due to non-participation. little is known of how the inexperience or the clinical workload of housestaff affects the decisions they make in the neonatal intensive care unit (nicu). the authors hypothesized that less experienced interns would order more tests per infant than more experienced residents, especially under conditions of heavy workload. prospective cohort study over one academic year, observing infants exposed to housestaff working under various levels of clinical workload. the clinical workload of housestaff in the nicu can affect decisions to perform procedures on infants in the nicu. clinical expertise and skill of pediatric housestaff improve over the academic year, and performance varies despite supervision by faculty neonatologists. it is possible that variation in clinical expertise of housestaff affects important clinical outcomes in infants in icus. all infants were cared for by pediatric and neonatal housestaff supervised by neonatologists. 
Is robotically assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy less invasive than retropubic radical prostatectomy? [SEP] changes in the ratio of robotic-assisted prostatectomies compared to radical retropubic and laparoscopic radical prostatectomies demonstrated a trend toward robotic-assisted procedures. the incidence and location of positive surgical margins were compared between robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy and radical retropubic prostatectomy. patients undergoing robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy compared to radical retropubic prostatectomy had more favorable tumor characteristics including lower prostate specific antigen, clinical stage and gleason score. however, tumor volume as a percentage of prostate volume was higher among radical retropubic prostatectomy compared to robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy cases (17.7% vs 13%, p = 0.001). in the hands of surgeons experienced in robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy and radical retropubic prostatectomy, there was a statistically significant lower positive margin rate for patients undergoing robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. data were collected in prospective fashion and a comparison was made between 374 patients who underwent radical retropubic prostatectomy and 629 who underwent robot assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy. this review evaluates the validity of this change by reviewing the current literature and comparing open radical retropubic prostatectomy to robotic-assisted radical prostatectomy. robotic-assisted radical prostatectomy shows equivalent and possibly better results when compared with radical retropubic prostatectomy with respect to intraoperative and postoperative parameters including continence, potency and quality of life. this review supports the current trend in shifting the standard of care for radical prostatectomy from an open to a robotic-assisted laparoscopic approach. in the present series comparing robotically assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy with open radical retropubic prostatectomy, no difference was seen in postoperative pain, length of stay, or requirement for blood replacement. 
Nasal polyposis: is there an inheritance pattern? [SEP] to determine the pattern of cellular infiltration in nasal polyposis among malaysian population and to compare the pattern of cellular infiltration in nasal polyposis between malaysian and other asian countries. this is retrospective study done on patients diagnosed with nasal polyposis from january 2008 to june 2012 in university malaya medical center. we studied frequencies of hla a, b, dr and dq in patients with nasal polyposis in order to determine a possible genetic component in the multifactorial pathogenesis of nasal polyps. chronic pansinusitis with nasal polyposis occurs frequently in this disease. we hypothesized that genetic variants of the mmp-9 gene are associated with cases of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis. the t allele of promoter snp rs3918242 was associated with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis under the dominant (nominal p = 0.023, empirical p = 0.022, or = 1.62) and additive models (nominal p= 0.012, empirical p = 0.011, or = 1.60). investigation into the genetic factors associated with allergic and non-allergic nasal polyposis has been examined for more than fifteen years. eosinophilic nasal mucosal infiltration is characteristic of nasal polyposis. we studied 40 patients affected idiopathic nasal polyposis and 12 normal group controls. eosinophilic infiltration of the nasal mucosa is characteristic of nasal polyposis. 
c-Kit-dependent growth of uveal melanoma cells: a potential therapeutic target? [SEP] this study was conducted to investigate the expression and functional impact of the proto-oncogene c-kit in uveal melanoma. based on immunohistochemical (ihc) study of paraffin-embedded specimens from 134 uveal melanomas and western blot analysis on eight fresh-frozen samples the expression of c-kit in uveal melanoma was studied. furthermore, the phosphorylation of c-kit and the impact of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor sti571 was examined in the three uveal melanoma cell lines ocm-1, ocm-3, and 92-1. c-kit was strongly expressed and tyrosine phosphorylated in cultured uveal melanoma cells compared with cutaneous melanoma cells. moreover, in contrast to cutaneous melanoma cell lines c-kit maintained a high phosphorylation level in serum-depleted uveal melanoma cells. the results confirm that c-kit is vastly expressed in uveal melanoma, suggest that the c-kit molecular pathway may be important in uveal melanoma growth, and point to its use as a target for therapy with sti571. we used six human uveal melanoma tumor-derived cell lines and normal uveal melanocytes to characterize the scf/c-kit system and to assess its specific role in transformation. we investigated the possible roles of activating mutations in c-kit, the overexpression of this gene, and ligand-dependent c-kit overactivation in uveal melanoma cell tumorigenesis. c-kit is expressed in the majority of patients with metastatic uveal melanoma. the lack of a correlation between c-kit expression and clinical outcomes requires further investigation on the mechanism of sunitinib in metastatic uveal melanoma. 
Pharmacologic regimens for knee osteoarthritis prevention: can they be cost-effective? [SEP] we sought to determine the target populations and drug efficacy, toxicity, cost, and initiation age thresholds under which a pharmacologic regimen for knee osteoarthritis (oa) prevention could be cost-effective. we used the osteoarthritis policy (oapol) model, a validated state-transition simulation model of knee oa, to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of using disease-modifying oa drugs (dmoads) as prophylaxis for the disease. non-pharmacologic, behavioral treatments of knee oa are recommended not only in rehabilitation but also in prevention because many risk factors, such as excess weight, obesity and joint tissue inflammation, can be monitored and thus prevented. the clinical guidelines concur that the first line treatment for knee osteoarthritis should be non-pharmacological and include weight loss, physical activity and self-management of pain. if the analyses show the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of the intervention the results can be incorporated into the clinical guidelines for the management of knee osteoarthritis in primary care. because osteoarthritis is so common, the modification of factors that increase osteoarthritis risk could prevent substantial pain and disability in the elderly and the use of costly health care services. management of osteoarthritis in older adults focuses on reducing pain and other symptoms, minimizing functional limitation and disability from the disease, and avoiding the side effects associated with pharmacologic therapy. this article first briefly reviews the clinical pharmacology of acetaminophen and then summarizes the evidence supporting the use of acetaminophen in the management of patients with osteoarthritis. both nonpharmalogical as well as pharmacological modalities of treatment are useful in managing the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. in this issue, the diagnosis progressive factors and management of knee osteoarthritis are discussed. 
Is anorectal endosonography valuable in dyschesia? [SEP] the aim of this prospective study was to demonstrate dysfunction of the anal sphincter and/or the musculus (m.) puborectalis in patients with dyschesia using anorectal endosonography. twenty consecutive patients with a medical history of dyschesia and a control group of 20 healthy subjects underwent linear anorectal endosonography (toshiba models iuv 5060 and pvl-625 rt). linear anorectal endosonography demonstrated incomplete or even absent relaxation of the anal sphincter and the m. puborectalis during a defecation movement in the majority of our patients with dyschesia. endosonography may be used for diagnosing various anorectal disorders. the different modalities, the endosonography technique itself and its value in benign anorectal disease were described. endosonography is mostly used in the assessment of faecal incontinence; it has brought new insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms of this disorder and can select patients with traumatic incontinence for sphincter repair. anorectal function tests should also be performed when anal endosonography is done in evaluating possible faecal incontinence. in conclusion, anal endosonography is an easy to perform test of great importance in patients with anorectal pathology, especially in patients with faecal incontinence or soiling and patients who need anorectal surgery to be informed about possible sphincter defects. anal endosonography, electromyography (emg) of the external anal sphincter (eas), and manometry of the internal anal sphincter (ias) were performed in 15 patients with anorectal anomalies (10 with high and five with intermediate anomalies), ranging in age from 8 to 18 years. we investigated the use of dynamic anorectal endosonography to detect this disorder. 
Production of chemokines by perivascular adipose tissue: a role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis? [SEP] this article is part of a themed section on molecular mechanisms regulating perivascular adipose tissue - potential pharmacological targets? additionally, the authors propose that perivascular fat, per se, may attract circulating monocytes through the release of chemokines such as monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. this production of proatherogenic chemokines by adipose tissue is of particular interest, since their local secretion, for example by perivascular adipose depots, may provide a novel mechanistic link between obesity and associated vascular complications. in the setting of obesity, adipose tissue produces a variety of inflammatory cytokines (or adipokines) that are known to modulate key mechanisms of atherogenesis. the present review outlines our current understanding of the cellular and molecular links between perivascular adipose tissue and atherosclerosis with a focus on potential mechanisms by which epicardial perivascular adipose tissue contributes to obesity-related coronary disease. the pathophysiology of perivascular adipose tissue in obesity and its influence on oxidative stress, inflammation, endothelial dysfunction and vascular reactivity is addressed. in addition, the contribution of specific epicardial perivascular adipose-derived adipokines (e.g. visceral adipose tissue (vat) has active endocrine and paracrine functions with the secretion of various pro-inflammatory chemokines potentially contributing to the progression of atherosclerosis related with obesity. many of these adipokines seem to play an important role in the pathogenesis of obesity-related diseases including accelerated atherosclerosis, arterial hypertension and some glomerulopathies. the aim of this review is to summarize the evidences and hypotheses concerning the role of adipokines in the pathogenesis of endothelial dysfunction. 
Continuity of care experience of residents in an academic vascular department: are trainees learning complete surgical care? [SEP] despite changes in medical education, physician trainees continue to lag behind their nonphysician counterparts in valuing experience with interprofessional team and patient-centered care. surgical residents' learning goals include providing continuity throughout a patient's pre-, peri-, and post-operative care as well as achieving sufficient surgical experience levels in various procedure types and participating in various formal educational activities, among other things. the educational experience was acquired by questionnaires completed by seven attending surgeons and 22 orthopaedic trainees. the association of program directors in vascular surgery leadership sent a survey to all vascular surgical trainees (integrated [0/5], independent current and new graduates [5 + 2]) addressing various aspects of the educational experience. surgical training and vascular laboratory and venous training were judged "just right" by 87% and ∼71%, whereas business aspects needed more emphasis (65%-70%). surgical training and vascular laboratory/venous training were "just right" by 87% and 60% to 70%, respectively, whereas business aspects needed more emphasis (∼65%-70%). in an era of ever-expanding therapeutic modalities available to the vascular surgeon, it is important that trainees gain experience in preoperative decision-making and how this affects a patient's operative and postoperative course. the purpose of this study was to define the current experience of residents on a vascular surgery service regarding the continuity of care they are able to provide for patients and the factors affecting this experience. the continuity-of-care experiences of vascular trainees are suboptimal. to provide complete surgical training in an era of changing therapeutic modalities and same-day admission surgery, vascular programs must be creative in structuring training to include adequate ambulatory experience. 
Household and food shopping environments: do they play a role in socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption? [SEP] household and food shopping environmental factors are thought to contribute to these differences. to determine whether household and food shopping environmental factors are associated with fruit and vegetable (fv) intakes, and contribute to socioeconomic inequalities in fv consumption. multilevel logistic regression models examined between-area variance in fv consumption and associations between characteristics of the household and food shopping environments and fv consumption. there were significant socioeconomic inequalities in fruit and vegetable consumption (ors of not consuming fruit and vegetables were 4.26 and 5.47 among the lowest-educated groups for fruit and vegetables, respectively); however, these were not explained by any household or food shopping environmental factors. individual and environmental factors dynamically interact in shaping income inequalities in healthy food consumption. this study aimed to explore the extent to which food expenditure mediates socioeconomic inequalities in the healthiness of household food choices. in mediation analyses, 63% of the socioeconomic differences in choices of less-healthy foods/beverages were mediated by expenditure, and 36% for fruit and vegetables, but these figures were reduced to 53% and 31% respectively when controlling for supermarket choice. to examine: (i) the association between home availability of fruit and vegetables and children’s fruit and vegetable intake; (ii) the association between parental perception of the local food shopping environment and the home availability of fruit and vegetables; and (iii) whether the home availability of fruit and vegetables mediates the association between parental perception of the local food environment and children’s fruit and vegetable consumption. negative parental perceptions of the local food shopping environment were associated with less fruit available at home (p,0?05, p,0?01 and p,0?05 for price, quality and availability of fruit, respectively). fruit and vegetable consumption was associated with farmers' market shopping. 
Does birth center care during a woman's first pregnancy have any impact on her future reproduction? [SEP] women's experiences of childbirth may affect their future reproduction, and the model of care affects their experiences, suggesting that a causal link may exist between model of care and future reproduction. the study objective was to examine whether the birth center model of care during a woman's first pregnancy affects whether or not she has a second baby, and on the spacing to the next birth. between october 1989 and july 1993, a total of 1860 women at low medical risk in early pregnancy, who participated in a randomized controlled trial of in-hospital birth center care versus standard care, gave birth. a woman's model of care, such as birth center care, during her first pregnancy does not seem to be a sufficiently important factor to affect subsequent reproduction in sweden. ever since induced abortion was legalized in the united states, there has been a running controversy over whether induced abortion affects subsequent childbearing; for example, it has been claimed that women who terminate a pregnancy are at a greater risk of miscarrying a subsequent pregnancy or of having a low-birth-weight baby. ten studies of the later impact of first-trimester induced abortion by vacuum aspiration (the dominant method in the united states) are examined here; they find that compared with women who carry their first pregnancy to term, women whose first pregnancy ends in induced abortion have no greater risk of bearing low-birth-weight babies, delivering prematurely or suffering spontaneous abortions in subsequent pregnancies. however, these studies also show that induced abortion of a woman's first pregnancy does not have the protective effect on her first live birth that carrying a first birth to term has on later deliveries. interpregnancy care aims to maximize a woman's level of wellness not just in between pregnancies and during subsequent pregnancies, but also along her life course. recent research concluded that vbacs are riskier in a birth center than in the hospital. preconception and prenatal care allow for interventions to abate risky behaviors that can affect not only the woman but also her developing fetus. 
Are environmental factors important in primary systemic vasculitis? [SEP] although the aetiology of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca)-associated vasculitis remains unclear, it is generally believed that environmental factors such as infections contribute to its development of anca-associated vasculitis. prior epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection is reported to be a trigger of systemic vasculitis. the causal link between the two pathologies could not be proved, but primary ebv infection may play a role in the initiation or exacerbation of anca-associated vasculitis. infectious agents, such as viruses and bacteria, can trigger autoimmunity through different mechanisms, and for systemic vasculitis in particular, microbial agents have been suggested to be involved in its pathogenesis. this review considers the role of infections in the etiology of primary vasculitis, emphasizing their related immunological events. we emphasize the potential pathogenic role of infection as the trigger factor for the development of systemic vasculitis. chronic exposure to silica is the leading environmental factor associated with anca-positive vasculitis. certain medications and environmental factors may have an influence on the occurrence of rheumatic diseases. certain medications and environmental factors may have an influence on the occurrence of rheumatic diseases. aspects of pathogenesis of primary systemic vasculitis are highlighted in this review. 
Is low serum chloride level a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality? [SEP] the prognostic value of serum chloride among patients with heart failure was demonstrated by previous studies. however, the association of serum chloride and risk of cardiovascular mortality among the general population remains unclear. in the multivariate model, low-level serum sodium was associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality (hazard ratio [hr], 1.10; 95% confidence interval [ci], 1.02-1.18 per standard deviation [sd]; p = 0.009), whereas a lower level of serum chloride was not (hr, 1.04; 95% ci, 0.97-1.12 per standard deviation; p = 0.278). low serum sodium, rather than chloride, was independently associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality. according to cox regression analysis serum chloride level was one of the strongest predictors of total, cardiovascular disease (cvd) and non-cvd mortalities independently of age, body mass index, sex, smoking, systolic blood pressure, levels of total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, uric acid, serum creatinine and serum total proteins and intake of diuretics. the risk ratio for cvd mortality associated with a low serum chloride level was comparable to or higher than those observed for well-established cvd risk factors. lower serum chloride is associated with a higher risk of mortality in the general population. the study aimed to examine the association between serum chloride and mortality in peritoneal dialysis patients. higher serum chloride at the initial of peritoneal dialysis was associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular mortality and all-cause mortality in patients on peritoneal dialysis. during a median follow-up of 7.5-year, both low serum chloride level and low serum sodium level were found to be associated with an increased risk for mortality in univariate analysis. 
Is EQ-5D a valid quality of life instrument in patients with acute coronary syndrome? [SEP] to evaluate the construct validity of the turkish version of the eq-5d in patients with acute coronary syndrome. the turkish version of the eq-5d-based utility score seems to be a valid instrument in the assessment of quality of life studies in patients with acute coronary syndrome. to analyse the psychometric properties of the euroqol questionnaire (eq-5d) applied to patients with acute coronary syndromes (acs). we compared the performance of two health-related quality-of-life (hrqol) measures, eq-5d and 15d, in patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting (cabg). however, the frequently used instrument to measure quality of life, the eq-5d has not been validated for use in bariatric surgery, which is a major limitation to its use in this clinical context. the eq-5d-5l is a valid generic measure for measuring health-related quality of life in bariatric surgery patients. to investigate the validity and reliability of the euroqol-5d (eq-5d), the 12-item short-form health survey (sf-12v2), and the hospital anxiety and depression scale (hads) in a stable coronary population. the eq-5d as well as the sf-12v2 and the hads are reliable and valid instruments for use in a stable coronary population, both on aggregate european level and on country-specific level. the eq-5d-y instrument seemed to provide feasibility and convergent validity for measuring health-related quality of life in children and adolescents with asthma. the eq-5d is an important generic health outcome instrument often used for economic evaluations as a complement with disease-specific outcome measures. 
Could Adult European Pharmacoresistant Epilepsy Patients Be Treated With Higher Doses of Zonisamide? [SEP] to examine the clinical effect (efficacy and tolerability) of high doses of zonisamide (zns) (>500 mg/d) in adult patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy. patients and in this retrospective noninterventional study of the medical records of 75 children with pharmacoresistant epilepsy, the pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety of zonisamide were examined. this review presents the evidence for zonisamide across the spectrum of epilepsy, with emphasis on real-world clinical practice and special populations of patients (children, elderly patients, and women of childbearing age) who are likely to be treated in daily clinical practice. here, an update on pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy and safety in childhood and adult epilepsies is given based on an analysis of controlled and uncontrolled studies, european, us and east asian, and on clinical experience with zonisamide (zns) published up to 2009. four randomised, placebo-controlled trials (duration <or=6 months) in the united states and europe (848 patients in total) have shown doses of zonisamide >or=300 mg/day to be efficacious in treating refractory partial seizures in adults. these data support the use of zonisamide in combination with commonly used antiepileptic drugs to provide efficacious and well-tolerated treatment for patients with refractory partial seizures. the clinical efficacy of adjunctive zonisamide therapy has been established in four pivotal, phase iii, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, which together included approximately 850 patients, aged 12-77 years, with refractory partial epilepsy. once-daily monotherapy with zonisamide (200-500 mg/day) has been shown to be non-inferior to, and as well tolerated as, twice-daily monotherapy with controlled-release carbamazepine (400-1200 mg/day) in adults with newly diagnosed partial epilepsy. to investigate whether zonisamide remains effective and well tolerated in the treatment of refractory partial epilepsy during long-term treatment and with flexible dosing in clinical practice. flexible dosing with zonisamide demonstrated a good safety profile and sustained efficacy in the long-term adjunctive treatment of refractory partial epilepsy. 
Does early migraine treatment shorten time to headache peak and reduce its severity? [SEP] however, early intervention was not associated with reduced headache severity at peak. in multivariate analysis, early treatment, use of triptans, and mild migraine headache in the past 3 months were significantly associated with shorter time from onset to headache peak. early treatment and use of triptans may lead to shorter duration from migraine headache onset to its peak but did not alleviate headache severity at peak. this could result in decreased migraine burden by reducing total migraine headache duration. while treating migraine early when the headache is mild is believed to link to improved treatment outcomes, it is not clear whether patients can correctly self-identify a headache as a migraine at onset in real-world settings. if headache occurs, severity appears to be reduced. therefore, patients and clinicians must learn the latest lessons in migraine: 1) mild migraine usually progresses to more severe levels if left untreated, 2) early treatment is more effective than delayed treatment, 3) early treatment may result in lower rates of adverse events and headache recurrence, and 4) early treatment is cost effective. as clinicians advocate the early treatment of migraine in its mild phase, evidence to support this recommendation has finally become available. early treatment of migraine is successful for most patients. it was concluded that domperidone shortens the duration of a migraine attack and may help reduce headache and associated symptoms. 
Does the manic/mixed episode distinction in bipolar disorder patients run true over time? [SEP] the authors sought to determine whether the manic/mixed episode distinction in patients with bipolar disorder runs true over time. these data suggest a pattern of diagnostic stability over time for manic and mixed episodes in patients with bipolar disorder. in the current study we report on symptom presentations of 68 prospectively-evaluated subjects diagnosed with bipolar disorder during two discrete manic or mixed episodes. manic and mixed episodes tend to recur true to type. data on 108 hospitalized bipolar i women were analyzed to characterize those whose course was marked with at least one mixed episode (i.e. our data revealed a later age of appearance of the first mixed episode in the course of bipolar illness with a tendency to recur true to type; greater prevalence of mood incongruent psychotic features; lower frequency of hyperthymic temperament; and familial depressive, rather than bipolar, disorders. these characteristics tend to identify the mixed state as a distinct longitudinal pattern of manic-depressive illness. episodes of bipolar disorder are defined as depressive or manic, but depressive and manic symptoms can combine in the same episode. the authors reviewed the evolution of the concept of mixed states and examined the symptom structure of mixed states studied as predominantly manic, predominantly depressive, and across both manic and depressive episodes, showing essentially parallel structures of mixed states based on manic or depressive episodes. mixed-state criteria, initially developed for bipolar disorder, ranged from fully combined depression and mania to the dsm-5 criteria, no longer limited to bipolar disorder, of a primary depressive or manic episode with at least three symptoms of the other episode type. 
Post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage: is it a preferably night-time event? [SEP] to evaluate the relationship between the incidence of late post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage and its prevalence in a definite period of the day. we considered in the study all the post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhages irrespective of their severity and for each case we evaluated whether they recurred in the day-time (b) (between 9.00 a.m. and 9.00 p.m.) or in the night-time (a) (between 9.00 p.m. and 9.00 a.m.). out of 3306 patients undergoing elective adenotonsillectomy or tonsillectomy, post-operative late haemorrhage occurred in 59 (1.78%). the incidence of post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage in our study population was 1.78%. retrospective review of post-tonsillectomy haemorrhages requiring rtt from april 2005 to march 2009 was conducted. the medical records of 1150 tonsillectomized patients were retrospectively reviewed for registration of the frequency of post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage in relation to sex and age of the patients, the indications for tonsillectomy, and the operative experience of the surgeon. post-operative haemorrhages were more frequent after tonsillectomy. the post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage occurs rarely, but is a life-threatening complication. to analyse the post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage rate, and to determine whether the effect of the surgical technique on the haemorrhage rate exists. post-tonsillectomy haemorrhage occured in 46 (4.23%) patients. 
Acute hepatitis C in Israel: a predominantly iatrogenic disease? [SEP] the aim of this study was to examine transmission routes and clinical characteristics in a group of patients with acute hepatitis c in israel. a retrospective chart review was conducted in three different liver clinics in israel, of all new hepatitis c patients. twenty-nine patients were found to have acute hepatitis c, representing 0.75% of all new referrals for hepatitis c. the most frequent (65%) mode of transmission was iatrogenic involving several, often minimal, procedures and clinical settings. acute hepatitis c in the post universal blood products screening era was found to be predominantly an iatrogenic disease in the investigated localities. hev is an emerging disease and has become the most common hepatitis among israeli travelers. to investigate the epidemiology, risk factors and clinical course of acute hepatitis e virus (hev) infection in israel, an industrialized country. a retrospective analysis of acute hev cases diagnosed in israel from 1993 to 2013. this is the first report which highlights the existence of hepatitis e as an autochthonous infection in israel. the aim of this study was to establish a current profile of the socio-demographic and clinical characteristics of the irish iatrogenic hepatitis c population and to determine factors predicting symptoms experienced. this study describes the current status of the iatrogenically infected patient cohort in ireland, adding to existing knowledge regarding the clinical course and consequences of hcv infection. 
Out of the smokescreen II: will an advertisement targeting the tobacco industry affect young people's perception of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke? [SEP] results of this study suggest that if people were recurrently exposed to anti-tobacco content in movies there is potential for a more substantial and lasting impact on attitudes toward the tobacco industry and smoking. in this article we review the relationship between the tobacco industry and the movie industry over the past 100 years; the cross sectional and longitudinal studies that demonstrate a causal relationship between exposure to movie smoking depictions and youth smoking initiation; and the policy interventions recommended by the who to limit youth exposure to tobacco in movies. to evaluate the effect of an antismoking advertisement on young people's perceptions of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke. this real-world study suggests that placing an antismoking advertisement before movies containing smoking scenes can help to immunise non-smokers against the influences of film stars' smoking. smoking images in movies and tobacco advertisements in magazines are influential on adolescent smoking behaviors, and restrictions of these advertising strategies can reduce the prevalence of adolescent smoking. further educating young adults about the influence of smoking images in movies on adolescent smoking may be necessary to gain more support for the policy. smoking in movies is associated with adolescent and young adult smoking initiation. this study evaluated the effects of different themes of existing antismoking advertisements on perceived harm and intentions to use cigarettes and other tobacco products among air force trainees. to evaluate the effect of an anti-smoking advertisement on young women's perceptions of smoking in movies and their intention to smoke. this "real world" study suggests that placing an anti-smoking advertisement before movies containing smoking scenes can help to "immunise" young women against the influences of film stars smoking. 
Do adjuvant aromatase inhibitors increase the cardiovascular risk in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer? [SEP] aromatase inhibitors have improved breast cancer outcomes for early stage, postmenopausal women who have hormone receptor positive disease. in early adjuvant breast cancer trial reports, aromatase inhibitors more effectively reduced breast recurrence with lower risk of thromboembolic events and endometrial cancer than tamoxifen, while aromatase inhibitors had higher fracture and cardiovascular disease risk. using a benefit/risk index for endocrine adjuvant breast cancer therapy in postmenopausal women, benefit was higher for aromatase inhibitor use in almost all circumstances. the emergence of aromatase inhibitors as an alternative to tamoxifen for the treatment of breast cancer is challenging the management of the disease and influencing the change of regulatory guidelines. cardiovascular complications related to cancer therapy may be a prominent concern in postmenopausal women with existing cardiovascular disease or in those who are at high risk for developing cardiovascular disease. emerging data from clinical trials on the use of aromatase inhibitors in the management of early-stage, hormone-dependent breast cancer in postmenopausal women are reviewed. while their impact on survival has not been determined, aromatase inhibitors are slowly changing the management of early-stage, hormone-dependent breast cancer in postmenopausal women because of improved disease-free survival rates. we conducted a prospective observational study to test the associations between snps in candidate genes in estrogen signaling and aromatase inhibitor metabolism pathways with fasting lipid profiles during the first 3 months of aromatase inhibitor therapy in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer randomized to adjuvant letrozole or exemestane. future studies are needed to validate these findings, and to identify breast cancer survivors who are at higher risk for cardiovascular disease with aromatase inhibitor therapy. this article outlines the proceedings from an expert panel meeting of regionally diverse breast cancer specialists regarding the appropriate use of aromatase inhibitors in postmenopausal hormone-responsive early breast cancer and bisphosphonates as anticancer therapy in adjuvant breast cancer. 
Metastatic carcinoma to the cervical nodes from an unknown head and neck primary site: Is there a need for neck dissection? [SEP] there are around 150 lymph nodes on either side in the neck and cervical lymph nodes are a common site for head and neck malignancies to metastasize however carcinoma of prostate may in rare cases metastasize to cervical chain, therefore warranting a neck dissection. cancer of unknown primary in the head and neck is defined by the presence of cancer in one or more lymph nodes within the head and neck region, not confined to the supraclavicular region, without an identifiable primary tumor. to assess the efficacy of limiting treatment to the involved neck by way of neck dissection and adjuvant radiotherapy and reserving other therapies for salvage in the management of metastatic cervical squamous cell carcinoma from an unknown head and neck primary site. the study population comprised 70 patients with metastatic cervical squamous cell carcinoma from an unknown head and neck primary site. the clinical and histopathological findings of a 56-year-old woman with a metastatic cervical lymph node of unknown origin are presented, together with a literature review of metastases from an occult abdominal primary. fifty-two cases of head and neck metastases from an abdominal primary cancer were found and separately summarized according to the metastatic routes. when a metastatic neck cancer of unknown origin is diagnosed, it is very important to consider the possibility of a metastasis from an abdominal organ. cervical lymph node metastases from unknown primary sites account for approximately 3% to 9% of all head and neck malignant lesions. on reviewing the records of 1602 neck dissections done in patients with head and neck cancers over the years 2007-2011, this study identified 5 patients with incidentally detected thyroid tissue with features of malignancy in cervical lymph nodes. cervical nodal metastasis from clinically undetectable primary squamous cell carcinoma (scc) accounts for 1-2% of head and neck malignancies. 
Cardiac reoperations in octogenarians: Do they really benefit? [SEP] the benefit of cardiac surgery in octogenarians is well described. octogenarians exhibit a similar long-term survival and quality of life after primary and redo cardiac surgery. long-term results of cardiac surgery in octogenarians show that these patients can withstand heart surgery with improved functional benefit and quality of life. with the rapid growth of the elderly segment of the population, more octogenarians are referred for complex cardiac interventions, including reoperations. we retrospectively studied 113 consecutive octogenarians (mean age, 83+/-2.6 years) who underwent reoperative cardiac procedures within a 13-year period. cardiac reoperations can be performed successfully in most octogenarians, although with an increased risk, particularly in the combined cabg and valve group. the authors' experience is reported of cardiac reoperations for valvular heart disease in octogenarian patients. cardiac reoperations for valvular heart disease in octogenarians carry a high postoperative morbidity and mortality. outcome differences in octogenarians vs patients younger than 80 years undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting or valve surgery can be analyzed to isolate the effect of age alone on morbidity and mortality. octogenarians undergoing cardiac surgery have more comorbidities and higher mortality even after controlling for 16 potential confounding variables, compared with nonoctogenarians. 
Location and number of sutures placed for hiatal hernia repair during laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding: does it matter? [SEP] the objective of the study is to identify the efficacy and safety of combining laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding with repair of large para-oesophageal hernias. the effect and safety of combining para-oesophageal hernia repair with laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding is unknown. one-hundred fourteen consecutive patients undergoing primary laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding with concurrent repair of a large para-oesophageal hernia were prospectively identified and matched to a control group undergoing primary laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding only. concurrent repair of large para-oesophageal hiatal hernia and laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding placement is safe and effective both in terms of symptom control and weight loss over the intermediate term. the purpose of this study was to establish the efficacy of a new surgical technique for the placement of the silicone gastric band (lap-band) in the presence of a large (>5 cm) hiatus hernia. each patient underwent hiatal hernia repair and attempted gastrodesis with laparoscopic placement of a gastric band. this randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluated the efficacy of continuous infusion of local anesthetic to the diaphragm closure post laparoscopic hiatal hernia repair. background: crural repair is an essential technical component in laparoscopic hiatal hernia surgery, but there is no consensus regarding the optimal method to prevent postoperative hernia recurrence. performing gastric banding without dissecting and repairing the hiatal hernia can lead to incorrect positioning of the gastric band, which is associated with poor weight loss, chronic reflux, and increased complications. concomitant hiatal hernia repair is felt by the authors to be a necessary component for the correct placement of the gastric band device, which, in turn, provides excellent long-term results to our patients. 
Is Alveolar Macrophage Phagocytic Dysfunction in Children With Protracted Bacterial Bronchitis a Forerunner to Bronchiectasis? [SEP] thus, in children with bronchiectasis or pbb and in control subjects, we quantified the phagocytosis of airway apoptotic cells and nthi by alveolar macrophages and related the phagocytic capacity to clinical and airway inflammation. for children with pbb or bronchiectasis, macrophage phagocytic capacity was significantly lower than for control subjects (p = .003 and p < .001 for efferocytosis and p = .041 and p = .004 for phagocytosis of nthi; pbb and bronchiectasis, respectively); median phagocytosis of nthi for the groups was as follows: bronchiectasis, 13.7% (interquartile range [iqr], 11%-16%); pbb, 16% (iqr, 11%-16%); control subjects, 19.0% (iqr, 13%-21%); and median efferocytosis for the groups was as follows: bronchiectasis, 14.1% (iqr, 10%-16%); pbb, 16.2% (iqr, 14%-17%); control subjects, 18.1% (iqr, 16%-21%). protracted bacterial bronchitis may occur following a viral respiratory tract infection. protracted bacterial bronchitis (pbb) is considered a potential precursor to bronchiectasis (be) in some children. we previously showed that alveolar macrophages (am) from children with pbb or be have a similar significant defect in phagocytic capacity, with proinflammatory associations. protracted bacterial bronchitis (pbb) is a common cause of prolonged cough in young children, and may be a precursor of bronchiectasis. in summary, we have shown that the expression of genes related to macrophage function and resolution of inflammation are similar in pbb and bronchiectasis. lung immune cell dysfunction in pbb and bronchiectasis may contribute to poor bacterial clearance and prolonged resolution of inflammation. protracted bacterial bronchitis is a newly described chronic suppurative condition in children, which is less persistent but more common than bronchiectasis (1). recognising the link between protracted bacterial bronchitis and bronchiectasis creates an opportunity to understand the pathobiology of early suppurative endobronchial lung disease and prospects for the development of effective and early interventions http://bit.ly/2k3iki6. 
Do elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy for treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression? [SEP] while radiotherapy is generally an acceptable treatment for metastatic spinal cord compression, surgical intervention is controversial due to the invasiveness and diversity of diseases in the patients being considered. we compared the neurological outcomes between radiotherapy and surgery in patients with metastatic spinal cord compression presenting with myelopathy. in this paper we review the surgical management of patients with metastatic epidural spinal cord compression. radiotherapy alone is effective in over 85% of cases of spinal cord compression that occur in highly radioresponsive tumors (multiple myeloma, germ cell or lymphoproliferative tumors). surgery is recommended in addition to radiotherapy in selected cases, and further study is needed to better define the prognostic and neurological parameters for the surgical management of spinal cord compression. metastatic spinal cord compression is a frequent medical emergency, and the most common treatment offered is radiotherapy. one question regarding the treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression (mscc) is whether elderly patients benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy? the standard treatment for spinal cord compression caused by metastatic cancer is corticosteroids and radiotherapy. in this randomised, multi-institutional, non-blinded trial, we randomly assigned patients with spinal cord compression caused by metastatic cancer to either surgery followed by radiotherapy (n=50) or radiotherapy alone (n=51). direct decompressive surgery plus postoperative radiotherapy is superior to treatment with radiotherapy alone for patients with spinal cord compression caused by metastatic cancer. 
Are WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF-recommended replacement milks for infants of HIV-infected mothers appropriate in the South African context? [SEP] the study aim was to explore suitability of the 2001 feeding recommendations for infants of hiv-infected mothers for a rural region in kwazulu natal, south africa specifically with respect to adequacy of micronutrients and essential fatty acids, cost, and preparation times of replacement milks. no home-prepared replacement milks in south africa meet all estimated micronutrient and essential fatty acid requirements of infants aged <6 months. revisions of who/unaids/unicef hiv and infant feeding course replacement milk options are needed. however, one aspect of the new south african guidelines gives cause for concern: the continued provision of free formula milk to hiv-infected women through public health facilities. this paper presents the latest evidence regarding mortality and morbidity associated with feeding practices in the context of hiv and suggests a modification of current policy to prioritize child survival for all south african children. the world health organization (who) and unicef recommend that hiv-positive women should avoid all breastfeeding only if replacement feeding is acceptable, feasible, affordable, sustainable and safe. because the only intervention to completely prevent hiv transmission via human milk is not to breastfeed, in the united states, where clean water and affordable replacement feeding are available, the american academy of pediatrics recommends that hiv-infected mothers not breastfeed their infants, regardless of maternal viral load and antiretroviral therapy. breastfeeding is a major health-promoting factor for infants and children in developing countries but the risk of mother-to-child transmission (mtct) of hiv by this route is challenging traditional practices and health policies in low-resource countries. continued promotion of exclusive breastfeeding for at least 6 months, irrespective of hiv status, followed by a properly prepared, high energy, nutritious complementary diet, with the possibility of early weaning to an animal milk formula, still appears to be the most appropriate option for the poor in countries with high levels of mtct not deriving any benefit from the above strategies. following the 2010 world health organization (who) infant feeding recommendations (ebf for hiv-positive mothers with maternal or infant antiretroviral treatment), south africa adopted breastfeeding promotion as a national infant feeding strategy and removed free formula milk from the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of hiv programme. 
Is minilaparoscopic inguinal hernia repair feasible? [SEP] in this study, we propose a hybrid technique that could potentially become the gold standard of minimally invasive inguinal hernia surgery. the minilaparoscopic tep-tapp combined approach for inguinal hernia is feasible, safe, and allows a simple endoscopic repair. we designed a technique of pure minilaparoscopic hernia sac transaction and ligation to repair primary inguinal hernias in children and young adults. between september 2003 and december 2004, 83 patients with primary inguinal hernia were treated surgically with minilaparoscopic herniorrhaphy. minilaparoscopic herniorrhaphy with hernia sac transaction is a safe and effective technique in children and young adults with indirect inguinal hernias. fifty-eight laparoscopic inguinal hernia repairs were performed: 36 by traditional laparoscopic technique and 22 by minilaparoscopic instruments (mini). while limited by its retrospective design, the present study indicates that the minilaparoscopic approach to groin hernia repair is safe and effective, making minitapp a challenging alternative to laparoscopy in the approach to groin hernia repair. this case series study was performed to determine the safety and feasibility of this procedure in patients with inguinal hernia after radical prostatectomy. elective inguinal hernia repair as a day case is a safe and suitable procedure, with well-recognized feasibility. the authors confirm the advantages of simultaneous repair of bilateral inguinal hernias, indicate that it is feasible to perform the procedure under local anesthesia, and suggest that when an open tension-free technique is used, the results are superior to those of laparoscopic repair of bilateral inguinal hernias. 
Surgical treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis in patients with double prostheses: is single-valve replacement safe? [SEP] this study aims to evaluate the surgical outcomes of prosthetic valve endocarditis. a total of 21 patients (6 males, 15 females; mean age 58.9±12.6 years; range, 33 to 79 years) who were surgically treated for prosthetic valve endocarditis between january 2013 and january 2018 were retrospectively analyzed. prosthetic valve endocarditis is a rare but severe complication after double mitral and aortic valve replacement. we report a case of prosthetic valve endocarditis after double mitral and aortic valve replacement with the manouguian procedure. we have studied the clinical and pathological features of 22 patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis seen at the johns hopkins hospital over the past 17 years. mitral and aortic prosthetic endocarditis generally led to a different type of prosthetic valve dysfunction: nine of 14 aortic valve prostheses with endocarditis developed incompetence and one other stenosis; five of seven patients with mitral valve prostheses developed stenosis and one, a homograft, developed incompetence. these findings suggest that early surgical intervention combined with antibiotics has a chance of providing effective therapy for prosthetic valve endocarditis. the aim of this study was to describe the experience of treatment of early prosthetic valve endocarditis at a heart center. prosthetic valve endocarditis is an infrequent complication of valve replacement. prosthetic valve endocarditis is a conservatively barely manageable, serious life-threatening condition. 
Epidural analgesia for surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a risky technique? [SEP] cytoreductive surgery (crs) and heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy (hipec) is beneficial in peritoneal carcinomatosis. epidurals provide excellent pain relief for laparotomies. in recent years, cytoreductive surgery (crs) with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (hipec) has gained increasing acceptance as a treatment modality for peritoneal carcinomatosis. we present a case of an unfortunate female adolescent with peritoneal carcinomatosis who underwent cytoreductive surgery and hipec. not only should the surgical event for primary colon and rectal cancer be optimized, but also the successful treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis should be pursued. patients with established peritoneal carcinomatosis can be salvaged with an approximate 50% long-term survival rate if the timely use of peritonectomy procedures, intraperitoneal chemotherapy, and knowledgeable patient selection are utilized. peritonectomy procedures allow the removal of all visible peritoneal carcinomatosis with acceptable surgical morbidity (25%) and mortality (1.5%) rates. the peritoneal cancer index, which quantitates colon cancer peritoneal carcinomatosis by distribution and by lesion size, must be used in the selection of patients who may benefit from these advanced oncologic surgical treatment strategies. a detailed preoperative assessment of peritoneal carcinomatosis could be very challenging in the field of imaging, but a new aggressive surgical approach requires an accurate preoperative assessment of the disease. safety of epidural analgesia for perioperative and chronic pain treatment is more difficult to balance; careful selection of appropriate patients cannot be over-emphasized. 
Risk stratification in emergency surgical patients: is the APACHE II score a reliable marker of physiological impairment? [SEP] the apache ii (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii) score used as an intensive care unit (icu) admission score in emergency surgical patients is not independent of the effects of treatment and might lead to considerable bias in the comparability of defined groups of patients and in the evaluation of treatment policies. for risk stratification in emergency surgical patients, it is essential to measure the apache ii score before surgical treatment. predicted mortality of these patients was determined with acute physiology and chronic health evaluations (apache) ii, simplified acute physiology score (saps ii), charlson comorbidity index (cci), porthsmouth physiological and operative severity score for enumeration of mortality and morbidity (p-possum), surgical apgar score (sas), and goldman cardiac risk index (gcri) scores. this study assessed the apache ii (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii), saps ii (simplified acute physiology score-ii), possum (physiologic and operative severity score for enumeration of morbidity and mortality), and p-possum (portsmouth-possum) in patients with colorectal cancer undergoing curative or palliative resection. this study aims to evaluate the performance of simplified acute physiology score ii (saps ii), the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii (apache ii) score, and the sequential organ failure assessment (sofa) score for predicting illness severity and the mortality of adult hepatic portal venous gas (hpvg) patients presenting to the emergency department (ed). we recommend use of the apache ii for outcome predictions and risk stratification in paraquat-poisoned patients in the icu. risk stratification of patients in the intensive care unit (icu) is an important tool because it permits comparison of patient populations for research and quality control. a total of 5,322 noncardiac patients admitted to a surgical icu during an 8-year period had their acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache) ii scores compared with their iciss as predictors of outcome (survival/nonsurvival, length of stay, and charges). to evaluate the predictive value of the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache ii) scoring system in cardiothoracic surgical patients. to compare the ability of apache-ii and p-possum to predict postoperative morbidity and mortality in patients undergoing emergency laparotomy. 
Are physicians meeting the needs of family caregivers of the frail elderly? [SEP] to explore expressed needs, both formal and informal, of family caregivers of frail elderly. physicians may be uninterested in helping caregivers; even if they were receptive to counseling caregivers, they could be poorly remunerated for the types of counseling sessions that are usual for caregivers; and being a professional caregiver to family caregivers is demanding in itself. physicians not only need better preparation to meet the challenges of caring for frail older patients, but they also need changes in reimbursement policies so that they can afford to spend the time needed to manage the complexities inherent in the doctor-patient-family caregiver relationship. the caregiver, who is usually a spouse or the daughter-in-law in an indian family find it increasingly stressful to meet the care needs of disabled and frail elderly in the family. family caregiving of a frail older person is an increasingly common phenomenon. primary care physicians need a strong and effective model to guide their relationships with family caregivers, key resources for the frail elderly. caregivers provide a significant proportion of the home care needed by the rapidly growing number of frail elderly living in the community. frail elderly people represent a major patient group in family practice. to our knowledge, this is the first prospective, longitudinal qualitative study on the needs of elderly patients with advanced frailty towards the end of life in german family practice, which integrates the perspectives of patients, informal caregivers, family physicians and other health professionals. geriatric care managers face a complex task of helping families negotiate challenges of caring for frail elders and meeting everyday practical needs. 
Can nonproliferative breast disease and proliferative breast disease without atypia be distinguished by fine-needle aspiration cytology? [SEP] both cytology and histology specimens were categorized as nonproliferative disease, fibroadenoma, proliferative breast disease without atypia, and proliferative breast disease with atypia. however, these features are also present in breast lesions without proliferation or atypia, and are not diagnostic of atypical proliferative lesions of the breast. this study suggests that it is possible to apply a cytologic grading system to further subclassify benign breast disease and distinguish these forms from neoplastic lesions. seventy-eight symptomatic females without palpable breast lumps were subjected to bilateral four quadrant fine needle aspiration cytology. histopathological study of the breast biopsies in these patients showed proliferative disease without atypia (pdwa) in 40 cases, atypical ductal hyperplasia (adh) in two, atypical lobular hyperplasia (alh) in one and adh with alh in one case. forty-eight patients with breast carcinoma were subjected to four quadrant fine needle aspiration (fna) cytology examination of the ipsilateral and contralateral breast in an attempt to detect any accompanying benign proliferative lesion. to study the "gray zone" in breast fine needle aspiration cytology in which an unequivocal diagnosis cannot be reached with fine needle aspiration cytology findings. this study compared cytology and histopathology of 72 breast lesions in which an initial cytologic diagnosis of atypia was given. we conclude that the majority of benign breast lesions yield characteristic cytologic findings that allow their subclassification when sufficiently sampled by fine needle aspiration. cytologic criteria reported to be helpful in the distinction of proliferative breast disease without atypia (pbd) from nonproliferative breast disease (npbd) have not been rigorously tested. 
Are Reviewers' Scores Influenced by Citations to Their Own Work? [SEP] when serving as journal reviewers, they may be more favorably disposed to manuscripts that cite their work. we investigate whether manuscripts that contain a citation to the reviewer's work receive higher evaluations than those that do not and whether peer reviewers encourage authors to cite that reviewer's work. to determine whether citation affected reviewer scores, we obtained each reviewer's score of the manuscript's overall desirability (1=worst to 5=best) and used descriptive statistics and regression modeling to compare scores of cited and noncited reviewers. authors were asked to add a citation to the reviewer's work in 28 reviews (3%) but to others' work in 98 (10%). in a leading specialty journal, cited reviewers gave higher scores than noncited reviewers. peer reviewers sometimes request that authors cite their work, either appropriately or via coercive self-citation to highlight the reviewers' work. the objective of this study was to determine in peer reviews submitted to one biomedical journal (1) the extent of peer reviewer self-citation; (2) the proportion of reviews recommending revision or acceptance versus rejection that included reviewer self-citations; and (3) the proportion of reviewer self-citations versus citations to others that included a rationale. of 428 total citations, there were 122 peer reviewer self-citations (29%) and 306 citations to others' work (71%). self-citations were more common in reviews recommending revision or acceptance (105 of 316 citations; 33%) versus rejection (17/112; 15%; p<0.001). self-citation in peer reviews is common and may reflect a combination of appropriate citation to research that should be cited in published articles and inappropriate citation intended to highlight the work of the peer reviewer. 
Does the central venous pressure predict fluid responsiveness? [SEP] a central venous pressure of <8 mm hg and a pulmonary artery occlusion pressure of <12 mm hg predicted volume responsiveness with a positive predictive value of only 47% and 54%, respectively. central venous pressure can be influenced by multiple pathophysiological factors and, unless central venous pressure is very low, it is rarely useful as a predictor for fluid responsiveness. central venous pressure values correlated with direct impedance measurements more than with total body water predictions. whereas central venous pressure values >12 mm hg were associated with shorter impedance vectors in 93% of patients, indicating fluid overload, central venous pressure values <3 mm hg were associated with long impedance vectors in only 10% of patients, indicating tissue dehydration. ventilator-induced dynamic hemodynamic parameters such as stroke volume variation (svv) and pulse pressure variation (ppv) have been shown to predict fluid responsiveness in contrast to static hemodynamic parameters such as central venous pressure (cvp). we hypothesized that the ventilator-induced central venous pressure variation (cvpv) could predict fluid responsiveness. we also analyzed whether fluid balance was predictive of central venous pressure and furthermore whether a guideline-recommended central venous pressure of 8-12 mm hg yielded a mortality advantage. response to fluid management may differ based on patients' initial central venous pressure. we hypothesized that initial central venous pressure would modify the effect of fluid management on outcomes. multivariable analysis demonstrated an interaction between initial central venous pressure and the effect of fluid strategy on mortality (p = 0.031). 
Memory-provoked rCBF-SPECT as a diagnostic tool in Alzheimer's disease? [SEP] memory-provoked rcbf-spect (mp-spect). memory provocation increased the sensitivity of rcbf-spect for the detection of ad-related blood flow changes in the brain at the group level. an overview is given of the topography and the pathophysiological and diagnostic significance of focal rcbf deficits in alzheimer's disease and in other dementia disorders, in which spect is capable of early or preclinical disease detection. in alzheimer's disease, the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of focal rcbf deficits measured with spect and brain-retained tracers are very high, in particular when combined with medial temporal lobe atrophy on ct. whole brain structural magnetic resonance imaging (mri) data and single photon emission computed tomography (spect) measures of regional cerebral blood flow (rcbf) were obtained during a verbal recognition memory task in nine subjects with mild alzheimer's disease and 10 elderly healthy controls. the rcbf image with high-resolution spect system may be useful in assessing the extent of dementia and memory disturbance in patients with neuropsychiatric diseases. canonical correlation analysis of combined baseline memory deficits and rcbf spect images identified pre-clinical ad with a sensitivity and specificity of 77.8%. spect allows registration of regional cerebral blood flow (rcbf) which is altered in a characteristic temporoparietal pattern in alzheimer's dementia. thus, hm-pao spect is useful as an aid in the differential diagnosis of dementia and the technique of relative rcbf quantification with spect may contribute to the understanding of the clinico-anatomical relations of cognitive deficits in dementia. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of activation versus baseline spect in detecting the regional cerebral blood flow (rcbf) changes in alzheimer's disease (ad) patients after milameline (ci979/ru35926) treatment. 
Can we ease the financial burden of colonoscopy? [SEP] efforts to reduce unexpected hospitalizations and employment disruptions by providing more comprehensive supportive care for pediatric patients with cancer could help ease families' financial burden. low back pain is not only commonplace the world over, but also costly to treat. confronting high-cost and complexity with innovation. this study included patients who were hospitalized for the treatment of cdb and underwent colonoscopy between july 2008 and february 2016. urgent colonoscopy (or 0.41, p = 0.0072) predicted a shorter length of hospitalization (≤ 7 days). the study also indicated that endoscopic treatment showed a stronger association with urgent colonoscopy (or 7.8, p < 0.0001) than with elective colonoscopy and that urgent colonoscopy was not associated with an increased rate of adverse events or re-bleeding. compared with elective colonoscopy, urgent colonoscopy shortens the length of hospitalization in patients with cdb. urgent colonoscopy may be impracticable in a few cases; however, if possible, aggressive urgent colonoscopy should be considered for the efficient management of the patient's hospital stay. most patients (91%) were willing to pay 300 euros for a prompt colonoscopy if recommended by their physician while 7% opted to wait 6 months for a free colonoscopy. there is a willingness to embrace crc screening and to shoulder some of the financial burden that this entails. 
Is low birth weight a risk indicator for congenital cytomegalovirus infection? [SEP] congenital infection with cytomegalovirus is a major cause of disability in newborns. the purpose of this review is to summarize recent studies of breast-milk-acquired cytomegalovirus infections in newborns, particularly in low-birth-weight premature infants. although acquisition of cytomegalovirus by this route is seldom of consequence in healthy term infants, cytomegalovirus infections in low-birth-weight premature infants have been demonstrated to cause symptomatic illness, including hepatitis, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and a 'sepsis-like' state. caution is warranted, however, in low-birth-weight premature infants, who are at increased risk of cytomegalovirus disease. the aim of the study was to determine if low birth weight is an indicator of cmv congenital infection evidenced by detecting cmv-dna in umbilical cord blood at the time of delivery. very low birth weight and extremely low birth weight newborns are at higher risk of symptomatic cmv infection, most commonly secondary and acquired through breast milk. symptomatic congenital cmv infection has previously been shown to cause low birth weight and prematurity. we found that congenital infection following the transmission of maternal primary and "unknown" cmv infection resulted in a significant mean birth weight deficit of 163 g (p less than 0.04) for the low income term infants (blacks and whites), but not in the mid- to upper income white infants. the incidence of snhl in children with asymptomatic ccmv correlated with low birthweight as well as with both birth weight and head circumference low z-scores adjusted for gestational age. in a clinical pattern of cytomegalovirus disease respiratory disorders and low birth weight were most frequently observed, and neurological signs, hepatitis, haemorrhagies or jaundice were sporadically diagnosed. 
Is external palliative radiotherapy for gallbladder carcinoma effective? [SEP] external radiotherapy seems to be a safe and effective method of palliative management of gallbladder carcinoma. however, further studies are necessary to determine the role of radiotherapy in palliative or adjuvant treatment of gallbladder carcinoma. the aim of this report is to assess the value of radiotherapy in carcinoma of the gallbladder. collected data showed a slight improvement of survival after adjuvant or palliative radiotherapy, especially in the advanced stage of gallbladder carcinomas. the aim of this report is to assess the value of radiotherapy in carcinoma of the gallbladder. we reviewed publications concerning the role of radiation therapy in gallbladder carcinoma from 1974 to 2000. radiotherapy appears to be a safe procedure that slightly improves the survival time of patients treated for gallbladder carcinoma. fourteen patients with carcinoma of the gallbladder of biliary tract were treated with radiation therapy. the present study sought to identify the therapeutic efficacy of adjuvant external beam radiotherapy (ebrt) for carcinomas of the extrahepatic bile duct (ehbd) and gallbladder. this study suggests that curative resection provides the best survival for patients with ehbd and gallbladder carcinoma, and that radiotherapy may play a beneficial role in controlling local-regional residual ehbd carcinoma tumors. 
Is discordance in TEOAE and AABR outcomes predictable in newborns? [SEP] to determine the perinatal predictors of discordant screening outcomes based on a two-stage screening protocol with transient-evoked otoacoustic emissions (teoae) and automated auditory brainstem response (aabr). a cross-sectional study of infants tested with teoae and aabr under a hospital-based universal newborn hearing screening program in lagos, nigeria. maternal and infant factors associated with discordant teoae and aabr outcomes were determined with multivariable logistic regression analyses adjusting for potential confounding factors. given the available screening technologies, discordant teoae and aabr may be inevitable for some categories of hearing loss among apparently healthy newborns whose mothers received prenatal care. for infants screened before 12h post birth, the aabr refer rate per ear (51.1%) was significantly lower than the teoae refer rate (68.9%). overall aabr refer rate per ear was similar for infants screened between 24 to 36 h (20.2%) and 36 to 48 h (18.9%) but significantly lower than for teoae (40.7% and 41.9%, respectively). although there was no statistically significant difference when comparing the referral rates to audiological diagnosis obtained in protocols using teoae and aabr, the protocol using teoae referred four times more newborns. in this research, 85 (2.9%) infants who could not pass the teoae and 176 infants exposed to perinatal risk factors, underwent the aabr test. screening in the aabr program was performed by neonatal nurses, whereas screening in the teoae program was performed by master's level audiologists. if the infants failed, an aabr test was performed at the same time, and they were referred for a teoae rescreening at six weeks old. 
Chemical shift MRI: is there any contribution to morphologic evaluation of solid breast masses? [SEP] to investigate the contribution of chemical shift magnetic resonance imaging for assessment of the margins of solid breast masses by benefiting from india ink artifact. eighty-eight masses in 64 patients were evaluated in t1- and t2-weighted images, dynamic contrast and chemical shift studies according to breast imaging reporting and data system magnetic resonance lexicon. in fatty breast, chemical shift subtraction and t1-weighted images were valuable both for the demonstration and differentiation of benign lesions (p < .05). in dense breasts, chemical shift subtraction and dynamic contrast subtraction images were valuable for both the demonstration and differentiation of benign and malignant lesions. chemical shift subtraction can contribute to routine dynamic contrast subtraction in morphologic analysis particularly for the evaluation of margins of benign lesions in fatty breasts. it can also help in morphologic analysis of masses in dense breast. this study aimed to evaluate the value of using 3-d breast mri morphologic features to differentiate benign and malignant breast lesions. the 3-d morphological features extracted from breast mri were used to analyze the malignant likelihood of tumor from ninety-five solid breast masses (44 benign and 51 malignant) of 82 patients. in conclusion, 3-d mr morphological features specified by glcm, tumor shape and ellipsoid fitting were useful for differentiating benign and malignant breast masses. three specific shifts in breast mri occurred, which changed this assessment: 1) a shift from high temporal to high spatial imaging, revealing specific morphological features on mri suspicious for dcis; 2) a shift from diagnostic studies of patients with cancers identified on mammography to screening studies of high-risk patients, allowing more accurate comparisons of mammography vs mri in detecting the full spectrum of breast cancers regardless of appearance on mammography; and 3) a shift from emphasis on masses to improved understanding of features of non-mass-like malignant lesions, distinct from benign background parenchymal enhancement patterns. 
Do some U.S. states have higher/lower injury mortality rates than others? [SEP] ecological study of cause specific unintentional childhood injury mortality rates across the 50 states (and the district of columbia) of the united states (us) over the 10 year period 1989-98. we describe injury-related mortality patterns in kampala, uganda and compare them with data from the united states and san francisco (sf), california. in kampala, 25% of all deaths were due to injuries (812/3303) versus 6% in sf and 7% in the united states. the odds of dying of injury in kampala were 5.0 times higher than in sf and 4.2 times higher than in the united states. the aim of this study was to highlight the differences in injury rates between populations through a descriptive epidemiological study of population-level trends in injury mortality for the high-income countries of australia, canada and the united states. results show marked differences and striking similarities in injury mortality between the countries and within countries over time. the substantial differences in injury rates between similarly resourced populations raises important questions about the role of societal-level factors as underlying causes of the differential distribution of injury in our communities. this study aims to examine u.s. state variations in mortality from unspecified unintentional injury among americans aged 65+, 1999-2013; using mortality rates from the u.s. cdc's web-based injury statistics query and reporting system (wisqars™), we examined unspecified unintentional injury mortality for older adults aged 65+ from 1999 to 2013 by state. linear regression examined the statistical significance of changes in proportion of unspecified unintentional injury from 1999 to 2013; of the 36 u.s. states with stable mortality rates, over 8-fold differences were observed for both the mortality rates and the proportions of unspecified unintentional injury for americans aged 65+ during 1999-2013. it also suggests comparisons between states for specific injury mortality should be conducted with caution, as large differences in unspecified injury mortality across states and over time could create bias for specified injury mortality comparisons. 
Do European people with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet? [SEP] individuals with type 1 diabetes have a high risk of developing cardiovascular diseases, and it has been reported that they consume a high atherogenic diet. we examined how nutrient intake and adherence to current european nutritional recommendations evolved in a large cohort of european individuals with type 1 diabetes over a period of 7 years. european individuals with type 1 diabetes consume a high atherogenic diet as few patients met recommendations for dietary fibre and saturated fat. coronary heart disease is the leading cause of mortality among people with type 1 diabetes. compared with the controls, adults with type 1 diabetes reported a diet higher in fat, saturated fat and protein but lower in carbohydrates. adults with type 1 diabetes reported consuming higher than recommended levels of fat and saturated fat. an atherogenic diet may contribute to the risk of chd in adults with type 1 diabetes. this study compares the prevalence of chronic complications, the quality of metabolic control and the nutritional intake in people with type 1 diabetes in different european regions. the objective of this review is to explore the lifestyle habits of adults with type 1 diabetes and its potential association with cmr factors. evidence suggests that adherence to dietary guidelines is low in subjects with type 1 diabetes with a high prevalence of patients consuming an atherogenic diet. 
Adults with mild intellectual disabilities: can their reading comprehension ability be improved? [SEP] this study examined the relationship between reading comprehension and narrative language ability of 102 elementary students with mild levels of intellectual disability. sixteen students with mild intellectual disability and low levels of reading skills were asked to read easy-to-read texts and then complete a reading comprehension test. augmenting word frequency) to optimally match texts and reading levels of students with intellectual disability. in the present research, 39 students with severe reading problems were taught word recognition and comprehension skills using the failure free reading program. adults with a mild intellectual disability (id) often show poor decoding and reading comprehension skills. the goal of this study was to investigate the effects of teaching text comprehension strategies to these adults. the presently used intervention programme provides a good starting point for adults with id to become better readers. nineteen adults with mild or borderline learning disabilities attempted to read four short passages of text, two of which had widgit rebus symbols added to them. adding symbols to written text can make comprehension easier for some adults with mild and borderline learning disabilities. forty-five first-grade children of average intellectual ability were studied, consisting of one group of average readers, one group with mild reading difficulty, and one group with severe reading disability. 
Do antibiotics decrease post-tonsillectomy morbidity? [SEP] antibiotics use after tonsillectomy is like any other surgical procedure; and it is thought that the antibiotic use may help to reduce post-operative morbidity. methods a prospective study was done on a cohort of 123 patients and they were divided into two groups on the basis of choice to receive or not to receive antibiotics after tonsillectomy, and these patients were followed in post-operative period to see any differences in the rate of complications. the objectives are to assess the efficacy of antibiotics in reducing post-tonsillectomy morbidities in children. the use of antibiotics in the post-tonsillectomy period does not reduce post-operative morbidity in children and therefore it is advised to use antibiotics on an individual basis rather than routinely for patients undergoing tonsillectomy. to evaluate the role of postoperative antibiotics on post-tonsillectomy morbidities. the results of this study fail to support clear evidence to use routinely post-operative antibiotics to reduce post-tonsillectomy morbidities. although the number of patients included in this study are small, the result suggest that post-operative antibiotics do not improve the outcome of uncomplicated tonsillectomy. to compare the antibiotic therapy with the absence of antibiotic therapy in reducing post-tonsillectomy morbidities the quasi-experimental study was conducted at the aga khan university hospital, karachi, from november 2006 to september 2007. the study showed that antibiotics did not have any significant impact in reducing the post-tonsillectomy morbidities. post tonsillectomy antibiotics did not prove to have a role in minimizing postoperative morbidity. 
Body diffusion-weighted MR imaging of uterine endometrial cancer: is it helpful in the detection of cancer in nonenhanced MR imaging? [SEP] in this study, the authors discussed the feasibility and value of diffusion-weighted (dw) mr imaging in the detection of uterine endometrial cancer in addition to conventional nonenhanced mr images. dw images of endometrial cancer in 23 patients were examined by using a 1.5-t mr scanner. moreover, the apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values were measured in the regions of interest within the endometrial cancer and compared with those of normal endometrium and myometrium in 31 volunteers, leiomyoma in 14 patients and adenomyosis in 10 patients. dw imaging can be helpful in the detection of uterine endometrial cancer in nonenhanced mr imaging. a prospective study was designed to determine the sensitivity and specificity of nonenhanced t2-weighted and contrast material-enhanced t1-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) imaging in assessing the depth of myometrial invasion in patients with proved endometrial cancer. diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (mr) imaging has been established as a useful functional imaging tool in neurologic applications for a number of years, but recent technical advances now allow its use in abdominal and pelvic applications. diffusion-weighted mr imaging studies of female pelvic tumors have shown reduced apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values within cervical and endometrial tumors. diffusion-weighted images can provide excellent tissue contrast based on molecular diffusion and have the potential to demonstrate malignant tumors. to retrospectively assess the feasibility of diffusion-weighted (dw) magnetic resonance (mr) imaging of stage ia endometrial carcinoma and to investigate whether the apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values of stage ia endometrial carcinoma differ from those of normal endometrium and benign diseases of the endometrium. the usefulness of diffusion-weighted (dw) magnetic resonance (mr) imaging for the diagnosis of uterine sarcomas was investigated, as well as whether dw images and quantitative measurement of apparent diffusion coefficient (adc) values can facilitate differentiating uterine sarcomas from benign leiomyomas. 
Do inhaled steroids differ from cromones in terms of hospital admission rates for asthma in children? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to investigate the characteristics of hospital admissions in two child populations receiving different types of drugs as their regular medication for steady-state asthma. in the kuopio province, on average, 35.6-36.7/1000 children were on maintenance for asthma, of which 23% were receiving cromones, 51% were taking inhaled steroids and 26% were treated with cromones plus intermittent steroids. our results suggest that inhaled steroids are better than cromones in preventing admissions for asthma when two provinces with different practices for maintenance medication of steady-state asthma were compared. two-thirds of the children with asthma in our area use cromones and only one-third steroids as the maintenance therapy. sixty-four children (33%) used cromoglycate, 86 (44%) nedocromil and 45 (23%) inhaled steroids. the age-adjusted risk for admittance was 5.3% in children on inhaled steroids, 5.8% in those on cromones, and 7.9% in those with no regular medication for asthma. the prevalence of asthma and quality of asthma care both influence hospital admission rates for childhood asthma. the findings of increasing first admission rate as well as overall admission rate for acute asthma in children under 4 years of age, but decreasing readmissions as well as number of treatment days in hospital, probably reflect changes in the management of the disease, as well as an increasing prevalence of childhood asthma. eight children with severe persistent steroid dependent asthma (mean age 11.6 years [range 10 to 13 years], mean duration of asthma 8.37 years [range three to 11 years]) were enrolled in the study. despite the increased prevalence of asthma, the decline in admissions seen in all but the youngest children may, at least partly, be attributed to the decrease in re-admissions, resulting from the early onset and increased use of inhaled steroids. 
Substance use and HIV-related sexual behaviors among US high school students: are they related? [SEP] the secondary school student health risk survey measured the prevalence of sexual intercourse and illegal drug injection among a national probability sample of u.s. high school students and assessed their hiv-related knowledge and beliefs. given the higher prevalence of risky sexual behaviors and substance use, adolescents and youths are at risk for hiv. the present study aimed to describe the prevalence of sexual and substance use behaviors among a chinese sample of senior high school students. and more specifically, the associations of socio-demographic factors and substance use with risky sexual behaviors were examined in the sample. to identify the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-related risk behaviors associated with hiv testing among us high school students who reported ever having sexual intercourse. risk behaviors related to hiv. testing for hiv was most likely to be done among students who had ever injected any illegal drug (41.3%; adjusted odds ratio, 1.70; 95% ci, 1.14-2.56), had ever been physically forced to have sexual intercourse (36.2%; adjusted odds ratio, 1.43; 95% ci, 1.19 -1.72), did not use a condom the last time they had sexual intercourse (28.7%; adjusted odds ratio, 1.28; 95% ci, 1.08-1.51), and had sexual intercourse with 4 or more persons during their life (34.7%; adjusted odds ratio, 2.32; 95% ci, 1.98-2.73). this paper examined changes in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-related risk behaviors among high school students in the united states during 1991-2005. despite recent decreases in sexual risk behaviors among high school students nationwide, human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection was the seventh leading cause of death among persons aged 15-24 years in the united states during 1997. in 2016, data from the national 2015 youth risk behavior survey, conducted among a nationally representative sample of 15,624 u.s. high school students, were analyzed to examine the effect of school-related (threatened/injured at school, bullied at school, bullied electronically, felt unsafe at school) and non-school-related (forced sexual intercourse, early sexual debut) social stress on substance use disparities by sexual orientation, by comparing unadjusted prevalence ratios (prs) and adjusted (for social stressors, age, sex, and race/ethnicity) prevalence ratios (aprs). 
Does sex influence the response to intravenous thrombolysis in ischemic stroke? [SEP] the female sex is associated with increased stroke severity and relatively poor functional recovery. several studies have demonstrated that women with stroke benefit more from intravenous thrombolysis compared with men, while others found the nullification of gender effect among women treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtpa). the purpose of our study was to determine any gender differences in the efficacy and safety of systemic thrombolysis among patients with acute ischemic stroke in serbia. among 60 women and 96 men with stroke and treated with intravenous thrombolysis, we found that at day 90, no significant sex differences in excellent functional outcome (50.9% of women vs. 57.0% of men, p=0.5), favorable functional outcome (61.4% of women vs. 68.8% of men, p=0.38) or death (8.8% of women vs. 12.9% of men, p=0.60). this finding might confirm that thrombolytic therapy nullifies usual sex differences in stroke outcome and suggests that women with stroke may benefit more from rtpa treatment. background: many studies have suggested that the clinical features of male patients with ischemic stroke are different from those of female patients, but related data on chinese patients are scarce. therefore, this study aimed to identify the differences in treatment delays, complications related to intravenous thrombolysis, and prognosis between male and female patients with ischemic stroke in china. a multi-factorial analysis was conducted to explore whether sex is associated with in-hospital mortality and complications of intracerebral hemorrhage after thrombolysis. conclusions: after adjusting for other predictors sex was not associated with intracerebral hemorrhage after thrombolysis or in-hospital mortality. we aimed to investigate whether there might be sex differences in the impact of mets on the response to intravenous thrombolysis for acute mca ischemic stroke. 
Thrombosis prophylaxis in hospitalised medical patients: does prophylaxis in all patients make sense? [SEP] our primary aim was to investigate the incidence of venous thrombosis in a general internal ward, to assess whether more rigorous prophylaxis would be feasible. the incidence of venous thrombosis during hospitalisation in a department of general internal medicine is low and does not justify prophylaxis in all internal patients. venous thromboembolism (vte) prophylaxis is effective in the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism (pe) in medical patients. the incidence of hospital-acquired deep vein thrombosis is approximately 10-40% amongst medical and general surgical patients without prophylaxis. limited data are available regarding the risk for venous thromboembolism (vte) and vte prophylaxis use in hospitalised medically ill patients. among those at risk for vte, accp-recommended prophylaxis was used in 24.4% haemorrhagic stroke patients and 40-45% of cardiopulmonary disease patients (global rate, 39.5%). in 4 recent studies on prolonged prophylaxis, it was consistently shown that prophylaxis with low molecular weight heparins for 1 month significantly reduced the frequency of deep venous thrombosis compared with conventional prophylaxis during hospitalisation in patients undergoing elective hip arthroplasty. the purpose of this study is to develop a local clinical guideline for prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism based on observational study results. the authors performed a classification tree analysis on original data from a cross-sectional study of risk factors, prophylaxis, and prevalence of deep vein thrombosis in 818 medical in-patients hospitalised in french teaching and community hospitals. conversely, 363 patients (44 per cent) did not require prophylaxis: 63 actually received prophylaxis and six had deep vein thrombosis (2 per cent, [0.6-4]). 
Do teleoncology models of care enable safe delivery of chemotherapy in rural towns? [SEP] teleoncology has been adopted by many centers to provide cancer care closer to home for rural, remote, indigenous and other disadvantaged people of our communities. future teleoncology models would need to include web-based models, mobile technologies and remote chemotherapy supervision models so that patients from most rural towns could have at least some of their cancer care closer to home. to describe the use of telemedicine in cancer care (teleoncology model of care) for rural patients in north queensland. cancer care delivery to rural sites via townsville teleoncology model. the ability of the teleoncology model to provide the following services to rural towns: (i) specialist consultations; (ii) urgent specialist medical care; (iii) care for indigenous patients; and (iv) remote supervision of chemotherapy administration. teleoncology model of care allows rural and indigenous cancer patients to receive specialist consultations and chemotherapy treatments closer to home, thus minimising the access difficulties faced by the rural sector. teleoncology model for managing cancer patients in rural towns. it appears safe to administer chemotherapy in rural towns under the supervision of medical oncologists from larger centres via teleoncology, provided that rural health care resources and governance arrangements are adequate. teleoncology models are used increasingly throughout the world as a means to provide access to quality cancer care for people in rural, remote and other disadvantaged settings. in this commentary we argue that the benefits of teleoncology extend beyond those of the patients and their families to the rural health system and beyond. 
Does Paget's disease exist in India? [SEP] paget's disease of bone has been described as a few case reports from india. the aim of the present study is to document the existence of paget's disease (pd) in india. this illustrates that paget's disease does exist in india and a high index of suspicion is required to clinch the diagnosis. to prospectively study prevalence of paget's disease from western india. seventeen cases (15 males & 2 females) with mean age of 62 were diagnosed the western indian cohort of paget's disease has male preponderance with a mean age of 62 years at onset. in eight years, seventeen cases of paget's disease were seen from western india indicating though still rare is present in this population of western india. we report paget's disease in a 70 years old pakistani male who presented with history of pain in right leg with difficulty in walking for the last 5 months. this case illustrates that paget's disease of bone does exist in pakistan. we present four cases of saudi patients with paget disease with variable presentations. paget's disease of bone is a rare disorder in india. 
Is There an Additional Value of Using Somatostatin Receptor Subtype 2a Immunohistochemistry Compared to Somatostatin Receptor Scintigraphy Uptake in Predicting Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor Response? [SEP] it is unknown whether tumoral somatostatin receptor subtype 2a (sst2a) immunohistochemistry (ihc) has additional value compared to somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (srs) uptake using octreoscan® in predicting response to peptide receptor radiotherapy using 177lu-octreotate (prrt) in patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (gep-nets). after methodological setting by testing different somatostatin receptor antibodies, 107 cases of neuroendocrine tumors with available somatostatin receptor scintigraphy data and pathological material were retrospectively analyzed for somatostatin receptor types 2a, 3 and 5 immunohistochemical expression, and compared with scintigraphic images and, whenever available, with the clinical response to somatostatin analogue treatment. somatostatin receptor scintigraphy is a new, very sensitive procedure for detecting receptor-positive neuroendocrine tumors. somatostatin receptor scintigraphy shows an overall sensitivity of about 84% for neuroendocrine gastroenteropancreatic tumors. this study was conducted to examine the value of somatostatin-receptor scintigraphy for visualization of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. applying the recently developed indium-labeled somatostatin analogue 111in-pentetreotide to 40 patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, the diagnostic power of pentreotide-receptor scintigraphy was evaluated in comparison with conventional imaging techniques. most gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors contain high-affinity binding sites for somatostatin, and somatostatin-receptor scintigraphy has been introduced for the in-vivo evaluation of such tumors. somatostatin receptor scintigraphy is useful in diagnosing tumors with increased expression of somatostatin receptors. this study aimed to examine the association between somatostatin receptor-2 positivity and known prognostic factors for gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumor to identify the value of somatostatin receptor-2 positivity itself as a predictive factor for prognosis. somatostatin receptor-2 positivity, either focal or diffuse, does not seem to predict prognosis in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. 
Can vaginal pH be measured from the wet mount slide? [SEP] to assess the accuracy of vaginal ph measurement on wet mount microscopy slides compared with direct measurements on fresh vaginal fluid. a ph strip (ph range 4-7, merck) was brought in contact with the vaginal fluid on the sampling device and on the glass slide after adding one droplet of saline and performing microscopy by two different people unaware of the microscopy results of the clinical exam. vaginal ph should be measured by bringing the ph strip in direct contact with fresh vaginal fluid without first adding saline. our study suggests that the wet-mount technique is relatively insensitive in the detection of trichomonas vaginitis. tests include measurement of vaginal ph, preparation and assessment of wet mount slides prepared from vaginal or cervical discharge, and the correct clinical and microbiological classification of findings. normal ph was associated with negative wet mount (p < 0.001) and to a lesser degree with uncomplicated vulvovaginal candidiasis (p = 0.06). complaints of vaginal discharge are common, and vaginal ph is important diagnostically. vaginal ph is measured either directly using ph paper or after wet mount analysis. this study aims to analyze whether a significant change in vaginal ph after saline addition exists. two samples of vaginal discharge were collected, with ph measured by direct application to ph paper and after wet prep analysis. 
Does Molecular Genotype Provide Useful Information in the Management of Radioiodine Refractory Thyroid Cancers? [SEP] unfortunately, recurrent thyroid cancer is often refractory to radioiodine therapy. in this review, we summarise the current knowledge of the molecular pathogenesis of advanced differentiated thyroid cancer and discuss findings from clinical trials of targeted drugs in patients with radioiodine-refractory disease. the landscape of treatment options for radioactive iodine refractory thyroid cancer is rapidly changing. in this review, we discuss the epidemiology of radioactive iodine refractory thyroid cancer and examine the definition of radioactive iodine refractory disease and the current systemic therapy options. a number of genetic alterations have been described in thyroid cancer, which provides an unprecedented opportunity for the identification of novel diagnostic and prognostic molecular markers as well as novel therapeutic targets. molecular-targeted therapies, which have been investigated recently with increasing success, may prove to be a breakthrough in patients with advanced, radioiodine-refractory thyroid cancers. novel molecular-targeted treatments hold great promise for radioiodine-refractory and surgically inoperable thyroid cancers as shown in clinical trials; such treatments are likely to become a component of the standard treatment regimen for patients with thyroid cancer in the near future. with the gradual understanding of the oncogenic events in thyroid cancers, molecularly targeted therapy using tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) is greatly changing the therapeutic landscape of radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid cancers (rr-dtcs), but intrinsic and acquired drug resistance, as well as adverse effects, may limit their clinical efficacy and use. radioiodine-refractory thyroid cancers represent the main cause of thyroid cancer-related death. this review summarizes current treatment strategies for radioiodine-refractory thyroid cancer and focuses on novel approaches to redifferentiate thyroid cancer cells to restore responsiveness to radioiodine administration. 
Screening for gestational diabetes mellitus: are the criteria proposed by the international association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups cost-effective? [SEP] to estimate the screening rate and prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) and the screening rate and prevalence of postpartum diabetes, in a large, national sample of pregnant women. although prevention of obesity and prediabetes in offspring by pregnancy treatment of gestational diabetes mellitus has not been demonstrated to date, we argue that the immediate pregnancy benefits and opportunities for long-term improvements in maternal health justify a reevaluation of the current ambivalent approach taken by the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists to gestational diabetes mellitus diagnosis, which currently allow for a choice of alternative criteria. a bottom-up, prevalence-based analysis was undertaken to estimate the costs of universal screening for gestational diabetes mellitus in ireland using the new criteria. this paper examines the association between gestational diabetes mellitus and costs of care during pregnancy and 2-5 years post pregnancy. these results suggest that gestational diabetes mellitus is associated with increased costs of care during and post pregnancy. they provide indication of the associated cost that can be avoided or reduced by the screening, prevention and management of gestational diabetes mellitus in pregnancy. a commonly used method of gestational diabetes mellitus screening in the united states is the 2-step method, which includes screening with a 50-gram, 1-hour glucose challenge followed by a 100-gram, 3-hour diagnostic oral glucose tolerance test. this study aimed to determine whether adoption of the 1-step method of gestational diabetes mellitus screening leads to improved obstetrical outcomes at a single academic institution. regarding the various aspects of screening strategies for gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) and to express important conclusions, the recent literature in the field is reviewed. 48 patients who were diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus in 24-31 weeks of pregnancy by 75mg oral glucose tolerance test were selected via conventional sampling technique based on lesser degree (less severe, not in need of immediate medical attention) of glucose intolerance. 
Are higher rates of depression in women accounted for by differential symptom reporting? [SEP] research has shown that employed women are more prone to depression than men, but the pathways linking gender to depression remain poorly understood. it evaluated more specifically how differences in depressive symptoms in women and men could be explained by their differential vulnerability and exposure to work and family conditions, as well as by the mediating role of work-to-family conflict (wfc) and family-to-work conflict (fwc). regarding the vulnerability hypothesis, wfc was more strongly associated with women depressive symptoms, and the magnitude of the association between family income and wfc was stronger for women. women's higher rate of depression is intrinsically linked to their different social experiences as shaped by a gendered social structure and gendered organizations. most studies report the lifetime prevalence of major depressive disorder to be higher among women than men. thus, findings supported a true difference in rates of major depressive disorder rather than a general trend for women to remember or report more criterion symptoms. the gender difference in prevalence and incidence rates of depression is one of the most consistent findings in psychiatric epidemiology. we sought to examine whether any gender differences in symptom profile might account for this difference in rates. there were no significant gender differences in the self-report of depression symptoms even taking into account the higher level of depressive symptoms of women and the influence of other covariates. men and women in this community sample reported similar patterns of depressive symptoms. 
Follow-up of patients with new cardiovascular implantable electronic devices: are experts' recommendations implemented in routine clinical practice? [SEP] millions of people with cardiac implantable electronic devices live in europe and their numbers are progressively increasing, therefore, large subsets of patients admitted in cr facilities have a cardiac implantable electronic device. here, we aim to provide practical recommendations for cr in cardiac implantable electronic devices recipients in order to increase cr implementation, efficacy, and safety in this subset of patients. expert guidance from scientific societies and regulatory agencies recommend a framework of principles for frequency of in-person evaluations and remote monitoring for patients with cardiac implantable electronic devices. to assess current clinical practices for cardiac implantable electronic device in-person evaluation, remote monitoring, and cardiac implantable electronic device-related ancillary testing, the paediatric and congenital electrophysiology society members were surveyed. all respondents performed in-person evaluation at least once a year, but <50% of respondents performed an in-person evaluation within 2 weeks of cardiac implantable electronic device implantation. cardiac implantable electronic device management may be optimised by development of a paediatric-specific guidelines for follow-up and ancillary testing. a 2008 expert consensus statement recommended an in-person follow-up visit between 2 and 12 weeks after the placement of a new cardiovascular implantable electronic device (cied). because cardiovascular implantable electronic devices are increasingly indicated in older patients, and the burden of cancer is rising with the growth and aging of the world population, the management of patients with cardiac devices who require radiotherapy for cancer treatment is a timely concern. the pathophysiology and predictors of cardiovascular implantable electronic device malfunction due to radiotherapy are reviewed, recommendations for the management of patients with such devices undergoing radiotherapy are summarized, and the clinical significance and future directions of this field are discussed. radiotherapy-induced device malfunctions are rare, but because of the potential complications, the development of evidence-based guidelines for the management of patients with cardiovascular implantable electronic devices undergoing radiotherapy is a timely concern. 
Does limb-salvage surgery offer patients better quality of life and functional capacity than amputation? [SEP] however, the subjective and objective benefits of limb-salvage surgery compared with amputation are not fully clear. we therefore compared functional status and quality of life for patients treated with above-knee amputation versus limb-salvage surgery. these data suggest that limb-salvage surgery offers better gait efficiency and return to normal living compared with above-knee amputation, but does not improve the patient's perception of quality of life. traditionally, physicians have believed that limb-salvage surgery has functional and cosmetic advantages over amputation, yet the literature is equivocal. participants with more functional lower limbs had better quality of life than did those with less functional lower limbs regardless of whether they underwent amputation or limb-salvage surgery. for the sedentary patient, a poorly functional salvaged limb can provide him/her with a higher quality of life than he/she would have with an amputation. outcomes were compared between participants who underwent limb-salvage operation and those who underwent amputation. limb salvage patients had longer treatment periods with more operations and complications than the primary amputation group. limb salvage has cosmetic advantages, but whether the quality of life of these patients is superior to that of those who undergo amputation is unclear. limb salvage resulted in greater mobility (p < 0.001) and better performance in self-care (p < 0.001) and lifestyle (p = 0.006), but produced more anxiety and depression (p = 0.04) than major amputation. 
Serum angiotensin-converting enzyme and frequency of severe hypoglycaemia in Type 1 diabetes: does a relationship exist? [SEP] we have previously shown a strong relationship between high angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) activity, presence of the deletion (d) allele of the acegene and recall of severe hypoglycaemic events in patients with type 1 diabetes. we studied whether ace activity is related to the risk of severe hypoglycaemia in type 1 diabetes. consecutive adult outpatients with type 1 diabetes, untreated with ace inhibitors or angiotensin-ii-receptor antagonists (n=207) reported their experience of mild and severe hypoglycaemia during the previous 1 year and 2 years. an association has been described between elevated serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) and an increased risk of severe hypoglycaemia (sh). high serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) activity is associated with increased risk of severe hypoglycaemia (sh) within 1 year in type 1 diabetes. we have previously reported an association of the deletion (d-) allele of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) insertion/deletion (i/d) polymorphism and the a-allele of the angiotensin ii receptor subtype 2 (at2r) 1675 g>a polymorphism with risk of severe hypoglycaemia in such patients. serum angiotensin-converting enzyme activities were measured in 41 type 1 diabetics (16.4 +/- 4.0 u/ml), in 40 type 2 diabetics (15.0 +/- 5.2 u/ml) and in 52 controls (13.0 +/- 2.7 u/ml, mean +/- sd). however, mean serum angiotensin-converting enzyme activities were significantly increased in diabetics with retinopathy when compared with controls (p less than 0.0005). a representative number of diabetics (32%) showed elevated serum angiotensin-converting enzyme activities, but a correlation with diabetic vascular disease, metabolic control or type of disease could not be established. in type 1 diabetes increased risk of severe hypoglycaemia is associated with high angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) activity. 
Cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism: are clinical predictors adequate? [SEP] we hypothesized that clinical predictors are not adequate in the identification of cervical spine fractures in geriatric blunt trauma patients with low-energy mechanism. a retrospective case-control study was performed on geriatric blunt trauma patients sustaining low-energy trauma from january 2000 to january 2006. clinical predictors appear inadequate for the evaluation of the cervical spine in geriatric trauma patients with low-energy mechanism. we examine the performance of this instrument in the elderly and explore some of the common features of geriatric cervical spine injury (csi). in low-risk adult blunt trauma patients, can plain radiographs adequately exclude cervical spine injury when clinical prediction rules cannot? four observational studies investigating the performance of plain radiographs in detecting cervical spine injury in low-risk adult blunt trauma patients were reviewed. to determine clinical predictors of cervical spine fracture in the elderly and to develop a clinical prediction rule to guide appropriate imaging in high-risk patients. a retrospective case-control study was performed on blunt trauma patients 65 years and older with cervical spine fractures and on randomly selected control subjects without fracture. composite predictors of fracture in the elderly included focal neurologic deficit (adjusted odds ratio, 17.7; 95% confidence interval [ci]: 3.8, 83.4), severe head injury (odds ratio, 3.2; 95% ci: 1.5, 7.1), high-energy mechanism (odds ratio 6.7; 95% ci: 3.1, 14.8), and moderate-energy mechanism (odds ratio 3.3; 95% ci: 1.3, 8.3). it is imperative to assume cervical spine injury in the blunt trauma patient. 
Do microbiological factors account for poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in Poland? [SEP] being unmarried is a well-known risk factor for poor pregnancy outcome such as preterm delivery and intrauterine growth restriction. the aim of this prospective study was to assess the prevalence and risk of bacterial vaginosis (bv) and selected bacteria isolated from the lower genital tract and to determine the socioeconomic and microbiological characteristics that might be responsible for poor pregnancy outcome observed among unmarried pregnant women. the study population comprised 196 pregnant women attending 10 randomly selected outpatient maternity units in the lodz region, central poland. in the univariate analysis, unmarried pregnant women were characterized by younger age, primary educational level, poor economic situation and excessive smoking during pregnancy, as compared to married women. an analysis of the microbiological culture from the lower genital tract revealed that unmarried pregnant women had a higher risk for several types of pathological microflora, as compared to married women. the observed socioeconomic, demographic and microbiological differences between unmarried and married women could be responsible for the poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in poland. further studies taking into account the role of psychological stress, patterns of sexual behavior and substance abuse during pregnancy could help identify the factors responsible for adverse pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women. pregnancy among unmarried women may have negative social and health implications in malaysia. this study aims to evaluate the characteristics of unmarried pregnant women and the factors associated with unmarried pregnancies among young women in malaysia. in the present study the impact of maternal marital status on pregnancy outcome was tested for all births, which had taken place in austria between 1999 and 2004, which met the following criteria: single births, nulliparity, mothers older than 19 years (n = 179 830). 
Should all patients be optimized to the same preoperative hemoglobin level to avoid transfusion in primary knee arthroplasty? [SEP] the strongest predictor of blood transfusion after shoulder arthroplasty was the preoperative hemoglobin level (likelihood ratio test = 37.8, p < 0.0001). the risk of requiring allogeneic blood transfusion after total knee arthroplasty has been recently decreased with several methods such as blood donation, blood salvage, and hematinic. preoperative blood donation and use of hematinic were associated with a low incidence of allogeneic blood transfusion after total knee arthloplasty with intra- and postoperative blood salvage, even for patients with a baseline hemoglobin level below 130 g/l. preoperative anemia is a significant predictor of perioperative erythrocyte transfusion in elective arthroplasty patients. binary logistic regression modeling identified preoperative hemoglobin (odds ratio, 0.51; 95% ci, 0.43 to 0.59; p < 0.001 for each 1 g/dl increase), total hip arthroplasty (odds ratio, 3.56; 95% ci, 2.39 to 5.30; p < 0.001), and females 65 yr of age and older (odds ratio, 3.37; 95% ci, 1.88 to 6.04; p = 0.01) as predictors of transfusion in the derivation cohort. much attention has been focused on blood management issues in orthopaedic surgery in recent years, but blood management in patients having revision total knee arthroplasty is not well-established. symptom-based transfusion strategies and blood management approaches such as epoetin alfa that elevate preoperative hemoglobin level therefore may be beneficial in patients having revision total knee arthroplasty. preoperative anemia is relatively common in patients undergoing primary total knee arthroplasty (tka), and is associated with higher medical costs due to blood transfusions. txa has a positive role for patients with preoperative anemia in primary total knee arthroplasty. the aim of this study was to assess the effect of optimizing hemoglobin (hb) levels before elective primary hip and knee arthroplasty. 
Is there any relation between cervical cord plaques and discopathy in patients with multiple sclerosis? [SEP] the purpose of this study is to determine the relationship between the site of the cervical discopathy and cervical spinal cord plaque in ms patients. cervical mri scans were evaluated for detection of any evidence of cervical discopathy and cervical ms plaques. any correlation between the site of the ms lesions and discopathy was recorded. the number of patients with cervical cord plaque and discopathy at same site was significantly higher than those with plaque and discopathy at different sites (p<0.05). the study data suggests a possible correlation between cervical discopathy and cervical ms plaque. cervical discopathy and demyelinating lesions often co-exist in patients with multiple sclerosis (ms). thirty-four ms patients with cervical discopathy were included in the study (26 females; average age 42.9 ± 13.7 years; average disease duration 8.4 ± 5.4 years). this report is the first description of mri of multiple sclerosis plaques within the cervical spinal cord. our results on the cervical cord combined with other observations support the concept of slow axonal degeneration rather than acute damage as a cause of chronic disability in multiple sclerosis. lesions in the cervical spinal cord were detected in 6 of the patients, including 2 who also had disseminated lesions in the brain compatible with multiple sclerosis (ms). 
Is the processing of affective prosody influenced by spatial attention? [SEP] the present study asked whether the processing of affective prosody is modulated by spatial attention. while emotional prosody effects interacted with effects of spatial attention at early processing levels (< 200 ms), these effects were additive at later processing stages (> 200 ms). emotional prosody, therefore, seems to be partially processed outside the focus of spatial attention. whereas at early sensory processing stages spatial attention modulates the degree of emotional voice processing as a function of emotional valence, emotional prosody is processed outside of the focus of spatial attention at later processing stages. the question whether spatial selective attention is necessary in order to process vocal affective prosody has been controversially discussed in sighted individuals: whereas some studies argue that attention is required in order to process emotions, other studies conclude that vocal prosody can be processed even outside the focus of spatial selective attention. here, we asked whether spatial selective attention is necessary for the processing of affective prosodies after visual deprivation from birth. the current study used two non-linguistic attention tasks to determine whether emotional prosody influences the spatial distribution of visual attention. it has repeatedly been shown that selective spatial attention is modulated by the emotional content of a stimulus. our results show for the first time a cross-modal attentional modulation of visual attention by auditory affective prosody. participants were faster to respond to targets that appeared at the spatial location of emotional compared to neutral prosody. 
Is there a role for leukocyte and CRP measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly? [SEP] the present study aimed at clarifying the role of leukocyte count and c-reactive protein (crp) measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly. although elevated leukocyte count and crp value cannot effectively establish the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly, unelevated values exclude it. leukocyte count, neutrophil percentage, and c-reactive protein (crp) have been shown to give valuable information in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. this retrospective study aimed to clarify the role of these tests in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in patients aged 60 years or over. the sensitivities of leukocyte count, neutrophil percentage, and crp in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis were 71.4 per cent, 88.3 per cent, and 90 per cent, respectively, while the specificities were 37.5 per cent, 25 per cent, and 37.5 per cent, respectively. we studied the role of preoperative leukocyte count and c-reactive protein (crp) measurements in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in fertile-aged women with a clinical suspicion of acute appendicitis. in particular, what is the clinical value of unelevated leukocyte count and crp in excluding acute appendicitis in these patients? we calculated the mean leukocyte count and crp values in (1) 100 consecutive fertile-aged women operated on for a clinical suspicion of acute appendicitis but with an uninflamed appendix found at appendectomy, and (2) 100 consecutive fertile-aged women operated on for a clinical suspicion of acute appendicitis and acute appendicitis found at appendectomy. taken together, 24 patients were operated on for a clinical suspicion of acute appendicitis, although preoperative leukocyte count and crp values were unelevated. the role of the common parameters of inflammation in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis was studied by measuring axillary temperature (tax), blood leukocyte (leuk) and lymphocyte fraction (lymph), serum c-reactive protein (crp) and esr in 354 patients with clinical diagnosis of acute appendicitis. 
Are bipolar disorders underdiagnosed in patients with depressive episodes? [SEP] bipolar disorder is often underdiagnosed and undertreated. mixed manic/depressive episodes in patients with bipolar disorder are underdiagnosed because of restrictive diagnostic criteria. bipolar disorder is underdiagnosed and often mistaken for unipolar depression. distinguishing between major depression and bipolar disorders, especially the depressed phase of a bipolar disorder, is essential, because they differ substantially in their genetics, clinical course, outcomes, prognosis, and treatment. in current practice, bipolar disorders, especially bipolar ii disorder, are underdiagnosed. misdiagnosing bipolar disorders deprives patients of timely and potentially lifesaving treatment, particularly considering the development of newer and possibly more effective medications for both depressive features and the maintenance treatment (prevention of recurrence/relapse). this article focuses specifically on how to recognize the identifying features suggestive of a bipolar disorder in patients who present with depressive symptoms or who have previously been diagnosed with major depression or dysthymia. compared with patients with a diagnosis of recurrent depressive disorder, patients with bipolar disorder, current episode of depression, were significantly less often outpatients (49.4 vs. 68.0%), significantly more often got a diagnosis of severe depression (42.7 vs. 23.3%) or a diagnosis of depression with psychotic symptoms (14.9 vs. 7.2%). for patients with a major depressive episode, early differential diagnosis of bipolar disorder and subsequent appropriate treatment are critical. in patients with a major depressive episode, the differential diagnosis of bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder, which exhibit similar depressive symptoms, is essential. 
Prognosis of low-tone sudden deafness - does it inevitably progress to Meniere's disease? [SEP] to investigate whether low-tone sd was a precursor of meniere's disease and whether patients with low-tone sd suffered from endolymphatic hydrops. three of the seven patients with low-tone sd accompanied by vertigo had recurrent hearing loss; two of the three were subsequently confirmed to have meniere's disease. during the period from january 1973 to june 1975, 60 cases with definite meniere's disease and 30 cases with sudden deafness were listed according to such criteria for the diagnosis of both diseases as determined by the research committee of japan. in patients with definite meniere's disease, hearing impairment was characterized by deficiency in detecting low- and middle-pitched tones and fluctuation of auditory threshold in low frequency range. retrospective study of 53 patients affected by sudden deafness (n = 19), idiopathic progressive sensorineural hearing loss (n = 24), and meniere's disease (n = 10) who were treated from 1995 to 1999. although acute low-tone hearing loss has been associated with cochlear hydrops or early stage meniere's disease, its prognosis in the short-term has been reported to be better than sudden hearing loss. this study aims to investigate the long-term audiological outcomes of acute low-tone hearing loss. progression, recovery of hearing loss and recurrence of hearing loss were examined. audiological outcomes after initial therapy may predict the recurrence of acute low-tone hearing loss. five normal persons and 68 cases (34 cases of meniere's disease, 27 cases of sudden hearing loss, and 7 cases of low-tone sensory hearing loss without vertigo) with unilateral sensory hearing loss and recruitment, in addition to 2 cases of bilateral meniere's disease with recruitment were examined. 
Can pictorial warning labels on cigarette packages address smoking-related health disparities? [SEP] pictorial warning labels with gain- and loss-framed text were equally powerful at reducing appeal of cigarette packs in young adult smokers relative to branded packs without pictorial warning labels, especially when combined with standardized packaging. prominent pictorial warning labels can potentially reduce health disparities resulting from smoking across different education levels. current smokers in countries where cigarette pictorial warnings were implemented had higher odds of reporting that health warning labels had any effect on their smoking behavior (making a quit attempt or reducing number of cigarettes smoked per day) compared to respondents in countries with text-only warning labels (adjusted odds ratio, aor = 1.31; 95% confidence interval, 95% ci: 1.10-1.56). these findings indicate that the implementation of pictorial warnings at an eu level may have a positive behavioral impact among smokers and pave the way for population support for plain packaging in the eu. this paper examined knowledge about the health effects of smoking among health equity groups following the 2012 introduction of refreshed pictorial health warning labels (hwls) in canada. warning labels have the potential to reduce disparities in knowledge about the health effects of smoking when exposure to the warning labels is universal. this study examined the impact of pictorial cigarette-warning labels, warning-label message framing and plain cigarette packaging, on young adult smokers' motivation to quit. the results have a potential public health perspective as pictorial health warnings might be an effective strategy to reduce attentional bias towards cigarette packages of light smokers, while counterproductive effects in heavy smokers warrant further investigation. the use of pictorial warning labels on cigarette packages is one of the provisions included in the first ever global health treaty by the world health organization against the tobacco epidemic. it is concluded that placing pictorial labels on cigarette packages in the u.s. will allow the product to carry warnings that potentially provide better results than current verbal messages and less tcp funds will need to be used. 
Does patient-prosthesis mismatch after aortic valve replacement affect survival and quality of life in elderly patients? [SEP] controversy still exists about the influence of prosthesis-patient mismatch on outcomes after aortic valve replacement in the elderly. our aim was to evaluate the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on survival and the extent of left ventricular (lv) mass regression after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in japanese patients aged >or=65 years. the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on clinical outcome and left ventricular mass regression after aortic valve replacement remains controversial. this study examined the long-term clinical and echocardiographic effects of prosthesis-patient mismatch in patients with and without left ventricular systolic dysfunction at the time of aortic valve replacement. to evaluate the influence of patient-prosthesis mismatch (ppm) on survival, and quality of life (qol) after aortic valve replacement (avr) in elderly patients with small prosthesis size. this study examined the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on regression of left ventricular mass after aortic valve replacement. the influence of prosthesis-patient mismatch on long-term results after aortic valve replacement remains controversial. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of prosthesis-patient mismatch on survival and the extent of left ventricular mass regression after aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis. the purpose of this investigation was to examine the impact of prosthesis-patient mismatch after bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement on long-term survival in patients greater than 70 years of age compared with those less than or equal to 70 years of age. after bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement, prosthesis-patient mismatch had a negative impact on late survival for patients less than or equal to 70 years of age, but for patients greater than 70 years of age, prosthesis-patient mismatch did not influence late survival. 
Is fear of anaphylactic shock discouraging surgeons from more widely adopting percutaneous and laparoscopic techniques in the treatment of liver hydatid cyst? [SEP] the seemingly exaggerated traditional fear of anaphylaxis seems to discourage surgeons from more widely adopting minimal access techniques for the treatment of hydatid cyst. percutaneous needle aspiration of hydatid cysts has long been discouraged because of potential complications, such as anaphylactic shock and the spread of daughter cysts. although the percutaneous aspiration and treatment of liver hydatid cysts were considered to be contraindicated due to risks of anaphylactic shock and dissemination of clear-crystal fluid into the abdomen, several reports of successful percutaneous treatment of liver hydatid cysts have been published in the literature. in this review, indications, contraindications, method and techniques, healing criteria, complications, results and importance of the percutaneous treatment of liver hydatid cysts are discussed. percutaneous treatments for liver cystic hydatidosis were once discouraged due to the risk of anaphylaxis following cyst puncture. the present report describes the first case report of such a reaction during laparoscopic treatment of hydatid cyst of the liver. cases of anaphylaxis have been reported after percutaneous drainage of hydatid cyst. herein, we describe the case of a patient who presented with hydatid cyst causing chronic urticaria and late anaphylactic reaction following percutaneous aspiration of a liver hydatid cyst. anaphylactic shock is an exceptional mode of revelation of a liver hydatid cyst and it is in almost all cases secondary to an intraperitoneal rupture. the anaphylactic shock, surgical site infection (ssi) and recurrence were still challenges in any participation of laparoscopic hydatid pericystectomy with other kind of surgery from the same ports. 
Reporting and interpreting red blood cell morphology: is there discordance between clinical pathologists and clinicians? [SEP] clinical pathologists (cps) report rbc morphologic (rbc-m) changes to assist clinicians in prioritizing differential diagnoses. important differences about the clinical relevance of certain rbc-m terms exist between clinicians and cps. pathologists often incorporate modifying phrases in their diagnosis to imply varying levels of diagnostic certainty; however, what is implied by the pathologists is not equivalent with what is perceived by the referring physicians and patients. we intend to identify lack of consistency in interpretation of modifying phrases by comparing perceived level of certainty by pathologists and non-pathologists, and introduce a standard scheme for reporting uncertainty in pathology reports using the experience with imaging reporting and data systems. the histopathologic interpretation by the specialist pathologist differed from the generalist in 52.3% of cases (kappa 0.21, p < 0.0001). we describe three patients whose clinical presentations included transfusion-dependent anemia and whose bone marrow aspirates showed unexpectedly brisk hemophagocytosis of mature red blood cells. the identification of red blood cells on both skeletal human remains and decomposed corpses is of remarkable importance in forensic sciences, irrespective of its diagnostic value; their presence is often perplexing and difficult to interpret especially when in the context of decomposition and taphonomical variables. some clinical research has focused on the morphological changes of red blood cells over time by scanning electron microscopy (sem), but no research has investigated whether botanical structures can be confused for red blood cells. since some literature has recently presumed the detection of erythrocyte-like cells on skeletal remains (even ancient) as surely erythrocytes, and most have never taken into consideration the chance of an origin different from blood, such as botanical, the present study aims at verifying the possibility of confusion between erythrocytes and botanical cells by applying sem analysis and at highlighting the pitfalls in this particular issue through a test submitted to pathologists and natural scientists asked to discriminate between red blood cells and different vegetal structures (60 images obtained by sem analysis). the results showed that although there are diagnostic features useful in identifying red blood cells from botanical structures, some spores resulted very similar to decaying red blood cells, which calls for attention and great caution when studying decomposed human remains. 
Does β-catenin have a role in pathogenesis of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid? [SEP] in this study, we investigate the expression of β-catenin, ra-binding proteins and ra receptors in sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid and try to estimate their influence on its pathoetiology. of these 16 cases, the expression of β-catenin was significantly increased in sebaceous cell carcinoma cases. dna sequencing revealed no stabilizing β-catenin gene mutation in sebaceous gland carcinoma. mutations in the β-catenin gene do not seem to be involved in the pathogenesis of eyelid sebaceous gland carcinoma. expression of β-catenin in sebaceous cell carcinoma (sbcc) of the eyelid and its correlation with histopathological features. cytoplasmic overexpression of β-catenin was observed in the majority of the cases of sbcc of eyelid, and this correlated significantly with tumour size. since the e-cadherin-catenin complex is of importance in the cancerogenesis of epithelial tumors, we examined the expression of e-cadherin and β-catenin in sebaceous adenocarcinomas of the eyelid and correlated the results with clinicopathological parameters. sebaceous eyelid adenocarcinomas showed a decrease in the membranous expression of e-cadherin and of β-catenin. the findings suggest that the immunohistochemical detection of a low e-cadherin and low β-catenin expression may help in the examination and staging of sebaceous eyelid adenocarcinomas. in contrast, malignant tumours (squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, sebaceous and apocrine gland carcinoma and epithelioma) were characterized by reduction/loss of β-catenin membrane labelling compared with normal cutaneous epithelial cells and benign tumours, suggesting that reduction/loss of β-catenin expression is important in the acquisition of the malignant phenotype and may have a role in the infiltration and metastasis of these tumours. 
Is ultrasound equal to X-ray in pediatric fracture diagnosis? [SEP] aims to evaluate the accuracy of ultrasound in pediatric distal forearm fractures as well as the effect on the ed waiting time for these patients. conclusions ultrasound is a reliable diagnostic tool in the diagnosis of distal forearm fractures in children. to assess the value of ultrasound as an adjunct to radiography in minor musculoskeletal pediatric trauma. fifty children with 53 suspected fractures were referred for upper and/or lower limbs x-rays, followed by ultrasound. the aim of our study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of us in comparison to x-rays in diagnosing pediatric elbow fractures. we confirm that ultrasound is an applicable and safe alternative tool to x-rays in nondisplaced or excluded metaphyseal forearm fractures in children. the aim of this study was to compare ultrasound and x-ray for the identification of fractures. in this study 653 patients from newborn to 17 years old (mean age 4.4 years) with nonspecific clinical signs or clinically indistinct fracture location were examined initially with ultrasound. ultrasound is comparable to x-ray for the detection of fractures. ultrasound should be the first imaging method in children with trauma and nonspecific clinical signs or indistinct location of pain, followed by x-ray exams of the predefined region. 
Measuring hospital mortality rates: are 30-day data enough? [SEP] three measures are commonly used: in-hospital, 30-day, and procedural (either in-hospital or 30-day) mortality. these data were linked to the national death index to obtain vital status through december 2001, and used to calculate 30-day and procedural mortality rates. using hospital level public use files of actual and predicted mortality at 30 and 180 days, we constructed residual mortality measures for each hospital. for the admissions we studied, we found a broad range of hospital performance when we ranked hospitals using the 30-day data; some hospitals had much lower than predicted 30-day mortality rates, while others had much higher than predicted mortality rates. we aimed to develop a risk-adjusted hospital-level 90-day all-cause mortality measure intended for assessing hospital performance in payment models of cabg surgery using administrative data. the 30-day mortality measure did not discriminate well among hospitals. hierarchical regression models were used to estimate mortality risk at 30 and 90 days, and provider quality was assessed by comparing observed versus expected mortality. observational cohort study measuring the percentage variation in year 1 hospital 30-day risk-adjusted mortality rate explained by denominator-based weighted composite scores summarizing hospital year 0 performance. public reports focused on 30-day risk-adjusted mortality rate may more directly address policymakers' goals of facilitating consumer identification of hospitals with better outcomes. hospital quality is measured by 30-day mortality rates and 30-day unplanned readmission rates. 
Hearing loss: an unknown complication of pre-eclampsia? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine whether pre-eclampsia is a risk factor for cochlear damage and sensorineural hearing impairment. hearing thresholds in the right ear at 1, 4, 8, and 10 khz and in the left ear at 8 and 10 khz were significantly higher in the patients with pre-eclampsia compared to the control subjects. pre-eclampsia is a potential risk factor for cochlear damage and sensorineural hearing loss. complete loss of vision is an uncommon ocular complication of pre-eclampsia/eclampsia. the conditions which lead to visual loss in pre-eclampsia include cortical blindness, retinal detachment, retinal vascular thrombosis and optic nerve atrophy. pre-eclampsia is a pregnancy-specific syndrome of unknown aetiology, observed in 3 - 5% of all pregnancies, associated with pathological vascular lesions in multiple organs, activation of the coagulation system, and maternal multisystemic and fetal complications. the deaf or hard of hearing women had an increased risk of chronic medical conditions and pregnancy complications including pre-existing diabetes, gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia and eclampsia, and placental abruption. she presented with pre-eclampsia complicating a 29-week-old pregnancy. pre-eclampsia is a pregnancy-specific hypertensive disorder that may lead to serious maternal and fetal complications. we further discuss new signaling and genetic pathways that may contribute to pre-eclampsia pathophysiology, emerging screening and diagnostic strategies, and potential targeted interventions. 
Is portable ultrasonography accurate in the evaluation of Schanz pin placement during extremity fracture fixation in austere environments? [SEP] this pre-clinical study specifically sought to evaluate orthopaedic surgeons' ability to sonographically define fracture patterns and the associated zone of injury in order to improve surgical decision-making and safely insert schanz pin percutaneously. if they diagnosed a diaphyseal fracture, the surgeons were instructed to insert two schanz pins proximal and two distal to the fracture, no closer than 40 mm from the fracture edges. the three surgeons performed appropriate ultrasound-assisted pin placement in every case of diaphyseal fracture. the current study results suggest that with minimal training, orthopaedic surgeons can use portable ultrasound to diagnose femur fractures, decide the appropriate external fixator configuration, and safely insert schanz pins outside the zone of injury. the purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of ultrasonography to confirm schanz pin placement in a cadaveric model, and the interobserver repeatability of the ultrasound methodology. distal schanz pin protrusion length measurements from both ultrasonography and direct measurement post dissection. schanz pin protrusion measurements are underestimated by ultrasonography (p < 0.01) by an average of 10 percent over the range of 5 to 18 mm, and they display a proportional bias that increases the under reporting as the magnitude of pin protrusion increases. despite the statistical imparity of pin protrusion measurement via ultrasound compared to that of gross dissection, a consideration of the clinical relevance of ultrasound measurement bias during an austere operating theatre leads to the conclusion that ultrasonography is an adequate methodology for schanz pin protrusion measurement. the aim of this study was to perform a clinical assessment of schanz pins with type ii frame external fixators in the treatment of comminuted tibial fractures, and the possibility of pin changing when osteolysis and pins loosening appear using maynard clamps. to examine the safety of threaded-pin placement for fixation of distal radial fractures using a limited open approach. 
Medical student education in emergency medicine: do students meet the national standards for clinical encounters of selected core conditions? [SEP] establishing a core curriculum for undergraduate emergency medicine (em) education is crucial to development of the specialty. recommendations for a core curriculum for undergraduate emergency medicine education have been published. this study describes a method of using the distribution of clinical cases to shape the mix of clinical and didactic learning in an emergency medicine clerkship. as emergency medicine (em) has become a more prominent feature in the clinical years of medical school training, national em clerkship curricula have been published to address the need to standardize students' experiences in the field. there is a critical and growing need for emergency physicians and emergency medicine resources worldwide. the curriculum is designed with a focus on the basic minimum emergency medicine educational content that any medical school should be delivering to its students during undergraduate training. there is a critical and growing need for emergency physicians and emergency medicine resources worldwide. the curriculum is designed with a focus on the basic minimum emergency medicine educational content that any medical school should be delivering to its students during their undergraduate years of training. there is a critical and growing need for emergency physicians and emergency medicine resources worldwide. the curriculum is designed with a focus on the basic minimum emergency medicine educational content that any medical school should be delivering to its students during their undergraduate years of training. 
A model of healing of Los Angeles grades C and D reflux oesophagitis: is there an optimal time of acid suppression for maximal healing? [SEP] in patients with los angeles (la) grade c or d oesophagitis, a positive relationship has been established between the duration of intragastric acid suppression and healing. to determine whether there is an apparent optimal time of intragastric acid suppression for maximal healing of reflux oesophagitis. maximal reflux oesophagitis healing rates were achieved when intragastric ph >4 was achieved for approximately 50-70% (12-17 h) of the 24-h period. after 4 weeks' acid-suppressive therapy for la grade c or d oesophagitis, successful healing appears to reach a threshold above which improvements are unlikely to be achieved despite an increase in number of hours with intragastric ph >4. 75.8% of the patients had complete reflux symptom resolution but only 48% had complete healing of the oesophagitis at endoscopy after 8 weeks of treatment. la classification grading at baseline endoscopy (p < 0.0001) and total number acid reflux episodes on 24-hour ph monitoring prior to treatment (p = 0.007) were both good predictors of oesophagitis healing but not for symptom resolution. to assess the relationship between the percentage of time intragastric ph >4.0 and healing of erosive oesophagitis. mean percentages of time with intragastric ph >4.0 on day 5 in patients with healed and unhealed erosive oesophagitis were 61% and 42%, respectively (p = 0.0002), indicating that erosive oesophagitis healing rates were positively related to the percentage of time intragastric ph was >4.0. a positive relationship between intragastric acid control and erosive oesophagitis healing was demonstrated. the aim of this study, was to investigate the relation between oesophageal acid exposure and healing in patients with severe reflux oesophagitis treated with omeprazole. 
Gadofosveset-enhanced MR angiography of carotid arteries: does steady-state imaging improve accuracy of first-pass imaging? [SEP] to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of gadofosveset-enhanced magnetic resonance (mr) angiography in the assessment of carotid artery stenosis, with digital subtraction angiography (dsa) as the reference standard, and to determine the value of reading first-pass, steady-state, and "combined" (first-pass plus steady-state) mr angiograms. gadofosveset-enhanced mr angiography is a promising technique for imaging carotid artery stenosis. gadofosveset trisodium-enhanced mr angiography yielded sensitivities of 100% and 97% and specificities of 96% and 97% for detection of significant disease in the carotid and lower extremity arteries, respectively. the quantification and detection of arterial stenosis is improved by the steady state high-resolution gadofosveset trisodium-enhanced mr angiography. examples of first-pass and steady-state imaging with gadofosveset are presented. gadofosveset is the first gadolinium-based magnetic resonance (mr) imaging agent designed to image the blood pool. the use of gadofosveset-enhanced mr angiography was compared with non-enhanced mr angiography in four open-label, multicentre studies in adults with known or suspected arterial disease. significant improvements in sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were also seen with gadofosveset in a renal artery disease study. with the advent of a novel contrast agent, gadofosveset trisodium (vasovist, bayer schering pharma ag, berlin, germany), which has a high relaxivity and an extended imaging time, improved diagnosis of carotid artery stenoses with magnetic resonance angiography can be expected. in patients with known or suspected renal arterial disease, multi-phase gadofosveset-enhanced mra significantly improves sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy versus non-enhanced mra. 
Sternal skin conductance: a reasonable surrogate for hot flash measurement? [SEP] to measure hot flashes by sternal skin conductance in an urban mexican population and to determine variables associated with hot flash reporting and measurement. hot flashes were measured through sternal (mexico and massachusetts) and nuchal (mexico only) skin conductance. this study aims to examine the accuracy of a new sternal skin conductance (ssc) device in measuring hot flashes and to assess the acceptability of the device by women. the gold standard for objectively measuring hot flashes in women is an increased sternal skin conductance level (scl), but validation studies in prostate cancer patients are lacking. this study demonstrates that sternal skin conductance can be used to detect hot flashes in men in a manner analogous to its utilization among women. sternal skin conductance is the method most highly correlated with subjective hot flash report. to examine the validity of using sternal skin conductance monitoring as a measure of hot flash intensity and hot flash distress. findings indicate that objective change in sternal skin conductance, an indicator of sweat gland activity, should not be used as a proxy measure of subjective hot flash intensity or distress. study results suggest the combined use of sternal skin conductance and event marking for the measurement of hot flash frequency in pathophysiologic studies and clinical trials with prostate cancer patients. a large increase in skin conductance activity recorded from the sternum was found during menopausal hot flashes and corresponded well with patient self-reports. 
Elephant trunk in a small-calibre true lumen for chronic aortic dissection: cause of haemolytic anaemia? [SEP] the elephant trunk technique for aortic dissection is useful for reducing false lumen pressure; however, a folded vascular prosthesis inside the aorta can cause haemolysis. the purpose of this study was to investigate whether an elephant trunk in a small-calibre lumen can cause haemolysis. two cases of haemolytic anaemia after aortic surgery using the elephant trunk technique were identified from 2011 to 2013. graft replacement of the descending aorta with an elephant trunk inserted into the true lumen was performed. a folded elephant trunk in a small-calibre lumen can cause haemolysis. therefore, inserting an elephant trunk in a small-calibre true lumen during surgery for chronic aortic dissection should be avoided. total arch replacement using the frozen elephant trunk procedure is performed for true lumen expansion of the descending aorta in patients with type a acute aortic dissection. we describe a case of total arch replacement with frozen elephant trunk for chronic type b aortic dissecting aneurysm, which resulted in inadvertent landing of the frozen elephant trunk into the false lumen. in surgical intervention for aortic dissection, a highly radical operation can be performed by distal anastomosis with a true lumen resulting in thrombotic closure of the dissecting lumen. the elephant trunk procedure is useful for closing the false lumen of the distal aorta. 
Does partial expander deflation exacerbate the adverse effects of radiotherapy in two-stage breast reconstruction? [SEP] the authors examined the safety of a protocol for planned skin-preserving delayed breast reconstruction after postmastectomy radiotherapy with placement of a tissue expander for patients with locally advanced breast cancer (stages iib and iii). in patients with locally advanced breast cancer, skin-preserving mastectomy with a deflated tissue expander on the chest wall during postmastectomy radiotherapy does not increase locoregional recurrence risk and is associated with lower complication rates of definitive reconstruction. the objective of this study is to investigate whether the inflation/deflation status of the expander at the time of xrt is associated with complications in immediate two-stage expander-implant breast reconstruction. in multivariable analysis, deflation of expanders was a significant risk factor for overall complications (odds = 94.4, p = 0.001) and reconstruction failures (odds = 9.09, p = 0.022) of the first-stage reconstructions. group i underwent radiotherapy with full expanders while in group ii, expanders were partially deflated immediately prior to radiotherapy. expander deflation immediately prior to radiotherapy, may augment the adverse effects, especially in the lower expander pole, possibly via enhanced radiosensitization due to a relative increase in the blood flow and tissue oxygenation. delayed breast reconstruction with tissue expansion may be risky after radiotherapy, due to the poor skin quality. postmastectomy radiotherapy (pmrt) following immediate breast reconstruction is increasingly adopted in the management of breast cancer patients. following advances in the planning of radiotherapy treatment, new questions about the application of these technologies in the setting of breast reconstruction have arisen. in this review, we address these questions by reviewing contemporary evidence on the optimal integration of radiotherapy and breast reconstruction in the management of breast cancer. 
Should temperature be monitorized during kidney allograft preservation? [SEP] it is clear that reducing the warm ischemic time, flushing the kidney with hypothermic solution containing cell-impermeant compounds, and maintaining the organ at low temperature ex vivo have increased the duration that the kidney can be preserved. temperature is a key parameter in organ preservation that has been consistently linked to primary nonfunction (pnf). in contrast with long-held beliefs, these data demonstrate that liver allograft temperatures reach and stabilize at near 0 degrees c, instead of 4 degrees c, during transport using standard protocols. the clinical and experimental implications of these findings, together with other relevant elements derived from the direct and continuous monitoring of human liver allograft intraparenchymal temperatures, are discussed. the optimal temperature for the organs during cit ranges from 4 degrees c to 8 degrees c. however, preservation of the designated temperature is usually not controlled during standard storage procedures. the aim of the study was to monitor the temperature during cit in the kidney and surrounding area and subsequently to assess graft reperfusion using thermography. temperature values of the area surrounding the kidney were registered during 8 organ procurements. we observed that the area surrounding the kidney displayed the optimal temperature range only during the first 5 minutes of cit; later the temperature oscillated between 1 degrees c and 3.5 degrees c. the study proved that the temperature of the preservation fluid is frequently below prescribed. analysis of the thermograms of 40 transplanted kidneys with the use of a thermovision camera thermacam sc500 showed usefulness of this method to assess reperfusion and blood distribution in the transplanted kidney. historically, ex vivo physiological evaluation of cadaveric renal allografts has been limited to assessing perfusate flow (pf) during hypothermic perfusion preservation (hpp). 
Can p53 alterations be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer? [SEP] to examine whether p53 tumour suppressor gene alterations can be used to predict tumour response to pre-operative chemo-radiation in locally advanced rectal cancer in terms of reduction in tumour size and local failure. p53 alterations were studied in pre-treatment biopsy specimens of rectal carcinomas from 48 patients by immunohistochemistry (ihc) and polymerase chain reaction/single strand conformation polymorphism (pcr-sscp) gene mutation analysis. p53 alteration detected by ihc or sscp analysis is not a clinically useful predictor of local response to pre-operative adjuvant therapy in advanced rectal carcinoma. the study involved 158 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer treated with pre-operative long course chemo/radiotherapy at nottingham university hospital between april 2001 and december 2008. we examined the pathological effects of chemo-irradiation on 24 rectal tumours and correlated the efficacy of treatment with the level of apoptosis, mitosis, p53 and bcl-2 protein expression on pre-treatment biopsies. the aim of this study was to determine the relationship between survival and value of molecular markers in the primary tumour in a group of patients with irresectable rectal cancer, treated with preoperative chemo-radiotherapy. immunohistochemistry for p53, p21, bcl-2 and ki-67 was performed on pre-treatment biopsy specimens of 34 patients with irresectable rectal cancer. expression of p21 predicts a worse survival in irresectable rectal cancer treated with preoperative chemo-radiotherapy. patients with locally advanced rectal cancer generally have different response rates to preoperative neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy. the mean adc pre-treatment value and δadc% were potential predictors for the tumor response in locally advanced rectal cancer patients treated with neoadjuvant chemo-radiotherapy. 
Is irritable bowel syndrome a diagnosis of exclusion? [SEP] irritable bowel syndrome is one of the most commonly encountered gastrointestinal disorders, for which there are no established diagnostic criteria. diagnostic classification problems and work towards a positive diagnosis of the irritable bowel syndrome are reviewed. irritable bowel syndrome is a very common clinical problem for which there are no established diagnostic criteria. in secondary care, irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is frequently associated with non-colonic symptoms including lethargy, backache and chest pains which can result in inappropriate referral to different specialities with the condition remaining unrecognised. irritable bowel syndrome is a common functional gastrointestinal disorder. the objective of this study was to determine if psychiatric disorders exist in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. patients with an irritable bowel syndrome diagnosis (n = 13 701) were matched with controls without gastrointestinal diagnosis and controls with organic gastrointestinal disease. various symptoms and infections, but not neoplasms, were enriched in irritable bowel syndrome patients compared to both control groups. rather than being a diagnosis of exclusion, irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) is a diagnosis that can be identified by symptom-based criteria. subjects with irritable bowel syndrome identified in a public screening were included. 
Is pelvic pain associated with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse? [SEP] to investigate the significance of pelvic pain and its association with defecatory symptoms in women with pelvic organ prolapse (pop). in women with pop, the symptom of pelvic pain is associated with the presence of defecatory symptoms. symptoms that were related to urinary and anal incontinence and voiding, defecatory, sexual, and pelvic floor dysfunction were analyzed with respect to location and severity of pelvic organ prolapse with the use of the nonparametric correlation coefficient, kendall's tau-b. pelvic pressure and discomfort along with visualization of prolapse were strongly associated with worsening stages of pelvic organ prolapse in all compartments. women with pelvic organ prolapse experience symptoms that do not necessarily correlate with compartment-specific defects. increasing severity of pelvic organ prolapse is weakly to moderately associated with several specific symptoms that are related to urinary incontinence and voiding, defecatory, and sexual dysfunction. to determine whether the presence of obstructive defecatory symptoms is associated with the site and severity of pelvic organ prolapse. associations between patient characteristics, site and severity of prolapse, and obstructive bowel symptoms were investigated. the majority of women with pelvic organ prolapse and stress urinary incontinence report more than one symptom that affects urinary, bowel, or sexual function. pelvic organ prolapse symptoms are variable, and prolapse degree does not necessarily correlate with perceived symptoms or other associated conditions including urinary, defecatory, and sexual dysfunction. 
Does ibuprofen increase perioperative blood loss during hip arthroplasty? [SEP] to determine whether prior exposure of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs increases perioperative blood loss associated with major orthopaedic surgery. the perioperative blood loss increased by 45% in the ibuprofen group compared with placebo. pretreatment with ibuprofen before elective total hip surgery increases the perioperative blood loss significantly. despite advances in surgical and anesthetic techniques, lower-extremity total joint arthroplasty is associated with considerable perioperative blood loss. this study evaluates the effect of local infiltration analgesia with bupivacaine and adrenaline on perioperative blood loss in total hip arthroplasty. this study does not support the hypothesis that the use of local infiltration analgesia with adrenaline may reduce perioperative blood loss in total hip arthroplasty. we studied the perioperative blood loss in 100 total hip arthroplasties performed for rapidly destructive coxarthrosis and compared it with the blood loss in 100 total hip arthroplasties for regular coxarthrosis. total hip and knee arthroplasties may be associated with a significant amount of perioperative blood loss. this review aims to evaluate the current evidence supporting the use of tranexamic acid, aminocaproic acid, fibrin tissue adhesive, and aprotinin in the reduction of perioperative blood loss in total hip and knee arthroplasties. the purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the effect of intraoperative blood collection and reinfusion on net blood loss in patients undergoing revision hip arthroplasty. 
Laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resections in patients with Crohn's disease: are abscesses, phlegmons, or recurrent disease contraindications? [SEP] because of the inflammatory nature of crohn's disease, ileocolic resections are often difficult to perform, especially if an abscess, phlegmon, or recurrent disease at a previous ileocolic anastomosis is present. co-morbid preoperative findings such as abscess, phlegmon, or recurrent disease at the previous ileocolic anastomosis are not contraindications to a successful laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resection in select patients. short term outcomes of laparoscopic ileocolic resection were compared between patients with previous multiple major surgeries and recurrent crohn's disease, and patients undergoing surgery for the first presentation of crohn's disease and no history of previous surgery. laparoscopic redo ileocolic resection for crohn's disease is feasible and safe in patients with previous multiple laparotomies at the expense of longer operating time. this article reviews one surgeon's experience with laparoscopic terminal ileal resections for crohn's disease to assess the safety of beginning laparoscopic colorectal resections with these procedures. the safety, feasibility and short-term outcomes of laparoscopic resection were assessed in patients with recurrent ileocolic crohn's disease. laparoscopic resection of recurrent ileocolic crohn's disease is safe, feasible and associated with short-term benefits. laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resection for crohn disease has been reported as an acceptable alternative to the open procedure in adults. laparoscopic-assisted ileocolic resection is a safe alternative to open surgery in adolescent patients with crohn disease. long-term results of laparoscopically assisted versus open ileocolic resection for crohn's disease were evaluated in a randomized trial. 
Has the use of complementary and alternative medicine therapies by U.S. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations changed from 2002 to 2007? [SEP] this study examined changes in the use of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) therapies by u.s. adults aged 18 years or older with chronic disease-related functional limitations between 2002 and 2007. this report presents selected estimates of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) use among u.s. adults and children, using data from the 2007 national health interview survey (nhis), conducted by the centers for disease control and prevention's (cdc) national center for health statistics (nchs). between 2002 and 2007 increased use was seen among adults for acupuncture, deep breathing exercises, massage therapy, meditation, naturopathy, and yoga. complementary and alternative medicine (cam) use by us adults increased substantially between 1990 and 1997, yet little is known about more recent trends. this report presents selected estimates of costs of complementary and alternative medicine (cam) use among u.s. adults, the frequency of visits made to cam providers, and the frequency of purchases of self-care cam therapies. results produced partial support for hypotheses that the effects of ailments on use of complementary and alternative medicine differ by age. results suggest that ailments such as bodily pain, chronic conditions, and functional impairment are associated with use of complementary and alternative medicine among midlife and younger adults, but these associations are generally attenuated among older adults. these findings suggest that different interpretations of ailments and appropriate responses may explain why complementary and alternative medicine is used by fewer older adults. complementary and alternative medicine use is increasing in both the general population and in individuals with chronic illness. a significant proportion of adult and pediatric patients with inflammatory bowel disease use or have used complementary and alternative medicine as determined by multiple surveys conducted in north america, europe and australia. 
Is extended aortic replacement in acute type A dissection justifiable? [SEP] total replacement of the ascending aorta and aortic arch accompanied by resection of an intimal tear distal to the left subclavian artery seems to be justified in selected patients with acute type a dissection with the tear in the descending thoracic aorta. we sought to report the clinical experience with extended total arch replacement for acute type a aortic dissection and to determine the factors that influence early mortality, late survival, and late reoperation. extended total arch replacement for acute type a aortic dissection could be justified in properly selected patients. we report our experience of graft replacement via extended approaches after a previous acute type a aortic dissection repair. extended approach after a previous acute type a aortic dissection repair showed acceptable outcomes. the current management of acute complicated type b aortic dissection is a combination of medical therapy and endovascular repair. we assess the outcome of emergency total arch replacement with a modified elephant trunk technique for acute type a aortic dissection to clarify whether our aggressive approach is justified in certain patients. treatment of acute type a aortic dissection with emergency total aortic arch graft replacement remains controversial. the present data suggest that simultaneous total arch replacement may be justified in selected patients with acute type a aortic dissection. extended arch repair for acute type a aortic dissection remains controversial. 
Is intensive monitoring during the first transfusion in pediatric patients necessary? [SEP] some pediatric patients, typically those that are very young or felt to be especially sick are temporarily admitted to the intensive care unit (icu) for observation during their first transfusion. the aim of this project was to determine if heightened observation such as temporary icu admissions for the first transfusion are warranted. the practice of intensive observation for the first transfusion in pediatric patients is probably unnecessary. transfusion in pediatric cardiac surgery is often based on clinical judgment rather than objective data. these results indicate that introduction of an objective transfusion algorithm in pediatric cardiac surgery significantly reduces perioperative blood product utilization and mortality, without increasing postoperative chest tube losses. preoperative hemoglobin concentration was the only predictor for intraoperative transfusion requirement (11.6 ± 0.9 and 13.3 ± 0.4 g/dl in infants with and without intraoperative transfusion, respectively). to determine the incidence and to characterize the determinants of red blood cell transfusions in critically ill children. four significant determinants of a first red blood cell transfusion event were retained in the multivariate analysis (odds ratio, 95% confidence interval, p): a hemoglobin level <9.5 g/dl during picu stay (13.26, 8.04-21.88, p < .001), an admission diagnosis of cardiac disease (8.07, 5.14-14.65, p < .001), an admission pediatric risk of mortality score >10 (4.83, 2.33-10.04, p < .001), and the presence of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome during the stay (2.06, 1.18-3.57, p = .01). patients receiving transfusion of blood or its components in a randomly selected unit each from departments of pediatrics, including thalassemia opd and surgery, were monitored intensively for a period of 6 months. reactions were more frequent in patients with a previous history of transfusion or those receiving more than one transfusion and in children, when transfusion was initiated after 30 min of issue of blood component. 
Effects of exercise training on heart rate and QT interval in healthy young individuals: are there gender differences? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to assess the effects of exercise training on heart rate, qt interval, and on the relation between ventricular repolarization and heart rate in men and women. exercise training reduced the qt/rr slope in both genders. this effect on the qt/rr relation was more marked in women; in fact, the gender difference in the ventricular repolarization duration at low heart rate observed in sedentary subjects was no longer present among trained individuals. although gender differences in resting corrected qt intervals have been well documented, the effects of age and exercise on gender differences in qt have not been well characterized. gender differences in qt disappear at faster hrs, whereas age differences are smaller but are present throughout exercise, with no significant age-gender interaction. the relation between qt interval and heart rate during ramp exercise tests on a bicycle was investigated in 37 healthy individuals (21 women) without regular medication and with a normal thallium-201 exercise scintigram (mean age 52.9 +/- 8.3, range 38-68). it is concluded that the relation between qt interval and heart rate can during exercise be described by a straight line for normal individuals. in sedentary, healthy young adults, aerobic conditioning but not strength training enhances autonomic control of the heart, but post hoc analyses suggested that gender plays a significant role in this exercise-related cardioprotection. we examined the relationship between changes in heart rate and the measured qt interval of the electrocardiogram in healthy subjects after exercise and during breath holding, hyperventilation, the dive reflex, the valsalva maneuver, and the cold-pressor test. we studied the relationship between qt interval and rr interval when the heart rate was changed by atrial pacing, atropine, isoproterenol, and exercise in nine healthy adult males. 
Is coeliac disease screening in risk groups justified? [SEP] untreated coeliac disease may be associated with long-term health risks, so screening and early treatment with a gluten-free diet seem to be justified. the diagnostic yield of coeliac disease could be improved by screening in at-risk groups, but long-term benefits of this approach are obscure. to investigate health, quality of life and dietary adherence in adult coeliac patients diagnosed in childhood by screening. screen-detected patients (n = 48) had coeliac disease in the family and type 1 diabetes more often, and were less often smokers and members of coeliac societies compared to clinically-detected patients, whereas the groups did not differ in current self-experienced health or health concerns, quality of life or dietary adherence. comparable long-term outcomes between screen-detected and clinically-detected patients support risk-group screening for coeliac disease. the aim of this review was to summarise the current concepts on screening for coeliac disease in children and adolescents. there is moderate evidence that screening certain at-risk groups for coeliac disease could be beneficial, but more studies in different settings are needed before large-scale population screening can be recommended. active screening in coeliac disease risk groups seems to be reasonable rather than harmful. it is advisable to screen autoimmune thyroid disease patients for coeliac disease as there is an increased risk for gluten intolerance. such screening can detect large numbers of cases of coeliac disease, which can be treated with a gluten-free diet. 
Analysis of the epidemiological pattern of Shigellosis in Barcelona between 1988 and 2012: Is it an emerging sexually transmitted infection? [SEP] since the 1970s, shigellosis has also been reported as a sexually transmitted infection in men who have sex with men (msm), in whom transmission is an important component of shigellosis epidemiology in high-income nations. focusing on an ongoing epidemic in the uk, we collected and whole-genome sequenced clinical isolates of shigella flexneri serotype 3a from high-risk and low-risk regions, including cases associated with travel and sex between men. we identified a recently emerged lineage of s flexneri 3a that has spread intercontinentally in less than 20 years throughout regions traditionally at low risk for shigellosis via sexual transmission in msm. shigellosis has emerged as a nontraditional sexually transmitted infection with high rates among men who have sex with men. shigellosis outbreaks caused by shigella with decreased susceptibility to azithromycin (dsa-shigella) among men who have sex with men (msm) have been reported worldwide. we describe sexual health indicators and antimicrobial drug resistance for shigellosis cases in minnesota, usa. to assess epidemiological situation of shigellosis in poland in 2012 in comparison to preceding years. an increase of sexually transmitted shigellosis is currently being reported in developed countries. epidemiological features and antimicrobial susceptibility of shigellosis depending on where infection was acquired were investigated. from 2008 to 2013, subjects with shigellosis were studied. 
A patient with myelomeningocele: is untethering necessary prior to scoliosis correction? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine if prophylactic untethering is necessary in asymptomatic children with mmc undergoing scoliosis surgery. in this study, asymptomatic children with myelomeningocele who underwent scoliosis surgery developed no neurologic injuries regardless of prophylactic untethering. the authors' aim in this study was to evaluate their experience in patients with mm who were not untethered before scoliosis correction. the study results suggested that spinal cord untethering may be unnecessary in patients with mm who are undergoing scoliosis corrective surgery and do not present with clinical symptoms of a tethered cord, even though tethering is radiographically demonstrated. this preliminary report describes two cases of progressive spasticity and scoliosis in children with myelomeningocele. in this report, the authors review the indicators of symptomatic spinal cord tethering and discuss the surgical interventions and outcomes in the children with myelomeningocele who underwent treatment at children's memorial hospital from 1975 to 2008. scoliosis interferes significantly with the functional ability of most children with a myelomeningocele. objective: to examine the effect of surgical tethered cord release (tcr) on scoliosis in children with myelomeningocele. conclusion: pediatric patients with myelomeningocele and scoliosis should be closely assessed and monitored. a selective approach for youth with lumbosacral level myelomeningocele and progressive curves less than or equal to 45° may result in scoliosis stabilization and avoidance of definitive surgery. 
Is aerobic workload positively related to ambulatory blood pressure? [SEP] the increased risk may be due to a high relative aerobic workload, possibly leading to increased blood pressure. a fully adjusted mixed model of measurements throughout the day showed significant positive relations (p < 0.001): a 1% increase in mean relative aerobic workload was associated with an increase of 0.42 ± 0.05 mmhg (95% ci 0.32-0.52 mmhg) in systolic abp and 0.30 ± 0.04 mmhg (95% ci 0.22-0.38 mmhg) in diastolic abp. because workers may have an elevated relative aerobic workload for several hours each working day, this relationship may elucidate a mechanism behind the increased risk for cardiovascular disease among workers exposed to high levels of occupational physical activity. stratified analyses on relative aerobic workload at baseline revealed that those with relative aerobic workloads ≥30% of hrr seems to impose a notable adverse effect on resting and ambulatory blood pressure. an analysis of covariance showed the main effects of both situational work load and job control on systolic ambulatory blood pressure, as well as a significant work load by job control interaction, even after control for clinic blood pressure, age, and body mass index. across all participants, a reduction in systolic blood pressure was significantly associated with improved physical fitness as manifest by increased physical work capacity at heart rate of 130 bpm (pwc130), increased systolic blood pressure at pwc130, and decreased maximum heart rate measured during the cycle ergometer test we conclude that aerobic training programs at 20% and 60% of the maximum work capacity have similar effects on ambulatory blood pressure. similarly, regular aerobic training also decreases ambulatory blood pressure in hypertensive individuals. blood pressure, cardiorespiratory fitness, and workload achieved. this paper investigates the effects of an aerobic exercise intervention on 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (abp) among cleaners with high opa. this review briefly summarizes the results of studies that have examined the effects of single and repeated bouts of aerobic and resistance exercise on office and ambulatory blood pressure of hypertensive individuals. 
PREVALENCE OF THE STREPTOCOCUS AGALACTIAE IN THE PREGNANT WOMAN FROM THE AUTONOMIC CITY OF MELILLA: IS CULTURE A DETERMINANT FACTOR? [SEP] streptococcus agalactiae is an important pathogen in neonates and pregnant women. introduction: streptococcus agalactiae is the main etiological agent causing invasive infection of the newborn with symptoms that may be associated with septicemia, pneumonia or meningitis and prevalences up to 50% worldwide where there is an increase in antibiotic resistance. conclusions: the prevalence of vagino-rectal colonization by s. agalactiae in the study population was 20.66%, obtaining isolates not sensitive to penicillin and resistance to macrolides and lincosamidas by the kirby-bauer technique, so the importance of carrying out active active in pregnant women colonized by streptococcus agalactiae and to perform constant epidemiological surveillance to detect changes in the sensitivity profiles of the isolates. aim to determine the prevalence rate and resistance profile of streptococcus agalactiae (s. agalactiae) in vaginal swabs of pregnant and adult non-pregnant women in the tuzla region, bosnia and herzegovina (b&h), as well as its association with other aerobic bacteria. streptococcus agalactiae can cause severe pneumonia, sepsis and meningitis in neonates and remains one of the most prevalent causes of invasive neonatal infections. to assess colonization rates in germany, we cultured vaginal and rectal swabs for s. agalactiae from pregnant and non-pregnant adult patients in the region of aachen and munich. the aim of this study was to evaluate pcr assay compared with conventional culture method for direct detection of streptococcus agalactiae. total of 203 paired low vaginal swabs were collected from women at 35-37 weeks of pregnancy from june 2013 through february 2014 for detection of streptococcus agalactiae using pcr assay targeting 16s rrna, cfb, scpb, and atr genes and culture method following broth enrichment. prevalence of streptococcus agalactiae was determined as 7.39% (n=15) using culture method; 19.70% (n=40) by pcr targeting 16s rrna gene; 18.23% (n=37) by targeting atr gene; 17.24% (n=35) by cfb gene; and 8.87% (n=18) by scpb gene. streptococcus (s.) agalactiae colonizes in the female genitourinary and lower gastrointestinal tracts and is responsible for a wide range of infections in newborns, pregnant women and non-pregnant adults. 
Is fluoroscopy essential for retrieval of lower ureteric stones? [SEP] the aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of ureteroscopy for lower ureteric stones without the use of fluoroscopy. fluoroscopy was required in 6 patients (4%) for calcified stricture (n = 1), duplex system (n = 1), narrow and tortuous meatus causing difficulty in passing the 5-fr balloon dilator (n = 3), and confirmation of spontaneous passage of the stone (n = 1). to uphold the notion for radiation exposure to be as low as reasonably achievable, ureteroscopic stone retrieval can safely be done without the use of fluoroscopy in a significant number of patients. the patient was then turned supine and the location of right ureteral stones was confirmed by fluoroscopy in the same location (right lower ureter). it is concluded that ureterorenoscopic stone retrieval is an efficient and safe procedure, especially for lower ureteric stones. despite advances in endoscopy and availability of holmium lithotripsy there are ureteric stones, which primarily need to be treated with laparoscopic ureterolithotomy. the radiation risk from a typical fluoroscopy guided extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy treatment of ureteral stones is low. to evaluate and compare the efficacy and safety of retrograde versus antegrade ureteroscopic lithotripsy for the treatment of large proximal ureteral stones. it may achieve high stone-free rates compared to retrograde ureteroscopy with the drawback of longer operative time, fluoroscopy time, and length of hospitalization. mid and lower ureteric stones were extracted by basket or forceps in three patients and had to be disintegrated by ultrasound in two. 
Does the sequence of clamp application during open abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery influence distal embolisation? [SEP] to determine whether clamping proximally or distally on the infrarenal aorta during abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) repair increases the overall embolic potential. initial distal clamping minimises distal embolisation, but may result in renal and/or visceral embolisation. initial proximal clamping prevents proximal embolisation and does not promote distal embolisation. we recommend initial proximal clamping in aortic aneurysm surgery to minimise the overall risk of embolisation. open surgical repair of an aortic aneurysm requires aortic cross-clamping, resulting in temporary ischemia of all organs and tissues supplied by the aorta distal to the clamp. major complications of open aneurysm repair due to aortic cross-clamping include renal ischemia-reperfusion injury and postoperative colonic ischemia in case of supra- and infrarenal aortic aneurysm repair. we report two patients who, after successful repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms, had three iliac artery aneurysms treated successfully by embolisation in one case and percutaneous insertion of a self expandable stent graft in two cases. embolisation of atherosclerotic debris during abdominal aortic aneurysm (aaa) repair is responsible for significant peri-operative morbidity. reports have suggested that preferential clamping of the distal vessel(s) before the proximal aorta may decrease the number of emboli passing distally and hence reduce complications. there appears to be no difference in the numbers of emboli detected when the first vascular clamp is applied to the proximal aorta or iliacs. 
Are lower fasting plasma glucose levels at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes associated with improved outcomes? [SEP] patients with complete resolution of diabetes had a more recent diagnosis of t2dm, lower preoperative hba1c levels and lower daily doses of metformin and insulin use. fasting preoperative c-peptide levels had better predictive power: 90 % of t2dm patients with preoperative fasting c-peptide levels >1.0 nmol/l achieved a postoperative hba1c <6.5 %, and 74 % achieved complete resolution of their diabetes. because fasting plasma glucose, hemoglobin a1c, and the oral glucose tolerance test all predict diabetic complications yet test reliability is better for fasting plasma glucose and hemoglobin a1c than for the oral glucose tolerance test, we suggest an alternative diagnostic approach: if random plasma glucose is elevated (> or =11.1 mmol/l [200 mg/dl]) and the hemoglobin a1c level is more than 2 sds above the laboratory mean, then diabetes mellitus should be diagnosed, and management should be based on the hemoglobin a1c level. this study has demonstrated that improvement of the fpg level, but not of the postprandial glucose level, is associated with a reduction of the plasma level of d-roms in patients with type 2 diabetes. patients with impaired fasting glucose had significantly lower plasma fibrinogen levels than patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (p < 0.05). patients with impaired fasting glucose had significantly lower plasma d-dimer levels than patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (p < 0.05). the levels of plasma fibrinogen and d-dimer were related to fasting glucose in type 2 diabetes mellitus and impaired fasting glucose groups (p < 0.05). our data suggest that patients with impaired fasting glucose pose a hypofibrinolytic status and cardiovascular risk, although this was lower than in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. high blood glucose and type 2 diabetes are associated with a range of adverse health and cognitive outcomes. to investigate whether correction of fasting hyperglycemia per se improves the insulin secretion in type 2 diabetic subjects, plasma insulin response to 75 g oral glucose load has been studied after acute and chronic normalization of fasting plasma glucose levels in 7 overt type 2 diabetic subjects. 
Do elderly patients call 911 when presented with clinical scenarios suggestive of acute stroke? [SEP] the primary aim of this study was to assess whether an elderly clinical population correctly endorsed the response to call for emergency services when presented with signs and symptoms of stroke using a standardized questionnaire. our objectives were to estimate the proportion of michigan adults who would react appropriately by calling 911 when presented with hypothetical stroke-related scenarios and to examine the association between knowledge of warning signs and calling 911. we calculated the proportion of respondents who would call 911 in response to 3 stroke-related scenarios and examined the association between stroke warning sign knowledge and 911 activation. knowledge of specific stroke warning signs was only modestly associated with calling 911 in response to medical scenarios that involved the same stroke symptom (or, 1.17 to 1.39). these results suggest that stroke education with specific emphasis on the need to call 911 may be needed for primary care physician office receptionists. in this predominantly urban, black population, if faced with a hypothetical stroke, 89% of community volunteers surveyed said they would call 911 first, and few felt any of the suggested potential barriers applied to them. the authors studied the abilities of dispatchers in a major urban area to correctly identify stroke and transient ischemic attack (tia) in victims who access 911 and describe what is communicated in the 911 call. the goal of our study was to improve older adults' preparedness to call 911 as a response to symptoms of stroke. linear regression models explored the association of stroke self-efficacy with behavioral intent to call 911 among adults. stroke self-efficacy predicted behavioral intent to call 911 (p=0.046). 
Cerebromediastinal tuberculosis in a child with a probable Say-Barber-Miller syndrome: a causative link? [SEP] the case is presented of a 2-day-old male child in whom ectropion, hypertelorism, hypertrichosis and other dysmorphic features led to the clinical diagnosis of barber-say syndrome, which was later confirmed with genetic tests. barber-say syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disease characterized by dysmorphic features, mainly of the eyelids and skin. the authors present the case of a pediatric patient with a clinical diagnosis of barber-say syndrome with ocular symptoms related to exposure keratitis. molecular analysis of her dna revealed a mutation on twist2 gene confirming the diagnosis of barber-say syndrome. barber say syndrome (bss) is a rare ectodermal dysplasia with neonatal onset characterized by congenital generalized hypertrichosis, atrophic skin, ectropion and macrostomia. we report on a mother-to-son transmission of the barber-say syndrome, a finding that strongly supports dominant inheritance of this rare disorder. patients with barber-say syndrome also have hypertrichosis. this report describes a patient with symptomatic corneal exposure secondary to barber-say syndrome who benefited from surgical intervention. sweeney-cox syndrome, barber-say syndrome, and ablepharon-macrostomia syndrome share the facial features of ablepharon, hypertelorism, underdevelopment of the eyelids, and cheek pads adjacent to the corners of the mouth. barber-say syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by hypertrichosis, redundant skin, and facial dysmorphism. 
Are virtual planning and guided surgery for head and neck reconstruction economically viable? [SEP] virtual surgical planning technology in head and neck surgery is witnessing strong growth. to date, however, with its increased use in head and neck oncology, and consequently the increased need for bone and soft tissue reconstruction, is important to carry out the virtual programme considering not only bone reconstruction but also all aspects related to the reconstruction of soft tissue using composite flaps. the authors describe 2 cases where virtual planning was used for the extirpative and reconstruction phases to achieve precise reconstruction and decreased time under anesthesia. virtual surgical planning and rapid prototyping of cutting guides and guide stents for head and neck reconstruction have facilitated improved accuracy in fibular transfer. preoperative virtual surgical planning allowed customization of osteotomies of multiple bony segments and virtual reduction of these segments to their anatomically correct position. our study was designed to determine whether using virtual planning and guided surgery resulted in time saved during surgery and whether this time gain resulted in self-funding of such planning through the time saved. even in capped health care systems, virtual planning and guided surgery including prebent or milled plates are financially viable. virtual planning and rapid prototype modeling are increasingly used in head and neck reconstruction with the aim of achieving superior surgical outcomes in functionally and aesthetically critical areas of the head and neck compared with conventional reconstruction. although virtual planning has become helpful in head and neck reconstruction, its routine use may be limited by logistic challenges, increased acquisition costs, and limited flexibility for intraoperative modifications. virtual surgical planning (vsp), computer-aided design and computer-aided modeling, and 3-dimensional printing are 3 distinct technologies that have become increasingly employed in head and neck oncology and microvascular reconstruction. 
Do overweight children necessarily make overweight adults? [SEP] the high levels of overweight among children and obesity among adults remain a major public health concern. childhood obesity is a major risk factor for adult obesity, and obese children tend to be taller than their normal-weight peers. the aim of this study is to evaluate whether childhood height influences the probability that normal or overweight children become overweight young adults. overall, 79% of overweight children remained overweight as young adults. among children who were overweight or obese, the probability of becoming an overweight or obese young adult was 85% for children in the top quartile of height and 67% for children in the bottom quartile of height (p=0.007). when clinicians classify children by bmi categories and counsel about the risk for future obesity, they should recognize that greater height may be a marker for increased risk of adult overweight and obesity. parent/adult overweight status and attitudes were compared with child overweight status. child and parent overweight were significantly associated, as were mother overweight and beliefs about child overweight status. children aged 5 to 13 years were more likely to be overweight than those aged >or=14 years. although the increase in pediatric overweight has paralleled the increase in obesity among adults, the definitions of obesity in adults and overweight in children are not the same. 
Biliary atresia: should all patients undergo a portoenterostomy? [SEP] once the diagnosis of biliary atresia was confirmed, a portoenterostomy was performed during the same surgery. primary surgical exploration of the biliary tract without previous biopsy was effective at improving the prognostic indicators of patients with biliary atresia undergoing kasai portoenterostomy. this retrospective analysis includes 30 consecutive patients undergoing portoenterostomy for biliary atresia at our hospital. portoenterostomy remains the treatment of choice for patients with extrahepatic biliary atresia. a series of 12 infants undergoing hepatic portoenterostomy for incorrectable-type biliary atresia is reviewed. our disappointing results with hepatic portoenterostomy raise doubts concerning its value in the treatment of biliary atresia. in order to learn the future improvement of the prognosis of biliary atresia patients who undergo portoenterostomy, we investigated the relationship between the prognosis of biliary atresia patients and the age and the histological changes of liver at the time of surgery. the portoenterostomy will still play an important role as treatment of biliary atresia in the future. treatment for patients with biliary atresia is a kasai hepatic portoenterostomy; however, the efficacy of repeat kasai hepatic portoenterostomy is unclear. children presenting early in infancy (<3 months) with biliary atresia should undergo a portoenterostomy regardless of the size of the bile ducts at the time of exploration. 
Does a history of unintended pregnancy lessen the likelihood of desire for sterilization reversal? [SEP] unintended pregnancy has been significantly associated with subsequent female sterilization. whether women who are sterilized after experiencing an unintended pregnancy are less likely to express desire for sterilization reversal is unknown. multivariable logistic regression was used to examine the relationship between a history of unintended pregnancy and desire for sterilization reversal while controlling for potential confounders. in this nationally representative sample of 1,418 women who were sterile from a tubal sterilization, 78% had a history of at least one unintended pregnancy and 28% expressed a desire to have their sterilization reversed. in unadjusted analysis, having a prior unintended pregnancy was associated with higher odds of expressing desire for sterilization reversal (odds ratio [or]: 1.80; 95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.15-2.79). in adjusted analysis controlling for sociodemographic factors, unintended pregnancy was no longer significantly associated with desire for reversal (or: 1.46; 95% ci: 0.91-2.34). among women who had undergone tubal sterilization, a prior history of unintended pregnancy did not decrease desire for sterilization reversal. sterilization was reported by 29% of women who had ever had an unintended pregnancy compared to 7% of women who reported never having an unintended pregnancy. minority women, who more frequently experience unintended pregnancy, may choose tubal sterilization in response to prior experiences with an unintended pregnancy. subjects who had resumed menstrual bleeding following treatment and had not undergone surgical sterilization were defined at risk of unintended pregnancy if they reported unprotected vaginal intercourse in the prior month but did not desire conception. 
Does early discharge with nurse home visits affect adequacy of newborn metabolic screening? [SEP] to examine the impact of early discharge on newborn metabolic screening. early discharge and traditional stay infants were compared to determine the percentage of newborns screened and the timing of the first adequate specimen. in this well established early discharge program with nurse home visits, newborn metabolic screening is not compromised by early discharge. to examine the potential benefits of routine nurse home visiting after early discharge, we compared health service use among low-risk newborns with and without a nurse home visit and telephone follow-up after short hospital stays. records of newborns discharged routinely before (n = 83) and after (n = 91) implementation of a universal postpartum home visiting program were reviewed retrospectively. despite the limitations of this small retrospective study, the consistency of the findings suggests potentially important benefits of home visiting services after early discharge of low-risk newborns, with substantial implications for clinical and reimbursement policy. (2) to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of providing home nursing visits after newborn discharge with specific attention to prevention of jaundice and dehydration that require hospital-based services. similarly, 92 (3.5%) of 2641 newborns who were discharged without subsequent home nursing care had an ed visit for these reasons in the first 10 days of life compared with 0 (0%) of 326 who did have such a visit. a home nursing visit after newborn nursery discharge is highly cost-effective for reducing the need for subsequent hospital-based services. a breastfeeding assessment tool was developed for use in the hospital and during the early discharge home visit. 
Are stroke patients' reports of home blood pressure readings reliable? [SEP] little is known about the reliability of stroke patients' records of home bp monitoring. to assess the reliability of home bp recording in hypertensive patients who had suffered a recent stroke or transient ischaemic attack. these results support current research findings that home blood pressure measurements are reliable when compared with 24-h abpm readings both in african-american and white women. the study demonstrates that patients can be taught to accurately measure their blood pressure at home and, herefore, to provide reliable data to assist in the diagnosis and treatment of hypertension and hypotension. home blood pressure measurements more accurately and reliably reflect target organ damage and the prognosis of cardiovascular disease than conventional blood pressure measurements. the authors demonstrated that home blood pressure measurement provides more useful prognostic information on stroke than conventional blood pressure measurements. even the initial-first home blood pressure values (one measurement) showed a significantly greater relation with stroke risk than conventional blood pressure values (mean of two measurements). home blood pressure measurement is a useful tool to predict future risk of stroke. overall, home monitoring did not improve blood pressure control in patients with hypertension and a history of stroke. accuracy of blood pressure readings, both in the physician's office and at home, is crucial in properly managing hypertension. 
Does increasing blood pH stimulate protein synthesis in dialysis patients? [SEP] the relation between rate of protein synthesis and intracellular ph (phi) was investigated in the eggs of the sea urchin strongylocentrotus purpuratus. increasing external ph (pho) resulted in raising phi of eggs and also in increased rate of protein synthesis. to evaluate the role of protein intake in the altered growth hormone (gh) secretion of chronic renal failure, gh responses to mild exercise and to an oral glucose tolerance test were measured in ten uremic patients ingesting both low and normal protein diets. to delineate the effect of uremia on any interaction between gh and protein intake, tests were performed before dialysis, after daily dialyses for 3-4 days and after withholding dialysis for 3-4 days. although the mechanism of muscle wasting in end-stage renal disease is not fully understood, there is increasing evidence that acidosis induces muscle protein degradation and could therefore contribute to the loss of muscle protein stores of patients on hemodialysis, a prototypical state of chronic metabolic acidosis (cma). we evaluated whether alkalizing patients on hemodialysis might have a positive effect on protein synthesis and on nutritional parameters. in contrast to other findings, raising the blood ph of dialysis patients was not associated with a positive effect on albumin and muscle protein synthesis, or nutritional and endocrinal parameters. we evaluated how hemodialysis-induced changes in blood affect the function of endothelial cells in in vitro culture. hemodialysis caused increase of monocyte chemoattractant protein (mcp)-1 (+17%), hepatocyte growth factor (+91%), and pentraxin-3 (+30%) concentration in serum. recently, it was shown that dialysis solutions containing amino acids (aas) and glucose improve protein anabolism in peritoneal dialysis patients. 
Can T-cell deficiency affect spatial learning ability following toluene exposure? [SEP] the present studywas designed to investigate the possible role of t cells in spatial learning ability in mouse after toluene exposure. these results indicate that t-cell deficiency may affect spatial learning performance following toluene exposure. overall, this study indicates that prenatal exposure to repeated inhaled abuse patterns of high concentrations of toluene can impair spatial memory function that persists into adolescence. toluene treatment was found to cause a statistically significant impairment in acquisition and retention of the spatial learning task. these results indicate that subchronic exposure to toluene in low concentrations causes a slight but persistent deficit in spatial learning and memory, a persistent increase in dopamine-mediated locomotor activity and an increase in the number of dopamine d2 receptors in the rat. following toluene exposure, motor and cognitive function was assessed. adolescent toluene exposure did not alter motor learning in the rotarod task (pn 58) or acquisition, reversal, or retention of spatial learning in the morris water maze (pn 55-64). this study demonstrates that exposure to toluene at an abuse concentration during adolescence results in specific impairments in aspects of instrumental learning, without altering motor function and spatial learning in late adolescence/early adulthood. then, we have also examined the effect of toluene exposure in brain development on learning ability in young adult mice and found that poor spatial learning performance in pnd 49 male mice exposed to 5ppm toluene during critical period. finally, in an adolescent rodent model of chronic intermittent exposure to toluene (10 000 ppm), we found that, while toluene exposure did not affect initial learning, it induced a deficit in updating that learning when response-outcome relationships were reversed or degraded in an instrumental conditioning paradigm. 
Is there a relationship between homocysteine and vitiligo? [SEP] the role of homocysteine in vitiligo is mentioned in previous studies thus it is probable that it can be a biomarker to determine vitiligo severity. an elevated homocysteine level has been described in vitiligo. the homocysteine level was significantly higher in vitiligo patients than controls (p = 0.000). therefore, it is possible that an increase of local homocysteine (hcy) interferes with normal melanogenesis and plays a role in the pathogenesis of vitiligo. the homocysteine level was related to the activity of vitiligo and was significantly higher in patients with progressive disease than in controls (25.4 +/- 14.99 vs. 13.1 +/- 4.88 micromol l(-1); p < 0.001). an elevated homocysteine level may be a precipitating factor for vitiligo in predisposed individuals. vitamin b12 and folic acid deficiencies have also been implicated in vitiligo that can lead to increased homocysteine levels in the circulation, a finding that can be expected in vitiligo. several studies have reported hyperhomocysteinemia in vitiligo patients, suggesting the potential role of elevated homocysteine levels in precipitating vitiligo. interestingly, elevated homocysteine levels were also positively correlated with mthfr 1298 a > c polymorphism in vitiligo patients. several studies have reported increased serum levels of homocysteine (hcy) in vitiligo patients which may be the result of decreased vitamin b12 and folic acid levels. 
Do dermatomyositis and polymyositis affect similar thigh muscles? [SEP] dermatomyositis (dm) and polymyositis (pm) commonly cause weakness of the thigh muscles. polymyositis and dermatomyositis are idiopathic, inflammatory myopathies characterized by proximal muscle fatigue. to investigate whether the muscle fibre attributes evident in chronic myositis are characteristic for the polymyositis and dermatomyosistis diseases themselves. morphologic findings from biopsy specimens were similar among patients with polymyositis and dermatomyositis, except that perifascicular atrophy was a prominent feature in patients with dermatomyositis and inconspicuous or absent in patients with polymyositis; immunofluorescent staining of muscle for immunoglobulins and/or complement was noted more frequently for patients with dermatomyositis than those with polymyositis. polymyositis and dermatomyositis are diseases characterized by muscle weakness and muscle inflammatory infiltrates. these results indicate that the pathogenesis of polymyositis and dermatomyositis is different and reinforce the view that polymyositis but not dermatomyositis is an autoimmune cd8(+) t cell-mediated disease. dermatomyositis is a disease mainly of skin and muscle, but may affect lung and other tissues. by morphometric analysis, muscle capillaries in dermatomyositis had a significantly higher mean endothelial thickness than those in polymyositis. four cases of dermatomyositis showed lower limb disease predilection with edema in gluteal, thigh, and calf muscles. bilateral upper and lower limb myositis was demonstrated in three cases of polymyositis and one case of overlap myositis with scleroderma. 
Juvenile ankylosing spondylitis--is it the same disease as adult ankylosing spondylitis? [SEP] in the pediatric form of the disease, juvenile ankylosing spondylitis, peripheral joint involvement is more frequent and can precede, by many years, the onset of back symptomatology. eventually, he was diagnosed with juvenile ankylosing spondylitis. as in patients with adult-onset disease, ectopic ossification after total hip replacement occurred with a higher frequency in the patients with juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis than in those with juvenile-onset rheumatoid arthritis. the group also includes juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis, a disease defined in adult-based terms when definite changes have occurred in the axial joints; ankylosing tarsitis, a complex disorder in which foot problems resemble those of the spine in ankylosing spondylitis; crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis-related peripheral and, especially, hla-b27 axial disease; reactive arthritis and reiter's syndrome, which might be further classified according to its cause; and juvenile psoriatic arthritis, a disease that resembles juvenile rheumatoid arthritis more than does juvenile-onset spondyloarthropathy. juvenile ankylosing spondylitis affected youths in their early teens, who presented most commonly with appendicular joint complaints rather than low back pain. the purpose of this review is to discuss the classification, diagnosis and management of juvenile-onset spondyloarthritis. patients with juvenile-onset ankylosing spondylitis appear to have poorer functional outcomes. juvenile-onset spondyloarthritis has variable clinical features that may lead to significant impairments. twenty-three healthy adults and 39 adults with ankylosing spondylitis were recruited from a tertiary care medical centre. the main outcome measure was a diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis. 
Is Aspiration Thrombectomy Beneficial in Patients Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] in the recent years there has been an increasing interest in the concept of adjunctive mechanical thrombectomy to improve outcomes in primary percutaneous coronary intervention. the recently published thrombus aspiration during percutaneous coronary intervention in acute myocardial infarction study (the largest randomized study of a thrombectomy device) demonstrates that adjunctive treatment with aspiration and manual thrombectomy improves clinical end - point. the aim of the report is to review the evidence to our date on the role of mechanical thrombectomy during primary percutaneous intervention in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. this manuscript reviews the current data regarding aspiration thrombectomy in stemi coronary interventions and discusses the role of this strategy in current practice. the recently published thrombus aspiration during percutaneous coronary intervention in acute myocardial infarction study has rekindled the interest in this area. this trial is the largest randomized study of a thrombectomy device published to date and demonstrates that adjunctive treatment with aspiration thrombectomy during primary percutaneous coronary intervention improves surrogate and clinical end points. this study compares manual versus nonmanual thrombectomy devices in patients undergoing primary or rescue percutaneous coronary intervention in a tertiary care center. thrombectomy in the setting of primary percutaneous coronary intervention allows for improved macrovascular and microvascular perfusion, possible limitation of infarct size, and the preservation of left ventricular function and myocardial viability. few data exist on the clinical outcomes of selective aspiration thrombectomy during primary percutaneous coronary intervention (ppci).this was a nationwide retrospective cohort study. for the patients who survived to discharge, the post-discharge 1-year mortality was lower in the aspiration thrombectomy group of patients in whom the procedures were performed by physicians with a high volume of ppci (hazard ratio: 0.47; 95% confidence interval: 0.24-0.94; p = .03).in this nationwide cohort study, selective aspiration thrombectomy at the operation's discretion had a comparable mortality rate compared with pci alone and did not increase the risk of stroke. 
Can static foot posture measurements predict regional plantar surface area? [SEP] the intent of this study was to determine if the use of a single or combination of static foot posture measurements can be used to predict rearfoot, midfoot, and forefoot plantar surface area in individuals with pronated or normal foot types. a two variable model was found to describe the relationship between the foot measurements and forefoot plantar contact area (r(2)=0.79, p<0.0001). the results indicate that clinicians can use a combination of simple, reliable and time efficient foot measures to explain 79% and 85% of the plantar surface area in the forefoot and midfoot, respectively. the purpose of this study was to investigate the associations between static foot posture and morphology of plantar foot muscles and plantar fascia and thus the contributions of these structures to static foot posture. the purpose of this study was to examine the correlation between the foot arch volume measured from static positions and the plantar pressure distribution during walking. measurements of static foot posture were obtained, including navicular height and foot arch volume in sitting and standing positions. the intent of this study was to determine if a single or combination of foot anthropometric measures could be used to predict plantar surface area. a three variable model was found to describe the relationship between the foot measures/ratio and total plantar contact area (r2 = 0.77, p < 0.0001)). the results of this study indicate that the clinician can use a combination of simple, reliable, and time efficient foot anthropometric measurements to explain over 75% of the plantar surface contact area, either including or excluding the toe region. static foot posture was related to peak plantar pressures during standing and walking, but the strengths of relationships ranged from poor to fair. 
Can dentists recognize manipulated digital radiographs? [SEP] to determine the ability of dentists to recognize digitally manipulated radiographs. half of the radiographs were subjected to digital manipulation to add or remove specific features. image manipulations which alter the diagnostic content of a radiograph are unlikely to be detected by dentists. digital radiographic imaging in dentistry has matured. the overall aim of this thesis was to study how digital radiography was used in general dental practices. to determine whether there were any differences in image quality between conventional film radiographs and digital radiographs, 4863 images (540 cases) were evaluated. in conclusion, many problems with dental digital radiography were identified. this review of digital imaging and the technical aspects of radiographic equipment manufactured for dentists is designed to provide practical information to assist in the decision making process and purchase of radiographic digital imaging for clinical use. this study evaluated dentists' perception of the quality of digitally captured radiographs. digital radiography is gaining in popularity and many dentists are considering changing from a film-based system to this new technology. 
Is delayed gastric emptying following pancreaticoduodenectomy related to pylorus preservation? [SEP] we describe a novel surgical technique for the prevention of delayed gastric emptying following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy. the mechanism of delayed gastric emptying following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is not completely understood. delayed gastric emptying following pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is related to the presence of non-fibrotic pancreas and postoperative septic complications. pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is associated with a high incidence of delayed gastric emptying. pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is a safe procedure with a high incidence of delayed gastric emptying. a subgroup analysis showed that pylorus removal tends to reduce delayed gastric emptying incidence for subtotal stomach-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy or pylorus-resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy, compared with pylorus-preserving group. subtotal stomach-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy or pylorus-resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy tends to reduce delayed gastric emptying incidence, but needs further validation. the incidence of delayed gastric emptying after pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy has been reported to be 30% to 70%. pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy involving pylorotomy may reduce the incidence of delayed gastric emptying and preserve the long-term quality of life more than similar procedures. we examined the gastric emptying and small bowel transit of solid food in ten patients one to 45 months after pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy. 
Is Overexpression of Ki-67 a Prognostic Biomarker of Upper Tract Urinary Carcinoma? [SEP] to investigate the prognostic value of ki-67, cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2), e-cadherin, and retinoblastoma protein (prb) in patients with urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. our results suggest that ki-67 overexpression is an independent predictor of the progression of urothelial carcinoma of the upper urinary tract. ki-67 over-expression is of prognostic value in tcc of the upper urinary tract, while p53, mmp-2 and mmp-9 are of limited value. ki-67/mib-1 overexpression shows promise as a prognostic biomarker for utuc patients and requires further investigation. we retrospectively enrolled 102 patients with upper tract urothelial carcinoma (utuc) who underwent radical nephroureterectomy to examine the prognostic value of ki-67 and programmed cell death ligand-1 (pd-l1). multivariate analysis revealed that ki-67 overexpression in uut tumor tissues significantly predicts bladder cancer development (hr 6.440; 95% ci 1.121-37.014; log rank p = 0.037). ki-67 overexpression in uut tumor tissues was found to be an independent predictor of the development of bladder cancer in uut tumor patients. in this study, we investigated ki-67 expression in 26 ureteroscopic biopsies of the ureter and renal pelvis diagnosed with urothelial carcinoma (uc) and in 13 biopsies with non-neoplastic urothelium, using digital image analysis. ki-67 expression in ureteroscopic biopsies was significantly correlated with high tumor grade (p=0.013), concomitant carcinoma in situ (p=0.011), and stromal invasion (p=0.048) in surgical resection specimens. determination of ki-67 expression in ureteroscopic biopsy specimens is potentially helpful in clinical decision making for patients with suspected upper urinary tract uc. 
Does a delay in transfer to a rehabilitation unit for older people affect outcome after fracture of the proximal femur? [SEP] to detemine the relationship between delay in transfer to rehabilitation wards and outcome for patients aged over 75 years with fracture of the proximal femur. an observational study in a district general hospital of all patients admitted to hospital aged over 75 years with fracture of the proximal femur over 3 1/2 years. delay in transfer to a rehabilitation ward was associated with a disproportionate increase in total hospital length of stay for patients aged over 75 with fracture of the proximal femur. delays in care, such as delayed femurfracture repair have been reported to be associated with poorer outcomes, butlittle is known about how transfer time affects time to repair or outcomesafter femur fractures. delay in fracture fixation >24 hours wasassociated with increased length of stay (5 days versus 4 days; p<0.001), higher complication rates (23% versus 12%; p=0.01), and decreased dischargehome (19% vs. 32%, pp=0.02), but was not associated with mortality (6% versus5%; p=0.75). this paper presents the responses of 616 orthopaedic surgeons who are actively involved in the care of patients with a fracture of the proximal femur. proximal femur fractures are a common injury after low energy trauma in the elderly. to obtain 6 month and 1 year outcomes for all people over age 60 years admitted in one year to a base hospital with fracture of the proximal femur. all patients over age 60 admitted to waikato hospital during one year with fracture of the proximal femur were assessed for premorbid function and comorbidity and were followed to discharge. this retrospective study describes the outcomes of rehabilitation of persons 90 years and older with fracture of the proximal femur. 
Does the treatment of amblyopia normalise subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic children? [SEP] to investigate the relationship between subfoveal choroidal thickness and axial length in japanese preschool children with hyperopic anisometropic amblyopia. the subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic children was negatively correlated with their axial length (r = -0.50, p < 0.01). the subfoveal choroidal thickness of amblyopic children abnormally increased and the thicker subfoveal choroid is mildly correlated with their shorter axial length. to investigate the choroidal thickness in children with amblyopia through spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of optical correction on the best-corrected visual acuity (bcva) and subfoveal choroidal thickness (ct) in the eyes of children with anisohypermetropic amblyopia. the researchers compared the choroidal thickness among amblyopic eyes, fellow eyes of children with amblyopia, and the eyes of children with normal vision. the choroidal thickness at the fovea and 2 mm nasal to the fovea in amblyopic eyes was greater (p = 0.002, p = 0.043) than in the fellow eyes of the children with amblyopia. furthermore, differences were found in the choroidal thickness in both eyes of children with amblyopia compared with participants with normal vision. subfoveal choroidal thickness in amblyopic eyes was significantly thicker than in control eyes. the present study aimed to evaluate the effect of a six-month treatment of amblyopia on choroidal thickness in anisometropic hyperopic amblyopic children. 
A comparison of 500 prefilled textured saline breast implants versus 500 standard textured saline breast implants: is there a difference in deflation rates? [SEP] this study provides the first large-volume (1000 implant) comparison of the deflation rates of poly implant prosthesis prefilled textured saline breast implants versus a control group of mentor siltex textured saline implants. a consecutive series of 500 poly implant prosthesis prefilled textured saline breast implants was compared with a consecutive series of 500 mentor siltex breast implants. each breast implant was evaluated for a 4-year period, and the annual deflation rate (number of deflations during a given year divided by the total number of implants) and cumulative deflation rate (cumulative total of deflations through a given year divided by the total number of implants) were recorded. there was a statistically significant difference between the overall deflation rates of poly implant prosthesis prefilled textured saline breast implants and mentor siltex breast implants at year 2, year 3, and year 4. there may be several factors contributing to the higher deflation rate seen in poly implant prosthesis implants, including possible in vitro deflation before implantation and silicone shell curing technique. the purpose of this study was to determine whether or not prefilled breast implants retain their volume in packaging. this study examined 32 poly implant prosthesis prefilled textured saline breast implants. the authors report a series of 407 patients with a total of 709 saline breast implants (average follow-up, 7.1 years). initial comparison of the deflation rates for smooth (8.8 percent) versus textured (1.8 percent) implants suggested a significant difference between the implant types. in contrast, the percent fill (implant fill volume per minimum recommended fill volume x 100) was significantly associated with the spontaneous ruptures; a mean difference of 13.9 percent (89.2 percent versus 103.1 percent) was found between the series of deflated implants and the nondeflated implants (p < 0.0001). 
Do foreign bodies migrate through the body towards the heart? [SEP] fixation of foreign bodies (fb), in the mucosa, can favor its migration, giving origin to the popular saying: 'fb walk to the heart'. we demonstrate the trajectory of this foreign body from the abdominal wall into the heart. <learning objective: foreign bodies can migrate from the subcutaneous tissue into the venous circulation and subsequently into the heart. proximal migration of the retained foreign body was suspected. foreign bodies may migrate to adjacent tissues, but rarely wander far. foreign bodies in the heart are rare, may reach the heart by different ways, and cause serious complications. a total series of 104 patients with a foreign body in the heart were analyzed for the etiology, clinical presentation, symptoms, complications and management. a majority of foreign bodies reached the heart by migration [88%]. foreign bodies in the heart may present with a wide variety of symptoms. foreign bodies were removed from the cardiac cavities when the patient presented with features of infection (1 case), cardiac tamponade (2 case), anxiety (1 case), and haemodynamic instability (1 case). 
Is there a relationship between serum paraoxonase level and epicardial fat tissue thickness? [SEP] this study aimed to show the relationship between serum paraoxonase 1 level and the epicardial fat tissue thickness. correlation analysis was performed to determine the correlation between epicardial fat tissue thickness, which was measured by echocardiography and serum paraoxonase 1 level. also correlation analysis was performed to show correlation between patients' clinical and laboratory findings and the level of serum paraoxonase 1 (pon 1) and the epicardial fat tissue thickness. in-group comparison of oa patients revealed that epicardial fat thickness was detected to increase as the grade of oa increased (p=0.001). there is a significant relationship between primary oa and epicardial fat thickness, which is a part of visceral adipose tissue. to observe the effect on the inhibition of coronary atherosclerosis hardening of the paraoxonase gene (pon-1) which transfected to the rabbit epicardial adipose tissue. epicardial fat tissue thickness was shown to be correlated negatively with fmd and positively with age, diastolic blood pressure, hscrp, fibrinogen, homa-ir, and lipid parameters. epicardial fat tissue may be a useful parameter in the assessment of patients with metabolic syndrome. epicardial fat tissue thickness has been considered an indicator for cardiovascular diseases recently. the present study was aimed to examine the relationship of epicardial fat tissue thickness (eftt) with ima and mpo levels in patients with ckd. 
Chemoradiation instead of surgery to treat mid and low rectal tumors: is it safe? [SEP] preoperative chemoradiation (crt) is advocated to reduce local recurrence and improve resection of mid and low tethered rectal tumors. preoperative chemoradiation may downstage locally advanced rectal cancer and, in some cases, with no residual tumor. a retrospective review of the medical records of patients who underwent preoperative chemoradiation for advanced mid (6-11 cm from the anal verge) and low (from the dentate line to 5 cm from the anal verge) rectal cancer (ut2-ut3) followed by radical surgery with total mesorectal excision was undertaken. this pooled analysis was designed to evaluate whether preoperative chemoradiation can be safely omitted in higher rectal cancer.an international consortium of 7 institutions was established. between july 1999 and march 2001, 45 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (ct3/t4 or n+) were treated with preoperative chemoradiation. these preliminary results suggest that preoperative chemoradiation with capecitabine is a safe, well-tolerated, and effective neoadjuvant treatment modality for locally advanced rectal cancer. preoperative chemoradiation has been shown to improve local control in locally advanced rectal cancer. laparoscopic tme and preoperative chemoradiotherapy may significantly improve oncologic results and quality of life in patients with mid and low rectal cancer. preoperative chemoradiation therapy in patients with rectal cancer results in pathologic complete response in approximately 10% to 30% of patients. preoperative chemoradiation therapy and total mesorectal excision were performed in patients with rectal cancer. 
Is calibration the cause of variation in liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry testosterone measurement? [SEP] testosterone measurement by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (lc-ms/ms) is well accepted as the preferred technique for the analysis of testosterone. we investigated the effects calibration in routine clinical lc-ms/ms assays. a simple measurement procedure based on one-step liquid-liquid extraction (lle) and liquid chromatography-isotope dilution tandem mass spectrometry (lc-idms/ms) was developed for total testosterone in human serum. the advent of fast simple and sensitive liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry methods offers an exciting alternative to immunoassay for serum testosterone measurement. we report a combined liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method for the measurement of these androgens. we have developed a rapid assay for the liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry measurement of testosterone, androstenedione, dihydrotestosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone in a routine clinical laboratory. serum samples containing different concentrations of norethisterone were distributed to participants in the uk external quality assessment scheme (uk neqas) for female testosterone in order to assess the degree of interference from norethisterone in different commercially available immunoassay and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry methods for measurement of testosterone. norethisterone does not interfere in testosterone measurements obtained by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. total testosterone was measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. testosterone was measured by two methods, an electrochemiluminescence immunoassay, and a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method. 
Are complex coronary lesions more frequent in patients with diabetes mellitus? [SEP] we investigated the effects of hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus, which are major coronary risk factors, on the angiographic morphology of coronary artery lesions in 204 patients with previous myocardial infarction or stable-effort angina: 39 patients with hypercholesterolemia (serum total cholesterol > 240 mg/dl) without hypertension and diabetes, 51 patients with hypertension without diabetes and hypercholesterolemia, 24 patients with diabetes without hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, and 90 patients without any of these 3 risk factors (control). the extent of raised and calcified lesions in the coronary arteries and calcified lesions in the aorta in the pure diabetes group was similar to that in the high atherosclerosis group and significantly higher than in the standardized average atherosclerosis group. raised and calcified lesions in the aorta and raised lesions in the coronary arteries were more extensive in the diabetes group than in the high atherosclerosis group. in all diabetes groups, stenosis of the coronary arteries and myocardial lesions occurred much more frequently than in the average atherosclerosis group but were less common than in the high atherosclerosis group. complex coronary lesions such as bifurcation and ostial lesions were significantly more common in diabetic patients than in nondiabetic patients. to examine the extent and severity of the atherosclerotic lesions underlying this excess morbidity and mortality, clinical and angiographic findings were examined in 32 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes and in 31 nondiabetic patients, matched for age and symptoms, undergoing elective cardiac catheterization for evaluation of coronary artery disease. we conclude that the high risk of cardiovascular events observed in young patients with insulin-dependent diabetes is secondary to advanced atherosclerotic lesions in coronary arteries. a total of 47 coronary atherectomy specimens from patients with diabetes mellitus were examined and compared with 48 atherectomy specimens from patients without diabetes. coronary tissue from patients with diabetes exhibits a larger content of lipid-rich atheroma, macrophage infiltration, and subsequent thrombosis than tissue from patients without diabetes. these differences suggest an increased vulnerability for coronary thrombosis in patients with diabetes mellitus. 
Are variations in the use of carotid endarterectomy explained by population Need? [SEP] carotid endarterectomy is emerging as the treatment of choice for patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis at low operative risk. we studied the relationship of the appropriateness of the use of coronary angiography, carotid endarterectomy, and upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy to their rates of use in 23 adjacent counties in one state. we examined geographic variation in and predictors of carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting. significant geographic variation exists for carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting. prior endarterectomy and coronary disease were associated with greater odds of carotid stenting. results of north american and european trials of carotid endarterectomy published in 1991 may have affected the frequency of the procedure in the united states. therefore, data from a national survey of hospital discharges were examined to determine whether rates of carotid endarterectomy and arteriography increased after 1991 and whether race and sex variations in rates have persisted. we examined the relation between the number of operative procedures carried out by individual surgeons and the variation in the rate of carotid endarterectomy among medicare beneficiaries in areas of high, average, and low use of the procedure in 1981. twice as many surgeons in the high-use area and 25 percent more in the average-use area performed carotid endarterectomy as compared with those in the low-use area. we conclude that most of the geographic variation in the rate of carotid endarterectomy is caused by a few surgeons in high-use areas who perform large numbers of operations. 
Are there effects of intrauterine cocaine exposure on delinquency during early adolescence? [SEP] to ascertain whether level of intrauterine cocaine exposure (iuce) is associated with early adolescent delinquent behavior, after accounting for prenatal exposures to other psychoactive substances and relevant psychosocial factors. in this cohort, prospectively ascertained prenatal exposure to cigarettes and childhood exposure to violence are associated with self-reported delinquent behaviors during early adolescence. contrary to initial popular predictions, intrauterine cocaine is not a strong predictor of adolescent delinquent behaviors in this cohort. this prospective study evaluated whether intrauterine drug exposures, the adolescents' own substance use, and/or their potential interactions are related to poorer executive functioning after controlling for important contextual variables. intrauterine substance exposures (cocaine, marijuana, alcohol, and cigarettes) and adolescents' substance use were documented using a combination of biological assays and maternal and adolescent self-report. in this first study of violence and resilience in 517 youth exposed to cocaine and other drugs during pregnancy, we identified specific links between four types of violence and delinquency, drug use, and psychopathology in early adolescence. the associations between prenatal cocaine exposure (pce) and adolescent behavior, cognitive development, and physical growth were examined in 219 15-year-olds who have participated in a longitudinal study since their fourth gestational month. this study examined the influence of prenatal substance exposure, inhibitory control, and sociodemographic/environmental risk factors on risk-taking behaviors in a large cohort of adolescents with and without prenatal cocaine exposure (pce). prenatal cocaine exposure predicted later arrests and early onset of sexual behavior in controlled analyses. at birth, intrauterine exposures to cocaine and other substances (52% cocaine, 52% tobacco, 26% marijuana, 26% alcohol) were identified by meconium and/or urine assays, and/or maternal self-report. 
Is expert breast pathology assessment necessary for the management of ductal carcinoma in situ ? [SEP] the impact of expert breast pathology on risk assessment and treatment was determined. expert breast pathology assessments continue to be necessary in the management of dcis. an overview of the management of ductal carcinoma in situ including pathology, clinical presentation and relevant investigations is presented, and the roles and dilemmas of surgery, radiotherapy and endocrine therapy are discussed. the purpose of this article is to review the current clinical management of in situ breast carcinomas, including how specific aspects of a pathology report are used in clinical decision-making, and to discuss the current role of sentinel node biopsy in management of invasive breast carcinomas and ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast. ductal carcinoma in situ shows heterogeneous clinical behavior and response to treatment depending on its pathologic features. the aim of this study was to correlate the radiologic and pathologic features of ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast. the mammograms of 128 patients with ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast were analyzed by a radiologist who knew that the patients had ductal carcinoma in situ but had no other pathologic information. indolent non-progressive forms of ductal carcinoma in situ are managed according to similar surgical strategies as high-risk disease, with extent of resection dictated by radiological and pathological estimates of tumour dimensions. low rates of deaths from breast cancer coupled with overdiagnosis within screening programmes have prompted a fundamental rethink of approaches to the management of both low-risk and high-risk ductal carcinoma in situ. current problems in the pathological assessment and subclassification of ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast are reviewed, both in its pure form and in association with invasive disease. 
Thoracic and thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair: is reimplantation of spinal cord arteries a waste of time? [SEP] the reimplantation of intercostal arteries during the repair of descending thoracic aortic or thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms preserves spinal cord perfusion and might reduce the risk of spinal cord ischemic injury. from january 1986 to july 2008, 38 patients with descending thoracic aortic aneurysms and 117 patients with thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms underwent surgical repair with cardiopulmonary bypass, hypothermic circulatory arrest, and intercostal artery reimplantation as a carrel patch. spider-graft for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair avoiding thoracotomy and extracorporeal circulation was modified, enabling reimplantation of lumbar arteries to prevent spinal cord ischemia and compared with open aortic repair (control) in a pig model. this suggests a benefit in intercostal artery reimplantation via increasing perfusion to the collateral network of the spinal cord. an aggressive approach to maintain intercostal artery patency during clamp-and-sew repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms may effectively lower the incidence of spinal cord injury without prolonging aortic crossclamp time. fifteen patients underwent selective spinal perfusion with our original catheter as spinal protection during the procedure of distal descending thoracic aneurysm (dta) or thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (taaa) repair. spinal cord protection is critical for successful outcomes after descending thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair. in repairs of extensive thoracoabdominal aneurysms, additional measures are required of extensive thoracoabdominaal aneurysms, additional measures are required including hypothermia, intercostal artery implantation into the graft, and spinal fluid drainage. reimplantation of the largest patent intercostal arteries is usually performed during thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair. combined visualization of the adamkiewicz artery and determination of motor-evoked potentials are useful in preventing spinal cord injury in descending and thoracoabdominal aortic repair. 
Is year of radical prostatectomy a predictor of outcome in prostate cancer? [SEP] we examined long-term outcomes in patients with high grade prostate cancer on biopsy who were treated with radical prostatectomy alone. we determined predictors of delayed biochemical recurrence as well as metastasis-free and cancer specific survival rates for recurrence at various time points after radical prostatectomy. we evaluated patients at our institution who underwent radical prostatectomy for clinical stage t3 prostate cancer to determine their long-term clinical outcomes. clinical outcome is variable in prostate cancer patients treated with radical prostatectomy. we report on 25-year cancer control and survival outcomes after radical prostatectomy in a single center series of patients treated during a 40-year period. this study was conducted to identify predictors of survival for patients treated with salvage radical prostatectomy. the authors studied 86 prostate carcinoma patients who underwent salvage radical prostatectomy for locally persistent or recurrent prostate carcinoma at mayo clinic between 1967 and 1996. radical prostatectomy has decreased prostate cancer specific mortality in men with clinically localized prostate cancer. we examined the association between delayed radical prostatectomy and adverse pathology at radical prostatectomy and biochemical recurrence using logistic and cox regression analyses, respectively. curative intent radical prostatectomy after a period of active surveillance results in excellent pathological and oncologic outcomes at 5 years. 
Does health information exchange reduce redundant imaging? [SEP] this study seeks to determine whether health information exchange reduces repeated diagnostic imaging and related costs in emergency back pain evaluation. use of a regional health information exchange by ed personnel to access the patient's record during the emergency visit was the primary independent variable. health information exchange use by any ed personnel was associated with reduced repeated diagnostic imaging (odds ratio 0.36; 95% confidence interval 0.18 to 0.71), as was physician or nurse practitioner health information exchange use (odds ratio 0.47; 95% confidence interval 0.23 to 0.96). no cost savings were associated with health information exchange use because of increased ct imaging when health care providers used health information exchange. health information exchange use is associated with 64% lower odds of repeated diagnostic imaging in the emergency evaluation of back pain. health information exchange effect on estimated costs was negligible. more studies are needed to evaluate specific strategies to increase health information exchange use and further decrease potentially unnecessary diagnostic imaging and associated costs of care. physicians will become able to exchange images and text related to one patient or one procedure, although they are equipped with different workstations. (2) at the patient level, the quality of care will be improved through a better dissemination of information between the physicians in charge of the patient, thus there is better follow-up of the patient and a decrease in redundant examinations. having your ed linked to a computerized patient information exchange network, in which you can pull up the past history of patients presenting to your department, can offer financial advantages and improve quality of care. 
Is decompressive surgery effective for spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive cervical myelopathy? [SEP] a retrospective multicenter study of series of 12 patients with spinal cord sarcoidosis who underwent surgery. to evaluate the postoperative outcomes of patients with cervical spinal cord sarcoidosis accompanied with compressive myelopathy and effect of decompressive surgery on the prognosis of sarcoidosis. it is difficult to differentiate spinal cord sarcoidosis from cervical compressive myelopathy. there are no studies regarding the coexistence of compressive cervical myelopathy with cervical spinal cord sarcoidosis and the effect of decompressive surgery. a total of 12 patients (0.08% of cervical myelopathy) were identified spinal cord sarcoidosis treated with decompressive surgery. as a control subject, 8 patients with spinal cord sarcoidosis without compressive lesion who underwent high-dose steroid therapy without surgery were recruited. the effect of decompression for spinal cord sarcoidosis with compressive myelopathy was not evident. twenty-five patients with cervical myelopathy were treated by decompressive surgery which involved laminoplasty or decompressive anterior interbody fusion. subsequent pathologic examination of the biopsied specimens revealed spinal cord sarcoidosis. this article reviews the symptoms and assessment for cervical spondylotic myelopathy (clinically evident compression of the spinal cord) and discusses the indications for decompression of the spinal cord anteriorly. 
Endovenous laser ablation in the treatment of small saphenous varicose veins: does site of access influence early outcomes? [SEP] the study was performed to evaluate the clinical and technical efficacy of endovenous laser ablation (evla) of small saphenous varicosities, particularly in relation to the site of endovenous access. although endovenous laser ablation has been demonstrated to effectively occlude incompetent saphenous veins, it does not treat branch varicosities directly. endovenous laser ablation was performed in incompetent saphenous veins. the patterns of recurrent varicose veins after endovascular ablation of the saphenous veins are not well described. endovenous laser ablation and rfa for the management of lower extremity varicose vein offer comparable efficacy and safety in a 5-year follow-up. the aim of the study is to present our experience and the available literature data on the treatment of varicose veins in teenagers with endovenous laser ablation of the great saphenous vein. minimally invasive treatment with endovenous laser ablation of the great saphenous vein was applied. endovenous laser ablation of the great saphenous vein in the treatment of chronic venous disease in teenagers is effective and safe. radiofrequency ablation (rfa) and endovenous laser treatment (evlt) are minimal invasive methods to treat saphenous varicose veins. studies looking at the success and complication rates associated with endovenous laser ablation of the short saphenous vein included only a small number of patients. 
Is a pressor necessary during aortic perfusion and oxygenation therapy of cardiac arrest? [SEP] because selective aortic perfusion and oxygenation (sapo) directly increases coronary perfusion pressure, exogenous epinephrine may not be required. this loss of vasomotor tone may make exogenous pressors necessary for resuscitation after prolonged cardiac arrest. the use of selective aortic perfusion and oxygenation increases aortic and coronary perfusion pressures during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, resulting in a large increase in the rate of return of spontaneous circulation. after the failure of electrical countershock, the successful treatment of cardiac arrest is a function of raising aortic pressure so as to improve vital organ perfusion. most efforts are directed towards perfusing vital organs and replenishing oxygen and adenosine triphosphate (atp) stores during and immediately after arrest. we describe a case of aortic rupture with arrest on the table which was re-perfused after 20 minutes, using cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb), but still managed to recover without neurological sequelae. the combination of intra-aortic epinephrine and adjustments in closed-chest cardiopulmonary resuscitation technique resulted in improved coronary perfusion pressure. selective aortic perfusion and oxygenation with oxygenated ultrapurified polymerized bovine hemoglobin improves vital organ perfusion and is an effective adjunct in the treatment of cardiac arrest. to determine whether selective aortic arch perfusion (saap) using serial infusions of oxygenated perflubron emulsion combined with aortic epinephrine (aoe) administration is more effective than conventional therapy in treating cardiac arrest. cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) provides artificial circulation and ventilation during cardiopulmonary arrest. 
Do people who were passive smokers during childhood have increased risk of long-term work disability? [SEP] permanent inhalation of tobacco smoke since early childhood in home environment influences equal occurrence of copd at passive, ex- and active smokers. ever-smokers who also had childhood passive smoking exposure had a higher risk of ra than smokers not exposed during childhood [hr 1.67 (95% ci 1.17, 2.39)], but without a significant difference (p = 0.30). it suggests for the first time that passive exposure to tobacco during childhood might also increase the risk of ra in future light smokers and probably non-smokers. it was concluded that there is a continuum of long-term smoking effects and that, although active maternal smoking is associated with effects of greater breadth and magnitude than passive maternal smoking, children of passive smokers are also at risk for a pattern of negative developmental outcomes. this study examined whether asthma alone or together with chronic comorbidity is associated with an increased risk of long-term work disability. asthma increased the risk of all-cause long-term work disability with hazard ratio (hr) 1.8 (95% ci 1.62-2.09) compared with controls (no asthma). asthma and one other chronic comorbidity increased the risk of long-term all-cause work disability with hr 2.2 (95% ci 1.78-2.83). asthma is associated with an increased risk of long-term all-cause work disability. exposure to passive smoking during childhood may predispose the individual to benign and malignant pulmonary morbidity in both childhood and adulthood. this observation suggests that passive smoking might be much more harmful than would be predicted from measures of the level of exposure alone, as it is often of very long duration frequently beginning in early childhood. 
Is the covering of the resection margin after distal pancreatectomy advantageous? [SEP] taking into account contradictory results concerning the usefulness of covering resection margins after distal pancreatectomy, we sought to perform a systematic, retrospective analysis of patients that underwent distal pancreatectomy at our center. demographic factors, indications, postoperative complications, surgical or interventional revisions, and length of hospital stay were registered to compare the outcome of patients undergoing distal pancreatectomy with coverage of the resection margins vs. patients undergoing distal pancreatectomy without coverage of the resection margins. the results show no significant difference in the fistula rate after covering of the resection margin after distal pancreatectomy, which contributes to the picture of an unsolved problem. in both stages of the study, distal pancreatectomy could be performed within an acceptable time frame and with acceptable resection margins and morbidity rate. we introduce the concept of endoscopic total retroperitoneal distal pancreatectomy as an approach for distal pancreatectomy. the distal pancreatectomy-celiac axis resection group was associated with a significantly higher incidence of morbidity (92% vs 60%, p = .03) and positive surgical margins (69% vs 26%, p = .003) than the distal pancreatectomy group; however, no survival difference was found between the 2 groups. the distal pancreatectomy-celiac axis resection group had a significantly better prognosis than the unresectable group (median survival time, 20.8 vs 9.8 months; p = .01). this is a pilot study to see if distal pancreatectomy can be technically done using a no-touch surgical technique with-out deteriorating the post-operative prognosis. no-touch distal pancreatectomy technique may have some theoretical advantages, which merit future investigation in randomized controlled trials. the safety and advantage of laparoscopic resection over open distal pancreatectomy (odp) have been proven. 
Does treatment duration affect outcome after radiotherapy for prostate cancer? [SEP] radiotherapy is a frequently used treatment for prostate cancer. this study sought to investigate the clinical efficacy and translational research for prostate cancer with carbon ion radiotherapy. to some extent, it led to improved outcomes in overall survival, biochemical recurrence-free survival than conventional radiotherapy, especially for high-risk prostate cancer. carbon ion radiotherapy brought clinical benefits for prostate cancer patients, and quality of life assessment indicated that cirt affected patients to a lesser extent. to assess whether clinical trial participation affects survival outcomes of radiotherapy-treated localized prostate cancer patients compared with similar treatment within a real-world setting. this is a comparative analysis of the outcomes of localized prostate cancer patients treated within two clinical trials (nct00331773; nct00004054) versus the outcomes of similar cohorts of patients registered within the seer database and treated with radiotherapy. treatment interruptions during radiotherapy may have a negative effect on patient outcome. demonstrated that prolonging treatment duration has an adverse effect in low-risk patients with prostate cancer. the role of radiotherapy in the management of prostate cancer significantly changed over the last few decades with developments in brachytherapy, external beam radiotherapy (ebrt), intensity-modulated radiotherapy (imrt), and image-guided radiotherapy (igrt). historical data for older men with high-risk nonmetastatic prostate cancer treated with radiotherapy alone have demonstrated a 10-year prostate-cancer-specific mortality of around 30%. 
Is the urinary biomarkers assessment a non-invasive approach to tubular lesions of the solitary kidney? [SEP] therefore, our study sought to assess the reactions to ciprofloxacin of patients with solitary kidney (sk) and urinary tract infection (uti) by means of urinary biomarkers. analysis of the significance of urinary biomarkers in the assessment of tubulointerstitial lesions of the sk. urinary biomarkers allow a non-invasive, sensitive, early assessment of the tubular lesions of the sk. kidney biopsy is considered the golden criterion for diagnosing the etiology of kidney disease but accompanied by non-negligible complications. tools to directly and noninvasively measure tubular pathology could provide a new approach to assess kidney health. we conclude that dmri can be used to measure the distribution of tubule diameters in the kidney cortex ex vivo and that dmri may provide a new noninvasive biomarker of tubular pathology.new & noteworthy tubular pathologies are a common feature of kidney disease. diffusion mri can be used to measure the distribution of tubule diameters in the kidney cortex ex vivo and may provide a new noninvasive biomarker of tubular pathology. the paper highlights the importance of tubular lesions of the solitary kidney (sk), identified and monitored by means of urinary biomarkers, mainly n-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (nag), albumin, alpha 1-, and beta 2-microglobulin. the objective of this study was to find noninvasive biomarkers of kidney rejection. all patients had increased urinary concentrations of biomarkers associated with tubular lesions (liver fatty acid-binding protein, kidney injury molecule-1, β2-microglobulin) and molecules overexpressed under ischaemic conditions [hypoxia-inducible factor-1α, vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1)]. 
Is there a role for fondaparinux in perioperative bridging? [SEP] a possible role for fondaparinux as a bridging agent in the perioperative setting is explored. fondaparinux's extended half-life of 17-21 hours complicates its use as a perioperative bridging therapy. guidance for perioperative bridging with fondaparinux must be derived from pharmacokinetic data, surgical prophylaxis trials, case reports, and anesthesia guidelines. three case reports cited the use of fondaparinux sodium as perioperative bridge therapy; one used a 2.5-mg dose, and the other two used a full treatment dose of 7.5 mg. fondaparinux may have a role in bridge therapy for these patients. the role of fondaparinux in perioperative bridge therapy has not been established, and there are some important limitations to its use as a routine bridging agent. we present a successful case of prolonged bridging with fondaparinux in a 69-year-old chinese woman. to report a case of successful use of fondaparinux for bridging early after aortic and mitral mechanical heart valve replacement (mhvr). the use of fondaparinux for postoperative bridging in our patient early after combined aortic and mitral mhvr was effective. fondaparinux as the bridging therapy during catheter ablation for af does not increase the risk of thromboembolic complications but slightly reduces the risk of bleeding compared to lmwh, suggesting its safety and effectiveness for periprocedural anticoagulation management in af patients undergoing radiofrequency ablation. 
Motor performance in chronic low back pain: is there an influence of pain-related cognitions? [SEP] chronic back pain and its sequelae can influence cognitive, affective, and neuromuscular functioning. therefore, the aim of the present study is to get insight in the contribution of both pain experience and pain-related cognitions to general motor task performance in clbp. the main goal of this experiment was to evaluate the specific effects of a cognitive dual task on gait variability in chronic low back pain (clbp) patients. our data suggest that chronic pain reduces motor-cognitive dual-task performance capability. although patients' pain beliefs play an important role in the expression of low back pain, there is little research on the influence of performance-specific cognitions on spinal function. impaired postural control in chronic low back pain (clbp) has been attributed to deficits in sensory and motor functions. conclusion: individuals with low back pain report limitation in ability to perform everyday functions and demonstrate altered patterns of movement and alignment during these activities. the chief reason individuals with chronic low back pain seek care is difficulty performing everyday functional activities. to evaluate muscle strength, as a component of physical deconditioning, and central activation ratio, representing the performance level during testing, in patients with chronic low back pain as compared to healthy controls, and to evaluate the contribution of cognitive-behavioral and pain-related factors to the central activation ration of patients with chronic low back pain. the results suggest that patients with chronic low back pain who report increased psychologic distress and a higher level of current pain tend to show increased inhibition of muscle activity, leading to submaximal performance. 
Patient comprehension of emergency department care and instructions: are patients aware of when they do not understand? [SEP] to be able to adhere to discharge instructions after a visit to the emergency department (ed), patients should understand both the care that they received and their discharge instructions. the objective of this study is to assess, at discharge, patients' comprehension of their ed care and instructions and their awareness of deficiencies in their comprehension. many patients do not understand their ed care or their discharge instructions. patient comprehension of emergency department care and instructions: are patients aware of when they do not understand? to examine research published from 1995 to 2010, evaluating patient comprehension of discharge instructions from emergency department (ed) or urgent care (uc) settings. comprehension is poor in patients admitted in the emergency observation unit. to determine in patients admitted in the emergency observation unit whether comprehension of diagnosis, prognosis, and management depended on nurses' comprehension, the authors conducted a prospective observational study in a busy adult emergency department of a tertiary teaching hospital in paris over 2 months. patients' and nurses' comprehension of diagnosis, prognosis, and management was compared with the statements of the emergency department attending physicians for these items. the authors observed that patients' comprehension was better when nurses understood diagnosis (p <.0001), reasons for admission (p =.032) and discharge instructions (p =.002). emergency department patients have been shown to have difficulty understanding written discharge instructions. 
Can mandibular depiction be improved by changing the thickness of double-oblique computed tomography images? [SEP] therefore, in this study, it was performed to clarify the mandibular depiction of double-oblique reconstructed images when changing their thickness. in double-oblique images, mandibular depiction was evaluated by 5 oral radiologists using a subjective rating score. in the alveolar crest and the whole of the mandibular canal, the highest value was obtained with 0.9 mm-thick images; however, there was no significant difference between 0.3 mm and 0.9 mm-thick images. we concluded that depiction of the superior wall of the mandibular canal cannot be improved by changing the thickness of images. this study was performed to clarify the measurement accuracy of double-oblique reconstructed images in multi-slice helical ct, using dried mandibles. the mandibular height was measured from the alveolar crest immediately below the aluminum tube to the superior border of the mandibular canal using the double-oblique reconstructed images and the micro-ct average images of three semi-lateral dried mandibles. to reinvestigate the accuracy of 16 section multidetector computed tomography (mdct) in assessing mandibular invasion in retromolar trigone (rmt) squamous cell cancers (scc). the purpose of the present study was to investigate whether asymmetric mandibular prognathism accompanies a fundamental difference in soft tissue thickness and whether asymmetric mandibular setback surgery would influence the contour and thickness of the soft tissue of the chin. the present retrospective study included skeletal class iii patients with significant mandibular chin deviation greater than 6 mm at the pogonion, who had undergone cone-beam computed tomography before and 6 months after surgery during a 2-year period. high-resolution low-dose computed tomography is useful for evaluating the facial skeleton and soft tissues after surgery as well as for depicting a variety of possible complications. 
Adjuvant radiation of stage III thymoma: is it necessary? [SEP] the addition of adjuvant radiotherapy did not alter local or distant recurrence rates in patients with stage iii thymoma. some patients enjoy prolonged disease-free survival without adjuvant radiation after resection of stage iii thymoma. the use of routine adjuvant radiation after a complete resection of stage iii thymoma needs to be re-addressed. because of the rarity of the disease and long survival of most patients, the role of adjuvant radiation therapy in patients with surgically resected stage iii thymoma is unclear, and few prospective studies are available. the objective was to evaluate the impact of postoperative radiation therapy after resection of stage iii thymoma. in this large population-based study, most patients with stage iii thymoma were treated with adjuvant radiation. the role of adjuvant radiation for masaoka stages ii and iii thymoma remains controversial. the aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical benefit of radiation therapy for resected stages ii and iii thymoma patients. although the routine use of postoperative radiotherapy in malignant thymoma does not appear warranted, high-risk patients may benefit from adjuvant radiation. we assessed the efficacy of adjuvant radiotherapy (rt) in patients with stage ii or iii thymoma and evaluated the prognostic factors after the treatment. 
Inhibin: a new circulating marker of hydatidiform mole? [SEP] the expression of inhibin-alpha subunit has been described in normal placentas, hydatidiform moles, and trophoblastic tumors. decidual stromal cells in 40 hydatidiform moles were inhibin-alpha and inhibin-beta positive in approximately one third of cases. since the inhibin/activin subunits reacted positively with trophoblastic tissue, they might be a useful diagnostic marker for hydatidiform mole with persistence of polymorphic trophoblastic hyperplasia. the purpose of the study was to evaluate plasma inhibin as a marker of hydatidiform mole and to compare the results with intact human chorionic gonadotrophin (hcg) and its free beta-subunit. serial determinations of the plasma concentrations of inhibin, intact human chorionic gonadotrophin and its free beta-subunit in cases of hydatidiform mole over an average period of 140 days. to examine the cellular localization of each inhibin subunit in hydatidiform mole and invasive mole. to define the concentrations of inhibin in serum and tissue of patients with hydatidiform mole and assess their value as a clinical marker of the condition. in this small study serum inhibin concentrations higher than those found in the early follicular phase one to two weeks after evacuation of a hydatidiform mole seemed to be specific for persistent trophoblastic disease. circulating inhibin forms have not been evaluated in patients with hydatidiform mole (hm) before evacuation of the mole. a total of 17 patients with hydatidiform mole (n = 13), invasive mole (n = 1) or choriocarcinoma (n = 3) were studied; serum concentrations of inhibins a and b, human chorionic gonadotrophin (hcg) and its free beta subunit (hcgbeta) were measured before chemotherapy (after mole evacuation for eight patients) and also during the course of chemotherapy (for 10 patients). 
Is the fibronectin-aggrecan complex present in cervical disk disease? [SEP] to determine the presence of a fibronectin-aggrecan complex (fac) in the disk space of persons with chronic low back pain as relates to provocative diskography. the present study describes a novel complex of fibronectin and aggrecan that is present in the affected knee of patients with pain and meniscal abnormality. a novel fibronectin-aggrecan complex is present in the synovial fluid of painful knees with meniscal abnormality. the fibronectin-aggrecan complex may prove to be useful as a clinical biomarker or therapeutic target. to investigate the presence of inflammatory cytokines and the fibronectin-aggrecan complex (fac) in persons undergoing surgical treatment for cervical radiculopathy caused by disk herniation. fibronectin is a large fibril-forming extracellular glycoprotein that seems to be involved in joint diseases. positive reactions to fibronectin were found in normal and diseased disk tissues but to a different extent. normal disk tissues revealed weak fibronectin expression, which was mainly located along the collagen bundles. distinct reticular fibronectin structures were found inside the diseased disk, particularly nearby the newly formed blood vessels, tears, and clefts. the findings suggest that temporomandibular joint disk tissue can express fibronectin and that the expression is more pronounced in disk specimens of patients with internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint, supporting a role of this glycoprotein in the degeneration/regeneration processes of human temporomandibular joint disk tissue. 
Does peritoneal dialysis affect halitosis in patients with end-stage renal disease? [SEP] peritoneal dialysis is the most important home dialysis treatment for end stage renal diseases and needs personal involvement, and support from the family . this article examines the rationale and feasibility for starting peritoneal dialysis urgently in late-presenting end-stage renal disease patients and reviews the literature to compare the urgent-start peritoneal dialysis with conventional peritoneal dialysis and urgent-start haemodialysis. peritoneal dialysis is an effective treatment modality for patients with end-stage renal disease. in this review, challenges and solutions are addressed regarding the pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of peritoneal dialysis-related peritonitis from the viewpoint of an infectious disease physician. however, the potential complications associated with longer-term therapy, such as ultrafiltration failure or encapsulating peritoneal sclerosis, have led to raise some concern about peritoneal dialysis as an adequate mode of treatment of end-stage renal disease in the long term. in the last decade, a substantial amount of information has been gathered on the characteristics of the peritoneal membrane at the onset of peritoneal dialysis, and on the anatomical and pathophysiologic changes that occur with long-term peritoneal dialysis. participants with end-stage renal disease who were treated with nocturnal automated peritoneal dialysis for at least 3 months were recruited from a hospital-based dialysis center. there are various causes of halitosis, one of which is chronic renal failure. the objective of this study was to investigate halitosis levels in end-stage renal disease (esrd) patients before and after peritoneal dialysis (pd) therapy. the presence of halitosis was assessed using an organoleptic measurement and compared with blood urea nitrogen (bun) levels and salivary flow rates. 
Can elevated troponin I levels predict complicated clinical course and inhospital mortality in patients with acute pulmonary embolism? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the value of elevated cardiac troponin i (ctni) for prediction of complicated clinical course and in-hospital mortality in patients with confirmed acute pulmonary embolism (pe). whether elevated serum troponin levels identify patients with acute pulmonary embolism at high risk of short-term mortality or adverse outcome is undefined. we performed a meta-analysis of studies in patients with acute pulmonary embolism to assess the prognostic value of elevated troponin levels for short-term death and adverse outcome events (composite of death and any of the following: shock, need for thrombolysis, endotracheal intubation, catecholamine infusion, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, or recurrent pulmonary embolism). elevated troponin levels were significantly associated with short-term mortality (odds ratio [or], 5.24; 95% ci, 3.28 to 8.38), with death resulting from pulmonary embolism (or, 9.44; 95% ci, 4.14 to 21.49), and with adverse outcome events (or, 7.03; 95% ci, 2.42 to 20.43). elevated troponin levels were associated with a high mortality in the subgroup of hemodynamically stable patients (or, 5.90; 95% ci, 2.68 to 12.95). elevated troponin levels identify patients with acute pulmonary embolism at high risk of short-term death and adverse outcome events. it has been reported that right ventricular overload and hypoxia in acute pulmonary embolism may lead to right ventricular myocardium injury reflected by elevated cardiac troponin levels and that in patients with acute central sub-massive or non-massive pulmonary embolism, even mild increase in troponin i >0.03 mug/l may provide relevant short-term prognostic information independent to clinical, laboratory and echocardiographic data. elevated troponin concentrations are associated with greater morbidity and mortality in patients with pulmonary embolism. with the onset of right ventricular dilation and possible ischemia in acute pulmonary embolism, elevated serum troponins may be an early and reliable marker of right ventricular dysfunction. in acute pulmonary embolism, both right ventricular dysfunction by echocardiogram and elevated troponin levels have been shown to predict an adverse outcome. 
Is transurethral catheterisation the ideal method of bladder drainage? [SEP] bladder catheterisation is a routine part of major abdominal surgery. transurethral catheterisation is the most common method of bladder drainage but is also notorious for its discomfort and increased risk of urinary tract infection. the present study aimed to establish patient satisfaction with transurethral catheterisation and to assess the incidence of clinically significant urinary tract infections after transurethral catheterisation through survey. catheterisation is defined as 'drainage or aspiration of the bladder or urinary reservoir' and can be intermittent or indwelling. blood loss in transurethral resection of the prostate was measured in 31 patients and a comparison made between 12 who had required prolonged preoperative bladder drainage by indwelling urethral catheter and 19 who had not been catheterised. a prospective trial, comparing fine-bore suprapubic catheterisation and intermittent urethral catheterisation as methods of bladder drainage in the acute stage following spinal cord injury, was conducted. intravesical transurethral bladder stimulation is a rehabilitative and diagnostic technique for the neurogenic bladder. it appears that intravesical transurethral bladder stimulation may be helpful to determine diagnostically, the stimulus response of bladder function, and therapeutically, to rehabilitate the neurogenic bladder toward full control. however, when closed drainage was used in 25 consecutive cases of transurethral resection, infection was reduced to 25 per cent (in contrast to the 85 to 100 per cent encountered with open drainage). if this hypothesis is validated, methods of bladder drainage such as intermittent catheterisation, which do not require the use of chronic indwelling catheters, should be recommended, in order to minimise adverse histological changes in the mucosa of neuropathic bladder of spinal cord injury patients. 
The colour of pain: can patients use colour to describe osteoarthritis pain? [SEP] the aim of the present study was to explore patients' views on the acceptability and feasibility of using colour to describe osteoarthritis (oa) pain, and whether colour could be used to communicate pain to healthcare professionals. discussion topics included first impressions about using colour to describe pain, whether participants could associate their pain with colour, how colours related to changes to intensity and different pain qualities, and whether they could envisage using colour to describe pain to healthcare professionals. a range of colours was chosen to represent changes in pain intensity. aching pain was consistently identified as being associated with colours such as grey or black, whereas sharp pain was described using a wider selection of colours. the majority of participants thought that they would be able to use colour to describe their pain to healthcare professionals, although issues around the interpretability and standardization of colour were raised. for some patients, using colour to describe their pain experience may be a useful tool to improve doctor-patient communication. patients at the royal free hospital are being asked to colour code their pain according to severity. the aim of this study was to determine the colour of pain presence and absence. description of pain with colour can be useful tool to recognize the children and to improve dentist-patient or dentist-parents communication. pain experience was assessed using the coloured analogue scale for the assessment of pain intensity and pain affect, the faces pain scale, and the checklist of non-verbal pain indicators. 
Inpatient Pediatric Tonsillectomy: Does Hospital Type Affect Cost and Outcomes of Care? [SEP] to ascertain whether hospital type is associated with differences in total cost and outcomes for inpatient tonsillectomy. significant differences in costs, outcomes, and patient factors exist for inpatient tonsillectomy based on hospital type. although reasons for these differences are not discernable using isolated claims data, findings provide a foundation to further evaluate patient, institutional, and system-level factors that may reduce cost of care and improve value for inpatient tonsillectomy. tonsillectomy is the second most common inpatient procedure in us children. the objective of the study was to describe variation in us inpatient tonsillectomy costs and examine whether postoperative complications contribute to these disparities in costs. we studied pediatric patients who underwent tonsillectomy during 2003, 2006, 2009, and 2012. inpatient pediatric tonsillectomy. we found that hispanic patients, those with medicaid as their primary expected payer, and those treated at a designated children's hospital were 3 nonclinical factors independently associated with an increase in likelihood of receiving tonsillectomy as treatment. objective in this study, we aimed to determine the correlation between costs/charges related to admissions for pediatric tonsillectomy in new york state (nys) and variables including discharge year, all patient refined (apr) severity of illness, length of hospital stay, payment typology, location, race, and institutional factors during 2009-2017. we found that the costs and charges for inpatient pediatric tonsillectomy were significantly correlated with discharge year, apr severity of illness, length of hospital stay, location of the hospital, and primary payer. 
Does anterior laxity of the uninjured knee influence clinical outcomes of ACL reconstruction? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between the postoperative outcomes of anterior cruciate ligament (acl) reconstruction and the anterior laxity of the uninjured knee. anterior laxity of the uninjured knee was assessed preoperatively, and anterior laxity of the reconstructed knee was assessed at twenty-four months postoperatively. greater anterior laxity of the uninjured knee was associated with poorer stability and functional outcomes after acl reconstruction. excessive anterior laxity of the uninjured knee thus appears to represent a risk factor for inferior outcomes. both acl-injured and uninjured subjects reduced anterior knee laxity at the same rate with increases in muscle activity. excessive physiological anterior and rotational knee laxity is thought to be a risk factor for noncontact anterior cruciate ligament (acl) injuries and inferior reconstruction outcomes, but no thresholds have been established to identify patients with increased laxity. a total of 171 healthy contralateral knees of noncontact acl-injured patients (acl-h group) and 104 healthy knees of control participants (ctl group) were tested for anterior and rotational laxity. the acl-h group displayed greater laxity scores for anterior displacement and internal rotation in their uninjured knee compared with the ctl group (p < .05). the healthy contralateral knees of patients with noncontact acl injuries display different laxity values both for internal rotation and anterior displacement compared with healthy control knees. the results indicate that there is also a change in mechanics of the noninjured knee following injury to the contralateral knee and that this population of patients with acl deficiency had good control over their abnormal anterior-posterior laxity. 
Is the type of remission after a major depressive episode an important risk factor to relapses in a 4-year follow up? [SEP] rates of relapse and predictive relapse factors were studied over more than 4 years in a sample of spanish outpatients with dsm-iii-r criteria for unipolar major depressive episode. the four factors with predictive relapse value were: "partial remission versus complete remission", "the intensity of clinical symptoms", "the age" and "the number of previous depressive episodes". partial remission after a depressive episode seems to be an important predictive factor for relapses in a 4-year follow-up. not reaching complete remission is a strong risk factor for relapses in a 4-year follow up study. partial remission was significantly associated with relapses. partial remission after a depressive episode seems to be strongly associated with relapses. recurrently depressed patients (n = 187) currently in remission following various types of treatment were randomized to treatment as usual, including continuation of pharmacotherapy, or to treatment as usual augmented with brief ct. relapse/recurrence to major depression was assessed over 2 years. further understanding of factors predisposing to relapse/recurrence in recovered patients may help to shorten the potentially lifelong course of depression. despite the availability of many effective treatments, patients with major depression remain at risk for relapse following remission of a depressive episode. our results suggest that greater initial depression severity, greater difficulty in stabilizing symptoms, and presence of residual mood spectrum symptoms once remission is achieved are predictive of relapse. 
Prostate-specific antigen and free prostate-specific antigen in the early detection of prostate cancer: do combination tests improve detection? [SEP] these findings provide a rationale for broader validation studies to determine whether %[-2]proenzyme prostate specific antigen alone can replace other molecular prostate specific antigen assays (such as percent free prostate specific antigen) for improving the accuracy of prostate cancer early detection. this study describes the value of using the fraction of free prostate-specific antigen as a further marker in the early detection of prostate cancer. prostate specific antigen and free prostate specific antigen have limited specificity to detect clinically significant, curable prostate cancer, leading to unnecessary biopsy, and detection and treatment of some indolent tumors. specificity to detect clinically significant prostate cancer may be improved by [-2]pro-prostate specific antigen. in this population we compared the performance of prostate specific antigen, % free prostate specific antigen, [-2]propsa and phi to predict biopsy results and, specifically, the presence of clinically significant prostate cancer using multiple criteria. newly discovered isoforms of free psa also may impact early detection of prostate cancer with encouraging preliminary results that warrant further clinical investigation. percent free prostate specific antigen and prostate specific antigen density have been independently shown to increase the specificity of prostate cancer screening in men with prostate specific antigen levels between 4.1 and 10.0 ng/ml. we assessed the influence of percent free prostate specific antigen and prostate volume on cancer detection in men with a prostate specific antigen between 2.6 and 10.0 ng/ml. advances achieved in research on the discriminative power of the free prostate-specific antigen forms, particularly pro-prostate-specific antigen, have progressed and may be introduced in cancer detection at low prostate-specific antigen levels rather than a further reduction of the current prostate-specific antigen threshold. free prostate-specific antigen sub-forms offer prospects for prostate cancer detection at low prostate-specific antigen levels. 
Can homemade alcohol (Raksi) be useful for preserving dead bodies? [SEP] embalming is the through disinfection and art of preserving bodies after death using chemical substances. it keeps a body life like in appearance during the time it lies in a state prior to funeral. this study was undertaken to investigate the effectiveness of raksi in sacrificed rats in arresting postmortem changes and establishing scientific fact whether raksi can be an alternative to standard embalming constituent if it is not available. raksi and distilled water were injected for embalming purpose intraventricularly in experiment and control groups of rats respectively and kept for 48 to 96 hours for observation for postmortem changes. observations made at 48 and 72 hours of embalming revealed that raksi can arrest postmortem changes in the rats up to 72 hours (3rd day) successfully in the experimental group whereas moderate to severe postmortem changes were seen in the control group. the raksi used in this experiment contained 34% of alcohol, which was determined by an alcohol hydrometer. experiment clearly demonstrated from its result that raksi can be utilised temporarily for embalming since it contains alcohol and has preservative, bactericidal and disinfectant properties. it is concluded from the study that this knowledge if applied to dead human subjects, may preserve dead bodies temporarily allowing delayed funeral. the primary aim of this article is to explore and describe the production and consumption of homemade alcohol and its associated challenges in relation to implications for social work practice. this study explores the practicability and usability of the cling film plastic wrap on the dead body with decomposition changes, whereby the feasibility of wrapping the remains to ensure the containment of the decomposition fluid within the cling film plastic wrap. 
Do elderly cancer patients have different care needs compared with younger ones? [SEP] this study investigated needs and psychological distress perceived by and/or quality of life of elderly cancer patients. the needs and the psychological distress perceived by the elderly patients were comparable with those perceived by relatively younger patients, although elderly patients perceived fewer sexual needs. only a few differences in the needs and the psychological distress perceived by patients existed between the elderly and the younger subjects, although some differences in the quality of life domains were noted, probably as a result of the influence of aging itself. medical staff should provide elderly cancer patients with good clinical care similar to that provided to younger patients while considering the different impacts of aging on each quality of life dimension. malnutrition is prevalent in elderly patients with cancer, and more frequent than in younger patients. physicians should not view age as an indicator of poor icu outcome, as many elderly patients with cancer will derive the same benefit from intensive care as their younger counterparts. the aging of the world's population increasingly calls on older people to care for their cancer relatives. breast cancer is most common in the elderly and their needs are distinctly different from their younger counterparts. the main issues affecting the elderly breast cancer patient are discussed within this overview. elderly patients treated with chemotherapy had a significantly longer median survival time than those choosing best supportive care (274 vs. 86 days, p < 0.0001); a significantly greater proportion of elderly patients chose best supportive care compared to younger patients (47.8 vs. 25.8%, p < 0.0001). 
Is breast cancer survival improving? [SEP] non-breast-cancer relative survival among breast carcinoma patients has improved significantly since 1973; breast cancer patients are currently no more likely to die of other causes than the general population. this study shows that relative survival of patients aged 65-75 years with advanced breast cancer has improved, and concurrently, prescription of systemic treatment increased. improvements in non-diagnostic factors, such as patient treatment and management, appear to be the main influence on recent survival increases for breast and colorectal cancers. despite advances in therapies for breast cancer, improvement in survival for patients with recurrent or metastatic breast cancer has been difficult to establish. the objective of the current study was to determine whether the survival of women with recurrent breast cancer has improved from 1974 to 2000. for these cohorts of patients, the authors present data suggesting that the prognosis for patients with recurrent breast cancer improved between 1974 and 2000. assessing trends in breast cancer survival among young women who are largely unaffected by breast cancer screening will provide important information regarding improvements in the effectiveness of cancer care for breast cancer in the last few decades. among women with breast cancer, 5-year breast-cancer-specific survival increased significantly from 74.0% during 1975 to 1979 to 88.5% during 2010 to 2015 (hazard ratio for dying from breast cancer for 2010-2015 vs 1975-1979, 0.37; 95% ci, 0.32-0.41). the increase in cancer-specific survival reached a plateau in 2005; however, among young women with metastatic breast cancer, it continued to increase after 2005, from 45.6% during 2005 to 2009 to 56.5% during 2010 to 2015 (hazard ratio for dying from breast cancer for 2010-2015 vs 2005-2009, 0.74; 95% ci, 0.60-0.92). there were substantial improvements in the effectiveness of breast cancer treatment on overall and cancer-specific survival from 1975 to 2015. 
Can common carotid intima media thickness serve as an indicator of both cardiovascular phenotype and risk among black Africans? [SEP] the linear association of ancestry and subclinical cvd suggests that genetic effects may be important in determining cac and carotid intima media thickness among african-americans. it is not known whether common carotid intima media thickness (cimt) can serve as a surrogate marker of cardiovascular risk among black africans. increased carotid intima-media thickness is associated with higher cardiovascular disease risk. this study aimed to evaluate the contributions of cardiovascular risk factors and inheritance to segment-specific carotid intima-media thickness. the cardiovascular risk factors significantly associated with carotid intima-media thickness were as follows: in men, alcohol use (bifurcation); physical activity (common and internal); bmi (all segments); diabetes (bifurcation and internal); hypertension (internal); and hdl-cholesterol (common and bifurcation); and in women, smoking (bifurcation), hypertension (common), total and ldl cholesterol (bifurcation and internal), and hs-crp (common and internal). individual cardiovascular risk factors were differentially associated with carotid intima-media thickness by segments and sex. uk black african-caribbean adults have higher risks of stroke than white europeans and have been shown to have increased carotid intima-media thickness (cimt). the combined thickness of the intima and media of the carotid artery is associated with the prevalence of cardiovascular disease. we studied the associations between the thickness of the carotid-artery intima and media and the incidence of new myocardial infarction or stroke in persons without clinical cardiovascular disease. the incidence of cardiovascular events correlated with measurements of carotid-artery intima-media thickness. 
Delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations: are current guidelines sufficient? [SEP] the aim of this study was to highlight the timing of diagnosis of anorectal malformations and the morbidity and mortality associated with any delay. we retrospectively reviewed all patients with anorectal malformations presenting to the children's hospital, leicester between 1998-2005. despite the established, routine, systematic pre-discharge examination in all neonates, a significant proportion of anorectal malformations are not diagnosed at this time. to clarify the extent of delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations and the consequences of delaying this diagnosis. delays in the diagnosis of anorectal malformations are much more common than previously thought. to determine the frequency and presenting features of infants with delayed diagnosis of anorectal malformations (arm) referred to an australian tertiary paediatric institution. the aim of this study is to determine the consequences of delayed presentation of anorectal malformations and emphasize the causes of delayed diagnosis of these malformations. we retrospectively reviewed 54 neonatal patients with a diagnosis of anorectal malformations. we reviewed our experience of anorectal malformations, with particular emphasis on the timing of diagnosis. a retrospective study of all patients diagnosed with anorectal malformation in our institute from 1986-2008 was performed. 
Is being small for gestational age a risk factor for retinopathy of prematurity? [SEP] to evaluate the incidence, risk factors and severity of retinopathy of prematurity in neonatal intensive care unit and to evaluate its relationship with gestational age. cohort study of neonates with gestational age ≤ 32 weeks or birthweight ≤ 1500 g. of the 495 neonates screened, 43 (8.7%) infants were small for gestational age; the frequency of severe retinopathy of prematurity was 5.8%. sepsis and being small for gestational age were independent risk factors for severe retinopathy of prematurity. clinicians should be aware of the presence of presence of retinopathy of prematurity when caring for protein small for gestational age infants. significant risk factors for retinopathy of prematurity treatment were low gestational age, small for gestational age, male gender, and multiple birth. retinopathy of prematurity is a disease of the eye which affects the blood vessels of the retina and represents the most important cause of blindness and low vision in children worldwide. low birth weight was an independent risk factor for the development of retinopathy of prematurity. early neonatal care and transportation of premature infants may influence the occurrence and prognosis of retinopathy of prematurity. in the period from september 1983 until june 1986 a prospective study was carried out to determine the incidence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity in inborn infants of less than 1500 g at birth and the risk factors associated with the development of retinopathy of prematurity in infants of less than 31 weeks' gestation. altogether 140 infants of less than 1500 g birth weight were examined, 42 (30%) of whom developed retinopathy of prematurity. 
Comparative safety of infliximab and etanercept on the risk of serious infections: does the association vary by patient characteristics? [SEP] infliximab, a chimeric monoclonal anti-tnfα antibody, has been found to increase the risk of serious infections compared with the tnf receptor fusion protein etanercept in some studies. using a cox model, we estimated the propensity-score-adjusted hazard ratio (hr) and 95% confidence interval (ci) of serious infections requiring hospitalization or opportunistic infections comparing infliximab initiators to etanercept initiators. an increased risk of serious infections associated with infliximab relative to etanercept did not appear to be modified by patients' sex, race/ethnicity, body mass index, or smoking status. a higher risk for serious infections was noted with infliximab than with abatacept, adalimumab, or etanercept in ra. infections and allergic reactions appear more often with infliximab, while serious infections did not differ among them. to analyse whether the risk of serious infections in patients with ra treated with an anti-tnf inhibitor is different for adalimumab, infliximab and etanercept. the risk of serious infections was significantly lower in etanercept than in both infliximab (adjhr=0.49 (95% ci 0.29 to 0.83)) and adalimumab (adjhr=0.55 (95% ci 0.44 to 0.67)). the risk of serious infections in patients with ra treated with adalimumab or infliximab was similar, while the risk of serious infections in patients with ra treated with etanercept was lower than with both adalimumab and infliximab. for patients receiving etanercept, those receiving infliximab, and controls, the total numbers of serious adverse events per 100 patient-years were 6.4 (95% ci 4.5-9.1), 6.2 (95% ci 4.0-9.5), and 2.3 (95% ci 1.3-3.9), respectively (p = 0.0016). after adjusting for differences in the case patient mix, the relative risks of serious adverse events were 2.2 (95% ci 0.9-5.4) for patients receiving etanercept and 2.1 (95% ci 0.8-5.5) for patients receiving infliximab, compared with controls. 
Fast foods - are they a risk factor for asthma? [SEP] to evaluate if fast food consumption was associated with asthma in children, and if the proposed protective effect of breastfeeding on asthma was altered by fast food consumption. the association between asthma and fast food consumption was evaluated. fast food consumption is associated with asthma in children and potentially counteracts the protective effect of prolonged breastfeeding on asthma. recent cross-sectional studies suggested children's current fast food consumption to be related to frequency of asthma and allergies. these findings suggest that in utero exposure to frequent fast food through maternal diet may be a risk factor for asthmatic symptoms in young children. the study aimed to investigate the association between the frequency of fast food consumption with wheeze and asthma among adolescents. consumption of fast food as a risk factor was significantly associated with asthma (p=0.03).the prevalence of asthma and allergic diseases was high among schoolchildren in the city of bushehr, iran. also an association was observed between the fast food consumption and asthma. the fast food/sweet dietary pattern was associated with increased likelihood of having asthma [comparing high vs. low tertile, or for asthma = 1.25; 95% ci (1.02-1.54); p = 0.035]. the fast food/sweet dietary pattern was directly associated with the prevalence of asthma among adults in qatar. 
Can magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy improve cancer detection in enlarged prostates? [SEP] magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy has shown superior prostate cancer detection rates. however, magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy had a higher prostate cancer detection rate compared to that of transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy in the literature. magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy represents a promising solution for patients with suspicion of prostate cancer and an enlarged prostate. while magnetic resonance imaging-ultrasound fusion targeted biopsy allows for improved detection of clinically significant prostate cancer, a concerning amount of clinically significant disease is still missed. we report the results of repeat magnetic resonance imaging-ultrasound fusion targeted biopsy in men with continued suspicion for cancer and the institutional learning curve in the detection of clinically significant prostate cancer with time. given the limitations of prostate specific antigen and standard biopsies for detecting prostate cancer, we evaluated the cancer detection rate and external validity of a magnetic resonance imaging/transrectal ultrasound fusion guided prostate biopsy system used at the national institutes of health. magnetic resonance imaging/transrectal ultrasound fusion guided biopsy can improve prostate cancer detection. we compared the diagnostic outcomes of magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion and visually targeted biopsy for targeting regions of interest on prostate multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging. combining visually targeted biopsy and magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy may optimize the detection of prostate cancer. three-dimensional ultrasound-based magnetic resonance imaging/transrectal ultrasound fusion-targeted biopsy seems to be associated with a higher detection rate of clinically significant prostate cancer, with fewer cores than systematic random biopsy. 
Does normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion improve myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism for hypertrophied hearts? [SEP] normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion (nnsp) may improve myocardial perfusion. the present study was to determine whether nnsp improved myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism of hypertrophied hearts relative to normothermic normokalemic antegrade perfusion (nnap). normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion did not improve, but slightly impaired myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism of beating hypertrophied hearts relative to nnap. the purpose of this study was to determine whether retrograde continuous normothermic blood cardioplegic perfusion provides better protection to ischemic areas of the left and right ventricles than does antegrade continuous normothermic blood cardioplegic perfusion. retrograde continuous normothermic blood cardioplegic perfusion does not provide better protection to ischemic areas of the ventricles than does antegrade continuous normothermic blood cardioplegic perfusion under our experimental conditions. therefore, alternate antegrade/retrograde perfusion (a(a/r)p) may be a rational technique to preserve the hypertrophied hearts. we tested this hypothesis by subjecting canine hearts to 2 hours of either antegrade or retrograde perfusion with normothermic blood cardioplegia. these data suggest that ischemic metabolism and the subsequent alteration of myocardial function take place despite continuous retrograde perfusion with normothermic blood cardioplegia. we tested the hypothesis that retrograde perfusion could support myocardial metabolism over an extended donor ischemic interval. machine perfusion by either the antegrade or the retrograde technique can support myocardial metabolism over long intervals. 
Are there progressive brain changes in schizophrenia? [SEP] based on our findings we suggest that schizophrenia is a progressive brain disease. in conclusion, schizophrenia can be considered as a progressive brain disease with brain volume abnormalities that are for a large part influenced by genetic factors. these findings suggest that the disease process of schizophrenia is associated with progressive effects on brain structure and that brain structures that receive direct, excitatory connections from the cortex may be more likely to show progressive changes, compared with brain structures that receive indirect, inhibitory connections from the cortex. schizophrenia is associated with progressive brain changes, including progressive brain tissue decreases and lateral ventricular volume increases for up to at least 20 years after disease onset. numerous imaging studies have revealed structural brain changes in schizophrenia. the progressive brain changes present in chronic schizophrenia may represent a continuous pathophysiological process taking place in the brains of these patients that warrants further study. there is convincing evidence that schizophrenia is characterized by progressive brain volume changes during the course of the illness. before being able to intervene with therapies and prevent the brain from shrinking, one has to understand the underlying mechanism of the progressive changes in the brains of schizophrenia patients. there is considerable variation in progressive brain volume changes in schizophrenia. heterogeneity in progressive brain volume changes in schizophrenia is particularly associated with variation in disorganization. 
Does concept mapping enhance learning outcome of nursing students? [SEP] the results provide preliminary evidence that the concept mapping approach can be useful to help mental health nursing students visualise their learning progress and encourage the integration of theoretical knowledge with clinical knowledge. using concept maps in nurse education improves students' critical thinking skills. to examine the effects of web-based concept mapping education on nursing students' concept mapping and critical thinking skills. the students reported that concept maps facilitated their learning and management of nursing processes but that they occasionally experienced difficulty. findings indicated that concept mapping significantly improved students' abilities to see patterns and relationships to plan and evaluate nursing care, and most students (21/23) expressed satisfaction in using the strategy. this study supported concept mapping as an additional learning strategy and has extended knowledge in community-based nursing education. application of concept mapping as a tool in nursing education. to highlight the use of concept mapping as a method for advanced learning in nursing education. literature from nursing and general education, instructor and student experiences, and opinions from using concept maps as a method of teaching/learning. the results of this study support the use of concept maps as an effective teaching-learning activity and support concept mapping as an evidence-based nursing education strategy. 
Is the Androgen Deficiency of Aging Men (ADAM) questionnaire useful for the screening of partial androgenic deficiency of aging men? [SEP] we investigated the validity of an arabic version of the saint louis university androgen deficiency in ageing men (adam) questionnaire to screen for androgen deficiency in saudi and non saudi arabic speaking men. the arabic adam questionnaire has a very good sensitivity but very low specificity for screening of androgen deficiency in saudi men, therefore biological confirmation is needed especially when clinical symptoms of androgen deficiency are present. a 10-question screening questionnaire for androgen deficiency in aging men (adam) was reported in previous white but not chinese populations. we therefore investigated the validity of a chinese version of the saint louis university adam questionnaire to screen for androgen deficiency in chinese men. clinical symptoms of androgen deficiency were assessed using the androgen deficiency in the aging male (adam) questionnaire. the androgen deficiency in ageing males (adam) and the ageing males' symptoms rating scale (ams) questionnaires. these were used to evaluate a questionnaire for androgen deficiency in aging males (adam). in addition, the adam questionnaire appears to be a reasonable screening questionnaire to detect androgen deficiency in males over 40 years of age. androgen deficiency in the ageing male (adam) was proposed to characterize a symptom cluster of decrease in sexual function and strength, dysphoria and osteopenia in ageing men with decreased levels of androgens. both groups were inquired to answer the androgen deficiency for aging male (adam) questionnaire. 
Does the Transmissible Liability Index (TLI) assessed in late childhood predict suicidal symptoms at young adulthood? [SEP] our previous work demonstrated that the transmissible liability index (tli), an instrument designed as an index of liability for substance use disorder (sud), is associated with risk of substance use disorder. this longitudinal study assessed whether tli measured in 10-12-year-olds (late childhood) predicts suicidal behavior from age 12-14 (preadolescence) to age 25 (young adulthood). we hypothesized that tli would predict number and severity of suicide attempts. tli was significantly associated with number and severity of lifetime suicide attempts. these findings confirm the hypothesis that tli assessed at late childhood is a predictor of frequency and severity of suicidal behavior from preadolescence to young adulthood. transmissible liability index (tli), developed employing a high-risk design and item response theory, enables quantification of the latent trait of liability to drug use disorders (dud) in children. the properties of tli, including its psychometric characteristics, longitudinal risk assessment and ethnic variation, were examined. our previous results have demonstrated that a measure called transmissible liability index (tli) assessed during pre-adolescent years serves as a significant predictor of risk for substance use disorder among young adults. we have conducted a longitudinal etiology study (cedar) to assess whether an index of behavioral undercontrol called the transmissible liability index (tli) measured during preadolescence serves as a predictor of the development of substance use disorders (sud) and of treatment utilization during young adulthood. the transmissible liability index (tli) was administered to four hundred eighty-three 10 to 12-year-old boys (baseline). 
Are there gender differences in the reasons why African Americans delay in seeking medical help for symptoms of an acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] to identify gender differences in delay time and the reasons why african americans delay in seeking medical care for symptoms of acute myocardial infarction (ami). in addition, the study was designed to identify whether women delayed longer than men, and whether african americans delayed longer than non-hispanic whites during an acute myocardial infarction. african americans have been shown to have longer delay times than the majority population in seeking care for acute cardiac problems. delays in seeking treatment for signs and symptoms of acute myocardial infarction are longer for african americans than for whites. to determine factors associated with prolonged delay and the extent to which perceived racism influences prehospital delay in african americans with acute myocardial infarction. after adjusting for age, gender, medical history, signs and symptoms, and hospital, african americans were half as likely to develop acute myocardial infarction and were 60% as likely to have acute cardiac ischemia. understand the meaning of delayed treatment seeking in african-american women with unstable angina and myocardial infarction. to investigate the effect of heart-related medical conditions and demographic variables on patients' tendency to delay contacting emergency medical services for symptoms of acute myocardial infarction. interventions need to be developed that are targeted at populations at risk for delaying use of emergency medical services for acute myocardial infarction symptoms. we examined factors associated with delay in seeking emergency medical attention for acute ischemic symptoms in a sample of predominantly african american women. 
Does histologic chorioamnionitis correspond to clinical chorioamnionitis? [SEP] to determine the maternal and neonatal outcomes of histological chorioamnionitis amongst pregnant women and their babies. to estimate the rate of histologic chorioamnionitis in the presence of diagnosed clinical chorioamnionitis and determine whether clinical markers of maternal and neonatal infection are associated with histologic chorioamnionitis. crp was moderately predictive of histological chorioamnionitis. histological chorioamnionitis or "intrauterine inflammation or infection" (triple i) it is an acute inflammation of amniotic membrane, chorionic plate and umbilical cord. to assess in the event of the clinical predictive factors associated to histological chorioamnionitis. our study confirmed the predominance of histological chorioamnionitis lesions in clinically suspected cases of chorioamnionitis with 72% versus 22% in the controls group.among the clinical parameters studied, only the premature rupture of the membranes was shown a statistically significant association with the appearance of histological signs of chorioamnionitis.in conclusion, chorioamnionitis is sometimes clinically silent. fetal histological chorioamnionitis was analyzed as a subgroup. histological chorioamnionitis was associated with slightly less optimal performance at 5 years of age, but further studies are needed to verify the clinical significance of these findings. it is unclear, however, whether a diagnosis of clinical chorioamnionitis is sufficient to establish a diagnosis of histological chorioamnionitis. the aim of this study was to evaluate the predictive value of clinical chorioamnionitis in the diagnosis of histological chorioamnionitis in extremely premature infants. 
Are lifetime prevalence of impetigo, molluscum and herpes infection really increased in children having atopic dermatitis? [SEP] cutaneous infections such as impetigo contagiosum (ic), molluscum contagiosum (mc) and herpes virus infection (hi) appear to be associated with atopic dermatitis (ad), but there are no reports of concrete epidemiological evidence. although no scientific evidence has yet been published, it is widely understood that molluscum contagiosum tends to be more common and more intense in patients with atopic dermatitis. to evaluate the prevalence of the association between atopic dermatitis and molluscum contagiosum; to evaluate whether molluscum contagiosum is more likely to be recurrent and/or disseminated in patients with atopic dermatitis and whether the occurrence of eczema surrounding the molluscum contagiosum lesions, pruritus and/or infection is more prevalent in these patients compared to patients without atopic dermatitis. a total of 284 children of both sexes with a diagnosis of molluscum contagiosum and/or atopic dermatitis were evaluated. the number of anatomical areas affected by molluscum contagiosum and the occurrence of surrounding eczema and pruritus was greater in the patients who also had atopic dermatitis. the number of anatomical areas affected by the molluscum contagiosum lesions and the presence of surrounding eczema and pruritus were higher in the patients with atopic dermatitis. certain infections such as kaposi's herpetic eruption, impetigo, recurrent cutaneous herpes simplex and warts are more frequent in subjects with atopic dermatitis. atopic dermatitis patients had higher odds of multiple bacterial, viral, fungal, and sexually transmitted skin infections. mc cases were more likely to have a prior or co-occurring diagnosis of eczema, eczema or dermatitis, impetigo, and scabies (p<0.05) compared to controls; 51.4% of mc cases had a prior or co-occurring diagnosis of eczema or dermatitis. due to compromised barrier function and immune dysregulation, children with atopic dermatitis (ad) are at increased risk of cutaneous infections, yet no literature has been published on disseminated bullous impetigo (dbi) in children with atopic dermatitis (ad). 
Does sonographic needle guidance affect the clinical outcome of intraarticular injections? [SEP] we studied whether sonographic needle guidance affected the outcomes of intraarticular (ia) injection for inflammatory arthritis. relative to conventional palpation-guided methods, sonographic guidance for injection of inflammatory arthritis resulted in an 81% reduction in injection pain (p < 0.001), 35% reduction in pain scores at outcome (p < 0.02), 38% increase in the responder rate (p < 0.003), 34% reduction in the non-responder rate (p < 0.003), 32% increase in therapeutic duration (p = 0.01), 8% reduction ($7) in cost/patient/year, and a 33% ($64) reduction in cost/responder/year for a hospital outpatient (p < 0.001). sonographic needle guidance improves the performance, clinical outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of ia injections for inflammatory arthritis. this randomized controlled study addressed whether sonographic needle guidance affected clinical outcomes of intraarticular (ia) joint injections. sonographic needle guidance significantly improves the performance and outcomes of outpatient ia injections in a clinically significant manner. the present randomized controlled study investigated whether sonographic needle guidance affected the outcomes of intra-articular injection for osteoarthritis of the knee. sonographic needle guidance reduced procedural pain and improved the clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of intra-articular injections of the osteoarthritic knee. this randomized controlled study addressed whether sonographic needle guidance affected the outcomes of corticosteroid injection for symptomatic carpal tunnel syndrome. assessment of the success rate of ultrasound guided intra-articular sacroiliac joint injection. our findings indicate that the efficacy of intraarticular glucocorticoid injections varies according to ultrasound findings at the time of injection, supporting the use of ultrasound as a tool to select joints that will benefit from intraarticular injections. 
Pancreas retransplantation:  a second chance for diabetic patients? [SEP] this study aims at evaluating pancreas retransplantation outcome. pancreas retransplantation is a safe procedure with acceptable graft survival that should be proposed to diabetic patients who have lost their primary graft. nevertheless, pancreatic retransplantation should be considered in selected patients. pancreas retransplantation is an important option for patients, who lost their primary pancreatic grafts. we report a case of pancreas retransplantation in 51-year-old male with a history of type i diabetes mellitus of a 40-year duration, after skp 20 month before and graft pancreatectomy because of thrombosis 2 weeks after skp. this review summarizes the literature on pancreas retransplantations, comparing them with primary transplantations, and demonstrates that in selected patients in experienced centres, retransplantation can be a valid and effective option for returning the patient to an insulin-free state. therapeutic effects on secondary complications of diabetes justify pancreas retransplantation (re-pt) when the first graft is lost. we present our initial experience on re-pt performed on seven diabetic patients who lost their first pancreas grafts (pk) due to surgical complications (venous thrombosis in five and enteric fistula in two). this article describes the experience of pancreas retransplantation at a high-volume centre. pancreas retransplantation may be considered for patients whose previous graft has failed. 
Factors determining the survival of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with lung metastasis alone: does combined modality treatment benefit? [SEP] nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) with lung metastasis alone has been reported as a relatively favorable prognostic group, and combined modality treatment might be indicated for selected cases. age ≤ 45 years, dfi > 1 year, and the combined therapy were good prognostic factors for npc patients with lung metastasis(es) alone. there is no agreement on the optimal management of patients initially presenting with metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma. the current m1 stage in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) does not differentiate patients based on metastatic site and number of metastases. due to the critical role of inflammation in nasopharyngeal carcinoma, we aim to investigate the correlation between nasopharyngeal carcinoma prognosis and the levels of tumor necrosis factor α and macrophages for the development of new prognostic models. interestingly, the t_score model, which considered the tumor necrosis factor α level alone, could better predict the distant metastasis-free survival and bone metastasis-free survival, whereas the mt model, which considered the combination of t stage and cd68-positive macrophage level, could better predict the cancer-specific survival and disease-free survival of patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. we report a case of nasopharyngeal carcinoma, initial stage t4n0m0, diagnosed in 1985 in a patient aged 36 years who received 70 gy radiotherapy to the head and neck region. prolonged survival after mainly thoracic metastasis is possible in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma, especially if the tumor is chemo-responsive. the purpose of this retrospective study was to identify the independent prognostic factors and optimize the treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) patients with distant metastasis at initial diagnosis. the current study was conducted to examine the pattern and the predictive factors of distant metastases (dm) in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) after primary radiotherapy treatment. 
Do viral infections have a role in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo? [SEP] although head trauma, migraine, long-term bed rest, ménière disease, viral labyrinthitis, and upper respiratory tract infections are believed to be predisposing factors, most cases of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo are idiopathic. we describe three cases of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo attacks after non-otologic surgery (one patient after a nasal septoplasty and two patients after dental endodontic treatment) and discuss the pathophysiological mechanism of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo seen after non-otologic surgery, its diagnosis and treatment. viral infections, benign paroxysmal vertigo of childhood and migraine were the most common causes of vertigo accounting for approximately 65% of our patients. the clinical response (relief of vertigo) to the administration of antiviral medication in these syndromes provides practical evidence of a viral neuropathy in patients with recurrent vertigo. to study the characteristics of subjects with subjective benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. when excluding patients with migrainous vertigo, patients with migraine frequently had benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (66.7 per cent vs 55.8 per cent), although this finding was not statistically significant. we studied whether benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (bppv) could also be an explanation. when positive for benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, a repositioning maneuver was performed. we present temporal bone and clinical evidence that common syndromes of recurrent vertigo are caused by a viral infection of the vestibular ganglion. in the present series, histopathologic and radiologic changes in the vestibular ganglion and meatal ganglion were consistent with a viral inflammation of ganglion cells in cases of meniere's disease, benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, and vestibular neuronitis. 
Does the enteral feeding advancement affect short-term outcomes in very low birth weight infants? [SEP] we prospectively studied the influence of center-specific enteral feeding advancement in 1430 vlbw infants recruited from 13 tertiary neonatal intensive care units in germany on short-term outcome parameters. the major modifiable risk factors for necrotising enterocolitis in very low birth weight infants relate to enteral feeding regimens. observational studies suggest that conservative feeding regimens such as delaying the introduction of enteral feeds or slowly advancing feed volumes reduce the risk of necrotising enterocolitis to determine the effect of slow rates of enteral feed advancement on the incidence of necrotising enterocolitis, mortality and other morbidities in very low birth weight infants. the currently available data do not provide evidence that slow advancement of enteral feed volumes reduces the risk of necrotising enterocolitis in very low birth weight infants. this randomized controlled trial was conducted in neonatal intensive care unit (nicu) of bangabandhu sheikh mujib medical university (bsmmu) from april 2013 to july 2014 to evaluate the effects of slow versus rapid rates of feeding advancements on the clinical outcomes in very low birth weight infants. rapid enteral feeding advancements were well tolerated by very low birth weight infants. early enteral feeding practices are potentially modifiable risk factors for necrotising enterocolitis in very preterm or very low birth weight (vlbw) infants. meta-analyses of randomised trials indicate that early trophic feeding within 48 h after birth and introduction of progressive enteral feeding before 4 days of life at an advancement rate above 24 ml/kg/day can be achieved in clinically stable very preterm and very low birthweight (vlbw) infants, without higher mortality or incidence of nec. early enteral feeding practices are potentially modifiable risk factors for necrotising enterocolitis in very preterm or very low birth weight (vlbw) infants. for low-birth-weight premature infants receiving parenteral fluids, to assess the effect of different rates of advancement of enteral feedings beginning at the same age on measures of feeding tolerance and neonatal outcome. 
Is late-night salivary cortisol a better screening test for possible cortisol excess than standard screening tests in obese patients with Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of the measurement of late-night salivary cortisol as a screening test for the diagnosis of cs in japan. late-night salivary cortisol levels in cs patients (0.975 +/- 1.56 microg/dl) were significantly higher than those in normal subjects (0.124 +/- 0.031 microg/dl) and in obese diabetic patients (0.146 +/- 0.043 microg/dl), respectively. therefore, it is concluded that the measurement of late-night salivary cortisol is an easy and reliable noninvasive screening test for the initial diagnosis of cs, especially useful for large high-risk populations, such as diabetes and obesity. to compare the performance, in terms of specificity for cortisol excess, of late-night salivary cortisol with 24-hour urine-free cortisol (24hr ufc) and overnight 1mg dexamethasone suppression test (1mg dst) in a group of obese t2dm patients. late-night salivary cortisol has a poor specificity for cortisol excess in obese patients with t2dm with 24 hr ufc showing significantly better specificity in our population. late-night salivary cortisol measurement is a simple and reliable screening test for spontaneous cushing's syndrome. in addition, late-night salivary cortisol measurements may simplify the evaluation of suspected intermittent hypercortisolism, and they may facilitate the screening of large high-risk populations (e.g. late-night salivary cortisol measurement is therefore a primary method of choice in the screening of patients suspected of having cushing's syndrome. given its convenience and diagnostic accuracy, late-night salivary cortisol may be added to other traditional screening tests on hypercortisolism. late-night salivary cortisol is a frequently used and easily implemented diagnostically valuable test for the diagnosis of overt cushing's syndrome. 
Does psychological distress predict disability? [SEP] specifically, answers to two research questions were sought: (a) does psychological distress reliably predict pain disability; and (b) do certain theoretically important host, sociodemographic, and health-related factors reliably predict pain disability? psychological distress, overall health, disease activity, and disease self-efficacy were found to predict pain disability. the aim of this study is to examine psychological distress and its individual symptoms between adults with and without disabilities, and among adults with disabilities, to examine whether an association exists between severity of distress and health-related factors. stepwise regression analysis to predict disability indicated physical disability was predicted by impairment and the interaction of impairment and psychological distress (r2=0.425; f=12.57; df=2, 34; p=0.002). psychological distress, and not impairment and the interaction of impairment and distress, was the single predictor of social disability (r2=0.274; f=13.23; df=1, 35; p=0.001). psychological distress was a moderator of the relation between impairment and physical disability and a mediator of the relation between impairment and social disability for individuals with facial neuromotor disorders. firstly, does chronic pain lead to impaired psychological health over time? disability was significantly correlated with psychological distress on univariate (r=0.445, p<0.001) and multivariate analysis (r=0.341, p=0.002). logistic regression was used to examine the risk of high levels of psychological distress in relation to cancer diagnosis and disability, adjusting for age, sex, income and education. the risk of psychological distress in individuals with cancer relates much more strongly to their level of disability than it does to the cancer diagnosis itself. 
Does preloading with colloids prevent hemodynamic changes when neurosurgical patients are subsequently changed to the seated position? [SEP] this prospective, randomized, double-blind study was designed to determine and compare the usefulness of preloading colloids (haemaccel) 10 ml/kg before positioning whether it can prevent hemodynamic changes during seated positioning or not. it is concluded that preloading colloid fluid prior to repositioning could prevent the decrease of systolic blood pressure and central venous pressure during sitting positioning without other complications. hemodynamic disturbances are common during positioning the patients from supine to sitting for neurosurgical procedures. the aim of the study was to study the effect of crystalloid preloading on hemodynamic parameters during positioning the patient from supine to sitting position. the role of volume preloading to prevent hemodynamic changes associated with spinal anaesthesia has been recently questioned. the objective of the study was to investigate the effects of volume preload on changes of patient's hemodynamic. on the basis of findings, it is concluded that volume preloading had no effect on the incidence of hypotension and bradycardia after spinal anaesthesia. the aim of the present study was to compare the effects of colloid and crystalloid preload on cardiac output (co) and incidence of hypotension in elderly patients under spinal anesthesia (sa). intravascular volume preload with colloid is more effective than crystalloid solution in maintaining co, which may be improved the hemodynamic stability in elderly patients during sa. although controversial, many studies have shown effectiveness of colloid loading as a substitute for crystalloids on reducing the incidence of hypotension in spinal anesthesia. 
Does continuous intravenous infusion of low-concentration epinephrine impair uterine blood flow in pregnant ewes? [SEP] an epinephrine infusion was given to demonstrate the appropriateness of the animal model for the measurement of uterine blood flow. this study examined the effects of intravenous infusion of epinephrine on uterine blood flow in the gravid ewe. epinephrine 15 micrograms decreased uterine blood flow to 68 +/- 14% of baseline (mean +/- sd). in gravid ewes, intravenous infusion of < or = 1.67 micrograms/min epinephrine altered neither maternal hemodynamics nor uterine blood flow. except for a transient 14 per cent decrease in uterine blood flow in the ewes receiving 2-chloroprocaine with epinephrine, uterine blood flow remained near control values and was sufficient at all times to maintain stable fetal acid-base and blood gas values. the responses of the common internal iliac artery and middle uterine artery of the pregnant horn to continuous infusions of graded doses of norepinephrine, epinephrine, dopamine, isoxsuprine, angiotensin and nitroprusside were investigated in chronically instrumental pregnant ewes. the effect of epinephrine given epidurally with local anesthetics on uterine blood flow is controversial. previous work in pregnant ewes demonstrated a transient but significant (14 per cent) decrease in uterine blood flow when 2-chloroprocaine with epinephrine (10 micrograms/l) was used. ten chronically instrumented pregnant ewes were studied to assess the effect of an epinephrine-induced decrease in uterine blood flow on the oxygen uptake of the uteroplacental-fetal tissue mass. continuous systemic infusion of epinephrine at a rate of 0.3 to 0.4 microgram per kilogram per minute produced a mean decrease in uterine blood flow of 42 per cent (288 +/- 15 to 157 +/- 8 ml.per kilogram per minute). 
Is there a first night effect on sleep bruxism? [SEP] polygraphic sleep laboratory recordings were done for 4 nights: the first night was habituation, the second, sleep bruxism diagnosis; and 3 and 4 were study nights. sleep and sleep bruxism variables were not significantly influenced by propranolol. under clonidine, duration of sleep stage 2 was prolonged, whereas rem sleep was suppressed in 14 of 16 subjects with sleep bruxism. this further supports the role of sympathetic activity in the pathophysiology of sleep bruxism. the results of this study suggest that when sleep bruxism is related to apnea/hypopneas, the successful treatment of these breathing abnormalities may eliminate bruxism during sleep. the first 2 nights were used for the habituation and diagnosis of sleep bruxism. sleep bruxism (sb) is reported to vary in frequency over time. the aim of this study was to assess the first night effect on sb. the american academy of sleep medicine (aasm) defines sleep bruxism as a stereotyped movement disorder characterized by clenching and grinding of the teeth during sleep. the aim of the present study was to identify bruxism during a night of sleep in a laboratory. 
Does menopausal transition affect the quality of life? [SEP] menopausal symptoms were associated with poorer quality of life, and both soc and maladaptive coping were found to mediate the effects of menopausal symptoms on quality of life. the results provide new insights into the importance of considering soc and coping strategies and their interactions with menopausal symptoms and quality of life in the situation of menopausal transition. the objectives of this study were to examine the effects of symptoms associated with the menopausal transition and early postmenopause on quality of life and to determine if there is a clustering of symptoms that has a larger effect on quality of life than individual symptoms. the symptoms found to most significantly affect quality of life are sleep disturbances, fatigue, and anxiety, suggesting that appropriate management of sleep disorders and anxiety may be beneficial to women undergoing the transition to postmenopause. in this study, symptoms commonly associated with the menopausal transition and early postmenopause negatively affect quality of life; however, the results indicate that quality of life in midlife women is affected by these symptoms only to a small extent. the aim of this study was to assess the impact of menopause, age, and women's symptoms and characteristics on quality of midlife. menopause-specific quality of life may be affected by both demographic and climacteric parameters. physical and psychological changes during menopausal transition may affect various aspects of everyday functioning including women's work ability and work productivity. presence of menopausal symptoms has been well-acknowledged to negatively affect quality of life (qol). quality of life and depression are impacted by the menopause transition for women with bipolar disorder. 
Can clinicians use the PHQ-9 to assess depression in people with vision loss? [SEP] to investigate whether the patient health questionnaire-9 (phq-9) possesses the essential psychometric characteristics to measure depressive symptoms in people with visual impairment. our findings demonstrate that the phq-9, when scaled with rasch analysis, forms a linear interval measurement of depressive symptoms suitable for use in a vision impaired population. we examined the prevalence of depression, using the patient health questionnaire - 2 (phq-2), among a group of older adults (n = 204; mean age = 82.15) at two senior living facilities (slfs) and determined the relationships between severity of depression and objective visual findings, visual function, beliefs about taking an active role in one's own eye care (i.e., patient activation) and level of social support. these data indicate the potential utility of screening for depression as part of vision care in populations likely to have significant vision loss. a validated version of the 9-item patient health questionnaire (phq-9) was administered as an indicator of probable depression. the self-reported 9-item patient health questionnaire (phq-9) has been used relatively widely to screen and monitor depression in epilepsy. this study aimed to evaluate the accuracy of the vietnamese patient health questionnaire (phq-9) as a screening tool for depression in people with epilepsy. the vietnamese version phq-9 is an efficient and valid screening tool for depression in people with epilepsy in clinic settings. in a descriptive hospital based study, we used patient health questionnaire (phq-9) to make diagnosis of depression among the patients. the polish version of phq-9 is a valid tool for diagnosing depression in the general population aged 35-64. 
Should all human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with end-stage renal disease be excluded from transplantation? [SEP] patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection are at risk of chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease. the aim is to encourage kidney transplantation in end-stage renal disease patients with well-controlled human immunodeficiency virus infection, especially in countries where the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus infection is high and the accessibility to transplantation is still limited. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patients have generally been excluded from transplantation. the great majority of u.s. renal transplant centers will not transplant kidneys to hiv-infected patients with end-stage renal disease, even if their infection is asymptomatic. renal transplantation (tx) in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infected patients with end stage renal disease (esrd) is increasingly performed in developed countries in the era of antiretroviral therapy (art). human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection in a patient with end-stage renal disease was considered a contraindication for renal transplantation till now despite the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy with the apprehension that immunosuppression would further jeopardize the already compromised immune status of the patients. human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection has long been a contraindication to kidney transplantation due to transplant immunosuppression, hiv-associated renal dysfunction, and nephrotoxicity associated with antiretroviral therapy (art). emerging data has shown that kidney transplantation may be a viable option for appropriately selected hiv patients with end-stage renal disease (esrd). presence of hiv infection used to be viewed as a contraindication to renal transplantation for multiple reasons; concerns for exacerbation of an already immunocompromised state by administration of additional immunosuppressants; the use of a limited supply of donor organs with unknown long-term outcomes. patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) are living longer, healthier lives on highly active antiretroviral therapy and, as a result, interest in kidney transplantation for hiv-infected patients with end-stage renal disease has increased. 
Is the 7th TNM edition suitable for biological predictor in early gastric cancer? [SEP] to investigate the validity of the 8th edition of the american joint committee on cancer (ajcc) tnm staging system for gastric cancer. the 8th edition of the ajcc tnm staging system is superior to the 7th edition for predicting the dss rates of gastric cancer patients. because of different prognosis of gastric cancer patients with the same t and n stages, the impossibility of n3 staging in patients with fewer than 15 removed lymph nodes, and the presence of stage migration phenomenon, the 6th edition tnm staging system for gastric cancer was updated to the 7th edition tnm staging system in 2009. despite the announcement of the 8th edition of tnm classification, the 7th edition (2010) is still being used for prognostic assessment in gastric cancer patients. the kiel staging system for gastric cancer appears promising in terms of simplicity, predictability and applicability and should be taken into consideration in future tnm revisions. the 8th edition of the tnm staging system is superior to the 7th edition staging system for prediction of survival of gastric cancer patients in china. the 8th tnm edition may not provide better accuracy in predicting the prognosis of stage iii gastric cancer. the study aimed to evaluate its predictive ability on survival and compare the difference between the 6th and 7th editions of ajcc tnm system in gastric carcinoma. the novel trm staging system predicts survival of gastric cancer more accurately than the 7th edition tnm system. the aims of this study were to compare the 7th and 8th editions of the american joint committee on cancer (ajcc) staging manuals on tumor, node, and metastasis (tnm) staging systems and to evaluate whether the 8th edition represents a better refinement of the 7th staging system, when applied for the classification of gastric cancers. 
Does growth hormone replacement therapy reduce mortality in adults with growth hormone deficiency? [SEP] growth hormone deficiency in adult life is associated with a number of adverse biological changes which include osteopenia, reduced exercise capacity, altered body composition, deleterious alterations in the lipid profile and insulin status, and reduced quality of life. description of the progresses related to the complications and treatment of adult-onset growth hormone deficiency. growth hormone deficiency in adults has gained attention as a clinical syndrome associated with increased morbidity and possibly mortality. many studies have been conducted on the consequences of growth hormone deficiency and of its replacement, supporting its use in appropriate patients. long-term prospective trials have shown that growth hormone replacement therapy results in improvements in body composition, dyslipidemia, bone mineral density, and quality of life. growth hormone deficiency patients exhibited reduced bone mineral density compared with healthy controls, but previous researches demonstrated uncertainty about the effect of growth hormone replacement therapy on bone in growth hormone deficient adults. the aim of this study was to determine whether the growth hormone replacement therapy could elevate bone mineral density in growth hormone deficient adults. our meta-analysis suggested that growth hormone replacement therapy could have beneficial influence on bone mineral density in growth hormone deficient adults, but, in some subject populations, the influence was not evident. the following are addressed in this commentary: the evidence on safety and efficacy in the literature supporting the idea that growth hormone should be offered as replacement therapy to adults who are growth hormone deficient; common concerns of the average prescribing endocrinologist, including the purported association between insulin-like growth factor-i and malignant neoplasms and quality-of-life issues with long-term therapy; and controversial subjects, such as differences in dosing for adults versus children and diagnostic issues. we demonstrate clinical and hemodynamic improvement of cardiac function with growth hormone replacement therapy despite underlying structural heart disease. 
Attaining negative margins in breast-conservation operations: is there a consensus among breast surgeons? [SEP] the purpose of this survey was to ascertain the most common surgical practices for attaining negative (tumor-free) surgical margins in patients desiring breast-conservation treatment for breast cancer to see if a consensus exists for optimal treatment of patients. results of this survey highlight the wide variety of practice patterns in the us for handling surgical margins in breast-conservation treatment. negative margins are associated with a reduced risk of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (ibtr) in women with early stage breast cancer treated with breast conserving surgery (bcs). for patients with breast cancer, a negative surgical margin at first breast-conserving surgery (bcs) minimizes the need for reoperation and likely reduces postoperative anxiety. the exact definition of an adequate surgical margin after breast cancer resection has long been debated among physicians and represents an area of considerable variation in clinical practice. since the emergence of breast conserving surgery (bcs) as an alternative to mastectomy in the 1980's, there has been little consensus on what constitutes acceptable margins for cases of invasive breast cancer, how best to evaluate margins in the operating room, or an understanding of the challenging process of margin assessment by pathologists. we prospectively assessed 42 patients undergoing oncoplastic breast conservation surgery for cosmetic and oncologic outcomes. the aim of the study was to summarize and update evidence on whether intra-operative ultrasonography (ious) guided breast conserving surgery (bcs) can be more effective than wire-guided or palpation-guided excision for both nonpalpable, as well as palpable breast cancers in achieving tumor free negative margins after lumpectomy for breast cancer. the findings support that intra-operative ultrasonography increases the chances of obtaining negative margins for tissue resected in breast conserving surgeries. margins in breast conserving surgery (bcs) have been a long standing subject debate. 
Can serum be used for analyzing the EGFR mutation status in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer? [SEP] serum proteomics and mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) and kras have been associated with benefit after therapy with egfr-targeted therapies in non-small cell lung cancer, but all three have not been evaluated in any one study. pretreatment serum proteomics predicts survival in western advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients with wild-type egfr and independent of kras mutation status. egfr mutation status from tumor samples and kras mutation status from serum samples were analyzed by genomic polymerase chain reaction and direct sequence, and egfr mutation status from serum samples was determined by the peptide nucleic acid-locked nucleic acid pcr clamp. egfr mutations were detected in the serum samples of 11 patients and in the tumor samples of 12 patients. mutant-enriched sequencing in serum may provide a non-invasive and sensitive method for detecting egfr mutation status in patients with unresectable nsclc. a study of patients with advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) evaluated epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation status and serum hepatocyte growth factor (hgf) for their associations with response to gefitinib therapy and prognostic impact. detection of epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutations occurred in 29.9% of non-selective, 36.5% of locally advanced or metastatic, and 42.1% of advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation status is a validated biomarker for the stratification of egfr-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (egfr-tkis) treatment in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc); however, its use is limited in patients with wild-type egfr, and new biomarkers are needed. dna was isolated from the serum of 52 turkish nsclc patients and their egfr mutation status was examined by pyrosequencing. these results confirm the utility of serum dna and pyrosequencing for the detection of egfr mutations in patients with advanced nsclc. 
Do Web-based and clinic samples of gay men living with HIV differ on self-reported physical and psychological symptoms? [SEP] this study aimed to compare two samples of gay men living with hiv, one recruited via the web and the other recruited in outpatient settings, in terms of self-reported physical and psychological symptom burden. the internet sample was recruited from a uk-wide web-based survey of gay men with diagnosed hiv. in a nationwide online survey, 1,135 australian gay men aged 40 years and older reported on their physical and mental health. compared with hiv-negative men, those with hiv were more likely to report currently receiving treatment for a mental health condition (37 vs. 25 %, p = 0.001), but no more likely to report treatment for a major physical health condition other than hiv (39 % vs. 40 %). with disparities between older hiv-positive and hiv-negative gay men greater for mental than physical health, more attention may need to be given to the psychological well-being of those living with hiv, particularly by addressing underlying psychosocial factors. we also investigated the possible role of hiv infection among gay men and higher rates of psychological distress among lesbians, gay men, and bisexually and homosexually experienced heterosexual individuals in generating these health disparities. gay men and bisexual and homosexually experienced heterosexual individuals had higher levels of psychological distress compared with exclusively heterosexual individuals. among men, differences in health complaints appeared to reflect the ongoing burden of hiv and other sexually transmitted diseases in the gay male community. to examine whether there were any ethnic-racial differences among 144 hiv-infected gay men (47 caucasian, 48 african-american, and 49 puerto rican) on psychological stressors related to the gay lifestyle, responses to the gay lifestyle hassles scale were analyzed. the results suggest that hiv-infected ethnic-minority gay men were more prone to psychological stress related to the gay lifestyle than hiv-infected caucasian gay men, which may have negative consequences for their mental and physical health. 
Are patients with diabetes receiving the same message from dietitians and nurses? [SEP] to describe the evolving and expanding role of nurse practitioners (nps) in providing diabetes medical nutrition therapy (mnt) as the united states faces epidemics of diabetes and obesity. the majority of people with diabetes are cared for by primary care providers; the role of nps as primary care providers is evolving and expanding. over 25% of nursing home residents have diabetes. nurses (registered nurses and registered practical nurses), registered dietitians and personal support workers (psws) provide the bulk of diabetes care in long-term care (ltc) homes, but their self-rated diabetes knowledge is poor. the approach is by way of trained diabetes teams consisting of physicians, dietitians and nurse educators at two tertiary institutional levels (teaching hospitals) who in turn trained teams consisting of physicians, dietitians or diettherapy nurses, nurse educators and pharmacists at regional and district/sub-regional levels to offer care and education to patients and the community. this paper describes the attitudes of physicians, nurses, and dietitians toward diabetes. also, the study found that the diabetes-related attitudes of nurses and dietitians were consistently more positive than the attitudes of physicians. we studied the prevalence of newly identified diabetes among hospital inpatients. baseline participants reported seeing a dietitian since diagnosis more often than they reported seeing an nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or medical social worker. nurses and dietitians specializing in diabetes care performed a range of responsibilities. 
Preparing patients at high risk of falls for discharge home after rehabilitation: Do we meet the guidelines? [SEP] to determine whether rehabilitation inpatients at high risk of falls receive adequate falls risk assessment, management and handover on discharge as per australian best practice guidelines. data extracted included falls risk identification during rehabilitation and in discharge documentation; falls risk factors assessed; and fall prevention strategies implemented. this randomised controlled trial aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a multi-factorial falls prevention program for stroke survivors who are at high risk of falling when they return home after rehabilitation. the aim of this study was to determine the feasibility and efficacy of a 6-month tele-rehabilitation home-based program, designed to prevent falls in older adults with 1 or more chronic diseases (cardiac, respiratory, neuromuscular or neurologic) returning home after in-hospital rehabilitation for their chronic condition. two hundred eighty-three patients (age 79 ± 6.6 years; f = 59%) with high risk of falls and discharged home after in-hospital rehabilitation were randomized to receive home-based program (intervention group, n = 141) or conventional care (control group, n = 142). (1) background: falls are a dangerous adverse event in patients discharged from rehabilitation units, with the risk of falling being higher in the first weeks after discharge. therefore, we have designed a post-discharge home-based physical rehabilitation intervention program to minimize disability and falls in this high-risk elderly population. this prospective, observational cohort study describes the association between pre-discharge home assessment and falls in the first month post-discharge from a rehabilitation hospital. pre-discharge occupational therapy home assessments are sound post-discharge falls-prevention strategies in non-neurological patients. if discharge to home is planned, the home environment should be assessed and modifications recommended to reduce the risk of falls and ensure independent functioning to the extent possible. 
Expression of c-kit protooncogen in hepatitis B virus-induced chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma: has it a diagnostic role? [SEP] to clarify the relationship between hepatitis c virus infection and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma as sequelae of non-a, non-b posttransfusion hepatitis, 231 patients with chronic non-a, non-b hepatitis (96 with chronic hepatitis, 81 with cirrhosis and 54 with hepatocellular carcinoma) were analyzed for antibody to hepatitis c virus and were compared with 125 patients with chronic hepatitis b (50 with chronic hepatitis, 46 with cirrhosis and 29 with hepatocellular carcinoma). these data suggest the slow, sequential progression from acute hepatitis c virus-related non-a, non-b hepatitis through chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma and support a causal association between hepatitis c virus and hepatocellular carcinoma. because of the conflicting results about c-kit expression in hcc and the key role played by c-kit in gastrointestinal stromal tumours (gist) and other solid tumours, the aim of this study was to determine c-kit expression in the course of hepatitis b infection. we performed immunohistochemistry on biopsies of 125 patients with hbv infection, grouped as: mild, moderate and severe hepatitis, cirrhosis and hcc, 25 patients in each of them, using anti c-kit monoclonal antibody. these results suggest that c-kit expression may be used as an early diagnostic indicator for hbv induced hcc. the purpose of this review is to address and discuss the following: a) the malignant transformation of hepatocytes may occur, irrespective of the etiologic agent, in the context of increased cellular turnover induced by chronic hepatic damage and regeneration, with genetic mutations being a frequent event prior to the development of this tumor; b) although it is clear that hepatitis b virus-induced chronic liver injury, regeneration and cirrhosis is a major risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma development, there are also several reports of the direct carcinogenic effects of hepatitis b virus. by immunolabeling for c-kit and cd34 in human hepatitis b virus-associated cirrhosis with hcc (50 cases) and those with cirrhosis alone (10 cases), we found c-kit+ tumor cells in tumor tissue in 40 of 50 hccs. the occurrence of oval cells, c-kit+ tumor cells, and c-kit+ sinusoidal cells in cases of human hepatitis b virus-associated hcc suggests that oval cell proliferation might be associated with the development of human hepatitis b virus-associated hcc. patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis had a higher percentage of hepatitis b virus markers than patients with cirrhosis without hepatocellular carcinoma. chronic hepatitis b and c virus infections are universally accepted as causes of hepatocellular carcinoma in humans. 
Longer term quality of life and outcome in stroke patients: is the Barthel index alone an adequate measure of outcome? [SEP] to consider whether the barthel index alone provides sufficient information about the long term outcome of stroke. the place of the barthel index as the standard outcome measure for populations of stroke patients is still justified for long term follow up, and may be a proxy for different outcome measures intended for the assessment of other domains. outcome 1 year after stroke was assessed with mailed self-report questionnaires to patients or providers with answers yielding information pertinent to the barthel index for physical disability, the reintegration to normal living index, and the zung depression index. it presents evidence in support of the use of the barthel index as a preferred measure of the activities of daily living function to report therapeutically meaningful and valid information of patient care and stroke rehabilitation outcomes in australia. it also presents the functional performance on the modified barthel index and the outcome of all 258 first stroke patients admitted for inpatient rehabilitation in brisbane, australia. using the barthel index as a measure of activities of daily living functions, the study then compares the performances and outcomes of stroke patients between australia, japan, the united kingdom and the united states of america. the primary outcome measures are barthel index and the stroke-specific quality of life. the purpose of this study was to compare disability and quality of life as measured by the stroke impact scale (sis) of stroke patients deemed recovered (barthel index > or =95) with 2 stroke-free populations of community-dwelling elderly. eighty-one stroke patients who participated in the kansas city stroke registry and achieved a barthel index of > or =95 at 3 months after stroke and 246 stroke-free subjects enrolled in the community elders study were enrolled in this study. in stroke rehabilitation the barthel index is the dominant outcome measure, followed by the functional independence measure and the frenchay activities index. 
Do women residents delay childbearing due to perceived career threats? [SEP] after adjusting for age, institution, postgraduate year, and knowledge of parental leave policies, women were less likely to plan to have children during residency (odds ratio 0.46 [95% confidence interval 0.25-0.84]). women residents intentionally postpone pregnancy because of perceived threats to their careers. residents were twice as likely as faculty members to view childbearing as a career barrier. external influences, even women resident colleagues, were perceived as evincing negative instead of encouraging attitudes toward childbearing during residency, though less so than men, both resident colleagues and faculty. more than half of all women surgeons delay childbearing until they are in independent practice, post-training. women in high-professional careers are more likely to delay childbearing while simultaneously possessing a stronger desire for motherhood. women who placed less value on career success were less likely to consider pregnancy planning important and were less optimistic about the success of delayed childbearing than their work-centric counterparts. in this study of 1827 women anesthesiologists, approximately 1 in 10 would counsel a student against a career in anesthesiology due to obstacles pertaining to motherhood, and this was associated with altering one's timing and number of children due to job demands. results: these women describe delaying childbearing for a multitude of reasons, including not having a partner, and the desire to achieve social and career goals. while employer programs may offer women the ability to delay childbearing, many saw this delay as postponing problems with work-life balance rather than solving them. 
Do general practitioner hospitals reduce the utilisation of general hospital beds? [SEP] to assess whether populations with access to general practitioner hospitals (gp hospitals) utilise general hospitals less than populations without such access. observational study comparing the total rates of admissions and of occupied bed days in general hospitals between populations with and without access to gp hospitals. gp hospitals seem to reduce the utilisation of general hospitals with respect to admissions as well as occupied bed days. practices with and without access to community hospitals were compared to determine whether such access was associated with a reduction in the use of beds in general medical, geriatric, and other specialties, and an increase in overall utilisation rates. this paper reviews literature related to general-practitioner hospital beds. only about 1% of these general-practitioner beds are located in a consultant hospital.in the discussion three questions are raised: will general-practitioner inpatient care have a useful function in the future? not all general practitioners have the option of community hospital beds. a special subcommittee of the general practitioner liaison committee of the birmingham regional hospital board used five attitude surveys of groups of general practitioners and a comprehensive study of other publications to determine the future role of the general practitioner in the hospital service.from these and other studies they concluded that, although not all general practitioners wished to participate in hospital work, there was an urgent need to provide suitable facilities and a proper career structure early after qualification for those who did, and that there should be hospital inpatient accommodation in which general practitioners can treat their own patients, preferably in association with consultant beds rather than in separate general-practitioner units. a survey of a one-in-seven sample of general practitioner hospitals in england and wales, performed to determine the contribution they make to overall hospital work load and the attitudes of the general practitioners working in them, showed that 3% of acute hospital beds in england and wales were in general practitioner hospitals, which provided initial hospital care for up to 20% of the population. with the availability of the hospital, the general practitioners were able to provide a higher proportion of terminal care for their patients than in areas where general practitioners did not have access to hospital beds. 
Some aspects of social exclusion: do they influence suicide mortality? [SEP] the current study is aimed to assess the relationship between the 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion and suicide mortality in europe. both 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion significantly influence suicide mortality among males. the influence of 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion on female suicide mortality is controversial. social exclusion might be considered as a risk factor for suicide mortality in europe. the aim of this study was to examine individual measures of material and social disadvantage in relation to suicide mortality in canada and to determine whether these relationships were modified by area deprivation. using the 1991-2001 canadian census mortality follow-up study cohort (n = 2,685,400), measures of individual social (civil status, family structure, living alone) and material (education, income, employment) disadvantage were entered into cox proportional hazard models to calculate hazard ratios (hr) and 95% confidence intervals (ci) for male and female suicide mortality. after accounting for individual and area characteristics, individual social and material disadvantage were associated with higher suicide mortality, especially for individuals not employed, not married, with low education and low income. social exclusion is associated with greater suicide risk and more needs to be known about the biological processes contributing to this association. at biological level, dysfunctional neural processing of social exclusion may participate in suicidal risk through an increased perception of social adversity in vulnerable subjects. this investigation aims to examine how social deprivation influences suicide mortality and to identify which related factors of deprivation have a higher potential to reduce suicide risk in urban and rural queensland, australia. 
Does parity increase insulin resistance during pregnancy? [SEP] this study was designed to determine whether pregnancy and increasing parity in women with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (1) increases the risk for diabetic nephropathy and (2) accelerates the progression of diabetic nephropathy. increasing parity may be a risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and the metabolic alterations during a normal pregnancy induces a prediabetic state; thus, multiple pregnancies may act as a risk factor for development of type 2 diabetes if these physiological alterations in glucose homeostasis are not reversed postpartum. to evaluate insulin requirements in women with type 1 diabetes during pregnancy and test whether parity affects insulin requirements. overall, insulin requirements increased significantly with parity. the data show changes in insulin requirements from week to week in pregnancy and indicate that insulin requirements increase with parity. this suggests that the patient's parity probably should be considered in choosing insulin dosages for pregnant women with type 1 diabetes. results suggest that greater iaat in parous women does not lead to greater insulin resistance; rather, transient insulin resistance during pregnancy may encourage intra-abdominal fat accumulation that is metabolically benign. to study the effect of parity on impairment of insulin sensitivity during pregnancy and on the risk of gestational diabetes (gdm). we studied the relationship between parity and peripheral insulin sensitivity index (isi(ogtt)) or gdm in 1880 caucasian women, who underwent a 100-g, 3-h oral glucose tolerance test (ogtt) between the 24th and 28th gestational week and in 75 women who underwent an ogtt in two consecutive pregnancies. parity is not directly linked to insulin sensitivity deterioration, to cp/fpg increase during pregnancy, or to gdm appearance, although it is linked through the mediation of progressive ageing and weight gain either before or during pregnancy, when there is a sufficiently long time interval between pregnancies. 
Informed consent for total hip arthroplasty: does a written information sheet improve recall by patients? [SEP] the test group was 126 patients undergoing revision or primary total hip arthroplasty; 65 patients were given information verbally, 61 patients were given written information. it is regular practice that patients undergoing orthopaedic procedures particularly those related to arthroplasty are given both verbal and written information prior to their surgery. the aim of this study was to complete a 15 year audit cycle by assessing the patient understanding of the consent process in elective orthopaedic surgery following the introduction of patient information booklets, dvds, web links, and "joint school." to analyze the additive effect of supplementing verbal consent with written patient information sheets in optimizing patients' and families' understanding of strabismus surgery. informed consent is vital to good surgical practice. 121 consecutive trauma patients were randomised to receive structured verbal information or structured verbal information with the addition of supplementary written information at the time of obtaining consent for their surgery. we assessed the influence of written information provided to the patients during the consenting process on their recall of operative risks. the addition of a written sheet given to patients during the consenting process makes a significant difference in terms of their recall of the surgical risks in elective lumbar spine surgery. this study aims to evaluate the effect of procedure-specific consent forms on patient's recall four weeks after total hip replacement (thr). sixty adult patients undergoing total hip replacement were allocated to be consented using either the generic or the surgery-specific consent form. 
Is gastric cancer different in Korea and the United States? [SEP] gastric cancer remains the seventh most common cause of cancer death in the united states, and it is the most prevalent in populous areas, such as south china, japan, and korea. the incidence rate of gastric cancer in korean americans is over five times higher than that in non-hispanic whites, and is similar to the incidence of colorectal cancer in the overall united states population. based on epidemiologic studies, korean americans appear to have more similar gastric cancer risk factors to koreans as opposed to americans of european descent, though the risk of gastric cancer appears to decrease for subsequent generations. gastric cancer is prevalent globally, particularly in asian countries such as japan and korea. while the prevalence of gastric cancer is not nearly as high in the united states (u.s.) as in asia, the treatment armamentarium differs widely between regions. while the natural history of gastric cancer seen in the u.s. markedly differs from that seen in asia, the u.s. experience with endoscopic and minimally invasive techniques is beginning to parallel those seen in japan and korea. gastric cancer surgical management differs between eastern asia and western countries. this study demonstrates better survival for gc patients in korea compared with the us as determined by multivariate analysis with a validated gastric cancer nomogram. although gastric cancer was common in the united states less than a century previously, it is no longer common in this country. in some eastern asian countries such as japan and korea, population-based gastric cancer screening has been conducted using upper gastrointestinal endoscopy or radiography to lower gastric cancer mortality. 
Do we need imaging to diagnose appendicitis in children? [SEP] to evaluate the role of clinical assessment with selective use of imaging studies in the management of suspected acute appendicitis in children. accurate, timely diagnosis of pediatric appendicitis minimizes unnecessary operations and treatment delays. ct is frequently used for the diagnosis of appendicitis in children, but appendicitis can be diagnosed clinically. imaging has an important role not only in diagnosing appendicitis and its complication but also suggesting alternate diagnosis in appropriate cases. to determine the accuracy of a protocol for diagnosis of appendicitis in children based on clinical evaluation by a pediatric surgeon with selective use of diagnostic imaging studies. we performed this study because 1) current reports in the medical, pediatric, emergency medical, and surgical literature advocate imaging, particularly computed tomography (ct), as the gold standard for diagnosis of appendicitis, and 2) the value of pediatric surgical evaluation early in the management of the child with possible appendicitis has rarely been emphasized. these data show that a protocol based on clinical evaluation by a pediatric surgeon with selective use of imaging was highly accurate for the diagnosis of appendicitis in children. we previously reported an appendiceal imaging protocol in which children with equivocal clinical presentations for acute appendicitis undergo ultrasonography (us) followed by computed tomography (ct). to define and test selective imaging guidelines to increase diagnostic accuracy and reduce unnecessary testing for children with suspected appendicitis. scoring systems in combination with selective imaging and surgical examination will diagnose most children with appendicitis. 
Discharging patients earlier from Winnipeg hospitals: does it adversely affect quality of care? [SEP] a population-based approach was used to monitor impact of hospital bed closures in winnipeg, manitoba. access to hospital services was not adversely affected: the reduction in beds resulted in increases in outpatient surgery and earlier discharges. elective patients are discharged earlier, while discharges of high-risk emergency patients are postponed. this lack of standards undermines the quality of pediatric hospital discharge, hinders quality-improvement efforts, and adversely affects the health and well-being of children and their families after they leave the hospital. between 2005/06 and 2008/09, 123,842 patients were hospitalized in all winnipeg hospitals. patients with both in hospital and post-discharge adverse outcomes also found the quality of care to be lower (on average 33% lower) than patients without adverse outcomes. post-discharge adverse outcomes negatively influence patients' overall evaluation of quality of care and are perceived as being discharged too early, suggesting that patients need better information at discharge. post-discharge adverse outcomes negatively influence patients' overall evaluation of quality of care and are perceived as being discharged too early, suggesting that patients need better information at discharge. delayed or inaccurate communication between hospital-based and primary care physicians at hospital discharge may negatively affect continuity of care and contribute to adverse events. most evidence did not support the "penny wise and pound foolish" hypothesis that low-cost hospitals discharge patients earlier but have higher readmission rates and greater downstream inpatient cost of care. 
Does the distribution of health care benefits in Kenya meet the principles of universal coverage? [SEP] to ensure this, some african countries have instituted health insurance schemes as venues for ensuring universal access to health care for their populace. in this paper, we examined variations in health insurance coverage in ghana, kenya, nigeria, and tanzania. there are variations in health insurance coverage in ghana, kenya, nigeria, and tanzania, with ghana recording the highest coverage. kenya, tanzania, and nigeria may not be able to achieve universal health coverage and meet the sustainable development goals on health by the year 2030 if the current fragmented public health insurance systems persist in those countries. health financing approaches are central to universal coverage. the aim of this paper is to assess the extent to which the kenyan health financing system meets the key requirements for universal coverage, including income and risk cross-subsidisation. the kenyan health system is highly inequitable and policies aimed at promoting equity and addressing the needs of the poor and vulnerable have not been successful. recently, significant preparatory work was done on a new social health insurance law that, if accepted, would lead to universal health coverage in kenya after a transition period. scaling up of health services for the urban and, in particular, rural poor areas and those residing in kenya's former north eastern province will contribute toward achievement of universal health coverage. this paper explores the universal health coverage (uhc) roll-out process in kenya through the lens of its potential to progressively realise the constitutional promise of sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) in kenya. 
Cholesterol screening in school children: is family history reliable to choose the ones to screen? [SEP] cholesterol screening was performed on 1140 fifth-grade students in scottsdale, az, as part of a school-affiliated, health-education program. the goals were to determine whether family history of heart disease or high cholesterol can predict which children have high cholesterol levels and to examine the feasibility of screening large numbers of elementary school students. this study examines the feasibility and utility of parental self-reported cholesterol levels as a means of identifying children with elevated total cholesterol levels. as part of a school-based risk factor screening program that included total cholesterol measurement, conducted in nine elementary schools between 1989 and 1991, parents of participating children were asked if they had their cholesterol tested in the past year and if they had, to provide their total cholesterol values. to explore the feasibility of mass screening of blood cholesterol levels in children, a school-based screening and education program for fourth-graders was carried out in a southern california school district. a family history of early coronary artery disease was present in only one third of the children with high cholesterol levels; this fact, coupled with consumable costs less than $2 per child, suggests that cholesterol screening is a practical, cost-effective addition to school health programs. the coronary artery risk detection in appalachian communities (cardiac) project is designed to test the hypothesis that universal cholesterol screening of prepubertal schoolchildren is effective in identifying children and their parents at risk of developing premature coronary heart disease (chd) in a high-risk rural population. universal nonfasting fsc screening of prepubertal schoolchildren is effective in identifying dyslipidemic children and their parents, whereas family history has low sensitivity in predicting children with elevated blood cholesterol concentrations. this article summarizes the recommendations for cholesterol screening of children and adolescents by the american academy of pediatrics and the expert panel on blood cholesterol levels in children and adolescents. the expert panel on blood cholesterol levels in children and adolescents of the national cholesterol education program (ncep) recommends selective screening of children for high blood cholesterol. 
Bony defects in chronic anterior posttraumatic dislocation of the shoulder: Is there a correlation between humeral and glenoidal lesions? [SEP] traumatic posterior dislocations of the shoulder can result in bony defects, labral tears, and cartilage injuries of the glenohumeral joint. this study shows the frequent presence of bony lesions in patients with anterior shoulder instability. the aim of this systematic review is to analyze outcomes of surgical procedures for glenoid and/or humeral bony defects, performed singularly or in combination, in patients with traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability. twenty-seven articles, describing patients with glenoid bony defect, humeral bony defect or both in the setting of traumatic anterior glenohumeral instability, were included. shoulders with recurrent anterior instability often have combined bony defects of the humeral head and glenoid. the aim of this study was to define the relationship of combined humeral head and glenoid defects on anterior shoulder instability. recurrent anteroinferior shoulder dislocations are often associated with bony glenoid and humeral defects. to evaluate the influence of glenoid and humeral bony defects on preoperative shoulder function in recurrent anteroinferior shoulder instability. bony defects are common injuries associated with anterior shoulder dislocation. the aim of this systematic review was to analyse outcomes of surgical procedures for glenoid and/or humeral bony defects, performed singularly or in combination, in patients with posterior gleno-humeral instability. 
Do parents recall and understand children's weight status information after BMI screening? [SEP] this study assessed parent reactions to school-based body mass index (bmi) screening. approximately 50 parents were randomly selected for interview from each of 4 child weight-classification groups (overweight, at risk of overweight, normal weight, underweight) to assess parent recall of the letter, reactions to bmi screening, and actions taken in response to the child's bmi results. as parents of young children are often unaware their child is overweight, screening provides the opportunity to inform parents and provide the impetus for behaviour change. we aimed to determine if parents could recall and understand the information they received about their overweight child after weight screening. the purpose of this study was to examine the presumed mechanisms by which bmi reporting might impact child weight by assessing parents': (1) recall of bmi reports, (2) accuracy in recalling child overweight status, and (3) reactions to bmi reports. results: after 1 year of bmi reporting, parents of children with overweight were less likely [odds ratio (or) = 0.7, 95% confidence interval (ci): 0.5-0.9] to recall receiving a bmi report and less likely (or = 0.2, 95% ci: 0.1-0.3) to accurately recall their child's weight status from the bmi report, compared with parents of children with healthy weight. conclusions: parents' recall of receiving a school-based bmi report is low, as is the accuracy of recall of child's overweight status. almost all parents (90%) indicated that their inpatient physician should inform them if their child were overweight or obese and that primary care providers should be informed of the results of bmi screening. in this study, we identify predictors of parental underestimation of child weight status and support for school-based bmi screening and reporting. parents (n = 115) of children aged 4 to 12 years enrolled in medicaid completed baseline questionnaires with providers about prior communication of weight status and/or body mass index (bmi), perceptions of their children's weight, and children's dietary and physical activity behaviors, and children were weighed and measured. 
Does ambulatory process of care predict health-related quality of life outcomes for patients with chronic disease? [SEP] this study examined the prospective effect of reported access to medical care on health-related quality-of-life outcomes in patients with symptomatic human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) disease. the aims of this review were to assess the clinical effectiveness, economic outcomes and key implementation characteristics of nurse-led services in the ambulatory care setting. nurse-led care demonstrated either equivalent or better outcomes for a number of outcomes including symptom burden, self-management and behavioural outcomes, disease-specific indicators, satisfaction and perception of quality of life, and health service use. we used empirical data from managed care patients enrolled in west coast physician organizations to test the hypothesis that observed changes in health-related quality of life across a 2.5-year window reflecting process of care. the use of instrumental variables allowed us to demonstrate a significant relationship between better ambulatory process of care and better health-related quality of life. to improve clinical decision making we need valid evidence linking specific processes of care to patient outcomes. this investigation examines the relation between process of care and outcomes and expands outcomes measure to include disease-specific quality-of-life measures and patient satisfaction and accounts for case mix using the index of co-existent disease, a measure of the extent of different comorbid diseases as well as their severity (18,19,20). better data on how processes of care are linked to health outcomes can inform decision making and allow educated cost cutting and quality maintenance. the importance of evaluating health care in terms of patients' quality of life has only recently been acknowledged in the context of outcomes research and the measurement of quality of care. a prospective, multi-centre, questionnaire-based survey measured costs and quality of life in ambulatory care and in 12 tertiary care centres in 10 countries. 
Does perspective-taking increase patient satisfaction in medical encounters? [SEP] to assess whether perspective-taking, which researchers in other fields have shown to induce empathy, improves patient satisfaction in encounters between student-clinicians and standardized patients (sps). study 2 (105 physician assistant students, one university) explored the effect of perspective-taking on african american sps' satisfaction. study 3 (258 third-year medical students, two universities) examined the intervention's effect on students with high and low baseline perspective-taking tendencies. in study 2, perspective-taking improved african american sps' satisfaction. in study 3, intervention students with high baseline perspective-taking tendencies outscored controls (p = .0004, standardized effect size = 0.25), whereas those with low perspective-taking tendencies did not (p = .72, standardized effect size = 0.00). perspective-taking increased patient satisfaction in all three studies, across medical schools, clinical disciplines, and racially diverse students and sps. perspective-taking as a means for improving patient satisfaction deserves further exploration in clinical training and practice. and, how does patient-physician agreement as to the primary purpose affect the process and outcome of the medical encounter? the emotions expressed by physicians in medical encounters have significant impact on health outcomes and patient satisfaction. improved understanding of the patient's perspective on the care provided leads to increased staff satisfaction and motivation. 
Is first-line single-agent mitoxantrone in the treatment of high-risk metastatic breast cancer patients as effective as combination chemotherapy? [SEP] to determine whether patients with high-risk metastatic breast cancer draw benefit from combination chemotherapy as first-line treatment. a total of 260 women with measurable metastatic breast cancer fulfilling high-risk criteria, previously untreated with chemotherapy for their metastatic disease, were randomized to receive either mitoxantrone 12 mg/m(2) or the combination of fluorouracil 500 mg/m(2), epirubicin 50 mg/m(2) and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m(2) (fec) every 3 weeks. no significant difference was detected between the treatment with mitoxantrone as a single agent and the combination of low-dose fec in terms of response or survival; therefore, the imperative of the necessity of first-line combination chemotherapy for patients with high-risk metastatic breast cancer may be questioned. mitoxantrone and 5-fluorouracil (5-fu) with high dose leucovorin are active drugs in the treatment of breast cancer, and both can be given with relatively few side effects. in a phase ii study, we treated 35 women with metastatic breast cancer with the following regimen: mitoxantrone 12 mg/m2 i.v. the combination of mitoxantrone, 5-fu and high-dose leucovorin provides an attractive option for second-line chemotherapy of metastatic breast cancer. trials establishing the safety and efficacy of single-agent vinorelbine (navelbine; burroughs wellcome co, research triangle park, nc; pierre fabre médicament, paris, france) as first- and second-line chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer led to testing of the combination of vinorelbine and mitoxantrone. forty-six patients with metastatic breast cancer received the following regimen as first- or second-line treatment: paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 by 1-hour intravenous infusion on day 1; mitoxantrone 10 mg/m2 by intravenous bolus on day 1; 5-fluorouracil 350 mg/m2 by intravenous bolus on days 1, 2, and 3; and leucovorin 300 mg intravenous over 30 to 60 minutes, immediately preceding 5-fluorouracil on days 1, 2, and 3. the combination of paclitaxel and mitoxantrone is active, easily administered, and well tolerated in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. the relative efficacy of paclitaxel versus standard chemotherapy as front-line or salvage therapy for metastatic breast cancer is currently under study. 
Are patients with Werlhof's disease at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] patients with werlhof's disease and undergoing a cardiac surgical procedure with cardiopulmonary bypass are at increased risk for bleeding complications. between may 1995 and july 1998, 10 patients with werlhof's disease underwent a cardiac surgical procedure with cardiopulmonary bypass in our department. our data demonstrate that immunoglobulin treatment of patients with werlhof's disease and mean platelet counts of less than 80x10(9)/l significantly augments platelet counts preoperatively. it is generally assumed, that patients with werlhof's disease (wd) are at increased risk for bleeding complications when undergoing cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation. patients with wd may possibly undergo cardiac surgery without a markedly enhanced risk for bleeding complications despite a more than usual transfusion requirement and significantly lower platelet counts perioperatively. we herein report the case of a patient with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (werlhof disease) and coronary artery disease undergoing myocardial revascularization. however, anticoagulation increases the risk of bleeding, particularly in the early postoperative period after cardiac surgery. our objective was to analyze the postoperative risk factors for hemorrhagic complications and to determine the impact of antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy strategies on postoperative bleeding risk in patients with coronary stents undergoing non-cardiac surgery. independent postoperative factors associated with haemorrhagic complications were identified as a high and intermediate bleeding risk procedure and the use and dose of anticoagulants. patients with coronary stents who undergo surgery are at high risk for hemorrhagic complications. 
Is neck pain associated with worse health-related quality of life 6 months later? [SEP] current evidence suggests that neck pain is negatively associated with health-related quality of life (hrqol). the purpose of this study was to investigate the association between increasing grades of neck pain severity and hrqol 6 months later. the neck pain trajectories over 6 months were no or mild neck pain, improving neck pain, worsening neck pain, and persistent neck pain. we found an exposure-response relationship between neck pain and physical hrqol after adjusting for age, education, arthritis, low back pain, and depressive symptomatology. compared with participants without neck pain at baseline, those with mild (β=-1.53, 95% confidence interval [ci]=-2.83, -0.24), intense (β=-3.60, 95% ci=-5.76, -1.44), or disabling (β=-8.55, 95% ci=-11.68, -5.42) neck pain had worse physical hrqol 6 months later. a worsening course of neck pain and persistent neck pain were associated with worse physical hrqol. our analysis suggests that neck pain may be a contributor of future poor physical hrqol in the population. depressive and post-traumatic stress symptoms at 5 months were associated with an increased risk of moderate to severe neck discomfort at 18 months. participants with and without neck discomfort had significantly reduced health-related quality of life based on short form-36 scores. we analyzed physical symptoms, psychological symptoms, and social and functional well-being at least 1 year after surgery and evaluated the differences in quality of life between patients who had undergone head and neck surgery and a control group. 
Does oral α-galactosidase relieve irritable bowel symptoms? [SEP] the aim of the study was to assess if oral α-galactosidase is superior to placebo in reducing gastrointestinal (gi) symptoms and intestinal gas production after ingestion of carbohydrate-rich meals in adult patients with ibs. we studied the effect of 1200 gaiu/meal α-galactosidase (nogasin® ) or placebo capsules on gi symptoms in patients with ibs after three standardized, meals high in oligosaccharides, in a randomized, double-blind, crossover study. the use of α-galactosidase together with meals high in oligosaccharides was in this pilot study not superior to placebo in reducing postprandial gi symptoms or the concentration of hydrogen and methane in expired air in ibs. galacto-oligosaccharides (gos) are dietary fodmaps (fermentable carbohydrates) associated with triggering gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (ibs). this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial aimed to assess whether oral α-galactosidase co-ingestion with foods high in gos and low in other fodmaps would reduce symptoms. oral α-galactosidase taken with high gos foods provides a clinically significant reduction in symptoms in gos-sensitive individuals with ibs. irritable bowel syndrome is a common clinical condition that often presents a therapeutic challenge. many investigators have studied the effectiveness of either fiber supplementation or bulking agents in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. the purpose of this review is to summarize the current literature on the use of fiber in irritable bowel syndrome and to provide some specific recommendations. although dietary fiber or bulking agents do not appear to be useful as sole treatment of irritable bowel syndrome, they may have a limited role in empiric therapy depending upon the patient's symptom complex, especially if constipation is the most significant symptom. 
Is there a connection between sublingual varices and hypertension? [SEP] sublingual varices have earlier been related to ageing, smoking and cardiovascular disease. the aim of this study was to investigate whether sublingual varices are related to presence of hypertension. an association between sublingual varices and hypertension was found (or = 2.25, p < 0.002). mean systolic blood pressure was 123 and 132 mmhg in patients with grade 0 and grade 1 sublingual varices, respectively (p < 0.0001, ci 95 %). sublingual varices indicate hypertension with a positive predictive value of 0.5 and a negative predictive value of 0.80. an association was found between sublingual varices and hypertension. the purpose of this study was to investigate the relation between sublingual varices, cardiovascular disease (cvd), and smoking. multiple logistic regression analysis was used to assess the influence of particular variables on the incidence of sublingual varices. sublingual varices were significantly associated with age (odds ratio (or) 1.1), smoking (or 2.4), and cvd (or 2.7). several conditions such as age, gender, systemic diseases, smoking, consuming vitamin rich foods, denture wearing may play a role in aetiology of sublingual varices. 
Can CT predict the level of CSF block in tuberculous hydrocephalus? [SEP] treatment of obstructive hydrocephalus in children with tuberculous meningitis (tbm) depends on the level of the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) block. the aim of this study was to determine whether communicating and non-communicating hydrocephalus in tbm can be differentiated by means of cranial computerised tomography (ct). no relationship was found between the level of baseline csf pressure and the degree of hydrocephalus, as demonstrated by ct scanning, on admission. in this study repeated lumbar csf pressure monitoring proved to be an effective instrument to assess the response of communicating tuberculous hydrocephalus to medical treatment and also accurately predicted the timing of compensation of the hydrocephalus. the present study evaluated the incidence, predictive factors and impact of hydrocephalus on overall prognosis of tuberculous meningitis. of 80 patients with tuberculous meningitis, 52(65%) had hydrocephalus at presentation. computerized tomographic (ct) scans showed that hydrocephalus was present in all children with raised csf pressure. it is often difficult to determine whether hydrocephalus is communicating or not with conventional imaging in the absence of a clearly demonstrable lesional obstruction to the csf pathways. when patients fail to respond to appropriate antituberculosis and pressure-reducing therapy, hydrocephalus should be actively sought by either ct or radioisotope cisternography. the ct scan may show hydrocephalus, a basilar arachnoiditis, or intraparenchymal lesions: tuberculomas. 
MR arthrography of the shoulder: do we need local anesthesia? [SEP] mr arthrography was superior to routine mr imaging in all four cases in which it was done; positioning the shoulder in abduction and external rotation was beneficial in three of four patients. the objective of this study was to prospectively evaluate whether intraarticular anesthesia can reduce pain after mr or ct arthrography of the shoulder. intraarticular local anesthesia did not reduce arthrography-related pain. sixty-five patients underwent magnetic resonance (mr) shoulder arthrography. the participants were nonrandomized into two groups: the anesthesia group, who underwent prior local infiltration anesthesia before shoulder arthrography, and the nonanesthesia group, who did not undergo prior local infiltration anesthesia. this article discusses imaging of the rotator cuff of the shoulder with a primary focus on evaluation by mr imaging and mr arthrography. the purpose of this study was to assess mr versus mr arthrography versus ct arthrography in the post-operative shoulder. one hundred consecutive post-operative conventional shoulder mr and mr arthrography exams performed on the same patients were reviewed retrospectively by two musculoskeletal radiologists. mr arthrography is more accurate than conventional mr in assessment of post-operative shoulder pathology. direct mr arthrography of the shoulder is a safe, relatively easy procedure that can increase diagnostic confidence in the evaluation of rotator cuff and labroligamentous disorders compared with conventional mr imaging of the shoulder. 
Does cognitive function predict frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition? [SEP] the aim was to investigate the relationship between cognitive ability and frequency compressed speech recognition in listeners with normal hearing and normal cognition. there was a statistically significant relationship between speech recognition and cognition for the unprocessed condition but not for the frequency-compressed conditions. the relationship between cognitive functioning and recognition of frequency compressed speech-in-noise was not statistically significant. the first aim of the study was to determine the effect of nonlinear frequency compression on aided speech recognition in noise and listening effort using a dual-task test paradigm. extrinsic factors of sentence context and nonlinear frequency compression were manipulated, and intrinsic factors of hearing loss slope, working memory capacity, and age were measured to determine which participant factors were associated with benefit from nonlinear frequency compression. evidence supports individualized selection of nonlinear frequency compression, with results suggesting benefits in speech recognition for individuals with steeply sloping hearing losses and in listening effort for younger individuals. cognitive function may predict dual-task performance during speech-in-noise tasks. this study investigated whether recognition of time-compressed speech predicts recognition of natural fast-rate speech, and whether this relationship is influenced by listener age. recognition of time-compressed sentences over-estimated recognition of natural fast sentences for both groups, especially for older listeners. using these model variations this study examined whether speech recognition performance in quiet is affected by changes in cochlear compression, namely, a linearization, which is often observed in hi listeners. 
Should cavitation in proximal surfaces be reported in cone beam computed tomography examination? [SEP] a clinical study was done to assess the clinical diagnostic accuracy of cone beam computed tomography (cbct) in detecting proximal cavitated carious lesions in order to determine whether cavitation should be reported when a cbct examination is available. radiographic assessment recording lesions with or without cavitation was performed by two observers in bitewings and cbct sections. the separator was removed after 3 days and the surfaces recorded as cavitated (yes/no), i.e. cbct was more accurate in detecting cavitation in proximal surfaces than bitewing radiographs; therefore a cbct examination performed for other clinical applications should also be assessed for proximal surface cavities in teeth without restorations, and when detected, this pathology must be part of the dentist's report. based on studies of the relationship between radiographic lesion depth and clinical cavitation in approximal surfaces, a threshold for operative treatment decision has been suggested when a lesion is observed radiographically more than one-third into dentine. cone beam computed tomography: cone beam ct is an advanced 3-dimensional radiographic modality, which seems much more accurate than intra-oral modalities for displaying cavitation in approximal surfaces. the sensitivity of cone beam computed tomography arthrography was also better for these lesions, except for those on the chondral surface of the lunate. cone beam computed tomography is an emerging imaging modality that offers several advantages over computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. the frequency of buying cone-beam computed tomography to examine patients is rapidly growing, thus knowledge of how to use it is very important. the cone beam computed tomography measurements were compared with the physical measurements. 
Do supervised colorectal trainees differ from consultants in terms of quality of TME surgery? [SEP] we aimed to determine whether quality of excision undertaken by colorectal trainees under supervision was comparable with that performed by consultants, as measured using mesorectal grades. the outcome (quality of mesorectal excision and secondary outcomes including local recurrence and overall recurrence) of operations performed by consultants was compared with that of trainees. we conclude that the quality of rectal cancer excision, as defined by mesorectal grades, achieved by supervised colorectal trainees is comparable with that achieved by consultants. this study assessed: 1) the training opportunities available to trainees in operations for colorectal cancer, 2) the effect of colorectal specialization on training, and 3) the effect of consultant supervision on anastomotic complications, postoperative stay, operative mortality and 5-year survival. unadjusted and adjusted comparisons of outcomes were made for unsupervised trainees, supervised trainees and consultants as the primary surgeon in 7411 operated patients included in the northern region colorectal cancer audit between 1998 and 2002. consultants with a colorectal specialist interest were more likely than nonspecialists to be present at surgical resections (or 1.35, 1.12-1.63, p = 0.001) and to provide supervised training (or 1.34, 1.17-1.53, p < 0.001). one third of patients were operated on by trainees, who were more likely to perform supervised resections in colorectal teams. our data suggest that laparoscopic surgery for colorectal cancer can be performed safely by supervised trainees with good short term results. outcomes for 150 patients operated on by a single colorectal surgeon at a private hospital were compared with those of 344 patients admitted under the same surgeon and operated on by closely supervised trainee surgeons in a public teaching hospital between 1995 and 2002. outcomes were compared in the two cohorts by a principal surgeon (senior resident or staff) and supervised in all cases by a senior colorectal consultant. 
Affect-regulated exercise intensity: does training at an intensity that feels 'good' improve physical health? [SEP] affect-regulated exercise to feel 'good' can be used to control exercise intensity amongst both active and sedentary individuals and should support exercise adherence. the aim of this study was to examine if affect-regulated exercise to feel 'good' leads to improved fitness over the course of an 8-week training programme. exercise intensity was affect-regulated to feel 'good'. affect-regulated exercise to feel 'good' can be used in a training programme to regulate exercise intensity. in study 1, 8 active females completed 20 min of affect-regulated exercise to feel "good" or "fairly good" (order counterbalanced) followed by an intensity replication session. the results add to evidence that women can use affect to regulate intensity and exercise at an intensity that would confer fitness and health benefits if maintained. affect-regulated exercise ("are") is an alternative approach to guide exercise intensity based on feeling of pleasure. consequently, the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether sedentary women could self-regulate their exercise intensity during exercise using the hardy and rejeski feeling scale (fs) to experience a specific positive affective state and to examine the specific intensities chosen and their consistency over exercise bouts. adolescents who experienced a positive affective shift during the moderate-intensity task engaged in higher-intensity exercise during the feels-good task as compared with those whose affective response to moderate-intensity exercise was neutral or negative (76% of peak hr vs. 70% of peak hr, p < .01).there was no difference between groups in rpe. among adolescents who manifested a negative affective response to moderate-intensity exercise at baseline, the selected intensity during the "feels-good" task increased over time. 
Do socioeconomic differences in mortality persist after retirement? [SEP] a non-work based measure of socioeconomic status (car ownership) predicted mortality less well than employment grade before retirement but its ability to predict mortality declined less after retirement. socioeconomic differences in mortality persist beyond retirement age and in magnitude increase with age. social differentials in mortality based on an occupational status measure seem to decrease to a greater degree after retirement than those based on a non-work measure. the aim of this study was to examine socioeconomic differences in cause-specific mortality after disability retirement due to different diseases. socioeconomic differences in mortality after disability retirement were smaller than in the population in general. for women, an opposite socioeconomic gradient in mortality after disability retirement from neoplasms was found. conclusions: the disability retirement process leads to smaller socioeconomic differences in mortality compared with those generally found in the population. we examined socio-demographic differences in all-cause and cause-specific mortality after disability retirement due to depression and other mental disorders. the article examines the association of increasing age, race, socioeconomic status, private health insurance, and other demographic and health characteristics with the duration of life between the two groups of men, using statistical models. socioeconomic mortality differentials persist into old age. 
Women with synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary: do they have Lynch syndrome? [SEP] women with lynch syndrome have a 40 to 60% lifetime risk of endometrial cancer and a 10 to 12% lifetime risk of ovarian cancer and may consider prophylactic gynecological surgery as an option for risk reduction. for synchronous endometrial and ovarian cancers, most centers rely on mismatch repair testing of the endometrial cancer to identify lynch syndrome, and neglect the ovarian tumor site completely. lynch syndrome ii manifests all of the features of lynch syndrome i but, in addition, shows an integral association with extracolonic cancers, particularly carcinomas of the endometrium and the ovary. the aim of this study was to determine the clinical characteristics of women with double primary cancers of the colorectum and endometrium and assess the probability of lynch syndrome. based on our findings, a large percentage (66%) of women with double primary cancers of the colorectum and endometrium are likely to be diagnosed with lynch syndrome. lynch syndrome ii is characterized by an autosomal dominantly inherited susceptibility to early onset colon cancer with proximal predominance, an excess of synchronous and metachronous colonic cancer, carcinoma of the endometrium, ovary, and multiple primary cancer excess. lynch syndrome ii (cancer family syndrome) shows these same colon cancer characteristics, but differs in that there is an excess proclivity of other forms of cancer, particularly of the endometrium and ovary. synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary are found in 10% of women with ovarian cancer and 5% of women with endometrial cancer. the purpose of this study was to characterize patients diagnosed with synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary with an emphasis on risk factors. between 1989 and 2002, 84 patients with synchronous primary cancers of the endometrium and ovary were identified. 
Can emergency physicians accurately and reliably assess acute vertigo in the emergency department? [SEP] dizziness is a common and vexing diagnostic problem in emergency departments. physicians working in emergency departments must be able to rapidly identify patients with potentially serious forms of vertigo, which could cause death or disability, and patients with mild conditions, that can be effectively treated. a health records review was performed using data from patients who presented to a tertiary care emergency department between september 2014 and march 2018 with a primary complaint of vertigo or dizziness. emergency department (ed) patients who present with acute dizziness or vertigo can be challenging to diagnose. our aim was to assist emergency physicians to use the physical examination effectively to make a specific diagnosis in patients with acute dizziness or vertigo. emergency physicians can effectively use the physical examination to make a specific diagnosis in patients with acute dizziness or vertigo. a crucial aspect of the management of the emergency department patient with vertigo is the differentiation of vertigo associated with acute stroke syndromes from vertigo due to peripheral causes. vertigo is a common cause of emergency department attendance. acute vertigo is a common problem in emergency departments. however, clinical strategies of acute vertigo care vary among care providers. 
Orthostatic myoclonus: an underrecognized cause of unsteadiness? [SEP] recently, orthostatic myoclonus (om) has been suggested as a cause of gait impairment and unsteadiness in neurodegenerative diseases. the aim of this study was to investigate the frequency of orthostatic myoclonus, its clinical characteristics and the underlying associated neurological disorders. orthostatic myoclonus is often underdiagnosed and can be considered a possible cause of unsteadiness in subjects with neurodegenerative diseases. orthostatic unsteadiness (unsteadiness on standing) is a relatively common symptom and can have neurological or non-neurological causes. have recently described a syndrome presenting with unsteadiness or leg jerking during standing or gait initiation difficulty which they have termed orthostatic myoclonus (om). we report the clinical and electrophysiological findings in seven patients with orthostatic myoclonus (om) associated with gait initiation failure and falls. orthostatic myoclonus (om) is a recognized syndrome of gait unsteadiness accompanied by lower limb myoclonus provoked by the assumption of an upright posture. orthostatic tremor (ot) and orthostatic myoclonus (om) are weight-bearing hyperkinetic movement disorders most commonly affecting older people that induce "shaky legs" upon standing. the onset of orthostatic myoclonus was accompanied by complaints of leg jerking or observed leg jerking in 13 of 15 patients during upright posture. orthostatic myoclonus is a unique clinical and physiologic phenomenon that accompanies a slowly progressive and eventually disabling gait disorder in the elderly. 
Is the cell death in mesial temporal sclerosis apoptotic? [SEP] the prevalence and clinical characteristics of mesial temporal sclerosis have not been well studied in children. twenty-six reports of mesial temporal sclerosis were found. mesial temporal sclerosis is an uncommon finding in children, but when it occurs, it is always associated with epilepsy. the objective of this study was to investigate the prevalence and clinical characteristics of mesial temporal sclerosis as diagnosed by brain magnetic resonance imaging in children. six patients had evidence of definite mesial temporal sclerosis with 2 patients having bilateral abnormalities. this paper reviews mesial temporal sclerosis from an historical perspective and summarizes recent developments in the fields of excitotoxicity, selective vulnerability, and synaptic reorganization as they pertain to the pathogenesis of mesial temporal sclerosis. presurgical evaluation of children with mesial temporal sclerosis has shown severe neurocognitive impairments. children with mesial temporal sclerosis showed widely distributed neuropsychological deficits. mesial temporal sclerosis (mts) is characterized by neuronal loss in the hippocampus. these data suggest that either apoptosis is not involved in cell loss in mts, or a very slow rate of cell demise may have precluded detecting tunel-positive neurons dying through apoptosis. 
Contrast-enhanced MR imaging of hand and finger joints in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis: do we really need a full dose of gadobenate dimeglumine for assessing synovial enhancement at 3 T? [SEP] to investigate the diagnostic value of a half dose compared with a full dose of gadobenate dimeglumine in the assessment of synovitis or tenosynovitis in the wrist and finger joints in patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and a disease activity score greater than 3.2. the contrast enhancement was measured in inflamed synovial tissue at half dose (0.05 mmol per kilogram of body weight) and at full dose (0.1 mmol/kg) by using t1-weighted sequences with fat saturation. therefore, half-dose gadobenate dimeglumine at 3-t mr imaging may be sufficient for assessing synovitis or tenosynovitis in early ra. gadobenate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging was superior to nonenhanced mr imaging in more than 50% of patient studies, with more lesions seen in 26%-38% of patients and smaller lesions in 21%-33% of patients. gadobenate dimeglumine is a safe and efficacious mr imaging contrast agent suitable for both delayed and dynamic imaging of the liver. the gadolinium-based mri contrast agent gadobenate dimeglumine has nearly twice the mr relaxivity of gadopentetate dimeglumine at 1.5 t. the purpose of this study was to determine whether a lower dose (0.1 mmol/kg) of gadobenate dimeglumine can be used to obtain delayed-enhancement mr images comparable to those obtained with a standard dose (0.2 mmol/kg) of gadopentetate dimeglumine. we evaluated gadobenate dimeglumine for contrast-enhanced mr imaging of infants younger than 2 years of age. the efficacy of gadobenate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging was evaluated prospectively by 3 blinded, unaffiliated readers in terms of the accuracy of combined pre- and postcontrast images relative to precontrast images alone for differentiation of tumor from non-neoplastic disease and the correct diagnosis of specific disease. in an attempt to differentiate among joint effusion, synovitis, pannus, and subchondral sclerosis in patients with clinically proved chronic rheumatoid arthritis, we used gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging to examine 23 patients with acute knee symptoms. we conclude that gadopentetate dimeglumine-enhanced mr imaging allows differentiation between synovitis and joint effusion and between subchondral pannus and subchondral sclerosis. 
Does laparoscopic cholecystectomy influence peri-sinusoidal cell activity? [SEP] we investigated 53 patient with laparoscopy cholecystectomy and 12 patients with conventional cholecystectomy. we conclude that laparoscopic cholecystectomy is associated with a pronounced endocrine stress response that does not account for the observed differences in the peri- and postoperative complication rate or patient comfort. the aim of this study was to assess the clinical outcome of patients after laparoscopic fundoplication and incidental cholecystectomy for cholelithiasis compared with the outcome of patients after fundoplication alone. have been shown to differ between laparoscopic and open cholecystectomy, and the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of laparoscopic and open surgery on the coagulation and fibrinolytic pathways. the only significant differences between the two groups occurred 6 h after surgery when the eclt was longer (p < 0.005; mann whitney), and pai-1 antigen and activity were higher (p < 0.01 and p < 0.001, respectively; mann whitney) after open cholecystectomy than laparoscopic cholecystectomy. the aim is to compare the prospectively collected follow-up data on the outcome of these patients and to answer the question of whether laparoscopic cholecystectomy affects the prognosis of incidental gallbladder cancer. the perioperative cellular immunocompetence of patients undergoing either laparoscopic (n = 8) or open (n = 8) cholecystectomy was evaluated before operation and at 24 hours and 6 days after operation for inflammatory reactivity by white blood cell counting and serum interleukin-6 assessment. although 24 hours after conventional cholecystectomy granulocyte and interleukin-6 levels were strongly increased, laparoscopic cholecystectomy did not affect these acute inflammation parameters. patients who had undergone conventional cholecystectomy showed a strong reduction of phytohemagglutinin responsiveness, in contrast to laparoscopic patients (67% versus 0% reduction). in contrast to open cholecystectomy, laparoscopic cholecystectomy does not significantly affect parameters reflecting immunocompetence. 
Does case-mix based reimbursement stimulate the development of process-oriented care delivery? [SEP] although many studies already show that this kind of case-mix based reimbursement leads to more efficiency, it remains unclear whether care coordination improved as well. this study aims to explore whether case-mix based reimbursement stimulates development of care coordination by the use of care programmes, and a process-oriented way of working. sem reveals that adoption of the case-mix reimbursement within hospitals' budgeting processes stimulates hospitals to establish care programmes by the use of process-oriented performance measures. this study demonstrates that hospital management can stimulate the development of care programmes by the adoption of case-mix reimbursement within hospitals' budgeting processes. this article develops the rationale for case mix adjustment and walks readers through the case mix adjustment process using the johns hopkins ambulatory care group (acg) case-mix system as a model. hospital reimbursement, particularly prospective reimbursement, must take into account differences in case mix. we then explore in some detail each phase of the process of constructing a workable prospective case-mix reimbursement system as it occurred in the state of new jersey, discussing in particular the major reimbursement policy issues, their resolution, and impact on the system as a whole. this paper addresses two questions: (1) does adjusting for case mix have any effect on prospective admission-based reimbursement? to examine the effect of case mix-adjusted reimbursement policy and market factors on nursing home performance. having a heavy-care resident population was positively related to expenditures prior to reimbursement reform, and it was negatively related to expenditures after the case-mix reimbursement policy was introduced. 
Risky sexual behavior among college students With ADHD: is the mother-child relationship protective? [SEP] this study examined the extent to which adhd was associated with risky sexual behaviors (rsbs) in a sample of 92 undergraduates with (n = 44) and without (n = 48) adhd. female students with adhd were least likely to use condoms than males overall and females without adhd. an interaction between adhd and mother-child relationship quality accounted for significant variance in the number of past-year sexual partners, such that a high-quality relationship was protective only for students with adhd. results suggest that female college students with adhd are at risk for unprotected sex. moreover, a positive mother-child relationship may be protective for college students with adhd in relation to rsb. adhd is marked by an apparent contradiction in social relationships: those with the disorder have more difficulty establishing close relationships but report increased rates of risky sexual behavior. two studies examined the relationship between adhd symptomatology and fear of intimacy, sexual anxiety, and sexual behavior in college students. in the second, students partially replicated the results of the first study, reporting greater fear of intimacy in those with more symptoms of adhd. adhd symptomatology, particularly inattention, was related to multiple aspects of risky sexual behavior. as such, the current study examined protective factors (i.e., maternal relationship quality and religiosity) and risk factors (i.e., child sexual abuse, parent substance misuse, and risky behaviors) for coercive sexual assault and total sexual assault and whether they vary by sexual orientation among college women. 
Rotator cuff tear--an occupational disease? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to analyze the relationship between the occupation ratio and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. a total of 683 patients with partial thickness rotator cuff tear were divided and classified into the following groups: 272 into group b, 153 into group c, 161 into group d, and 97 into group e. the supraspinatus occupation ratios of all partial-thickness rotator cuff tear groups were significantly lower than those of the control group. rotator cuff tears are a common contributing factor of shoulder pain and occupational disability. tears of the rotator cuff are becoming increasingly prevalent in today's musculoskeletal population. therefore, the possibility of hypovitaminosis d should be considered for young and indoor working patients who have rotator cuff tears. every year approximately 18 million americans report shoulder pain, a large percentage of which are a result of rotator cuff disease. fatty degeneration is an important clinical factor in patients with rotator cuff tears. a regression analysis was performed to assess the association of shoulder activity level to rotator cuff tear characteristics, including tendon involvement and retraction, and patient factors such as age, sex, smoking, and occupation. shoulder activity was not associated with severity of the rotator cuff tear, but it was negatively associated with age (p = .0001) and female sex (p = .001). shoulder activity level in patients with an atraumatic rotator cuff tear confirmed on mri is not associated with severity of the tear but is affected by age, sex, and occupation. 
Is there a need for pelvic CT scan in cases of renal cell carcinoma? [SEP] the renal-cell carcinoma, which was located in the upper pole of the right kidney, was detected incidentally by preoperative ct scanning. to determine the necessity of pelvic computed tomography (ct) in patients of renal cell carcinoma (rcc). pelvic ct does not offer additional information in the vast majority of cases with rcc and should be performed selectively. the goal of this study was to determine the yield and cost-effectiveness of pelvic ct in staging renal cell carcinoma. the records of 119 patients who underwent preoperative ct of the abdomen and pelvis during a 6-year interval and then underwent partial or radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma were reviewed for ct findings and pathologic stage. ct of the pelvis has a negligible yield in the staging of renal cell carcinoma and should not be routinely performed. pathological examination revealed scc of the renal pelvis, pt3, grade 3, without regional lymph node metastasis. we emphasize that it is occasionally difficult to draw a distinction between transitional cell carcinoma with renal invasion and renal cell carcinoma with renal pelvic extension even by computed tomography (ct) and angiography. to identify the reasons for the discrepancies between computed tomographic (ct) and pathologic staging of transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis and to develop new criteria to increase the accuracy of ct in staging. ct scans of 31 consecutive patients with renal pelvic transitional cell carcinoma were evaluated. 
Prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy: are signs of spinal cord involvement associated with the neurological prognosis? [SEP] six cases with distal-type cervical spondylotic amyotrophy are reported. to investigate the pathophysiology of distal-type cervical spondylotic amyotrophy from magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperative evoked spinal cord responses. selective ventral root lesions or intrinsic spinal cord lesions have been proposed as the pathophysiology of cervical spondylotic amyotrophy, but they have not been well understood. six patients with distal-type cervical spondylotic amyotrophy were described, and their magnetic resonance imaging and evoked spinal cord potentials after median nerve, motor cortex, and spinal cord stimulation were investigated. the restriction of muscle denervation to a few cervical myotomes, the presence of c3-c4 spondylotic changes without associated root or spinal cord compression, and the absence of an alternative explanation to the patient's symptoms strongly supported the diagnosis of cervical spondylotic amyotrophy (csa). to elucidate the pathophysiology of cervical spondylotic amyotrophy. cervical spondylotic amyotrophy is the clinical syndrome in cervical spondylosis characterized by severe muscular atrophy in the upper extremities, with an absent or insignificant sensory deficit. three cases of cervical spondylotic amyotrophy are presented in which magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the intrinsic cord disease as the cause of the syndrome. this is the first case report of cervical spondylotic amyotrophy, in which intramedullary lesion was confirmed only at the affected side of the spinal cord. the purpose of this study was to clarify the prognostic factors for cervical spondylotic amyotrophy (csa). 
Parasacral sciatic nerve block: does the elicited motor response predict the success rate? [SEP] in this prospective, randomized, double-blind study, we compared the tibial and the peroneal evoked motor response with regard to efficacy of sciatic nerve block using the parasacral approach. twenty-six asa i-iii patients scheduled for elective lower limb surgery were randomized to receive a parasacral sciatic block, using a nerve stimulator technique seeking either a tibial (n = 14) or peroneal (n = 12) motor response. eliciting a tibial motor response predicts a higher success rate than eliciting a peroneal motor response with parasacral sciatic nerve block. the patients were randomly assigned into two groups in a double-blind manner to perform sciatic nerve block either by the parasacral technique (group i) or by the posterior approach (group ii). the aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of parasacral sciatic nerve block in a larger group of patients. the clinical utility of a new parasacral approach for conduction block of the sciatic nerve was investigated, with critical examination of onset, extent, and success rates when this block was used for surgical procedures below the knee. the parasacral approach to the sciatic nerve exhibits a high success rate, resulting in anesthesia of the entire sacral plexus and generally in motor block of the obturator nerve was an interesting observation. we conclude that the parasacral sciatic block results in frequent success of blockade of all three major components of the sciatic plexus and it has a small risk of complications. the parasacral sciatic block results in a frequent success rate of blockade of all three major components of the sciatic plexus (tibial, common peroneal, and cutaneous nerve of thigh). success rate was defined as complete sensory and motor block in all sciatic nerve distributions associated with a pain-free surgery. 
Is Bare-Metal Stent Implantation Still Justifiable in High Bleeding Risk Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention? [SEP] the majority of participants recommended (a) ≥6 weeks delay as optimal for surgery after bare metal stent implantation; (b) continuing dual antiplatelet therapy in stent patients undergoing minor bleeding risk procedure; (c) avoiding drug-eluting stent implantation in patients known to need noncardiac surgery within 12 months from percutaneous coronary intervention; (d) treating perioperative stent thrombosis with primary percutaneous coronary intervention; and (e) performing nuclear stress testing in stable patients who need major noncardiac surgery. the hypothesis of the debut trial was that percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-coated balloons is non-inferior to percutaneous coronary intervention with bare-metal stents for this population. at 9 months, major adverse cardiac events had occurred in one patient (1%) in the drug-coated balloon group and in 15 patients (14%) in the bare-metal stent group (absolute risk difference -13·2 percentage points [95% ci -6·2 to -21·1], risk ratio 0·07 [95% ci 0·01 to 0·52]; p<0·00001 for non-inferiority and p=0·00034 for superiority). percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-coated balloon was superior to bare-metal stents in patients at bleeding risk. perioperative stent thrombosis is a life-threatening complication for patients with either bare-metal or drug-eluting stents. algorithms for perioperative management of patients with bare-metal and drug-eluting stents are proposed. expert recommendations advise that patients can be sent for non-cardiac surgery 3 months after bare-metal stent pci and 12 months after drug-eluting stent pci, with continuation of aspirin therapy. we linked the scottish coronary revascularisation register with hospital admission data to undertake a scotland-wide retrospective cohort study examining cardiac outcomes in all patients who received drug-eluting or bare-metal stents between april 2003 and march 2007 and subsequently underwent noncardiac surgery. for at least 2 years after percutaneous coronary intervention, cardiac outcomes after noncardiac surgery are similar for both drug-eluting and bare-metal stents. we evaluated the safety and efficacy of the use of dess versus bare-metal stents (bmss) in a consecutive real-world cohort of patients with af. 
Ovarian torsion in children: is oophorectomy necessary? [SEP] this study reviews contemporary management and follow-up of pediatric ovarian torsion. this is a retrospective series of patients from birth to 19 years undergoing operative management of ovarian torsion from 2012 to 2016. ovarian-sparing operations for acute torsion are safe and result in ovarian salvage and preservation of follicular development in more than 70% of children and adolescents. most pediatric surgeons perform oophorectomy in girls presenting with ovarian torsion in which the ovary appears necrotic. all children with ovarian torsion on the gynecology and general surgery services between 1988 and 2002 were reviewed. detorsion is the procedure of choice for most cases of ovarian torsion in children. in this multicenter study of 1783 children diagnosed with ovarian torsion from 2012 to 2017, 402 children (22.5%) underwent oophorectomy. primary outcome measures included the incidence of ovarian torsion and rate of associated oophorectomy. we report the case of asynchronous bilateral ovarian torsion in a 9-year-old girl, resulting in right and subsequently left salpingo-oophorectomy. this study analyzed the literature on bilateral ovarian torsions in girls to evaluate surgical options and outcomes. 
Does minimal access major surgery in the newborn hurt less? [SEP] proposed benefits from laparoscopic surgery include decreased pain, decreased metabolic disturbance to the patient and faster recovery. when looked at critically in programmes where patients are optimally managed perioperatively, there appears to be minimal metabolic benefit from performing a major colonic resection using minimal access surgery. indications for minimal access surgery are the same as for open surgery, i.e. the results of this approach are encouraging, with less systemic upset to the patient, a lower incidence of post-operative organ failure when compared with open surgery, and a reduced requirement for itu support. neonatal intestinal obstruction is the most common surgical emergency in a newborn. minimizing scars has become a major concern in pediatric surgery. minimal access surgery is rapidly expanding and currently single-port surgery is at the forefront of laparoscopy. it offers minimal scar surgery as well as decreased postoperative pain and swift recovery. the concept of minimally invasive surgery for congenital heart disease in paediatric patients is broad, and has the aim of reducing the trauma of the operation at each stage of management. however, because of low operative morbidity it represents a favourable alternative to standard surgery in patients who prefer less invasive treatment, the frail elderly and other selected women where conventional surgery is problematic. 
Does aerobic fitness influence microvascular function in healthy adults at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes? [SEP] to investigate whether aerobic fitness is associated with skin microvascular function in healthy adults with an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. however, in the 'at-risk' group alone, individuals with higher levels of aerobic fitness also had better microvascular and endothelial responsiveness. adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus have impaired microvascular function. the aim of this study was to investigate whether 6 months of regular aerobic exercise would improve microvascular function in adults with type 2 diabetes. in this group of type 2 diabetic patients with good glycaemic control a 6-month aerobic exercise programme did not improve microvascular function or aerobic fitness. aerobic fitness may be an important indicator or mediator of effective microvascular endothelial function in youth with t1dm. high aerobic fitness may prevent age-related decrements in cutaneous vasodilation while type 2 diabetes may exacerbate this decline. higher levels of aerobic fitness, greater insulin sensitivity, and better microvascular function, as well as lower cvrfs and waist-to-hip ratio were associated with better neurocognition. this study aimed to determine the impact of hrt on microvascular function in healthy and type 2 diabetic postmenopausal women (n=20 and 17, respectively). we have previously shown that endothelial function is impaired not only in diabetes but also in subjects at risk of developing type 2 diabetes. 
Are high flow nasal cannulae noisier than bubble CPAP for preterm infants? [SEP] high flow nasal cannulae (hfnc) are an increasingly popular alternative to cpap for treating preterm infants, but there are no in vivo studies assessing noise production by hfnc. to study whether hfnc are noisier than bubble cpap (bcpap) for preterm infants. to compare the feasibility of continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) support generated by high flow nasal cannula with conventional cpap for prevention of reintubation among preterm infants with a birth weight of <or=1,250 g. preterm infants were randomized to cpap generated via high flow cannula or the infant flow nasal cpap system (viasys, conshohocken, pa, usa) at extubation. cpap delivered by high flow nasal cannula failed to maintain extubation status among preterm infants <or=1,250 g as effectively as infant flow cpap. the use of high-flow nasal cannulae is an increasingly popular alternative to nasal continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) for noninvasive respiratory support of very preterm infants (gestational age, <32 weeks) after extubation. in this multicenter, randomized, noninferiority trial, we assigned 303 very preterm infants to receive treatment with either high-flow nasal cannulae (5 to 6 liters per minute) or nasal cpap (7 cm of water) after extubation. the use of high-flow nasal cannulae was noninferior to the use of nasal cpap, with treatment failure occurring in 52 of 152 infants (34.2%) in the nasal-cannulae group and in 39 of 151 infants (25.8%) in the cpap group (risk difference, 8.4 percentage points; 95% confidence interval, -1.9 to 18.7). although the result for the primary outcome was close to the margin of noninferiority, the efficacy of high-flow nasal cannulae was similar to that of cpap as respiratory support for very preterm infants after extubation. clinically stable preterm infants receiving bubble cpap therapy. nasal gas flows during bubble cpap in preterm infants are similar to flows used during nhf and increase with higher set bubble cpap pressures and in larger infants.trial registration number actrn12619000197134. 
Nutritional assessment of gluten-free diet. Is gluten-free diet deficient in some nutrient? [SEP] this paper summarizes a review of scientific studies using the gluten-free diet, nutritional risk factors, controversial elements of the diet, and its implementation in treating celiac disease. the diet and gluten-free products are often low in b vitamins, calcium, vitamin d, iron, zinc, magnesium, and fiber. few gluten-free products are enriched or fortified, adding to the risk of nutrient deficiencies. several studies have reported nutritional deficiencies in individuals on a gluten-free diet. the present study aimed to determine whether the nutritional profile of gluten-free diet could be improved through the use of alternative grains. the aim of this special report is to elucidate and explain the various nutritional deficiencies seen in newly diagnosed patients with celiac disease and while on the gluten-free diet. though initiation of the gluten-free diet results in improvement of symptoms and most deficiencies, certain nutritional limitations are associated with the gluten-free diet. the diet must be not only free of gluten but also healthy to avoid nutrient, vitamins and minerals deficiencies or excess. the present work aims to review indications, proven benefits, and adverse events of a gluten-free diet. paucity of fortified gluten-free foods may be responsible for certain deficiencies which develop on the gfd. 
Standardizing care in medical oncology: are Web-based systems the answer? [SEP] medical oncology is embracing information technology to standardize care and improve patient outcomes, with a range of web-based systems used internationally. the authors' aim was to determine the factors affecting the uptake and use of a web-based protocol system for medical oncology in the australian setting. the web-based system plays a major role in guiding oncology treatment across participating sites. a range of issues impact on clinicians' attitudes toward and use of the web-based system. 85% believe that web-based resources have improved medical practice, with 88% reporting web-based resources are essential for medical practice today. our objective was to examine the way in which australian doctors at different stages of medical training use a web-based oncology system (http://www.eviq.org.au). we also used a web-based survey to evaluate the way doctors at different levels of medical training use the online system and to elicit perceptions of the system's utility in oncology care. despite the prolific use of electronic support systems there has been relatively little research on the uptake of web-based systems in the oncology setting. our objective was to examine the uptake of a web-based oncology protocol system (http://www.eviq.org.au) by australian cancer clinicians. we piloted a new set of oncology medical home standards that call for accessible, continuous, coordinated, and team-based care. 
Antiretroviral therapy related adverse effects: Can sub-Saharan Africa cope with the new "test and treat" policy of the World Health Organization? [SEP] as access to antiretroviral drugs is increasing in the sub-region, and new combinations of antimalarial drugs are being implemented while more are being evaluated, there is potential for interactions between these therapies. the absence of studies on interaction between antimalarials and antiretrovirals, as well as mounting evidence of treatment failure due to drug resistance and adverse drug reactions, in most parts of sub-saharan africa, make the establishment of new guidelines for the prevention of malaria and hiv infection during pregnancy imperative. given its complexity and specificity, assessment and monitoring of pediatric compliance with antiretroviral therapy is a major challenge. this review aimed to assess scientific knowledge on pediatric compliance with antiretroviral therapy in sub-saharan africa, and to identify areas for future interventions to improve compliance. the number of patients in need of second-line antiretroviral drugs is increasing in sub-saharan africa. to compare national human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) policies influencing access to hiv testing and treatment services in six sub-saharan african countries. we reviewed hiv policies as part of a multi-country study on adult mortality in sub-saharan africa. as a consequence, several sub-saharan african countries have implemented, or are considering the introduction of, non-nnrti-based first-line antiretroviral therapy (art) for treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced patients. those issues are particularly relevant to sub-saharan africa, where standardised art regimens are used and where viral load monitoring and resistance testing are often not done routinely. we discuss important public health considerations regarding hiv drug resistance, and describe how mathematical modelling, combined with real-world data from the four african regions of the international epidemiology databases to evaluate aids consortium, could provide an early warning system for hiv drug resistance in sub-saharan africa. 
Are the elderly with oropharyngeal carcinoma undertreated? [SEP] the effect of undertreatment with adjuvant hormonal therapy, chemotherapy or radiation was studied in elderly women with breast cancer. the effect of undertreatment with adjuvant hormonal therapy, chemotherapy, or radiation was studied in elderly women with breast cancer. head and neck cancers have essentially been a disease of the elderly but recent studies are beginning to demonstrate their increasing incidence in young people with infections such as human papilloma virus (hpv). the case of an elderly man with an advanced oropharyngeal cancer that was missed during esophagogastroduodenoscopy is described. little evidence exists regarding hcc in old patients, and the elderly are still underrepresented and undertreated in clinical trials. oropharyngeal dysphagia in the elderly is the specific result of a pathologic condition or illness that may occur more commonly in elderly persons. it is critical to determine the status of oropharyngeal pathogen colonization in the elderly when treating pneumonia. to explore the efficient approaches to treat age-related pneumonia, we determined the status of oropharyngeal pathogenic colonization in the elderly community. to compare the incidence trends of nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal carcinomas in taiwan, the age-period-cohort model was used to analyze epidemiologic data from 1981 to 2000 obtained from the taiwan cancer registry. cohort effect was found for both nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal carcinomas. 
Preoperative staging of patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. Does PET/CT really add something to multidetector CT? [SEP] combined fluorine 18-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography-ct imaging has been shown to be of good diagnostic value in the preoperative evaluation of patients with colorectal cancer and liver metastases. to compare the diagnostic performance of preoperative positron emission tomography (pet)-ct alone and pet-ct combined with ious in the evaluation of patients who are considered for curative resection of hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma. this study was designed to determine prospectively whether the systematic use of pet/ct associated with conventional techniques could improve the accuracy of staging in patients with liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma. twenty consecutive patients referred to our hospital for surgical treatment of colorectal liver metastases diagnosed with contrast-enhanced ct underwent preoperative 18f-fdg pet/ct tailored for detection of liver metastases. the addition of tailored liver-specific 18f-fdg pet/ct protocols (pl-pet and rgl-pet) to a wb-pet, improved the detection of intrahepatic colorectal metastases, compared to wb-pet alone. the purpose of this study was to assess the utility of fdg-pet in the accurate detection of liver and distal metastases from colorectal cancer. the purposes of this study were to assess the accuracy of 18fdg-pet in patients with recurrent colorectal carcinoma in detecting liver metastases compared with computed tomography (ct) and ct portography, detecting extrahepatic metastases compared with ct and evaluating the impact on patient management. therefore, it is natural to expect that pet/ct would improve the accuracy of preoperative staging of colorectal cancer. in patients with intestinal/mixed-type tumors, pet-ct improved the detection of extra-regional lymph-node metastases (p = 0.01) and distant metastases (p = 0.01) compared to ct alone. fdg pet has a high sensitivity and specificity for detection of colorectal carcinomas (primary and liver metastases) and appears to be superior to ct in the staging of primary colorectal carcinoma. 
Can myometrial electrical activity identify patients in preterm labor? [SEP] the objective of the study was to determine whether myometrial electrical activity can differentiate false from true preterm labor. electrical uterine myography (eum) was measured prospectively on 87 women, gestational age less than 35 weeks. measuring myometrial electrical activity may enhance identification of patients in true premature labor. this study aimed to compare the myometrial gene expression between term and preterm labor and to determine whether the presence of acute clinical chorioamnionitis or twin gestation affects these signatures. the myometrial contractions associated with preterm labor are associated with a pattern of gene expression that is distinct from term labor. to assess the association between myometrial electrical activity and time-to-delivery in preterm labor using uterine electromyography. myometrial electrical activity was measured via the electrical uterine monitor (eum) device. our purposes were (1) to identify and analyze parameters of uterine electrical activity that change during active term and preterm labor in response to stimulatory (oxytocin) or inhibitory (terbutaline) agents and (2) to correlate the information obtained from abdominal surface measurement of electrical activity with intrauterine pressure and with the electrical activity measured directly from the uterine surface in vivo. electromyographic activity was acquired simultaneously from the uterine wall and the abdominal surface by means of unipolar electrodes. first, uterine electromyographic activity measured noninvasively from the abdominal surface reflects changes in uterine electrical activity and intrauterine pressure measured directly and invasively in term and preterm labor, as well as during treatments to stimulate or inhibit labor. 
Schizophrenia patients with high intelligence: A clinically distinct sub-type of schizophrenia? [SEP] polygenic scores were not only associated with schizophrenia and baseline intelligence quotient (iq), respectively, but schizophrenia polygenic score was also significantly associated with cognitive (verbal iq) decline and nominally associated with sub-threshold psychosis. the ocd-schizophrenia patients had higher iqs. education and intelligence are highly correlated and inversely associated with schizophrenia. a different picture is observed for schooling years inclusive of college: more years of schooling increases the likelihood of schizophrenia, whereas higher intelligence distinctly and independently decreases it. in the current study, 50 patients with schizophrenia and 50 age, sex and premorbid intelligence matched controls were assessed using a broad neuropsychological battery, including tasks considered sensitive to executive abilities, namely the hayling sentence completion test (hsct), word fluency, stroop test, digit-span backwards, and spatial working memory. schizophrenia is a common psychiatric disorder characterized by disturbances of cognition, emotion and social functioning. some, but not most, schizophrenia patients have below-average intelligence years before they manifest psychosis. we examined the association between intra-individual variability in intellectual performance and risk for schizophrenia in individuals with normal iq. there was a significant monotonic association between increased intra-individual variability in intellectual performance and risk of schizophrenia in individuals with within-normal-range iq. despite within-normal-range premorbid iq, apparently healthy adolescents who will later on manifest schizophrenia, nevertheless have cognitive abnormalities such as increased variability across intellectual tasks, possibly related to frontal lobe abnormalities. 
Is ankle/arm pressure predictive for cardiovascular mortality in older patients living in nursing homes? [SEP] to identify whether ankle/arm index (aai) is a predictive factor for cardiovascular mortality in institutionalised elderly. low values of ankle-arm systolic blood pressure ratio predict mortality and cardiovascular events. we focus on the extent to which low and high ankle-arm index values as well as noncompressible arteries are associated with mortality and cardiovascular events, including stroke in older adults. among older adults, low and high ankle-arm index values carry elevated risk for cardiovascular events. the ankle-arm blood pressure index (aai, ratio of ankle to arm systolic blood pressure), a simple, noninvasive, and inexpensive screening test, has recently been found to be highly predictive of subsequent mortality in several populations. the aim of the longitudinal partage study was to determine the predictive value of blood pressure (bp) and pulse pressure amplification, a marker of arterial function, for overall mortality (primary endpoint) and major cardiovascular (cv) events, in subjects older than 80 years of age living in a nursing home. to evaluate the relationship of the ankle/arm blood pressure index to short-term mortality in women 65 years of age or older. to assess the risk of total and cardiovascular mortality in older adults with systolic hypertension and with a low ankle-arm index (aai) as a marker of subclinical peripheral arterial disease (pad). a low ankle arm-index predicted a two to three-fold increase in total and cardiovascular mortality in older adults with systolic hypertension of risk for incident cardiovascular disease. the predictive value of blood pressure (bp) for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality diminishes in the elderly, which may be confounded and compensated by the bp differences across the 4 limbs, markers of peripheral arterial disease. 
Is nasogastric decompression useful in prevention of leaks after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] leakage after sleeve gastrectomy is the cornerstone for most of its related morbidity and mortality. in this article, a 44-year-old female patient who developed a leak at the gastro-oesophageal junction following a revision laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is presented. early use of stents is an effective treatment method in leaks that have developed after sleeve gastrectomy. laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is a widely utilized and effective surgical procedure for dramatic weight loss in obese patients. with the implementation of the described techniques of the sleeve gastrectomy, the rate of sleeve leaks fell from 4% in 2012 to 0% in 2015 and 2016 without a significant change in weight loss, as depicted by 6-month change in body weight and percent excess bmi lost. leaks arising at the level of gastro-esophageal junction remain a major complication in patients who undergo a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. laparoscopic gastric surgeries are routinely performed with use of a nasogastric tube to decompress the upper gastrointestinal tract. we performed this procedure instead of nasogastric decompression on twenty-two patients with gastric cancer who underwent laparoscopic-assisted distal subtotal gastrectomy with lymph node dissection. it can be used as an alternative to nasogastric tube decompression of the gastrointestinal tract for laparoscopic-assisted gastrectomy. the aim of this study was to compare the effects of two supportive techniques on burst pressures in sleeved gastrectomy specimens. 
The objective structured clinical examination: can physician-examiners participate from a distance? [SEP] to assess the impact of this intervention, family physicians participated in a pre- and post-test evaluation, using objective structured clinical examinations and standardized patients. a total of 95 students participated in the objective structured clinical examination. an objective structured clinical examination is a useful tool to evaluate patient safety competencies during the medical student clerkship. standardized patients, structured oral examinations, chart-stimulated recall, objective structured clinical examination, and multiple-choice examination. an objective structured clinical examination can provide a standardized setting for formative feedback regarding communication skills in child neurology residency programs. paradoxically, modern distance examination imposes a return to classical semiotics and puts the patient at the very core of the examination process through his/her active participation. a reliable means of assessing physician competency in performing ultrasound (us) is critical for training and credentialing. objective structured clinical examinations (osce) have been used successfully to assess clinical competency in other areas of surgical education but have not been applied previously to trauma ultrasound training. the objectives of this study were to assess physician performance in the focused abdominal sonography in trauma (fast) examination by using a specifically designed osce, and to determine whether the osce detects differences in two determinants of competency (knowledge acquisition and clinical interpretation skills). this study supports the use of the objective structured clinical examination in both the design of ultrasound teaching programs and the assessment of physician competency. 
CPAP therapy in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and obstructive sleep apnea: does it offer a better quality of life and sleep? [SEP] the most recent idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) guidelines include obstructive sleep apnea (osa) among the ipf-associated comorbidities. our aim was to assess the effect of cpap treatment on sleep and overall life quality parameters, morbidity, and mortality in ipf patients with osa. effective cpap treatment in ipf patients with osa results in a significant improvement in daily living activities and quality of sleep and life. obstructive sleep apnea (osa) in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) is associated with worse mortality and clinical outcome. we aimed to assess differences between patients with ipf with and without osa and the effect of positive airway pressure (pap) treatment on sleep and overall life quality, morbidity and mortality in these patients. registry: clinicaltrials.gov, title: cpap therapy in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and sleep apnea, identifier: nct01637831, url: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/record/nct01637831. qol in sleep apnea may improve under continuous airway positive pressure (cpap) therapy. the quality of life in sleep apnea was better after cpap therapy than from baseline, according calgary sleep apnea quality of life index. overall we found no significant improvement in quality of life among sleep apnea patients after cpap treatment. however, after stratifying by osa severity, it was found that long-term improvement in quality of life might occur with the use of cpap in people with severe and possibly moderate sleep apnea, and no demonstrable improvement in quality of life was noted among participants with mild obstructive sleep apnea. 
Does open access endoscopy close the door to an adequately informed patient? [SEP] general practitioners may gain valuable information from the use of open access endoscopy. the aim of our study was to compare the extent of preknowledge of procedures and test explanation, patient medical complexity, information transfer and overall patient satisfaction between a patient group referred for outpatient open access endoscopy versus a patient group from a gastrointestinal (gi) subspecialty clinic. patients undergoing open access procedures are less likely to be properly informed about their endoscopic procedure. our results indicate that with open access endoscopy, a defined mechanism needs to be in place for communication of endoscopic results to the patient. open access endoscopy systems (those in which endoscopy is performed without prior gastroenterology consultation) are becoming more common in the current cost-conscious environment. the aim of this study was to compare appropriateness and yield of endoscopy for patients referred for open access endoscopy with those for patients who had prior contact with a gastroenterologist. we also evaluated patients' preference for undergoing open access endoscopy as opposed to having prior consultation with a gastroenterologist and compared preparedness for endoscopic procedures between the two groups. eighty-six percent of endoscopies after consultation with gastroenterologists were performed for accepted indications compared with 65% of open access procedures (p < 0.01). patients initially seen by a gastroenterologist are more likely to undergo endoscopy for accepted indications, and the yield of endoscopy is higher than among patients referred through an open access system. the system of open access endoscopy as currently practiced may have to be reassessed. 
Is hypoalbuminemia an independent prognostic factor in patients with gastric cancer? [SEP] this study aims to determine prognostic indicators among patient-, tumor-, and treatment-related factors of gastric cancer patients. studies have indicated that hypoalbuminemia is associated with decreased survival of patients with gastric cancer. the aim of the study was to assess the relation between hypoalbuminemia, the systemic inflammatory response, and survival in patients with gastric cancer. hypoalbuminemia has been reported as a risk factor for post-operative complications and unfavorable survival in cancer patients. hypoalbuminemia was independently associated with shortened overall survival (hr 2.2 (95% ci 1.6-3.0); p<0.001) even after adjusting established prognostic factors such as age, tumor stage, performance status, and post-operative residual disease. poor prognosis in gastric cancer is linked with hypoalbuminemia. in general, cancer patients have a high prevalence of hypoalbuminemia. as such, the role of hypoalbuminemia in patients with colorectal cancer has received significant interest. the aim of this study is to assess the value of the combination of hypoalbuminemia and an elevated circulating concentration of c-reactive protein as a prognostic score in patients with advanced gastrointestinal cancer. the results of the present study suggest that, in patients with advanced gastrointestinal cancer, a cumulative score based on hypoalbuminemia and an elevated c-reactive protein may be useful. 
Can the postoperative pain level be predicted preoperatively? [SEP] we found that preoperative pain level, use of preoperative opioids, female gender, higher asa physical status, and postoperative pain control methods were the strongest predictors of postoperative pain as measured on the first day after surgery. pain levels on the second day after surgery were strongly predicted by preoperative pain level, use of preoperative opioids, surgical risk, and pain and opioid dose on postoperative day 1. this study aimed to investigate the impact of preoperative psychological factors on postoperative pain. the severity of preoperative pain had the strongest independent association with the severity of postoperative pain at 6 weeks after surgery (r = 0.35; p < .001). this suggests that while preoperative pain and its severity are associated with postoperative pain, other factors are likely involved in predicting pain. in addition, the severity of preoperative pain was highly predictive of their anticipated postoperative pain and 6-week postoperative pain, and both preoperative pain and anticipated pain predict higher immediate postoperative pain. the intensity of patients' preoperative pain was predictive of the anticipated postoperative pain. patients' preoperative pain and anticipated postoperative pain were independently predictive of the 3-day postoperative pain. in the fully adjusted multiple regression analysis, postoperative pain intensity was predicted by a higher level of preoperative pain intensity (dichotomized above median; β = 2.00, 95% confidence interval [ci]: 0.28-3.72) and a higher score on the preoperative pcs (dichotomized above median; β = 1.87, 95% ci: 0.53-3.21). the aim of the present study was to predict postoperative pain and morphine consumption based on preoperative psychosocial factors. 
Proliferative index obtained by DNA image cytometry. Does it add prognostic information in Auer IV breast cancer? [SEP] to investigate whether the s + g2/m fraction (proliferative index) is a prognostic determinant in breast cancers classified as auer iv. prognostic evaluation of auer iv dna histograms with respect to the high versus low s + g2/m fraction, obtained by image cytometry on consecutive breast cancer imprint preparations. according to icm-dna values corresponding to the s + g2/m region, patients with breast cancers classified as auer iv can be divided into subgroups with different tumor characteristics and prognoses. measurements of dna ploidy can be performed either with image cytometry (icm) or flow cytometry (fcm); both methods provide independent prognostic information in primary breast cancer. measurement of dna ploidy can be performed either with flow cytometry (fcm) and image-analysis (ia); both methods provide prognostic information in primary breast cancer. we found a good correlation between flow cytometry dna index and histogram type, according to auer classification (rs = 0.65, p < 0.001) and between dna index and grading of malignancy (mg) which had been measured by bocking's algorithm (rs = 0.38, p < 0.05). the prognostic significance of the "dna malignancy grade" (dna-mg) was tested in a series of 104 breast cancer patients in comparison with tnm staging, histomorphologic grading according to bloom and richardson, mean nuclear area (mna) and dna-histogram classification according to auer. these findings show that the dna-mg is a valid and reliable prognostic index that adds significant prognostic information to tnm staging. therefore auer classification may be useful as an objective prognostic parameter. the clinical relevance of dna image cytometry (icm) and flow cytometry (fcm) remains under investigation in breast carcinoma. 
Does skin care frequency affect the severity of incontinence-associated dermatitis in critically ill patients? [SEP] incontinence-associated dermatitis is a ubiquitous, nosocomial condition commonly present in critically ill patients in the intensive care unit. critically ill patients, by the nature of their critical illness and therapies used to treat their presenting condition, are commonly predisposed to faecal incontinence and are consequently at high risk of developing incontinence-associated dermatitis. the aim of this paper is to provide a review of the literature relating to incontinence-associated dermatitis from the critically ill patients in the intensive care setting. furthermore, an exposition of incontinence-associated dermatitis from the critically ill patient and intensive care nursing perspectives will be presented through a review of the skin barrier function, clinical presentation, risk factors, clinical assessment and severity categorization, prevention and management of incontinence-associated dermatitis. it is imperative that critical care nurses have an appreciation of incontinence-associated dermatitis as a common, yet preventable condition, and are equipped with knowledge to appropriately prevent and manage this common complication. the purpose of this study was to determine the time to development, severity, and risk factors of incontinence-associated dermatitis (iad) among critically ill patients with fecal incontinence. incontinence-associated dermatitis develops in critically ill patients with fecal incontinence relatively quickly and does not resolve in most before their discharge from the icu. this study aimed to test the effectiveness of a bundle combining best available evidence to reduce the incidence of incontinence-associated dermatitis occurrences in critically ill patients. incontinence-associated dermatitis events developed later in the intensive care unit stay in the intervention group (logrank=5.2, p=<0.022). development of a need-based interventional skin care protocol on incontinence-associated dermatitis among critically ill patients. 
Is primary angioplasty an acceptable alternative to thrombolysis? [SEP] later studies have put this advantage of angioplasty over thrombolysis in perspective again. the potential advantages of a therapeutic strategy of primary angioplasty, instead of thrombolysis, are discussed. the randomized trials in which primary angioplasty and thrombolytic therapy were compared are reviewed. the potential limitations of primary angioplasty in the community hospital setting are discussed. primary angioplasty or thrombolysis. primary angioplasty offers several advantages to thrombolysis for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. angioplasty as an alternative to thrombolysis may be advantageous in certain patients, such as those presenting in cardiogenic shock or with contraindications to thrombolysis. several studies demonstrate a better outcome after primary angioplasty compared with thrombolysis. we conducted a randomized trial of primary coronary angioplasty compared with thrombolysis. despite successful thrombolysis, with sustained patency of the infarct-related vessel, primary angioplasty remains superior to thrombolytic therapy with regard to left ventricular function and enzymatic infarct size. 
Should HIV-infected patients be screened for silent myocardial ischaemia using gated myocardial perfusion SPECT? [SEP] a higher prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors (crfs) in hiv-infected patients, together with chronic infection and treatments, has resulted in an increased risk of silent myocardial ischaemia (smi). the objective of this study was to evaluate whether myocardial spect should be used for screening hiv-infected patients with no clinical symptoms of coronary artery disease. the prevalence of smi detected by myocardial spect was determined in 94 hiv-infected patients with a normal clinical cardiovascular examination in relation to anthropomorphic parameters, crfs, inflammatory and hiv infection status, and treatment. in male hiv-infected patients older than 52 years and with at least two other crfs, screening for smi using myocardial spect was about four times more likely to be positive than in the general population. the aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the association between qct parameters of coronary artery lesions and the presence of myocardial ischaemia on gated myocardial perfusion single-photon emission ct (spect). subsequently, the presence of myocardial ischaemia was assessed using the summed difference score (sds ≥2) on gated myocardial perfusion spect. twenty-one ssc patients, clinically silent for cardiovascular disease, were consecutively evaluated for myocardial perfusion defects through 99m-tc sestamibi gated myocardial perfusion spect with a stress-rest protocol. coronary angiography was performed in patients with ischemia established at myocardial perfusion spect. type 2 diabetic patients (especially men) with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus or retinopathy should be screened for silent myocardial ischemia. sixteen middle-aged, normotensive, slightly overweight male patients with previous myocardial infarction were studied during holter-checked silent myocardial ischaemia. 
Does the aggressive use of polyvalent antivenin for rattlesnake bites result in serious acute side effects? [SEP] to determine the incidence and severity of acute side effects from the use of polyvalent antivenin in victims of rattlesnake bites. despite considerable evidence regarding the safety and efficacy of antivenin in the treatment of rattlesnake bites in adults, controversy persists regarding the roles of antivenin and surgery in the treatment of rattlesnake envenomations in children. antivenin, rather than surgery, is the proper initial treatment of severe rattlesnake envenomations in children. significant envenomation from a rattlesnake bite can result in tremendous local tissue destruction, and severe envenomation can cause death. to test the hypothesis that rattlesnake venom-induced thrombocytopenia would improve following antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent administration, and that the degree of platelet increase would correlate with the dosage of antivenom. the relationship between antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent administration and venom-induced thrombocytopenia was evaluated by linear regression and paired t-test. although rattlesnake venom-induced thrombocytopenia usually improves immediately after antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent administration and by the time of discharge, the degree of improvement is frequently incomplete and of uncertain clinical significance in the absence of life-threatening bleeding. an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to measure the levels of therapeutic antivenin (antivenin [crotalidae] polyvalent, wyeth-ayerst) in serum and the levels of venom in the urine of a patient bitten by a western diamondback rattlesnake (crotalus atrox). an amateur herpetologist developed chills, diaphoresis and generalized urticaria 5 h after receiving antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent (wyeth) for treatment of rattlesnake (crotalus atrox) envenomation. we describe the incidence of acute hypersensitivity reactions to fabav in patients bitten by rattlesnakes. 
Do resident's leadership skills relate to ratings of technical skill? [SEP] to determine resident perceptions about the importance of these skills and individual strengths and weaknesses in these areas, a questionnaire was administered to 43 residents in our general surgery program. the majority of the residents (92%) rated all 18 leadership skills "somewhat" or "very important" for career development. residents and physicians frequently find themselves in leadership roles. in all, 66% agreed that a formalized leadership curriculum would help residents become better resident supervisors and physicians. a total of 15% of chief residents believed their faculty did not effectively model leadership, whereas only 2% of the program directors believed the same (p = .01). leadership skills were not significantly associated with more simple technical skills such as chest-compression rate, depth, and ventilation rate. existing pediatric residency competencies may not completely describe all leadership skills that should be valued. despite a high degree of national agreement among program directors about the importance of specific leadership skills, few pediatric residency programs dedicate time to teaching residents about these skills. technical and non-technical skills (leadership, communication, team skills, decision making, and vigilance), were assessed by clinical experts and by two psychologists using relevant technical and human factors rating scales. regarding non-technical skills, leadership and decision making were scored lower than the other three non-technical skills (communication, team skills, and vigilance). 
The FOOTSTEP self-management foot care programme: are rheumatoid arthritis patients physically able to participate? [SEP] the footstep self-management foot care programme is a clinical and cost-effective programme for basic foot care in the elderly. the aim of this study was to determine if patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) would be physically able to participate. a consecutive cohort of ra patients undergoing podiatry care underwent tests for sight, reach and grip strength to determine their physical ability to undertake self-managed foot care. just over half the patients in this present cohort may be physically able to undertake some aspects of self-managed foot care, including nail clipping and filing, callus filing and daily hygiene and inspection. to determine the effectiveness of a self-management program for joint protection and physical activity for patients with rheumatoid arthritis based on self-efficacy theory. eligible participants with rheumatoid arthritis were randomly assigned to either an 8-week program in self-management of joint protection and physical activity with nursing support (intervention group, n = 112) or standard care for rheumatology (control group, n = 112). to explore the added impact of foot ulceration on health-related quality of life in non-diabetic patients with rheumatoid arthritis. self-care is an important component of comprehensive chronic disease management such as rheumatoid arthritis. if patients have high levels of self-care and adhere to rheumatoid arthritis treatment, it can be expected that they will have fewer symptoms and better functional capabilities. rheumatoid arthritis patients alter their gait pattern to compensate for painful foot symptoms. 
CYP2D6*4 allele and breast cancer risk: is there any association? [SEP] in this study the association between the most prevalent cyp2d6 null-allele in caucasians (cyp2d6*4) and breast cancer mortality was examined among all incident users of tamoxifen in a population-based cohort study. methods: we here investigated whether the prevalence of the four most common polymorphism in the cyp2d6*4 (g1934a), cyp2d6*10 (c188t), cyp3a5*3 and cyp2c19*2 alleles has any link with breast cancer using genomic dna and polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (pcr-rflp) analysis. results: prevalences of cyp2d6*4, cyp2d6*10 and cyp2c19*2 genotypes were differed significantly (p = 0.01 and p = 0.004) between breast cancer patients and controls. conclusion: polymorphisms in cyp2 appear to be associated with breast cancer risk. the most frequent null allele of cyp2d6 in european populations, cyp2d6*4, has been studied here in order to elucidate whether a relationship exists between this allele and the risk of developing breast cancer in a spanish population. therefore, the presence of the cyp2d6*4 allele seems to decrease susceptibility to breast carcinoma in the selected population. this study aims to evaluate the association between germ line variations in cyp2d6 and breast cancer susceptibility. one relatively rare functional variant, cyp2d6*6, (maf = 0.01) showed a modest increased association with breast cancer susceptibility (p(trend) = 0.02; or = 1.32; 95% ci = 1.04-1.68). common variants of cyp2d6 do not play a significant role in breast cancer susceptibility. we investigated whether there is an association between the cyp2d6*10 allele and clinical outcome in node-negative japanese breast cancer patients. 
Does base deficit predict mortality in patients with severe traumatic brain injury? [SEP] a predictive model based on children with moderate or severe traumatic brain injury from the single center discriminated mortality well (area under the curve, 0.80; 95% ci, 0.68-0.91) and showed good calibration and overall fit. a novel, validated pediatric mortality model based on the rotterdam score is accurate in children with moderate or severe traumatic brain injury and can be used for risk stratification. traumatic brain injury is the leading cause of death in the pediatric population. traumatic brain injury is the leading cause of mortality and is a major public health issue in the pediatric population. studies of 4590 patients with blunt trauma injuries admitted to a level i trauma center, have shown that 37% had a blunt traumatic brain injury (btbi). examination of mortality has shown that those with an isolated brain injury had an 11% mortality compared with 21.8% in those with an associated systemic injury. the severity of the associated injuries effect on the brain injured patient could be estimated by a parameter of oxygen debt, the base deficit and this allowed for a quantitative estimate of the probability of death as an index of severity. a combined linear logistic model using the admission glasgow coma score (gcs) as a measure of brain injury and the base deficit as a measure of physiologic injury provides such a predictive score. after injury, base deficit (bd) and lactate are common measures of shock. admission base deficit, international normalized ratio, and glasgow coma scale were independently associated with mortality in 707 patients from the derivation set and 1101 patients in the validation set. 
Does increased use of private health care reduce the demand for NHS care? [SEP] the use of the private sector for health care is increasing, but it is unclear whether this will reduce demand on the nhs. increased private health care activity does not reduce the demand for nhs care: nhs and private referral rates were positively associated with each other after adjusting for age, deprivation and practice. specifically, we show that this decrease was only significant for conditions which have arguably the closest substitutes in the private sector - the low and intermediate-severity conditions - and to patients who lived closer to the ed and to whom the co-payment was the largest share of the ed visit cost.these findings cast some concerns over the equity of the portuguese health system, since civil servants increasingly opt out from public health services but must co-fund both the adse and the nhs. hence, further rationing of care could imply that patients are incentivised to seek private treatment outside the constraints of the nhs, where the possibility of much greater choice exists in an increasingly globally competitive health care market. in italy, substantial cuts in funding have drastically reduced the resources of the national health service (nhs) and contributed to the expansion of the private health sector which, unlike the public health system, does not have the capacity to deal with a health emergency such as coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). decreasing the size of the waiting lists created intense stress for nhs personnel, who had to work longer hours, and it also lowered demand for private-sector care. this paper investigates the private/public mix in acute health care provision in the uk. using prices for public care constructed from nhs waiting lists, the insurance cost of private care and the retain price index, impact, intermediate and long run elasticities of demand for private and public care are obtained. this study describes the impact of private purchasing on access to hospital care in regions according to health need. private hospital use complements lower levels of nhs service. 
Does confined placental mosaicism account for adverse perinatal outcomes in IVF pregnancies? [SEP] the aim of this study was to compare the incidence of confined placental mosaicism (cpm) in ivf/icsi pregnancies and spontaneous conceptions. we wanted to re-evaluate the influence of confined placental mosaicism subtypes (type 2 and type 3) on pregnancy characteristics and outcome. although type 2 confined placental mosaicisms appeared to have no influence on pregnancy characteristics and outcome, type 3 confined placental mosaicisms were associated with low levels of first trimester serum pregnancy-associated plasma protein a, preterm birth, small for gestational age newborns, and adverse pregnancy outcomes. ivf-related placental insertion abnormalities were significantly higher in vt pregnancies. confined placental mosaicism is frequently detected in the placental region along with a structurally normal fetus. this study examines alterations in the transcriptome profile of first-trimester placentas from ivf-et pregnancies and analyzes the potential mechanisms that play a role in the adverse perinatal outcomes associated with ivf-et procedures. procedures utilized in ivf-et altered the expression of first-trimester placental genes that are critical to these biological processes and triggered a compensatory mechanism during early implantation in vivo. confined placental chorionic mosaicism is reported in 2% of viable pregnancies cytogenetically analyzed on chorionic villi samplings (cvs) at 9-12 weeks of gestation. in follow-up studies this mosaicism has been shown to be associated with increased frequency of second and third trimester pregnancy loss or intrauterine fetal growth retardation. over the whole gestational period, the confined placental mosaicism is more common than the reported rate of 1%-2% seen in viable pregnancies at cvs, and a higher proportion of pregnancy complications than previously suspected may be associated with confined placental mosaicism. 
Utility of unenhanced fat-suppressed T1-weighted MRI in children with sickle cell disease -- can it differentiate bone infarcts from acute osteomyelitis? [SEP] to evaluate the reliability of unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mri for differentiation between bone infarcts and acute osteomyelitis in children with scd. the bone marrow signal intensity on unenhanced t1-w fat-saturated mr images is not a reliable criterion to differentiate bone infarcts from osteomyelitis in children. to prove the hypothesis that acute bone infarcts in sickle cell disease are caused by sequestration of red blood cells (rbcs) in bone marrow, and to evaluate the unenhanced t1 fat-saturated (fs) sequence in the differentiation of acute bone infarction from acute osteomyelitis in patients with sickle-cell disease. the differentiation of bone infarction from acute osteomyelitis in patients with sickle-cell disease is challenging, as the clinical presentations of the two conditions are similar and imaging and laboratory studies are of limited value. a combination of radionuclide bone-marrow and bone scans was performed sequentially within a twenty-four-hour period (with one exception) to aid in the differentiation between bone infarction and osteomyelitis in seventy-nine consecutive episodes of acute bone pain in children with sickle-cell disease. these findings suggest that osteomyelitis can be differentiated from bone infarction in children with sickle-cell anemia and acute bone pain by a combination of sequential bone-marrow and bone scintigraphy. to establish mri criteria to diagnose early osteomyelitis in sickle cell disease patients with acute bone crisis and to differentiate it from normally occurring ischaemic changes in these patients. mri study with and without gadolinium contrast was carried out in 59 sickle cell disease patients who presented with acute bone crisis from august 2007 to july 2008, and had clinical suspicion of osteomyelitis. the purpose of this investigation was to illustrate a variety of soft-tissue abnormalities on mr imaging encountered in connection with acute marrow infarction in children with sickle cell disease. extraosseous abnormalities on mr imaging preclude differentiation of acute marrow infarction from osteomyelitis in children with sickle cell disease. 
Cancer of the buccal mucosa: are margins and T-stage accurate predictors of local control? [SEP] local excision of t1 and t2 buccal mucosa cancers with pathologically negative margins had a high rate of local recurrence in our series. even early buccal tumors may benefit from adjuvant therapy to enhance local control. to identify the significant predictors of locoregional recurrence in early stage squamous cell carcinoma (scc) of buccal mucosa with pathologically clear surgical margins and negative neck. from january 1988 to july 1994, 57 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of buccal mucosa treated by surgery and rt were reviewed. skin of cheek involvement is an important prognostic factor for buccal mucosa cancers. most treatment failure of buccal mucosal cancer post surgery is locoregional recurrence. this is a prospective study of 210 treatment naïve t4 buccal mucosa cancer patients. buccal carcinoma is an aggressive disease, with high rates of locoregional disease recurrence independent of surgical margin status. the purpose of this study was to determine whether a tumour's dna content is a prognostic factor in screening out the biologically aggressive varieties of early buccal mucosa cancer. seventy-eight cases of early squamous cell carcinoma of the buccal mucosa were studied, including 73 with aneuploid and diploid tumours. 
Can mass drug administration lead to the sustainable control of schistosomiasis? [SEP] mass drug administration utilising a single oral dose of 40mg/kg of praziquantel (pzq) has been endorsed and advocated by the world health organisation (who) for the global control and elimination of schistosomiasis. moreover, we discuss how an integrated control package for schistosomiasis should fit within a larger integrated health package for rural and remote villages in the developing world. the effort to control schistosomiasis in nigeria has been scaled up the past few years. the goal of this operational research was to expand the evidence base for policy-making for regional and national control of schistosomiasis in sub-saharan africa. however, high rates of post-treatment reinfection, the declining efficacy with repeated treatment, rebound morbidity (in the case of schistosomiasis) and the potential for the emergence of anthelminthic drug resistance threaten the sustainability of mass drug administration as the only form of control. mass antiparasitic drug administration programs and other control strategies have made important contributions in reducing the global prevalence of helminths. the advent of a viable vaccine and its deployment, coupled with existing control efforts, is expected to make significant headway towards sustained schistosomiasis control. mass drug administration using praziquantel is the backbone of the current strategy for the control of schistosomiasis. however, mass drug administration is still the only available intervention that can be readily used in the wide variety of settings where schistosomiasis is endemic. the available evidence indicates that, both urinary and intestinal schistosomiasis are still highly endemic in tanzania and cause significant morbidity.mass drug administration using praziquantel, currently used as a key intervention measure, has not been successful in decreasing prevalence of infection. 
Can D-dimer become a new diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic utility of d-dimer, procalcitonin (pct) and c-reactive protein (crp) measurements in the acute appendicitis. in this period, seventy-eight patients were operated with the diagnosis of acute appendicitis, and d-dimer, pct and crp levels of the patients were measured. in this study, we aimed to evaluate the diagnostic value of d-dimer in differentiating between simple and other severe acute appendicitis in children combined with white blood cell (wbc) count, neutrophil percentage, and c-reactive protein (crp). descriptive analyses, student's t-test, and receiver operating characteristic (roc) analyses were used to quantify the correlation between d-dimer level and the severity of appendicitis and to evaluate the differential diagnostic value of d-dimer combined with wbc count, neutrophil percentage and crp between simple and other severe appendicitis. crp and d-dimer levels are positively correlated with the severity of acute appendicitis in children. combined crp and d-dimer are identified as suitable diagnostic markers for differentiating between simple and other severe appendicitis, which will provide important guidance for clinicians to determine the follow-up management of acute appendicitis. in this study, we investigated d-dimer serum level as a diagnostic parameter for acute appendicitis. increased d-dimer levels should not be considered as a diagnostic parameter in diagnosis of acute appendicitis. the aim of this study was to determine the value of c-reactive protein (crp) and d-dimer as diagnostic markers of acute appendicitis. in addition, d-dimer was helpful for differentiating between appendicitis and negative appendicitis (p = 0.002). 
Is there a relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease? [SEP] the study results suggest a possible relationship between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease. because of several similar features in the pathobiology of periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis, in a previous study we proposed a possible relationship between the two diseases. the results of this study provide further evidence of a significant association between periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis. the findings provide evidence of a relationship, suggesting that individuals with moderate to severe periodontal disease are at higher risk of suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and vice versa. an association between periodontal disease and rheumatoid arthritis is believed to exist. the aim of this study was to determine whether there is a relationship between disease experience of rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease. rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis are chronic inflammatory diseases with a possible bidirectional relationship. rheumatoid arthritis patients were significantly more affected by periodontitis compared with healthy subjects (p= 0.006). there was a significant association between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontitis which may be due to a common underlying deregulation of the inflammatory response in these individuals. a number of epidemiologic studies have described associations between rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease. 
Do clinical variables predict pathologic radiographs in the first episode of wheezing? [SEP] to determine if clinical variables assessed in relation to albuterol aerosol treatments accurately identify children with pathologic radiographs during their initial episode of bronchospasm. a prospective convenience sample of children with a first episode of wheezing. to evaluate the prevalence of pathologic chest radiographs in infants presenting with a first episode of wheezing during respiratory syncytial virus (rsv) seasons and to compare demographics and clinical variables between patients with benign and pathologic chest radiographs. associations between signs and symptoms and chest radiograph findings were evaluated. seventeen percent of 140 previously healthy infants presenting with a first episode of wheezing during rsv seasons had a pathologic chest radiograph. to examine parent-reported signs and symptoms as antecedents of wheezing in preschool children with previous moderate to severe wheezing episodes, and to determine the predictive capacity of these symptom patterns for wheezing events. childhood asthma is often preceded by early wheeze. correct parental recall of wheezing episodes may reflect clinical relevance of early wheeze and its impact on subsequent asthma and lung function impairment. for infants with first episode of wheezing, wheezing severity score, family or personal history of atopic disease and number of eaecs in sputum can predict future multi-trigger wheezing. a chest radiograph (cxr) is not routinely indicated in children presenting with their first episode of wheezing; however, it continues to be overused. 
Globulomaxillary cysts--do they really exist? [SEP] classically, the globulomaxillary cyst was considered to be an inclusion or developmental cyst that arises from entrapped nonodontogenic epithelium in the globulomaxillary suture. this review argues that embryologically and histopathologically the globulomaxillary cyst should again be considered as an identifiable clinicopathologic entity. the so-called "globulomaxillary cyst", described as a fissural cyst, caused by entrapped epithelium between the nasal and maxillary process, is no longer considered for its own entity. nevertheless, cystic lesions, which correspond to the previous image of globulomaxillary cysts, do still occur in daily practice. in a retrospective study, 17 cases (12 men and 5 women, 12-59 years old) of primarily diagnosed globulomaxillary cysts are analysed according to clinical, radiological and histological aspects, catamnestic processed and assigned to a new entity. according to the results of our study and the data from the international literature, the entity globulomaxillary cyst is no longer justified. in an attempt to clarify the confusing concept of the so-called globulomaxillary cyst, we have reviewed all cases of this lesion occurring in the files of the cmdnj-njds biopsy service between 1967--1977. we have discussed our cases in terms of the criteria used inconsistently in the literature of the globulomaxillary cyst: its location, the vitality of adjacent teeth, its histologic structure and its supposed origin from non-odontogenic embryonic epithelial remnants. we concluded that none of the criteria established the globulomaxillary cyst as a distinct entity and suggest that use of the term be discontinued. this report presents a case of a lesion originating from a pulpless central incisor misdiagnosed as a globulomaxillary cyst. 
MiraLAX vs. Golytely: is there a significant difference in the adenoma detection rate? [SEP] in recent clinical trials (rct) of bowel preparation, golytely was more efficacious than miralax. we hypothesised that there is a difference in adenoma detection between golytely and miralax. this was a post hoc analysis of an rct that assessed efficacy and patient tolerability of golytely vs. miralax/gatorade in average risk screening colonoscopy patients. golytely had a higher rate of a bbps score ≥ 7 (82.5% vs. miralax 67.8%, p=0.02). on multivariate analyses, golytely was 2.13 × more likely to be associated with a bbps ≥ 7 (95% ci 1.05-4.32, p = 0.04) and 2.28 × more likely to be associated with adenoma detection (95% ci 1.05-4.98, p = 0.04) than miralax. golytely was more efficacious than miralax in bowel cleansing, and was independently associated with both bowel prep quality (bbps ≥ 7) and higher adenoma detection. golytely had a higher rate of an excellent equivalent bbps score of 8 or 9 than miralax (70% vs. 55%, p = 0.036). golytely was more efficacious than miralax/gatorade in bowel cleansing; both preparations were equally tolerated by patients. golytely was more effective at bowel cleansing (average ottawa score, 5.1) than miralax alone (average ottawa score, 6.9) or in combination with lubiprostone (average ottawa score, 6.8), or bisacodyl (average ottawa score, 6.3) (p<.001). patients who took the miralax bowel preparation were more likely to achieve an excellent/good bowel cleansing compared with patients taking the golytely preparation (93.3% vs. 89.3%, respectively; p=0.048). 
Does government assistance improve utilization of eye care services by low-income individuals? [SEP] to examine whether government-funded, low-income vision care programs improve use of eye care services by low-income individuals in canada. government-funded, low-income vision care programs were reviewed. to receive low-income vision care assistance, individuals must be in receipt of social assistance. among middle-aged whites who self-reported not having glaucoma, cataracts, diabetes, or vision problems not corrected by lenses, utilization of eye care providers was 28.1% among those with financial difficulty versus 41.9% among those without (p < 0.05), giving a prevalence ratio 0.68 (95% ci 0.57-0.80) adjusted for age, sex and education. despite government assistance, low-income individuals use vision care services less often than wealthy individuals. this paper examines the impacts of delisting routine eye exam services on patient eye care utilization and on providers' labour market outcomes in a public healthcare system. the results showed that the extension of nhi benefits coverage led to an increase in the utilization of outpatient services across all income groups, but with a greater increase for the low-income groups, among cancer patients. having history of eye disease [aor = 9.8, 95% ci: 6.1-15.6], having awareness of regular eye checkup importance [aor = 7.3, 95% ci:4.4-12.2], older age (age ≥65 years) [aor = 5.0, 95% ci:1.9-13.3] and higher family monthly income (income ≥6000 etb) [aor = 3.0, 95% ci:1.5-5.7] and income 4001-5999 etb [aor = 2.9, 95% ci: 1.4-5.9] were positively associated with eye care service utilization. the proportion of eye care service utilization among older adults in hawassa city was low. having a history of eye disease, having awareness about regular eye checkup importance, older age and higher family monthly income were significantly associated with utilization of eye care service. 
Does telmisartan prevent hepatic fibrosis in rats with alloxan-induced diabetes? [SEP] this study evaluated the effect of telmisartan on the livers of diabetic rats and also aimed to determine the hepatic distribution and role of transforming growth factor beta (tgf-beta) in diabetes-related hepatic degeneration while taking into account the possible protective effects of telmisartan. fifteen adult male rats were used and divided into three groups: the non-diabetic healthy group, alloxan-induced diabetic control group, and the alloxan-induced diabetic telmisartan group. results suggest that telmisartan may reduce type-i diabetes mellitus-induced hepatic injury by suppressing activated hepatic stellate cells through concomitant tgf-beta1 down-regulation. in the present study, we determined whether telmisartan ameliorates progression of polycystic kidney and fibrocystic liver disease in pck rats. therefore, telmisartan ameliorates congenital hepatic fibrosis in arpkd, possibly through the inhibition of signaling cascades responsible for cellular proliferation and interstitial fibrosis in pck rats. treatment with telmisartan may prevent the onset of alloxan-induced diabetes even under acatalasemic conditions. these data indicated that telmisartan may prevent hepatocarcinogenesis through the inhibition of hepatic angiogenesis even after liver cirrhosis has been established. compared with that of controls, the diabetic rat heart developed significant fibrosis, which markedly decreased after treatment with telmisartan (30 mg/kg/day, orally) for 7 days. telmisartan improved the hyperglycemia-induced cardiac fibrosis through the pparδ/stat3 pathway. graphical abstract summary of the mechanism of telmisartan's effect on the suppression of hyperglycemia-induced cardiac fibrosis through pparδ instead of the ampk pathway. 
Two-year follow-up survey of patients with allergic contact dermatitis from an occupational cohort: is the prognosis dependent on the omnipresence of the allergen? [SEP] the prognosis for occupational contact dermatitis is often poor. to investigate the prognosis, assessed by eczema, job status and skin-related quality of life, among patients allergic to rubber chemicals and latex (ubiquitous allergens) and epoxy (nonubiquitous allergen), 2 years after recognition of occupational allergic contact dermatitis. the aim of this study is to compare the occupations and allergens of occupational contact dermatitis cases with nonoccupational contact dermatitis cases. diagnostic patch testing with allergens of the north american contact dermatitis group and occupational coding by the national institute for occupational safety and health methods. some contact allergens are more commonly associated with occupational contact dermatitis. to assess the prevalence of occupational allergic contact dermatitis in indonesian tanneries, identify the causative allergens, and propose a tannery work series of patch test allergens. workers with occupational contact dermatitis were patch tested to identify the causative allergens. the aim of this study is to compare the occupations and allergens of occupational contact dermatitis cases with nonoccupational contact dermatitis cases. occupational contact dermatitis frequently was found to be multifactorial and associated with several specific allergens and occupations. a two years retrospective analysis of patients diagnosed as contact allergic dermatitis with positive patch test attending the dermatology clinic was performed. 
Can calprotectin predict relapse risk in inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] the aim of this review was to evaluate the available evidence on the ability of faecal calprotectin to predict a relapse in inflammatory bowel disease. multiple retrospective studies have shown that patients who relapse have significantly higher levels of calprotectin in their stool compared with non-relapsers, especially in ulcerative colitis. elevated faecal calprotectin postoperatively in crohn's disease was also shown to be indicative of a relapse. an evaluation is made of the utility of fecal calprotectin in predicting relapse in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). fecal calprotectin may be a useful marker for predicting relapse in patients with ibd. faecal calprotectin's capacity to predict inflammatory bowel diseases relapse is promising. serum calprotectin can predict the risk of relapse in anca associated vasculitis and the risk of inflammatory bowel disease in spondyloarthritis. prediction of relapse of inflammatory bowel disease has important implications for therapeutic strategies. at 50 mg/l, the sensitivity and specificity of calprotectin for predicting relapse in all patients with ibd were 90% and 83%, respectively. the aim of our study was to assess whether the predictive value of faecal calprotectin-a non-invasive marker of intestinal inflammation-for clinical relapse is different in ulcerative colitis (uc) and crohn's disease (cd). 
Can nurse-led preoperative education reduce anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery? [SEP] the effect of preoperative education on anxiety and postoperative outcomes of cardiac surgery patients remains unclear. the aim of the study was to estimate the effectiveness of a nurse-led preoperative education on anxiety and postoperative outcomes. preoperative education delivered by nurses reduced anxiety and postoperative complications of patients undergoing cardiac surgery, but it was not effective in reducing readmissions or length of stay. the objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of nurse-initiated preoperative education and counseling on postoperative complications and anxiety symptoms following cabg. nurse-initiated preoperational education and counseling were associated with a reduced rate of perioperative complications and a reduced level of anxiety following cabg. this form of preoperative education is effective in reducing anxiety and depression among chinese cardiac surgery patients. to update evidence of the effectiveness of preoperative education among cardiac surgery patients. the purpose of this study was to assess the impact of preoperative patient education on anxiety and recovery of the lebanese patients undergoing open-heart surgery. the objective of this review was to assess the effect of preoperative education on postoperative outcomes among patients undergoing cardiac surgery. the results show that preoperative education can effectively decrease anxiety in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. 
Is there a discrepancy between patient and physician quality of life assessment? [SEP] discrepancies in perception of well-being between physicians and patients may interfere with the effectiveness of treatment. a systematic review and meta-analysis were performed to explore the (dis-)agreement in quality-of-life assessments between patients and physicians. the authors assessed the magnitude of discrepancy between patients' and caregivers' ratings of the patients' quality of life and sought to determine whether the discrepancies are associated with patient characteristics, caregiver characteristics, or the type of relationship between the patient and caregiver. however, their investigations have indicated that caregiver-rated quality of life is not the same as the patient's own rating. medical professionals should cautiously deliberate when using caregiver-reported quality of life to substitute for patient-reported quality of life. although 95% of patients reported that quality of life was at least as important as length of life, only 28% reported that changes in quality of life with treatment were discussed with their physicians. the discordant perceptions of patients and physicians may possibly be explained by patient optimism and confidence; however, the discrepancies in reports of consultation content, particularly given patients' stated values regarding quality of life, raise the possibility that communication in this context is suboptimal. quality of life considerations may be an important factor in medical decisions, but it is not known how well physician's assessments match those of their patients. physicians rated current patient quality of life more negatively than did patients; differences ranged from 0.35 to 0.80 on a 5-point scale with end points labeled "very poor quality of life" and "possible to have good quality of life." these results indicate that elderly patients and their physicians may differ on patient quality of life assessments and that these assessments may be associated with resuscitation decisions. 
Impact of MPH programs: contributing to health system strengthening in low- and middle-income countries? [SEP] the "health workforce" crisis has led to an increased interest in health professional education, including mph programs. recently, it was questioned whether training of mid- to higher level cadres in public health prepared graduates with competencies to strengthen health systems in low- and middle-income countries. recently, it was questioned whether master of public health (mph) training prepared graduates with competencies relevant to low- and middle-income countries (lmics). this study aims to examine the influence of the mph programs geared towards lmics offered in vietnam, china, south africa, mexico, sudan, and the netherlands on graduates' careers, application of acquired competencies, performance at the workplace, and their professional contribution to society. this study concludes that these mph programs contribute to improving graduates' careers and to building leadership in public health. mph programs contribute substantially towards impact variables on the workplace, such as development of research proposals and reporting on population health needs, and less substantially to their impact on society, such as contributing equitable access to quality services. differences reported between mph programs merit further study. in this systematic review we described and assessed the contributions of major primary care initiatives implemented in low- and middle-income countries in the past 30 years to a broad range of health system goals. the number of master of public health (mph) programmes in low- and middle-income countries (lmics) is increasing, but questions have been raised regarding the relevance of their outcomes and impacts on context. national health systems need strengthening if they are to meet the growing challenge of chronic diseases in low-income and middle-income countries. 
Is diffusion-weighted imaging a significant indicator of the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions? [SEP] the objective was to evaluate the efficacy of diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) in predicting the development of vascularization in hypovascular hepatocellular lesions (hhls). in the setting of cirrhotic liver, the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is straightforward when typical imaging findings consisting of arterial hypervascularity followed by portal-venous washout are present in nodules larger than 1 cm. in such cases, it is important to consider also the appearance of the nodules on diffusion-weighted imaging and hepatobiliary phase. to evaluate the effectiveness of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (dwi) in estimating the grade of malignancy of hepatocellular carcinoma. in cirrhotic patients, the characterization of hypovascular nodules, hypointense on hepatobiliary phase gadoxetic acid disodium-enhanced magnetic resonance images (gd-eob-dtpa-enhanced mri), is essential to look for the proper approach strategy. signal intensity on t2-weighted images and dwi, vascular pattern on dynamic contrast-enhanced mri and on hepatobiliary phase, and volume doubling time were analyzed for each nodule as well as patient's clinical features. to compare the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging features, including those on diffusion-weighted (dw) and t2-weighted images, in differentiating between hypovascular hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) and dysplastic nodules seen as hypointense nodules at hepatobiliary phase gadoxetic acid-enhanced mr imaging. the aim of this study was to evaluate the histologic diagnosis of hypovascular hepatic lesions showing hypointensity on hepatobiliary phase images of gadolinium-ethoxybenzyl-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (gd-eob-dtpa)-enhanced mri (eob-mri). in 38 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) after curative treatments and 18 patients with liver cirrhosis, 105 hypovascular nodules that were hypointense at the hepatobiliary phase of eob-mri were biopsied and the clinical usefulness of these eob-mri findings for the diagnosis of hcc was examined. to compare diffusion-weighted imaging (dwi) and gadolinium ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (gd-eob-dtpa) magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in the evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) and nodules at high risk of hcc transformation. 
Are failures of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction associated with steep posterior tibial slopes? [SEP] clinical and biomechanical studies have reported that increased posterior tibial slope (pts) places significantly increased tension on the native and reconstructed anterior cruciate ligament (acl), leading to an increased risk of failure. regarding the anterior cruciate ligament (acl), several studies outlined that a steep tibial slope (≥12 degrees) contributes to early failures after acl reconstruction. increased sagittal plane posterior tibial slope has been identified as a risk factor for primary anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (aclr) failure. the objectives of this study are to assess whether there is a relationship between anterior cruciate ligament rupture and the lateral and medial posterior tibial slopes, as well as the lateral and medial posterior meniscal slopes and posterior tibial and meniscal delta-slopes. a steep tibial slope may contribute to anterior cruciate ligament (acl)-injuries, a higher degree of instability in the case of acl insufficiency, and recurrent instability after acl reconstruction. the influence of the tibial slope on outcomes after acl reconstruction and the role of slope-decreasing osteotomies in the treatment of acl insufficiency remain unclear. the patients in the multiple-failure group had significantly higher values of lateral tibial plateau slope ( p < .001), medial tibial plateau slope ( p < .001), lateral tibial plateau subluxation ( p < .001), medial tibial plateau subluxation ( p < .001), and lateral femoral condyle height/depth ratio ( p = .038) as compared with the control group and the failed acl reconstruction group. altering the tibial slope in an anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knee has been shown to affect anterior-posterior tibial translation. increasing tibial slope with a high tibial osteotomy in an anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knee redistributes tibiofemoral joint contact pressures onto the posterior tibial plateau. increasing tibial slope in anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knees with a high tibial osteotomy redistributes pressure into the posterior tibial plateau. 
Does evidence-based practice improve patient outcomes? [SEP] evidence-based practice (ebp) can improve patient outcomes, cost effectiveness and staff satisfaction, and nursing care should be based on the best available evidence. we describe the impact of clinical practice guidelines (cpgs) on improvement in oncology treatment processes or outcomes. improvements have been demonstrated in compliance with evidence-based guidelines or evidence-based medicine, and in short-term length of stay, complication rates, and financial outcomes. some attempts to improve practice have been moderately successful in achievement of reduced health care costs, reduced hospital length of stay, and possibly improved outcomes. to provide valuable elements and some humor in this so-called era of "evidence-based practice" with the aim of helping clinicians make better choices in the care they deliver based on evidence, not simply or exclusively based on a randomized clinical trial (rct) or meta-analysis (which may not be evidence). this evidence implementation project used the joanna briggs institute practical application of clinical evidence system (jbi paces) and getting research into practice (grip) audit and feedback tool for promoting evidence-based healthcare involving three phases of activity. despite existing barriers to evidence implementation, getting research into practice is possible and does improve quality of care. the use of evidence-based practice for improving patient care outcomes is discussed extensively in the literature. this article describes how a model for change to evidence-based practice developed by rosswurm and larrabee was used for the effective implementation of the american stroke association's acute stroke program in an acute care hospital. the results demonstrated that patient care and outcomes were improved through the implementation of this exemplar of evidence-based practice. 
Multidisciplinary decisions in breast cancer: does the patient receive what the team has recommended? [SEP] this decision impact study shows that when used by clinicians in the multidisciplinary team meeting for adjuvant decision-making, a significant proportion of patients are spared chemotherapy recommendations. a multidisciplinary team (mdt) approach to breast cancer management is the gold standard. multidisciplinary team decisions were compared with subsequent patient management and classified as concordant or discordant. multidisciplinary approach is recommended for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, in order to optimize quality of life and survival. multidisciplinary cancer meetings are pre-programmed regular meetings where cancer patients are evaluated on an individual basis, and where the multidisciplinary treatment of patients is planned based on evidence. disease specific multidisciplinary breast cancer meetings are essential in the treatment of breast cancer. they do not hesitate to confer with other members of the multidisciplinary team to ensure that women with breast cancer receive the individualized support and continuity of care they deserve. mammaprint can decrease inter-institutional and inter-country variability in adjuvant treatment advice for breast cancer patients. the authors developed an interactive clinical decision support system called mate (multidisciplinary meeting assistant and treatment selector) to facilitate explicit evidence-based decision making in the breast mdms. breast multidisciplinary unit in a large secondary care teaching hospital. 
Does quilting suture prevent seroma in abdominoplasty? [SEP] quilting sutures are a recent development in abdominoplasty surgery that aim to prevent the incidence of seroma. the aim of this study was to compare the rate of seroma formation in patients who underwent either abdominoplasty with or without the use of quilting sutures or lipoabdominoplasty. abdominoplasty with quilting sutures and lipoabdominoplasty are effective techniques for the prevention of seromas compared with abdominoplasty without quilting sutures. quilting sutures attaching the abdominal flap to the aponeurosis contribute to the prevention of seroma formation post-abdominoplasty. for more than 5 years, we have used the quilting suture technique in 130 patients without the occurrence of seroma after abdominoplasty. can quilting sutures be used in operations on the abdominal wall to prevent seroma formation? the purpose of this study was to verify the efficacy of the use of quilting suture to prevent seroma. the aim of this study was to compare the use of suction drains, quilting sutures, and fibrin sealant in abdominoplasty to determine the best strategy to prevent seroma formation. the authors evaluated the incidence of seroma for 3 abdominoplasty techniques: preservation of scarpa's fascia, placement of progressive tension (or quilting) sutures, and application of fibrin glue. placement of progressive tension sutures or preservation of scarpa's fascia during abdominoplasty may reduce the likelihood of postoperative seroma. 
Does feeding tube insertion and its timing improve survival? [SEP] the aim of this study was to examine whether nursing home residents admitted to hospitals with more aggressive patterns of feeding tube insertion had improved survival. being admitted to these hospitals with persistently high rates of feeding tube insertion was not associated with improved survival when compared with being admitted to hospitals with persistently low rates of feeding tube insertion. to examine survival with and without a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (peg) feeding tube using rigorous methods to account for selection bias and to examine whether the timing of feeding tube insertion affected survival. survival after development of the need for eating assistance and feeding tube insertion. in residents who were tube-fed, the timing of peg tube insertion relative to the onset of eating problems was not associated with survival after feeding tube insertion (ahr = 1.01, 95% ci = 0.86-1.20, persons with a peg tube inserted within 1 month of developing an eating problem versus later (4 months) insertion). feeding-tube insertions are also associated with poor survival and significant rate of health care use after insertion. specifically, analysis was done related to timing of feeding tube insertion relative to radiotherapy. to systematically assess pulmonary placement and pneumothoraces in cortrak-assisted feeding tube insertions. we evaluated the feasibility of feeding tube insertion for enteral feeding to improve the obstruction and facilitate leakage site closure, and the patients' nutritional benefit was also evaluated by checking the serum albumin level between pre- and post-enteral feeding via the feeding tube. the procedure times for feeding tube insertion ranged from 15 to 60 minutes (mean time: 45 minutes). 
Does prostate morphology affect outcomes after holmium laser enucleation? [SEP] in this study we investigated how surgeon experience with holmium laser enucleation of the prostate affected operative time, adverse events and outcomes related to urination. no significant changes were seen postoperatively in surgery related factors such as morcellation time, resected prostate volume, infectious or noninfectious surgery related complications, or urination related outcomes (p >0.05) experience with at least 20 cases in particular affected surgical time (p = 0.0050), enucleation time (p = 0.0068) and urinary incontinence after holmium laser enucleation (p = 0.0021). additionally, holmium laser enucleation of the prostate is associated with a reduced length of catheterization and hospitalization when compared with other surgical therapies for men with benign prostatic hyperplasia. outcome measures for men undergoing holmium laser enucleation of the prostate are in many cases superior to those of other modalities. to determine whether prostate morphology or technique used has any effect on postoperative outcomes after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate. we compared outcomes in men who underwent holmium laser enucleation of the prostate in the primary vs the re-treatment setting. patient demographics, and operative and perioperative outcomes were compared between re-treatment and primary holmium laser enucleation of the prostate. perioperatively, re-treatment holmium laser enucleation of the prostate was associated with significantly shorter operative time, reduced blood loss, lower specimen weight and shorter length of stay. immediate perioperative outcomes of holmium laser enucleation of the prostate performed in the re-treatment setting were no different from those in the primary setting. the present review introduces the current status of holmium laser enucleation of the prostate, so that it surely contributes to the knowledge of international journal of urology readers who could be experienced surgeons or beginners as well. 
Do acute changes in heart rate by isoproterenol affect aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension? [SEP] increased aortic stiffness is a independent risk factor of cardiovascular disease in patients with hypertension. acute changes of the heart rate (hr) have been reported not to affect the aortic stiffness in pacing. however, it is unknown whether acute changes in hr caused by sympathomimetics can affect the aortic stiffness in patients with hypertension. we investigated the effect of acute changes in hr produced by isoproterenol on the aortic stiffness in 17 hypertensive patientss (mean age: 59 +/- 9 years). aortic stiffness was not affected by acute changes in hr produced by isoproterenol which suggests that it is not necessary to consider acute changes in hr when measuring aortic pwv. the aim of the present study was to assess the effect of acute changes in heart rate on arterial stiffness and on peripheral and central pulse pressure in healthy subjects. the purpose of our study was to investigate the relationship between aix and heart rate at different aortic stiffness levels. a significantly stronger correlation of aix with heart rate was observed in subjects with higher levels of aortic stiffness as compared to those with lower levels; namely, the same increase in the heart rate between subjects, induced a greater decrease in the aix at higher compared to lower pwv levels. the aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of low-dose aspirin on aortic stiffness and wave reflections in hypertensive patients. in both greek and french hypertensive subjects, aortic stiffness was determined by the same parameters: age, blood pressure and heart rate (hr) explained approximately 40% of the aortic pwv variations, whereas lipids, triglycerides and tobacco smoking were not significant associated with aortic stiffness. 
"Occult" posttraumatic lesions of the knee: can magnetic resonance substitute for diagnostic arthroscopy? [SEP] since its introduction to musculoskeletal imaging in the early 1980s, magnetic resonance imaging has proven to be an excellent technique for evaluating patients with knee problems. magnetic resonance imaging has been shown to be useful in the detection and diagnosis of various traumatic and nontraumatic knee abnormalities. there is evidence that magnetic resonance imaging of the knee is a cost effective screening technique when used in conjunction with the clinical findings in patients who are candidates for arthroscopy. the present study aimed to assess occult bone injuries via mr imaging in patients who presented with minor knee trauma. we suggest that mr imaging methods should be the gold standard for the diagnosis of minor traumatic bruise injuries of the knee. the current clinical study correlates arthroscopic and magnetic resonance imaging results with biopsy specimens of cartilage from patients with knee injury. magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is of great aid in the diagnosis of knee lesions. despite negative magnetic resonance imaging findings at the acute stage of knee trauma, patient monitoring and readiness for arthroscopy should be considered if justified by the patient's symptoms. the purpose of this study was to assess the sensitivity of magnetic resonance imaging in determining the presence of articular cartilage injuries of the knee with arthroscopy as the standard for comparison. injury to articular cartilage is a frequent cause of knee pain and knee surgery; it is important to note at this time that magnetic resonance imaging cannot reliably exclude the presence of an articular cartilage injury. 
Could ESC (Electronic Stability Control) change the way we drive? [SEP] these findings may suggest that driver behaviour could reduce the positive effect esc has on accidents. esc (electronic stability control) is a crash avoidance technology that reduces the likelihood of collisions involving loss of control. although past and emerging research indicates that esc is effective in reducing collision rates and saving lives, and its inclusion in all vehicle platforms is encouraged, drivers may demonstrate behavioral adaptation or an overreliance on esc that could offset or reduce its overall effectiveness. collectively, results suggest that behavioral adaptation to esc is likely in certain drivers; however, its proven effectiveness in reducing the likelihood of being involved in a serious crash probably outweighs any potential increases in unsafe driving. an esc system is an active system that improves the driving stability by distributing the appropriate braking pressure to each wheel, which is an essential system for safe driving. electronic stability control (esc) is an active safety system that detects impending loc and activates counter-measures that help the driver maintain or re-gain control. the effects can be explained with the potential of esc to improve driving dynamics and to reduce the probability of loss of control. effects of electronic stability control (esc) on accidents: a review of empirical evidence. all the same, esc may lead to behavioural adaptation in some cases, but it is not likely that behavioural adaptation offsets the positive safety effects. electronic stability control (esc) is a crash avoidance system found on many vehicles. 
The insertion allele of the ACE gene I/D polymorphism. A candidate gene for insulin resistance? [SEP] dd genotype and d allele were independently associated with hypertension (or: 9.86 and 11.57, respectively, p < .001), while dyslipidemia and insulin resistance were not associated with the ace i/d gene polymorphism. dd genotype and d-allele of the ace gene polymorphism were associated with obesity and with hypertension and pre-hypertension in egyptian children. however, the presence of d allele was associated with higher rate of insulin resistance in patients with pcos. association of the d allele with insulin sensitivity and of the d/d genotype with coronary heart disease (chd) has been reported in various ethnic populations. an insertion/deletion (i/d) polymorphism in an ace gene intron is associated with ace levels. the aim of this study was to establish the frequency of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) insertion (i) or deletion (d) gene polymorphism in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos) and to examine the association of this polymorphism with insulin resistance. however the ace dd genotype was significantly associated with serum insulin concentrations and homa-ir measurement (both p=0.005). ace dd genotype is associated with an increased insulin resistance in women with pcos. the most common polymorphism in ace gene is the insertion/deletion (i/d, rs4646994) polymorphism located on intron 16. this study was conducted to study the association between ace gene insertion/deletion (i/d) polymorphism and t2dm in a lebanese diabetic cohort. 
Do ventricular arrhythmias in athletes subside over time? [SEP] to investigate the long-term follow-up ofathletes with ventricular arrhythmias during an exercise test. athletes engaged in competitive sports are more likely to develop ventricular arrhythmias during exercise. these arrhythmias subside over time when athletes are engaged in non-competitive sports. to investigate the long-term follow-up of athletes with ventricular arrhythmias during an exercise test. our results showed that ventricular arrhythmias during exercise are more commonly associated with cardiovascular abnormalities in young competitive athletes and in female athletes. whether prolonged and intense exercise increases the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias in middle-aged athletes remains to be established. the prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias at 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiogram monitoring did not differ between middle-aged athletes and sedentary controls and was unrelated to the amount and duration of exercise. cardiac arrhythmias in the athlete are a frequent cause for concern. we report on 46 high-level endurance athletes with ventricular arrhythmias (45 male; median age 31 years) followed-up for a median of 4.7 years. complex ventricular arrhythmias do not necessarily represent a benign finding in endurance athletes. 
Does ethnicity affect where people with cancer die? [SEP] to describe the incidence rates and sites of cancer, the causes of death, and gender and ethnic variations in patients with cancer in a population of people 90 years of age and older. there are ethnic variations in the sites of cancer in people aged 90 or older. place of cancer death varies ethnically and internationally. to establish place of cancer death by ethnicity and describe patient characteristics. white scottish group and minority ethnic groups combined constituted 91% and 0.4% of cancer deaths, respectively. cancer deaths occur most often in hospital (52.3%) for all ethnic groups. however, some evidence suggests that people from black and ethnic groups are less likely to join a cancer self-help group. for example, african americans have, by some estimates, a twofold higher incidence of fatal heart attacks and a 10% higher incidence of cancer than european americans, and south asian- or caribbean-born british are approximately 3.5 times as likely to die as a direct result of diabetes than are british of european ancestry. the health care that people receive also depends on 'race' and 'ethnicity'. african americans are less likely to receive cancer-screening services and more likely to have late-stage cancer when diagnosed than european americans. 
Are patients with serious mental illness more likely to be admitted to nursing homes with more deficiencies in care? [SEP] they found that newly admitted people with serious mental illness were younger and more likely to become long-stay residents than those admitted with other conditions, despite a higher proportion of residents with serious mental illness, including the elderly, classified as low-care status. patients diagnosed with serious mental illness (smi) who qualify for nursing home placement tend to require high levels of both psychiatric and nursing care. compared with other patients, patients with schizophrenia (n=23,767) tended to enter nursing homes with more total (13.3 vs. 11.2, p<0.001) and healthcare-related deficiencies (8.6 vs. 7.2, p<0.001); and patients with bipolar disorder (n=19,741) were more likely to enter facilities with more problematic care too (12.5 vs. 11.2, p<0.001 for total deficiencies; and 8.2 vs. 7.2, p<0.001 for healthcare-related deficiencies). patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder (ie, smi) were more likely than other patients to be admitted to nursing homes with higher deficiency citations for both overall quality and clinical care quality. this study tested whether persons with serious mental illness are as likely as other nursing home residents to make informed choices about treatments through medical advance care plans. because of the high proportion of nursing home residents with a mental illness other than dementia, the quality of mental health care in nursing homes is a major clinical and policy issue. although future research is necessary, the extant literature suggests that persons with mental illness are frequently admitted to nursing homes and their care is often of poor quality and related to a series of resident and facility factors. we sought to determine whether patients with mental health diagnoses in the department of veterans affairs (va) are more likely to be admitted to nursing homes and to identify sociodemographic, utilization, and clinical characteristics, especially indicators of mental illness severity, associated with nursing home admission among mentally ill patients. although factors leading to nursing home entry among the mentally ill are similar to those driving entry in the general population, those with more severe mental health problems are still more likely to be admitted. taken together, these results suggest that state-level mental health and nursing home factors may influence the likelihood of long-term nursing home use for people with mental illnesses. 
Does an additional antirotation U-Blade (RC) lag screw improve treatment of AO/OTA 31 A1-3 fractures with gamma 3 nail? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the use of the u-blade (rc) lag screw is associated with reduced cut-out in patients with ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures. between 2009 and 2014, 751 patients with ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures were treated with a gamma3® nail at our institution. in our study the u-blade (rc) lag screw did not reduce the cut-out in treatment of ota/ao 31a1-3 fractures at all. the best intramedullary nail for the treatment of unstable ao/ota 31.a2.1-3 fractures remains uncertain. a comparative analysis of 304 patients who treated with gamma3 nail with either a standard non-sliding lag screw or a u-blade (rc) lag screw was performed. however, additional use of anti-rotation u-blade (rc) could significantly decrease lag screw sliding, with the group treated with u-blade (rc) lag screws exhibiting shorter sliding, especially in ao/ota31 a2 and a3 fractures. the objective of this retrospective study was to investigate the surgical outcomes of ao/ota 31 a1-3 trochanteric fractures treated with the new-generation gamma3 nail with u-blade (rc) lag screw and to analyze the risk factors related to fixation failure. gamma3 nail with u-blade lag screw showed favorable results for trochanteric hip fractures, with low cut-out rate (0.6%). to compare the sliding with non-sliding lag screw of a gamma nail in the treatment of a1 and a2 ao-ota intertrochanteric fractures. for treating these kinds of fractures, the sliding of the lag screw of an gamma nail does not improve any clinical results and in certain cases, such as highly comminuted a1 and a2 fractures, can therefore even benefit from a locked lag screw by tightening the set-screw. 
The Omega-3 Index: a new risk factor for death from coronary heart disease? [SEP] the purpose of this review is to examine the extent to which biomarkers like the omega-3 index qualify as coronary heart disease risk markers and/or risk factors based on new criteria from the american heart association and older guidelines proposed in 1965 by sir austin bradford hill. the omega-3 index may represent a novel, physiologically relevant, easily modified, independent, and graded risk factor for death from chd that could have significant clinical utility. an omega-3 index less than 4% is associated with a tenfold risk for sudden cardiac death in comparison to an omega-3 index greater than 8%. based on these observations, the omega-3 index (eicosapentaenoic acid + docosahexaenoic acid in cell membranes of rbc expressed as percent of total fa) has been suggested as a new risk marker for cardiac death. in this study, our aim was to evaluate the omega-3 index as a prognostic risk marker following hospitalization with an acute coronary syndrome (acs). based on the scientific evidence just mentioned, we propose a new risk factor to be considered for sudden cardiac death, the omega-3 index. an omega-3 index of >8% is associated with 90% less risk for sudden cardiac death, as compared to an omega-3 index of <4%. the omega-3 index as a risk factor for sudden cardiac death has striking similarities to ldl as a risk factor for coronary artery disease. in as much as blood levels are a strong reflection of dietary intake, it is proposed that an omega-3 fa biomarker, the omega-3 index (erythrocyte epa+dha) be considered at least a marker, if not a risk factor, for coronary heart disease, especially sudden cardiac death. the omega-3 index, which is the epa+dha content of erythrocytes expressed as a percent of total identified fatty acids, was originally suggested as a marker of increased risk for death from coronary heart disease, but it can also be viewed as an actual risk factor, playing a pathophysiologic role in the disease. 
May mean platelet volume levels be a predictor in the diagnosis of pelvic inflammatory disease? [SEP] mean platelet volume (mpv) is regarded as a marker in many inflammatory disorders, but despite this, the metric has not been used for gout. these results suggest that mean platelet volume can be a predictor of bone erosion in gout. the role of mean platelet volume, a predictor of inflammatory disease, with elevated values inversely correlated with inflammatory problems, in the diagnosis of pneumonia has not yet been investigated in solid-organ transplant patients. the aim of the present study was to investigate the relationships between red blood cell distribution width, platelet distribution width, and mean platelet volume and the presence and severity of valvular involvement in patients with rheumatic heart disease. platelet distribution width (pdw) and mean platelet volume (mpv) are the determinants of platelet activation and studied as markers in inflammatory diseases. the mean levels of platelet, platelet distribution width, prothrombin time, fibrinogen, activated partial thromboplastin time were significantly higher in ibd patients than in healthy controls (all p<0.05). mean platelet volume was lower in male patients with ibd than in healthy controls (p<0.01). platelet (beta=0.436, p=0.037) and prothrombin time (beta=0.810, p=<0.001) were predictors of crohn's disease activity index in female patients with crohn's disease. the aim of this review is to discuss the available evidence regarding the role of common bcc indexes, such as the neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (nlr), monocyte to lymphocyte ratio (mlr), platelet to lymphocyte ratio (plr), mean platelet volume (mpv), platelet distribution width (pdw), and red cell distribution width (rdw), in the diagnosis and risk stratification of carotid artery disease, and their potential clinical applications. the levels of serum albumin, hemoglobin, monocyte/eosinophil ratio, and mean platelet volume can be predictive factors for diagnosis in patients with covid-19. 
Do cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice predict the presence of pancreatic diseases? [SEP] cytokine concentration in pancreatic juice of patients with pancreatic disease is unknown. we aimed to evaluate the cytokine concentrations in pancreatic juice of patients with abdominal pain to discriminate presence from absence of pancreatic disease. pancreatic juice levels of interleukin-8, interleukin-6, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, and transforming growth factor-beta 1 were measured by modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. individual cytokine concentrations were not significantly different in chronic pancreatitis compared with pancreatic cancer. cytokine levels can be measured in pancreatic juice obtained from the duodenum without direct cannulation of the pancreatic duct. interleukin-8 concentration in pancreatic juice can be used to discriminate between normal pancreas and patients with pancreatic disease. pancreatic juice analysis may provide a good means to evaluate the local pancreatic inflammatory milieu. pancreatic juice was assayed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) for insulin, the proinflammatory adipokine leptin, the anti-inflammatory adipokine adiponectin, and the inflammatory mediators interleukin-6 (il-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1). ggt in pancreatic juice seems to be a nonspecific marker of pancreatic disease and merits further study. duodenal contents being easier to obtain than pure pancreatic juice, the possibility of using lactoferrin measurement in duodenal juice as a diagnosis test for chronic pancreatitis was explored. 
Does the sex of acute stroke patients influence the effectiveness of rt-PA? [SEP] the aim of our study was to investigate whether patients with mild stroke or its specific etiologic subtype might benefit from rt-pa therapy. in a retrospective sample of 663 patients admitted for acute ischaemic stroke, this study analysed the effects of co-morbid conditions in the use of rt-pa. treatment with rt-pa is dependent on stroke severity and onset to treatment time, but the findings suggest that rt-pa use may also depend on patient comorbidities. women have been reported to show more frequent recanalization and better recovery after intravenous (iv) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-pa) treatment for acute stroke compared with men. to investigate this we studied a series of stroke patients receiving iv rt-pa and undergoing acute transcranial doppler (tcd) examination. multiple regression analysis was used to assess sex as a predictor of recanalization and poor 3-month outcome after controlling for age, baseline nih stroke scale (nihss), time to treatment, hypertension, and blood glucose. in our study; sex is not a significant predictor of recanalization rate, time to recanalization or 3-month outcome in stroke patients following iv rt-pa. data from clotbust trial clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct01240356. multivariate logistic regression analyses adjusted for stroke severity, education, age, and sex were performed to examine whether rt-pa treatment influenced cognitive outcome (assessed with a neuropsychological examination covering 7 cognitive domains), basic adl independence (modified barthel index > or = 19), and instrumental adl independence (frenchay activities index > or = 15) after six months. a cross-sectional, self-administered questionnaire administered to a lead stroke clinician from hospitals known to provide rt-pa for acute ischaemic stroke. stroke nurses' active role in rt-pa administration can improve rt-pa treatment rates. 
Are head and neck specific quality of life measures necessary? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine whether head and neck-specific health status domains are distinct from those assessed by general measures of quality-of-life (qol). to assess the relationship among three validated head and neck-specific measures of functional status and a general measure of quality of life in patients with head and neck cancer. head and neck cancer but also it's necessary and often successful treatment may affect general domains of health-related quality of life and provoke a variety of adverse symptoms and side effects, both during and after treatment. in this paper, the authors are focusing on the quality of life of patients suffering from head and neck cancers and a proper multidisciplinary approach to achieving proper functions will be described. comprehensive assessment of the impact of head and neck cancer goes beyond traditional biomedical outcomes to include quality of life. this paper examines the methods used in reported studies on quality of life in head and neck cancer patients with respect to definitions, approaches to measurement, and types of findings. a number of current efforts to develop and validate quality of life instruments specific to cancers of the head and neck have been reported. the distinctive aspects of head and neck cancer illustrate the importance of considering characteristics of the patient population in quality of life research and also the way that quality of life data can contribute to the multidisciplinary team of caregivers. this article reviews recent literature on the physical and psychosocial correlates of head and neck cancer, with a focus on quality-of-life issues, rehabilitation outcomes, and changes in the literature from the previous decade. in an effort to evaluate quality-of-life benefits of ablative head and neck cancer surgery and microvascular reconstruction, a longitudinal study was undertaken in which patients with t3 or t4 oropharyngeal cancers without systemic metastases at presentation were administered both general and disease-specific quality-of-life instruments preoperatively and postoperatively. 
Diabetes mellitus among Swedish art glass workers--an effect of arsenic exposure? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to search for evidence of an association between occupational arsenic exposure and diabetes mellitus, as implied by the relation of this disease to arsenic in drinking water in a recent study from taiwan. the observations from this study provide limited support for the possibility that occupational arsenic exposure could play a role in the development of diabetes mellitus. up to now, there are six epidemiologic reports linking diabetes mellitus with arsenic exposure from environmental and occupational sources. two reports in taiwan carried out in the blackfoot disease-hyperendemic villages, one cross-sectional and one prospective follow-up of the same cohort, indicate that arsenic exposure from drinking artesian well water is associated with prevalence and incidence of diabetes mellitus in a dose-responsive pattern. the observation of the relation between arsenic exposure and diabetes mellitus is further supported by studies carried out in sweden and bangladesh. in sweden, case-control analyses of death records of copper smelters and glass workers revealed a trend of increasing diabetes mellitus with increasing arsenic exposure from inhalation. in bangladesh, prevalence of diabetes mellitus among arsenic-exposed subjects with keratosis was about five times higher than unexposed subjects. the objective of this study was to assess whether arsenic exposure is a risk factor for diabetes mellitus as indicated in a few earlier studies. the crude prevalence ratio for diabetes mellitus among keratotic subjects exposed to arsenic was 4.4 (95% confidence interval 2.5-7.7) and increased to 5.2 (95% confidence interval 2.5-10.5) after adjustment for age, sex, and body mass index. the result corroborates earlier studies and suggests that arsenic exposure is a risk factor for diabetes mellitus. 
Does SYNTAX score predict in-hospital outcomes in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate whether the syntax score is associated with short-term cardiovascular outcomes in patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) for acute st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi). the syntax score is associated with 30-day mortality in patients with stemi undergoing primary pci. this study evaluated additive prognostic value of the syntax score over grace, timi, zwolle, cadillac and pami risk scores in patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (ppci). syntax score was independent multivariable predictor of mace and cardiovascular mortality when added to grace, timi, zwolle, and pami risk scores. the syntax score has predictive value for mace and cardiovascular mortality in patients with stemi undergoing primary pci. this study aimed to investigate the predictive effect of syntax score ii (ss-ii) for the 1-year outcome in patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing a primary percutaneous coronary intervention and whether ss-ii improves the ability of anatomical and logistic clinical syntax score and global registry of acute coronary events to predict major adverse cardiac events (mace). this study sought to evaluate the impact of syntax score (sxscore), and compare its performance in isolation and combination with the pami (the primary angioplasty in myocardial infarction study) score, for the prediction of 1-year clinical outcomes in patients with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention. the syntax score is a grading system that evaluates the complexity and prognosis of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). we investigated the association between the incidence of major adverse cardiac events (mace) following pci and the syntax score in patients with three-vessel disease. the syntax score could predict major cardiac outcomes following pci in patients with three-vessel disease. 
Is micro-computed tomography reliable to determine the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone? [SEP] to analyze the reliability of micro-computed tomography (micro-ct) to assess bone density and the microstructure of the maxillary bones at the alveolar process in human clinics by direct comparison with conventional stereologic-based histomorphometry. analysis of osseous microstructural variables including bone volumetric density (bv/tv) of 39 biopsies from the maxillary alveolar bone was performed by micro-ct. percentages of bone between micro-ct and conventional stereologic-based histomorphometry were compared. micro-ct is a reliable technique to determine the bone density and the microstructure of the maxillary alveolar bone at the site of dental implant insertion. to use a micro-computed tomography (micro-ct) to quantify bone healing at maxillary first molar extraction sites, and test the hypothesis that bone healing is impaired in cd24-knockout mice as compared with wild-type c57bl/6j mice. computer analysis applying specialized ct analysis and software allowed evaluation of the three-dimensional microstructure of alveolar and basal bone samples for comparison of structural parameters. the periodontal ligament space and alveolar bone proper around roots of the mandibular first molar were assessed by histology and micro-ct. live-animal micro-computed tomography is a new and promising technique that can be used to quantify changes in bone volume for periodontal disease models. live-animal micro-computed tomography is a robust, reproducible technique that clearly demonstrates significant time-dependent changes in alveolar bone volume in a small-animal model of periodontitis. we investigated the morphologic characteristics of the alveolar bone around palatally displaced maxillary lateral incisors using cone-beam computed tomography and a split-mouth model. 
Does use of hydrophilic guidewires significantly improve technical success rates of peripheral PTA? [SEP] to determine whether the use of hydrophilic guidewires has influenced the success of peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta), the results of pta performed before and after the introduction of such guidewires (end of 1989) were analyzed. before hydrophilic guidewires became generally available, the technical success rates for iliac stenosis pta were 96%, for femoral stenosis pta 84%, and for femoral occlusion 78%. since the introduction of hydrophilic guidewires, the technical success rates of pta have improved and are now approaching 100%. to determine whether the use of hydrophilic guidewires has increased the technical success rate of peripheral percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (pta). we performed 125 procedures and analyzed the technical success rates of pta using the conventional guidewire first and then if needed, the hydrophilic guidewire for iliac and sfa stenoses or occlusions. the technical success rate after pta of stenosed iliac arteries was achieved in 96% (24/25) using conventional wires and 100% using hydrophilic guidewire; in iliac occlusions, the rates were 60% (15/25) and 96%, respectively; in femoral stenosis - 84% (21/25) and 100%; in occlusions in the first group: lesions <10 cm -64% (16/25) and 96%, in the second group: lesions >10 cm -48% (12/25) and 88%. the use of hydrophilic guidewires made significant difference to the technical success rate of pta, especially in occlusion and more complicated lesions. the development of hydrophilic guidewires has provided the vascular interventionalist with an important tool to more effectively deliver diagnostic and therapeutic equipment. to determine whether significant variation in performance exists between commonly used guidewires, a single-blinded, randomized study was conducted to evaluate three hydrophilic guidewires: the zipwire (boston scientific corp., natick, massachusetts), the hiwire (cook, inc., bloomington, indiana), and the glidewire (terumo medical corp., somerset, new jersey), which were used by three operators in 100 consecutive vascular disease patients. these results demonstrate that there are measurable differences between hydrophilic guidewires based on guidewire characteristics and operator preference. 
Does frozen section alter surgical management of multinodular thyroid disease? [SEP] frozen section (fs) evaluation during thyroid surgery is often used to guide intraoperative management. we examined the correlation of fine-needle aspiration cytology and frozen-section examination in solitary thyroid nodules to determine the contribution of frozen-section examination to the operation. intraoperative frozen-section examination may be helpful if fine-needle aspiration cytology results are inderminant and in cases of follicular histology as an adjunct for evaluation of the thyroid nodule, but overall, frozen section does not contribute to the management of the thyroid lesion at the time of surgery. with the advent of fine-needle aspiration cytology (fnac), the role of frozen section (fs) in the management of non-toxic thyroid nodules has become uncertain. frozen section is indicated if pre-operative fnac of the thyroid nodules suggests malignancy, in order to determine the extent of the operation and to avoid overtreatment of benign disease. the role of intraoperative frozen section in the management of thyroid nodules is controversial. in only one patient did the result of an intraoperative frozen section result in a total thyroidectomy being performed instead of a thyroid lobectomy. our study aims to examine the correlation between preoperative ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration and intraoperative frozen section and examine the clinical benefit of frozen section in the context of the latest national guidelines on the management of differentiated thyroid cancer. a retrospective review of thyroid frozen section from 2012 to2017 at one institution. the role of fine-needle aspiration (fna) and frozen section (fs) in the management of thyroid neoplasms continues to generate considerable controversy. 
Could chest wall rigidity be a factor in rapid death from illicit fentanyl abuse? [SEP] rapid intravenous (iv) fentanyl can produce chest wall rigidity. in summary we believe sudden onset chest wall rigidity may be a significant and previously unreported factor leading to an increased mortality, from illicit iv fentanyl use. with higher or more rapid dosing, fentanyl, more than morphine, causes chest wall rigidity and can also induce rapid onset laryngospasm. chest wall rigidity has been reported after the administration of high-dose intravenous fentanyl. this case report supports the observation that low-dose intravenous fentanyl may also cause chest wall rigidity. a discussion of the management of fentanyl-induced chest wall rigidity is presented. previous reports regarding chest wall rigidity after the administration of low-dose fentanyl in infants and children are reviewed, the pathogenesis of the disorder is discussed, and treatment options offered. patients receiving fentanyl, even at moderate doses, are at risk for the development of chest wall rigidity. although this complication is better described in pediatric patients and with anesthetic doses, chest wall rigidity can occur with analgesic doses of fentanyl and related compounds. we review the literature on the occurrence of fentanyl-induced chest wall rigidity and its predisposing risks factors. 
Is severe pain immediately after spinal augmentation a predictor of long-term outcomes? [SEP] several studies demonstrated the positive effects of vertebral augmentation on maintenance of postoperative pain reduction at long-term follow-up. for those patients with severe pain or progressive collapse due to osteoporotic or osteolytic vertebral compression fractures, early vertebral augmentation affords excellent early pain relief, early return to function, and restores and maintains sagittal alignment. to determine the short- and long-term effects of surgical resection of intramedullary spinal cavernous malformations on preoperative pain. acute pain trajectories are associated with long-term outcomes such as persistent pain and functional disability in adults. the aims of this study were to investigate acute postoperative pain trajectories, their predictors, and their impact on long- term outcomes in adolescents with idiopathic scoliosis. we evaluated the preoperative pain intensity, use of analgesics, psychosocial measures and physical functioning of adolescents scheduled to undergo spinal fusion, and their average 6-hour self-reported pain intensity scores for their entire hospital stay. we used growth mixture modeling to conduct acute postoperative pain trajectory analysis and to identify predictors of pain trajectories. furthermore, at the 6-month follow-up, patients experiencing moderate-to-severe pain in the acute postoperative period were more likely to report higher levels of pain severity, use pain medication, and miss a greater number of school/work days due to back pain in the last three months. preoperative assessment and analyzing the progression of pain in the acute postoperative period can help identify those at risk of negative long-term outcomes after surgery. primary outcomes were pain intensity and pain-related disability (chronic pain grade questionnaire). 
Can computerised tomography replace bone scintigraphy in detecting bone metastases from breast cancer? [SEP] the aim of this study was to compare bone scintigraphy (bs) and positron emission tomography/computed tomography (pet/ct) for the detection of bone metastases from breast cancer. in the present study, no difference was found between pet/ct and bone scintigraphy in the detection of bone metastases from breast cancer. since both lytic and sclerotic metastases can occur in breast cancer patients, bone scintigraphy may remain of additional value in these patients. to compare the diagnostic performance of [18f]fdg pet/mri, mri, ct, and bone scintigraphy for the detection of bone metastases in the initial staging of primary breast cancer patients. [18f]fdg pet/mri and mri are significantly better than ct or bone scintigraphy for the detection of bone metastases in patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer. both ct and bone scintigraphy show a substantially limited sensitivity in detection of bone metastases. • [18f]fdg pet/mri and mri alone are significantly superior to ct and bone scintigraphy for the detection of bone metastases in patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer. bone scintigraphy is the standard procedure for the detection of bone metastases in breast cancer patients. to compare whole-body fdg-pet/ct and bone scintigraphy for the detection of bone metastases on a lesion basis in breast cancer patients. in this article we discuss the efficacy of bone scintigraphy in breast and prostate cancer from the point of view of staging, systematic follow-up of asymptomatic patients, evaluation of symptomatic patients and the assessment of response to therapy. 
Does obesity impact the pattern and outcome of trauma in children? [SEP] we conducted this study to ascertain the effects of obesity on the hospital outcome of injured children. recently, the impact of obesity on the outcomes of trauma patients has been the focus of several investigations. there have been several studies addressing the impact of obesity on trauma patients. these studies have explicated the impact of obesity on negative outcomes of trauma patients. several studies have identified a relationship between obesity and injury pattern, increased complications in outcomes related to surgical procedures, and increase mortality and morbidity rates in obese trauma patients. the purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of obesity on the outcomes of a severely injured population of children and adolescents. with an increase in obesity globally, it is important to assess the potential differences in injury pattern and management of obese patients presenting with trauma compared to lean patients to try and improve patient care. a systematic review of articles which assessed the association between obesity and different patterns of trauma and injury were assessed. obese trauma patients present with different injury patterns compared to lean patients. the implications of childhood obesity on pediatric trauma outcomes are not clearly established. 
Is non-invasive diagnosis of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis possible by duplex Doppler ultrasonography? [SEP] we evaluated the accuracy of a duplex doppler ultrasonographic index for predicting the presence or absence of esophageal varices in patients with compensated hepatic cirrhosis (child-pugh class a) by using endoscopy as the reference standard. to determine the diagnostic accuracy of doppler ultrasonography in predicting presence of esophageal varices in patients with hepatitis-c induced cirrhosis. overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and diagnostic accuracy of doppler ultrasonography in predicting presence of esophageal varices was 88.98%, 89.04%, 93.00%, 82.28% and 89.00%, respectively. doppler ultrasonography is the non-invasive modality of choice with high diagnostic accuracy in predicting presence of esophageal varices in hepatitis-c induced cirrhosis. this study emphasizes the usefulness of duplex doppler ultrasonography in the non-invasive diagnosis of compensated cirrhosis. non-invasive methods are required to diagnose presence and grading of esophageal varices in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and in this respect we have evaluated the role of transient elastography and abdominal ultrasound parameters. cirrhotic patients were prospectively evaluated by transient elastography and doppler ultrasound for diagnosis of presence and grading of esophageal varices, the results being compared with the findings of the esophagogastroduodenoscopy. both doppler ultrasonography of hepatic venous wave form (hvwf) and portal doppler flowmetry (pdf) can non invasively recognize hepatic vein wave form abnormalities and determine severity of esophageal varices. in determination of severity of esophageal varices in patients with liver cirrhosis hepatic venous doppler sonography plays more vital role than pdf. to prospectively develop and evaluate the accuracy of a duplex doppler ultrasonographic (us) index for predicting the presence or absence of esophageal varices in patients with compensated cirrhosis (child-pugh class a) by using endoscopy as the reference standard. 
Is (18)F-FDG a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia? [SEP] fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) has been reported as a surrogate tracer to measure tumor hypoxia with positron emission tomography (pet). this study aimed to compare the tracers (14)c-ef3 and (18)f-fdg to detect hypoxia in mouse tumor models. this study showed that fdg is not a good surrogate tracer for tumor hypoxia under either ambient or hypoxic conditions. in contrast, the usability of [(18)f]fdg as a surrogate marker for hypoxia is questionable due to large variations in baseline (oxic) glucose metabolism and magnitudes of the pasteur effects. characterization of changes in intratumoral hypoxic regions is possible with specially developed pet tracers such as (18)f-fluoroazomycin arabinoside ((18)f-faza) while tumor metabolism can be measured with 2-deoxy-2-[(18)f]fluoro-d-glucose ((18)f-fdg). (18)f-faza maximum tumor-to-background (t/bgmax) ratio and the fractional hypoxic volume (fhv) were assessed. 18 f-fluorodeoxyglucose (18 f-fdg) is the most commonly used radiotracer in vascular studies and is employed as a surrogate marker of plaque inflammation. when injected individually, (18)f-fdg highly accumulated in hypoxic zones and high (18)f-flt in proliferative cancer cells. (18)f-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)f-fdg), the only fda approved oncological pet tracer, has been widely utilized in cancer diagnosis, staging, restaging, and even monitoring response to therapy; however, (18)f-fdg is not a tumor-specific pet tracer. this review provides an overview of the current non-(18)f-fdg pet tracers in oncology that have been developed based on tumor characteristics such as increased metabolism, hyperproliferation, angiogenesis, hypoxia, apoptosis, and tumor-specific antigens and surface receptors. 
Can dogs prime autistic children for therapy? [SEP] canine-assisted therapy has been receiving growing attention as a means of aiding children with autism spectrum disorder (asd). the present study aims at providing additional quantitative evidence on the potential of dogs to positively modulate the behavior of children with asd. a 12-year-old boy diagnosed with asd was exposed, at his usual treatment location (the portuguese association for developmental disorders and autism at vila nova de gaia, portugal), to the following treatment conditions: (1) one-to-one structured activities with a therapist assisted by a certified therapy dog, and (2) one-to-one structured activities with the same therapist alone (as a control). these findings are in accordance with previous experimental work and provide additional support for the assertion that dogs can prime autistic children for therapy. ultimately, this study may contribute toward a change for full acceptance of canine-assisted therapy programs within the medical milieu. additional studies using a similar research protocol on more autistic children will certainly help professionals to work on the most effective methods to individually serve this population through canine-assisted interventions. in this qualitative ethology study, we examined the effect of integrating service dogs into ten families with an autistic child. the triadic relationship between parent, autistic child, and service dog constantly evolves. this research provides valuable information for parents interested in having a service dog for their autistic child, and has implications for long-term human-animal companionship for children with special needs and their caregivers. it could improve the major autistic symptoms. 
Are 99mTc leukocyte scintigraphy and SBFT studies useful in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease? [SEP] the goal of this retrospective study was to assess whether 99mtc-white blood cell (wbc) scintigraphy and upper gastrointestinal small bowel follow-through (ugi-sbft) could exclude inflammation in children suspected of having inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). the aim of the study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of scintigraphy with 99mtechnetium hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (99mtc-hmpao) labeled leukocytes in children with suspected ibd. eighty-five children (age 12.4 ± 4.3 years, 47% boys) with suspected ibd based on clinical presentation, laboratory and ultrasound findings underwent scintigraphy with 99mtc-hmpao labeled leukocytes. scintigraphy with 99mtc-hmpao labeled leukocytes in children with suspected ibd has high accuracy and offers a non-invasive option for detecting the presence of gastrointestinal inflammation. we assessed the presence of gut inflammation by abdominal 99mtc-hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (99mtc-hmpao) labeled leukocyte scintigraphy in a group of children and adolescents with hla-b27 positive spa without gastrointestinal (gi) symptoms, and correlated the scintigraphic results to disease activity. experience with the 99mtc hmpao-labeled leukocyte scan was examined and its clinical applications evaluated in the immediate treatment of patients with inflammatory bowel disease. although a tissue diagnosis is still recommended, obtained during upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopic examinations, and contrast radiography of the small bowel for the initial work-up of patients with suspected inflammatory bowel disease, the 99mtc hmpao-labeled leukocyte scan is a safe and useful diagnostic adjunct for subsequent evaluation of patients known to have inflammatory bowel disease. aim of the study was to evaluate [99mtc]hexamethyl-propylamine-oxime (hmpao) leukocyte scintigraphy for the assessment of disease activity and extent in inflammatory bowel disease patients. this work aimed to assess the role of radiolabeled leukocyte scintigraphy for the diagnosis of suspected inflammatory bowel disease. the aim of this prospective study was to determine whether 99mtc-hmpao-labeled leukocyte scintigraphy can give information similar to that obtained with colonoscopy during acute attacks of ulcerative colitis. 
Risk factors for avascular necrosis of bone in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: is there a role for antiphospholipid antibodies? [SEP] avascular necrosis of bone (avn) is a well known complication in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). to investigate the role of antiphospholipid antibody status (igm and igg anticardiolipin antibodies and lupus anticoagulant) with adjustment for corticosteroid use as risk factors for the development of avn. avn of bone in association with acl has been seen principally in systemic lupus erythematosus patients. a review of the association of acl and avn in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, primary antiphospholipid syndrome, and idiopathic osteonecrosis is presented. symptomatic avascular necrosis (avn) of the hip is a known complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). of a total of 800 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, 37 were found to have developed avascular necrosis of bone (4.6%). since the prevalence of apl positivity in the general lupus population is about 30-40%, the presence of the apl may be associated with an increased tendency to develop avascular necrosis. this is supported by recent reports of avascular necrosis occurring in patients with primary antiphospholipid syndrome in the absence of previous steroid administration. avascular necrosis of bone (avn) and osteoarticular infection share similar risk factors in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) patients. patients with systemic lupus erythematosus complicated by trisomy x might be at a higher risk of avascular necrosis and osteoporosis that can also manifest in childhood systemic lupus erythematosus. 
Prostate bed target interfractional motion using RTOG consensus definitions and daily CT on rails : Does target motion differ between superior and inferior portions of the clinical target volume? [SEP] using high-quality ct-on-rails imaging, the daily motion of the prostate bed clinical target volume (pb-ctv) based on consensus radiation therapy oncology group (rtog) definitions (instead of surgical clips/fiducials) was studied. the aim of this study was to quantify interfraction variation in motion of the prostate bed to determine these margins. prostate bed motion was calculated for the upper and lower segments by measuring the position of surgical clips located close to midline relative to bony anatomy in the axial (translational) and sagittal (tilt) planes. the mean magnitude of movement of the prostate bed in the anterior-posterior, superior-inferior and left-right planes, respectively, were as follows: upper portion, 0.50 cm, 0.28 cm, 0.10 cm; lower portion, 0.18 cm, 0.18 cm, 0.08 cm. the aim of this study was to measure interfraction prostate bed motion, setup error, and total positioning error in 10 consecutive patients undergoing postprostatectomy radiotherapy. prostate bed motion, setup error, and total positioning error were measured by analysis of gold seed fiducial location on the daily electronic portal images compared with the digitally reconstructed radiographs from the treatment-planning ct. mean (+/- standard deviation) prostate bed motion was 0.3 +/- 0.9 mm, 0.4 +/- 2.4 mm, and -1.1 +/- 2.1 mm in the left-right (lr), superior-inferior (si), and anterior-posterior (ap) axes, respectively. determine the degree of interfraction prostate motion and its components measured by using daily megavoltage (mv) cone beam computed tomography (cbct) imaging. the goals of this study were to measure inter- and intrafraction setup error and prostate bed motion (pbm) in patients undergoing post-prostatectomy image-guided radiotherapy (igrt) and to propose appropriate population-based three-dimensional clinical target volume to planning target volume (ctv-ptv) margins in both non-igrt and igrt scenarios. based on inter- and estimated intrafraction motion of the prostate bed using pre- and post-kv-cbct images, cbct igrt to correct for day-to-day variances can potentially reduce ctv-ptv margins by 1-2 mm. 
Esophagogastric devascularization without splenectomy in portal hypertension: safe and effective? [SEP] splenectomy and devascularization have become an efficacious surgical procedure for portal hypertension, and has been recommended in china as the first choice for the treatment of portal hypertension for a long time. as a result of advances in laparoscopic equipment and techniques, splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization have been carried out with laparoscope.from january 2012 to december 2017, 453 patients who were diagnosed with portal hypertension and serious gastroesophageal varices received surgical management in our institution. the aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of hand-assisted laparoscopic devascularization and splenectomy (hals hassab's procedure) for the treatment of esophagogastric varices with portal hypertension. from 2009 to 2016, seven patients with esophagogastric varices with portal hypertension were treated with hand-assisted laparoscopic devascularization and splenectomy in our institute. although our data are preliminary, hand-assisted laparoscopic devascularization and splenectomy proved an effective procedure for treating esophagogastric varices in patients with portal hypertension. in this study, we compared the therapeutic effect of a novel surgical procedure, esophagogastric devascularization without splenectomy (edws), with the widely used modified esophagogastric devascularization (med) with splenectomy for the treatment of portal hypertension. twenty-eight patients with schistosomal portal hypertension and previous history of upper digestive bleeding due to esophagogastric varices rupture underwent elective esophagogastric devascularization and splenectomy. open splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization (osed) is a typical surgery for portal hypertension. to investigate the safety and effect of laparoscopic splenectomy and esophagogastric devascularization (lsed), we performed lsed for 24 patients suffering from portal hypertension with refractory variceal bleeding while conducting osed for 30 patients. the role of laparoscopic selective esophagogastric devascularization and splenectomy (lsegds) in the treatment of esophagogastric variceal bleeding and hypersplenism in patients with cirrhotic portal hypertension has not been well studied. 
Does maternal obesity have an influence on feeding behavior of obese children? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of maternal obesity on feeding practices toward their obese school children. the degree of child's obesity increases mothers' concern and food restriction behavior. while mothers of obese children have a high prevalence of obesity, maternal obesity was found to have no significant influence on feeding behavior of obese school children. mothers perceived differences between their obese and nonobese children's eating regulation. mothers' weight status was positively associated with disinhibition of their own eating as well as concern about both their obese and nonobese children's weight and health. these findings fail to support the hypothesis that maternal control over child feeding is related to childhood obesity, but highlight the impact of maternal weight history and eating habits on her impression of children's future weight and health independent of the child's weight status. maternal feeding styles have been associated with children's eating behaviors and obesity risk. during the last two decades, researchers have devoted considerable attention to the role of maternal feeding behaviors, practices, and styles in the development of obesity in young children. the postnatal feeding practices of obese and overweight mothers may place their children at increased risk for the development of obesity through shared biology and family environments. this article reviews the feeding practices of obese mothers, describes the potential mechanisms linking maternal feeding behaviors to child obesity risk, and highlights the potential avenues of intervention. 
Is plate clearing a risk factor for obesity? [SEP] a tendency to clear one's plate when eating may be a risk factor for obesity in an environment where food is plentiful. whether plate clearing is associated with increased body weight in a cohort of us participants was examined. nine hundred and ninety-three us adults (60% male, 80% american european, mean age=31 years) completed self-report measures of habitual plate clearing together with behavioral and demographic characteristics known to be associated with obesity. plate clearing tendencies were positively associated with bmi and remained so after accounting for a large number of other demographic and behavioral predictors of bmi in analyses (β=0.18, 95% cis=0.07, 0.29, p<0.001); an increased tendency to plate clear was associated with a significantly higher body weight. the tendency to clear one's plate when eating is associated with increased body weight and may constitute a risk factor for weight gain. obesity (bmi>30), open fracture, occurrence of infection, and use of stainless steel plate were significant independent risk factors (p<0.01). when a stainless plate is used, obesity alone carries a risk of 44% while infection alone a risk of 66%. of the 10 potential factors tested, eating off a large plate (p=0.01), eating at night (p=0.04) and uncontrolled eating (p=0.03) significantly mediated the relationship between ses and obesity. our results highlighted a number of obesogenic behaviors among socially disadvantaged participants: large plate size, uncontrolled eating and eating at night were significant mediators of the relationship between ses and the obesity risk. the pathogenesis of obesity as risk factor, although it is not completely clear and unique, is examined. 
Should lower limb fractures be treated surgically in patients with chronic spinal injuries? [SEP] to report the outcomes of surgical treatment of lower limb fractures in patients with chronic spinal cord injuries. there is no currently consensus regarding the management of lower limb fractures in patients with chronic spinal cord injuries, but the trend has been conservative treatment due to the high rate of complications in surgical treatment. chronic spinal cord injuries patients with lower limb fractures who are treated surgically achieved a more reliable consolidation, practically a free range of motion, low rate of cutaneous complications, and pain associated with the fracture. we aimed to establish if spinal cord injured patients treated at our unit have an increased incidence of lower limb fracture, and if so to identify a cohort of patients who may benefit from prophylactic treatment to preserve bone mineral density. there was a significantly increased incidence of lower limb fracture in patients with complete spinal cord injury (5 fractures in 4 patients), when compared to the cohort of patients with spinal injury who subsequently attained mobility (no fractures). to evaluate the difference in terms of overall complications between surgical and non-surgical management of lower limb fractures in patients with chronic spinal cord injury (sci). a 13-year retrospective study including patients with chronic spinal cord lesion admitted for sublesional lower limb fractures. low-energy fractures of the lower limb in patients post spinal cord injury (sci) present significant management challenges. to analyze the clinical and radiological outcomes of lower limb fractures following surgical treatment in patients with chronic spinal cord injury (sci). between january 2003 and december 2015, 102 chronic sci patients with a lower limb fracture were surgically treated at our hospital. 
Is vancomycin MIC creep a worldwide phenomenon? [SEP] resorting to a meta-analysis approach, this study aims to assess the evidence of vancomycin mic creep. a number of single-centre studies have identified progressive increases in glycopeptide mics for s. aureus strains over recent years - a phenomenon known as vancomycin mic creep. "mic creep" is a phenomenon that describes an increase of an organism mics over time and have been reported from different parts of the world. this study was conducted to assess presence of vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) creeps among clinical isolates of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) in saudi arabia. there are reports of an increase in vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) against methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) over time, a phenomenon referred to as "mic creep", but some studies have conflicting results. the phenomenon of vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) creep is an increasingly serious problem in the treatment of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) infections. the phenomenon of progressive increase in the value of vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (mic) for s. aureus (i.e., vancomycin mic "creep"), has been reported; however, it is still a controversial concept because the results of research remain inconclusive. vancomycin mic creep was identified in clinical isolates of mrsa, during four years of study period. furthermore, to analyze the causes of vancomycin mic creeps and the relationship between vancomycin mics and the outcome among patients with mrsa infection. the data demonstrated vancomycin mic creep among clinical isolates in our hospital, and the mic creep may be caused by the increasing usage of vancomycin. 
Does short-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors cause rebound aggravation of symptoms? [SEP] rebound acid hypersecretion might occur after treatment with proton pump inhibitors. this study looks for a rebound aggravation of symptoms after short-term treatment with lansoprazole. the occurrence and the clinical relevance of rebound acid hypersecretion after discontinuation of proton pump inhibitors is unclear. to perform a systematic review of rebound acid hypersecretion after discontinuation of proton pump inhibitors. these two studies suggested that rebound acid hypersecretion may occur in h. pylori-negatives after 8 weeks of proton pump inhibitors. rebound acid hypersecretion after proton pump inhibitors has been shown for both basal and maximal acid output by 14 days after treatment. while the physiological existence of rebound acid hypersecretion (rahs) after withdrawal of proton pump inhibitors (ppi) therapy is established, the clinical implications are less certain. review of the literature concerning the rebound effects of drugs used to suppress gastric acidity, particularly proton pump inhibitors (ppis). proton pump inhibitors are being increasingly used and for longer periods of time, especially in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease. potential areas of concern that have been raised in the long-term use of proton pump inhibitors, which could alter this risk-benefit ratio include: gastric carcinoid formation; the development of rebound acid hypersecretion when proton pump inhibitor treatment is stopped; the development of tolerance; increased oxyntic gastritis in h. pylori patients and the possibility of increasing the risk of gastric cancer; the possible stimulation of growth of non-gastric tumours due to hypergastrinaemia; and the possible effect of the hypo/achlorhydria on nutrient absorption, particularly iron and vitamin b12. 
Do family physicians make good sentinels for influenza? [SEP] the following questions were addressed: 1) are the sentinel clinical reports a good measure of influenza activity? to determine whether volunteer family physician reports of the frequency of influenza-like illness (ili) usefully supplement information from other influenza surveillance systems conducted by the centers for disease control and prevention. evaluation of physician reports from five influenza surveillance seasons (1987-88 through 1991-92). family physicians provide sensitive, timely, and accurate community influenza morbidity data that complement data from other surveillance systems. influenza surveillance provides information on virus activity and is necessary for the selection of vaccine strains and early warning. physicians register number of influenza-like illnesses (ili) and collect swabs. a sentinel network of 13,500 physicians provides an early warning in the event of an influenza outbreak. monitoring avian influenza is a good way to anticipate human influenza outbreaks. there are limited data on the transmission of influenza in the context of primary care practices, despite the fact that a significant proportion of the population consult their primary care physician for an influenza-like illness every year. to describe the use of influenza prevention and control methods in private practices of the swiss sentinel network. 
Aberrant loss of dickkopf-3 in gastric cancer: can it predict lymph node metastasis preoperatively? [SEP] this study assessed the dkk3 protein expression in gastric cancer and its potential value as a prognostic marker. loss of dkk3 expression was found in 64 of 158 (40.5%) samples, and it was associated with advanced t stage (p < 0.001), lymph node metastasis (p < 0.001), uicc tnm stage (p < 0.001), tumor location (p = 0.029), lymphovascular invasion (p = 0.035), and perineural invasion (p = 0.032). based on the preoperative clinical stage assessed by computed tomography (ct), loss of dkk3 expression was predominantly associated with worse prognosis in patients with clinically node-negative advanced gastric cancer (agc). loss of dkk3 protein expression was significantly associated with poor survival in patients with gastric cancer and was strongly correlated with the tnm stage. the vegf expression in patients with stage-n3 gastric cancer was about 7 times that in patients with stage-n0 gastric cancer, and it was increased with the increased degree of lymph node metastasis (p< 0.01). the vegf protein expression in gastric cancer tissues is positively correlated with tnm staging and lymph node metastasis in patients. the most important factors for predicting lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer are tumor size, pathological type, depth of invasion, and lymphatic-vascular invasion. the relationship between pathological factors and lymph node metastasis of pathological stage early gastric cancer has been extensively investigated. surgeons need to be aware of limitations in preoperative predictions of the presence of lymph node metastasis for clinical stage early gastric cancer. prediction of lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer (egc) is very important to decide treatment strategies preoperatively. 
Is ganglionated plexi ablation during Maze IV procedure beneficial for postoperative long-term stable sinus rhythm? [SEP] we investigated the role of surgical ablation targeting the autonomous nervous system during a cox-maze iv procedure in the maintenance of sinus rhythm at long-term follow-up. we investigated the effect of the maze procedure with intensive pulmonary vein isolation (pvi) guided by ganglionated plexus (gp) mapping (the maze with gp ablation group) on a long-term postoperative maintenance of sinus rhythm in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation (af) and compared with that in patients undergoing the maze procedure with the conventional pvi (the maze group). ganglionated plexi ablation in chronic af results in long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm in 38.2% of cases. ganglionated plexi ablation outcomes with and without prior mapping were compared between perioperative and early postoperative periods. available evidence suggests that a biatrial, energy-assisted cox maze iv procedure restores normal sinus rhythm in two-thirds to three-quarters of patients without increasing operative risk. sinus rate, ah interval during atrial pacing, and ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation were compared before and after ganglionated plexi stimulation and after their ablation. when inferior right ganglionated plexi was ablated, slowing of sinus rate by anterior right ganglionated plexi stimulation was unaltered, but inhibition of av conduction was eliminated. superior left ganglionated plexi stimulation induced similar effects on sinus and av nodal function, and sinus rate slowing was markedly attenuated by anterior right ganglionated plexi ablation. ablation of both anterior right ganglionated plexi and inferior right ganglionated plexi eliminated av conduction inhibition but not sinus rate slowing by superior left ganglionated plexi stimulation. in sub-analysis of non-paroxysmal af, relative to pvi alone, adjunctive gp but not cfae ablation significantly increased sinus rhythm maintenance (or: 1.88, p = 0.01; and or:1.24, p = 0.18, respectively). 
Double reading of barium enemas: is it necessary? [SEP] the mainly perceptive nature of the errors indicates the need for more careful viewing of double contrast barium enemas. double-contrast barium enema examination can be a cost-effective component of colorectal cancer screening, but further modeling efforts are necessary. seventy-five percent of radiologists said that double-contrast barium enema is a "very effective" colorectal cancer screening procedure compared with 33% of primary care physicians. the purpose of our study was to determine the effectiveness, clinical impact, and feasibility of double reading barium enemas. independent double readings of 1,003 consecutive barium enemas (822 double- and 181 single-contrast examinations) were prospectively performed. although feasible, double reading of barium enemas does not improve sensitivity for detection of polyps and produces a higher false-positive rate. double-contrast barium enema is commonly employed to study the rest of the colon when colonoscopy is incomplete. incomplete colonoscopy prompted double-contrast barium enema. the diagnostic contribution observed in the present survey confirms the opportunity of performing double-contrast barium enema as a routine adjunct to incomplete colonoscopy. the double-contrast barium enema is a safe, accurate, and cost-effective tool for accomplishing this. 
Is severe macrosomia manifested at 11-14 weeks of gestation? [SEP] to determine the association between fetal biometry in the first or early second trimester and severe macrosomia at delivery. severe macrosomia apparently manifests as early as 11-14 weeks' gestation. in this study, the magnitude of fetal macrosomia found to be 11.86%. antenatal predication of fetal macrosomia remains challenging. binary logistic regression showed that ac at 36 weeks was most predictive of macrosomia (76.5%), followed by aaw at 30 weeks (68.5%). the frequency of diagnosis of macrosomia increased progressively with advancing gestational age, with large increases between 40 and 41 weeks. our study demonstrate that larger fetal ac measurements around 21-22 weeks are associated with subsequent diagnosis of macrosomia, suggesting that macrosomia management should be initiated much earlier than we thought. pregravid maternal bmi >30 (or = 3.06 [1.51-6.17]), prolonged term of pregnancy (> 41 weeks of gestation) (or = 249 [1.04-5.88]) and the antecedent of a macrosomic delivery (or = 6.53 [2.89-14.74]) were significantly associated with the risk of fetal macrosomia. gestational age ≥40 weeks (adjusted odds ratio (aor) = 4.1 (95% ci = 1.7-9.7)), diabetes mellitus (aor=5.5 (95% ci = 1.2-25)), previous history of macrosomia (aor = 3.7 (95% ci = 1.4-10)), and male sex (aor = 3.4 (95% ci = 1.3-8.7)) were significantly associated with macrosomia. the study revealed that maternal diabetes mellitus, higher gestational age, history of macrosomia, and male newborns were the predictors of macrosomia. 
Do older adults with cancer fall more often? [SEP] older adults in the chemotherapy group were hypothesized to fall significantly more often than those in the nonchemotherapy group. to examine whether a history of cancer increased the likelihood of a fall in community-dwelling older adults, and if cancer type, stage, or time since diagnosis increased falls. a fall occurred at a rate of 33% in older adults with cancer compared to 29% without cancer (p < 0.00). the fall rate was higher in older adults with cancer than in older adults without cancer. older adults with cancer may be at greater risk for falls and have unique risk factors. several studies suggest that falls are more common in older adults with a diagnosis of cancer than those without. falls in older adults with cancer are more common than in the general population, and are associated with risk factors unique to people with cancer. (5) how do falls in older patients affect subsequent cancer treatment? falls and fall-related injuries are common in older adults with cancer and may affect subsequent cancer treatment. falls and fall-related injuries are common in older cancer patients. 
Scrotal approach to both palpable and impalpable undescended testes: should it become our first choice? [SEP] to determine the advantages of scrotal incision in the treatment of undescended testis. a single scrotal incision orchidopexy has become accepted as a valid approach for patients with palpable undescended testicles. if a 'low' palpable testis (defined as testis that can be manipulated to the scrotum) was found, a scrotal approach was used. in cases of 'high' palpable testis (testis that cannot be manipulated to scrotum), the inguinal approach was used. this tailored approach to a palpable undescended testis appears simple, safe, and effective, providing high success rate with marginal complications. the management of the impalpable undescended testis is controversial. this study evaluated the outcome of high single scrotal incision in comparison to the classic inguinal exploration for unilateral palpable testes regardless to its pre-operative location to assure its validity and safety. we compared the results of low transscrotal mid raphe orchiopexy, high scrotal incision (bianchi) and conventional inguinal approach in patients with palpable undescended testes. to compare the clinical and morphological features of impalpable and palpable cryptorchid testes, as there is debate about how much effort is appropriate to bring an impalpable undescended testicle into the scrotum. the study evaluated the role of imaging studies in the diagnosis of impalpable undescended testes. 
Is grandmultiparity an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcomes? [SEP] to examine the perinatal outcome in women of extreme grandmultiparity (egmp) in a setting with good socio-economic conditions and modern perinatal care. extreme grandmultiparity does not appear to be an independent risk factor for adverse perinatal outcome in the setting of good perinatal care. grandmultiparity was associated with a significantly higher risk of antenatal anemia (p < 0.05), multiple pregnancy (p < 0.01), fetal macrosomia (p < 0.01), perinatal mortality (p < 0.01), and primary postpartum hemorrhage (p < 0.05). our study shows that there is an increased risk of antenatal anemia, multiple pregnancy, primary postpartum hemorrhage, and adverse perinatal outcomes in grandmultiparous women independent of maternal age. traditionally grandmultiparity has been considered to be an obstetric hazard both to the mother and foetus. in our set up, grandmultiparity continues to challenge our obstetric practice with its associated increased likelihood of maternal and perinatal complications. it is suggested that grandmultiparity is a troublesome condition in obstetric settings because of increased perinatal complications. grandmultiparity is traditionally associated with increased risk of complications during pregnancy and delivery. grandmultiparity is reported to increase both maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity. grandmultiparity was associated with a significantly higher risk of iron deficiency anemia, diabetes mellitus, antepartum hemorrhage, malpresentation, cesarean section rate, postpartum hemorrhage and a high perinatal mortality rate. 
Does the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia exist? [SEP] although the investing cervical fascia has been considered as an impenetrable barrier, clinically, the placement of the block deep or superficial to the fascia provides the same effective anesthesia. using a combination of dissection, e12 sheet plastination, and confocal microscopy, fascial structures in the anterior cervical triangle were examined in 10 adult human cadavers. the fascial structure deep to platysma in the anterior cervical triangle comprised the strap fascia. this study provides anatomical evidence to indicate that the so-called investing cervical fascia does not exist in the anterior triangle of the neck. in the absence of muscular fibers, a fascial adhesion zone with limited mobility was observed where the superficial cervical fascia fused with the investing layer of the deep cervical fascia. a surgical technique of reconstruction with the median layer of the deep cervical fascia is described. owing to the simplicity of the surgical approach, its size and biological properties, the median layer of deep cervical fascia proved itself to be a suitable material in the immediate reconstruction of exogenerous war injuries of the larynx and cervical trachea. the aim of this study was to determine whether the alar fascia is a distinct layer of the deep cervical neck fasciae. the stained histological sections confirmed the presence of the visceral and prevertebral fasciae at the oropharyngeal level, with a third intermediate layer closely connected with the visceral fascia. the alar fascia is a layer of the cervical neck fascia connected with the visceral fascia from c1 to t2 levels. 
Is crime associated with over-the-counter pharmacy syringe sales? [SEP] however, concerns exist among some law enforcement officials, policymakers, pharmacists, and community members about potential links between otc syringe sales and crime. we used a geographic information system and novel spatial and longitudinal analyses to determine whether implementation of pharmacy-based otc syringe sales were associated with reported crime between january 2006 and december 2008 in los angeles police department reporting districts. we assessed reported crime pre- and post-otc syringe sales initiation as well as longitudinal associations between crime and otc syringe-selling pharmacies. using generalized estimating equations and adjusting for potential confounders, reported crime rates were negatively associated with otc syringe sales (adjusted rate ratio: 0.89; 95% confidence interval: 0.81, 0.99). our findings demonstrate that otc pharmacy syringe sales were not associated with increases in reported crime in local communities in los angeles during 2006-2008. sterile syringe access is critical to hiv prevention efforts targeting injection drug users (idus) but some pharmacies do not sell syringes over-the-counter (otc) even where such sales are legal. to identify factors predicting pharmacy syringes sales to pwid. pharmacy syringe sales was strongly associated with pharmacist supportive beliefs about syringe access by pwid and their comfort level selling syringes to pwid. notably, pharmacies located in communities with high rates of opioid overdose mortality were 56% less likely to sell syringes without a prescription than those in communities with lower rates. to determine the prevalence of nonprescription naloxone and sterile syringe sales, factors associated with nonprescription sales, geospatial access to nonprescription naloxone and syringe-selling pharmacies, and targets for potential interventions. 
Is prophylactic fixation a cost-effective method to prevent a future contralateral fragility hip fracture? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of prophylactic fixation of the uninjured hip to prevent contralateral hip fracture. however, prophylactic fixation was found to be a cost-effective method to prevent contralateral hip fracture in: 1) women 71 to 75 years old who had 30% greater relative risk for a contralateral fracture; and 2) women younger than age 70 years. : prophylactic fixation with a cephalomedullary nail was not found to be cost-effective for the average older woman who sustained a hip fracture. the study supports the need for basic science and clinical trials investigating the effectiveness of prophylactic fixation for patient populations at higher lifetime risk for contralateral hip fracture. the purpose of this study is to use markov modeling to determine whether contralateral prophylactic femur fracture fixation is cost-effective after a bisphosphonate-associated atypical femur fracture and, if so, what patient-related factors may influence that determination. markov modeling was used to determine the cost-effectiveness of contralateral prophylactic fixation after an initial atypical femur fracture. prophylactic fixation of the contralateral side after unilateral atypical femur fracture is not cost-effective for standard-risk patients but is cost-effective among high-risk patients between 60 and 89 years of age with a high risk for an atypical femur fracture defined by patients with more than one risk factor such as asian ethnicity, prodromal pain, varus proximal femur geometry, femoral bowing, or radiographic changes such as periosteal beaking and a transverse radiolucent line. furthermore, prophylactic fixation of the contralateral hip was found to be a cost-effective procedure, with a cost per quality adjusted life year gained of £1431 at the time of last follow-up. prophylactic fixation of the contralateral hip is a cost-effective operation that limits the morbidity from the complications of a further slip, and the diminished functional outcome associated with unilateral fixation. fragility hip fractures are common and costly. 
Is double-balloon enteroscopy an accurate method to diagnose small-bowel disorders? [SEP] in summary, double-balloon enteroscopy should be performed if there is high clinical suspicion for small bowel pathology even if the capsule endoscopy is negative. to evaluate the clinical outcome of enteroscopy, using the double-balloon method, focusing on the involvement of neoplasms in strictures of the small intestine. the double-balloon enteroscopy contributed to the diagnosis of small intestinal neoplasms found in 3 out of 17 patients by direct observation of the strictures as well as biopsy sampling. double-balloon enteroscopy is a useful method for the diagnosis and treatment of strictures in the small bowel. the advent of double-balloon enteroscopy has enabled more accurate diagnosis and treatment of small bowel disorders. single-balloon enteroscopy was effective for the diagnosis and treatment of small bowel disorders, especially in patients who presented with abdominal pain, gi bleeding, or focal abnormalities on imaging scans. the aim of this study is to compare double-balloon and spiral enteroscopy in patients with suspected small bowel lesions. double-balloon enteroscopy achieved significantly greater small bowel insertion depth than spiral enteroscopy. we retrospectively reviewed 56 patients who underwent double-balloon enteroscopy to localize intestinal bleeding prior to surgical intervention, and compared enteroscopic findings with those of intraoperation to determine the accuracy of enteroscopy in identifying and localizing the sites of small intestinal bleeding. double-balloon enteroscopy is a safe, reliable modality for determining bleeding lesion of small intestine. 
Does strategy training reduce age-related deficits in working memory? [SEP] in this study, we review the role of working memory deficits in adhd, the evidence surrounding working memory training strategies in the management of the condition, and the factors affecting the success of these strategies in alleviating adhd symptoms. treatment with hmb improved working memory performance in middle-age (ma) males and oa rats of both sexes. as mnemonic utilization deficit in older adults associates with age-related decline in executive function, we hypothesized that memory strategy training combined with executive function training might induce larger training effect in memory and broader training effects in non-memory outcomes than pure memory training. the present study compared the effects of combined cognitive training (executive function training plus memory strategy training) to pure memory strategy training. forty healthy older adults were randomly assigned to a combined cognitive training group or a memory strategy training group. results suggest that combined cognitive training may be less efficient than pure memory training in memory outcomes, though the influences from insufficient training time and less closeness between trained executive function and working memory could not be excluded; however it has broader training effects in non-memory outcomes. research has shown that it is possible to improve working memory functioning by training. the aim of this study was to examine whether patients with moderate to severe cognitive deficits after brain injury could profit from working memory training and if that training had any impact on their daily life activities. in these experiments, we tested if operant training at an early age affected adult cognitive deficits in the zq175 ki het (zq175) mouse model of hd. on the sequence generation task, frontal lesion patients were impaired on a strategy-training phase when the working memory demands of the task were reduced, but had relatively intact performance on other phases of the task. 
Does the SCL 90-R obsessive-compulsive dimension identify cognitive impairments? [SEP] regarding the scl-90-r dimensions, depression was the highest followed by somatization, obsessive-compulsive and anxiety dimensions. to investigate the relevance of the symptom checklist 90-r obsessive-compulsive subscale to cognition in individuals with brain tumor. multivariate analyses indicated that reported symptoms of depression contributed 66% of the variance in predicting scl 90-r obsessive-compulsive scores, whereas symptoms of anxiety contributed an additional 6% (p < .0001). our data suggest that the scl 90-r is best viewed as an indicator of unidimensional emotional distress and somatic effects of structural brain injury. in part 1 (n = 79), convergent and discriminant validity were demonstrated for scl-90-r scales measuring depression and paranoid ideation. canonical correlation showed that scl-90-r scales tapped two dimensions of adolescent psychopathology, a primary dimension of dysphoria and a secondary dimension of anger and mistrust. the reliability and validity of the scl-90-r obsessive compulsive scale were examined using a multi-trait multi-method approach in a sample of 54 outpatients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (ocd). after multiple regression analysis, the scl-90-r obsessivity-compulsivity scale (beta = 0.61, t=2.7, p=0.017) was the only independent predictor of the presence s-an in our study cohort. the symptom questionnaire "o," based on the symptom checklist 90-revised (scl-90-r) questionnaire, was used to assess obsessive, compulsive, and anxiety symptoms. all abbreviated forms were strongly correlated with the scl-90-r for general psychopathology (r = 0.93-0.99), depression (r = 0.89-0.95), anxiety (r = 0.97-0.98), psychosis (r = 0.95-0.99), and obsessive-compulsive symptoms (r = 0.97). 
Is fetal anatomic assessment on follow-up antepartum sonograms clinically useful? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of a fetal anatomic survey on follow-up antepartum sonograms. eligible women had at least 1 prior sonographic examination beyond 18 weeks' gestation with a complete and normal fetal anatomic assessment and at least 1 follow-up sonogram. neonatal charts were reviewed for those patients whose follow-up sonograms revealed unanticipated fetal anomalies. a fetal anatomic survey on follow-up sonograms may identify unanticipated fetal anomalies, especially when the indication is for fetal growth. vas has other potential advantages in the antepartum assessment of fetal well-being and provocation of fetal activity to improve ultrasonographic anatomic visualization. this document will review the current indications for and techniques of antepartum fetal surveillance and outline management guidelines for antepartum fetal surveillance, consistent with the best contemporary scientific evidence. antepartum fetal surveillance techniques based on assessment of fetal heart rate (fhr) patterns have been in clinical use for almost four decades and are used along with real-time ultrasonography and umbilical artery doppler velocimetry to evaluate fetal well-being. the purpose of this document is to provide a review of the current indications for and techniques of antepartum fetal surveillance and outline management guidelines for antepartum fetal surveillance that are consistent with the best scientific evidence. the purpose of this document is to provide a review of the current indications for and techniques of antepartum fetal surveillance and outline management guidelines for antepartum fetal surveillance that are consistent with the best scientific evidence. this anatomic evaluation facilitated planning of perinatal management and choice of manner of delivery. 
Is muscle power related to running speed with changes of direction? [SEP] evidence from studies of muscle contraction and limb dynamics in turkeys suggests that during running accelerations work is transferred directly from muscle to tendon as tendon stretch early in the step is powered by muscle shortening. we tested the hypothesis that the hindlimb muscles of wild turkeys (meleagris gallopavo) can produce maximal power during running accelerations. steady-speed running steps and accelerations were compared to determine how turkeys alter their running mechanics from a low-power to a high-power gait. elastic mechanisms may expand the functional range of muscle contractile elements in running animals by allowing muscles to vary their mechanical function from force-producing struts during steady-speed running to power-producing motors during acceleration. present results highlight that running humans can exert a larger negative than positive power, in agreement with the fundamental proprieties of skeletal muscles in vivo. objectives to characterize hip muscle forces and powers during running, and to determine how these quantities change when altering step rate for a given running speed. forces and powers of each muscle were compared across step-rate conditions. the force-velocity properties of skeletal muscle have an important influence on locomotor performance. we used direct measurements of muscle mechanical function in two ankle extensor muscles of wild turkeys to test the hypothesis that during level running muscles operate at velocities that favor force rather than power. knowledge regarding the biomechanical function of the lower limb muscle groups across a range of running speeds is important in improving the existing understanding of human high performance as well as in aiding in the identification of factors that might be related to injury. 
Can magnetic resonance imaging accurately predict concordant pain provocation during provocative disc injection? [SEP] the correlation between discogenic lumbar pain and disc morphology was investigated by using magnetic resonance imaging and discography. one hundred and one lumbar discs in 39 patients were studied with magnetic resonance imaging and pain provocation discography. these findings were good predictors of pain on disc injection. to correlate magnetic resonance (mr) image findings with pain response by provocation discography in patients with discogenic low back pain, with an emphasis on the combination analysis of a high intensity zone (hiz) and disc contour abnormalities. the proposed mr classification is useful to predict a disc with concordant pain. the results indicate that the contrast injection during diskography reflects mainly pain of discogenic origin, whereas the possible pain associated with endplate damage cannot be depicted by ct diskography. this study aimed to correlate magnetic resonance (mr) ﬁndings and discography with pain response at provocative discography in patients with low back pain. concordant pain was signiﬁcant correlated with type iv-v discs on discography (w2=144.08, r=0.60, p<0.01), grade iv-v disc degeneration on mr image (w2=137.11, r=0.59, p<0.01), the presence of hiz (w2=51.93, r=0.41, p<0.01), and endplate abnormalities (w2=52.76, r=0.41, p<0.01). results were determined by analyzing the pain responses during disc injection with respect to imaged pathology seen on the axial ct discographic image of the disc. there was a significant relation between the radiographic image of the disc and the results of clinical pain provocation (p < 0.01; chi2). 
Is a 9-month treatment sufficient in tuberculous enterocolitis? [SEP] to compare the efficacy of different treatment durations in tuberculous enterocolitis in terms of response and recurrence rates. forty patients with tuberculous enterocolitis were randomized prospectively: 22 patients into a 9-month and 18 into a 15-month group. tuberculous enterocolitis can be managed by 9-month chemotherapy without disease recurrence. despite the limitations of the literature available, 6 months of therapy is probably sufficient for patients with tuberculous lymphadenitis. the british thoracic society and the american thoracic society advise 12 months treatment for tuberculous meningitis, with at least isoniazid (h), rifampicin (r) and pyrazinamide (z). to establish whether a 6-month treatment regimen for tuberculous meningitis is equally as effective as longer treatment. although no studies have compared 6-month treatment regimens with longer treatment, it can be concluded on the basis of this literature review that 6-month treatment is sufficient for tuberculous meningitis with fully susceptible mycobacteria. to compare six months versus nine months anti-tuberculous therapy in patients of female genital tuberculosis. to assess the 6-month efficacy of an intermittent thrice-weekly directly observed treatment (dot) regimen for tuberculous peripheral adenopathy and the need  for prolongation of treatment to 9 months for non-resolution of lymphadenopathy. six months treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid supplemented initially by pyrazinamide is adequate treatment for most adults with tuberculous mediastinal lymphadenopathy. 
Does coronary angiography before emergency aortic surgery affect in-hospital mortality? [SEP] to study the relationship between coronary angiography and in-hospital mortality in patients undergoing emergency surgery of the aorta without a history of coronary revascularization or coronary angiography before the onset of symptoms. in the setting of acute ascending aortic dissection warranting emergency aortic repair, coronary angiography has been considered to be desirable, if not essential. preoperative coronary angiography may not affect survival in patients undergoing emergency surgery. preoperative coronary angiography may not affect survival in patients undergoing emergency surgery. background there are limited data regarding the risks of cardiac surgery early after coronary angiography in patients scheduled for isolated aortic and/or mitral valve replacement. the aim of our retrospective study was to determine the incidence of coronary artery disease among our surgical patients in treatment for aortic dissection or aneurysm, and to determine whether coronary intervention before aortic surgery appears to affect outcomes. our study reinforces existing evidence that preoperative angiography can reduce mortality and morbidity in the elective repair of aortic aneurysm, especially thoracic or abdominal aneurysm. we set out to examine the role of angiography in acute aortic dissection. the effect of angiography on the need for concomitant coronary artery surgery (cabg), delay to surgery and outcome were analysed. in-hospital outcomes were similar among patients who underwent preoperative coronary angiography or computed tomography angiography within 24 h before cardiac surgery. 
Is bicompartmental knee arthroplasty more favourable to knee muscle strength and physical performance compared to total knee arthroplasty? [SEP] bicompartmental knee arthroplasty features bone and ligament sparing as unicompartmental knee arthroplasty and is presumably better in the recovery of muscle strength and function compared to total knee arthroplasty (tka) though not previously reported in the literature. the aim of the study was to compare isokinetic knee muscle strength and physical performance in patients who underwent either bicompartmental knee arthroplasty or tka. although theoretically plausible, bicompartmental knee arthroplasty was not superior in knee muscle strength and physical performance at 1 year compared with total knee arthroplasty. medial bicompartmental arthroplasty recorded more normal maximum weight acceptance (p < 0.001) and mid-stance forces (p = 0.03) than total knee arthroplasty subjects, with 11 cm (15%) longer steps (p < 0.001) and 21 cm (14%) longer strides (p = 0.006). subjectively, medial bicompartmental arthroplasty subjects reported oxford knee scores of median 41 (interquartile range 38.8-45.5) compared to total knee arthroplasty oxford knee scores of 38 (interquartile range 30.5-41, p < 0.02). medial bicompartmental arthroplasty subjects reported eq-5d median 0.88 (interquartile range 0.84-0.94) compared to total knee arthroplasty median 0.81 (interquartile range 0.73-0.89, p < 0.02.) conclusion: this study finds that, in the treatment of medial tibiofemoral osteoarthritis with severe patellofemoral arthritis, medial bicompartmental arthroplasty results in nearer-normal gait and improved patient-reported outcomes compared to total knee arthroplasty. bicompartmental knee arthroplasties had higher revision rates than tkas. bicompartmental knee arthroplasty has the potential to retain more natural knee function. bicompartmental knee arthroplasty preserves the kinematics, ligaments, and bone stock of the knee and is a good option for younger, active, high-demand patients who wish to return to their previous level of activity. 
Can gingival crevicular blood be relied upon for assessment of blood glucose level? [SEP] this study aimed to compare gingival crevicular blood with finger-stick blood glucose measurements using a self-monitoring glucometer, to evaluate whether gingival crevicular blood could be an alternative to allow accurate chairside glucose testing. the gingival crevicular blood was collected using a glucometer to estimate the blood glucose level and compared with finger-stick blood glucose level. gingival crevicular blood test was demonstrated as a feasible and useful primary screening tool test for detecting diabetes and for glucose estimation in non-diabetic patients. use of gingival crevicular blood for screening is an attractive way of identifying a reasonable option of finger-stick blood glucose measurement under the appropriate circumstances. in addition, gingival crevicular blood levels may be needed to monitor the diabetic output. in conclusion, gingival crevicular blood can provide an acceptable source for measuring blood glucose level. the purpose of the present study was to evaluate whether blood oozing from gingival crevice during routine periodontal examination can be used for determining glucose levels. it is possible that gingival crevicular blood (gcb) from routine periodontal probing may be a source of blood for glucose measurements. gingival crevicular blood collected during diagnostic periodontal examination can provide a valid and acceptable source for measuring blood glucose levels using a glucometer. to evaluate whether during routine periodontal examination blood from gingival tissues can be used for determining glucose levels. 
Predicting admission at triage: are nurses better than a simple objective score? [SEP] we compared two methods of predicting hospital admission from ed triage: probabilities estimated by triage nurses and probabilities calculated by the glasgow admission prediction score (gaps). in this single-centre prospective study, triage nurses estimated the probability of admission using a 100 mm visual analogue scale (vas), and gaps was generated automatically from triage data. gaps, a simple clinical score, is a better predictor of admission than triage nurses, unless the nurse is sure about the outcome, in which case their clinical judgement should be respected. this study sought to determine if a relationship exists between paramedics' triage scores and emergency nurses' scores in the emergency department using 2 common 5-level triage instruments, as well as to determine whether either instrument correlates with patient admission. in this study, we aimed to compare computer-assisted patient self-triage scores versus the scores assigned by the dedicated ed triage nurse (tn). logistic regression models were used to predict admission based on pram score at triage and then hourly thereafter. the triage nurse is primarily responsible for identifying suitable patients, based on prediction of likely admission or discharge. the aim of the present study was to explore the accuracy with which triage nurses predict patient disposition. overall, the triage nurse correctly predicted the disposition in 75.7% of patients (95% ci: 73.2-78.0). triage nurses were most accurate at predicting admission in patients with higher triage categories and most accurate at predicting discharge in patients with injuries and febrile illnesses (89.6%, 95% ci: 85.6-92.6). 
Target Serum Urate: Do Gout Patients Know Their Goal? [SEP] we conducted a cross-sectional study with 350 gout patients to investigate serum urate acid (sua) goal attainment (sua < 360 μmol/l) and associated factors in chinese gout patients in the affiliated hospital of nantong university from august 2015 to september 2017. to examine gout patients' knowledge of their condition, including the central role of achieving and maintaining the serum urate (su) goal with the use of urate-lowering therapy (ult). to assess patient perceptions of gout management goals. patient identification of gout symptom control and serum urate level monitoring as the most important treatment goals is informative for clinicians and guideline developers. to assess patient perceptions of gout management goals. patient identification of gout symptom control and serum urate level monitoring as the most important treatment goals is informative for clinicians and guideline developers. international rheumatology guidelines advocate a treat to serum urate target (t2t) approach for gout management. reaching target serum urate levels is associated with improvement in clinical outcomes, including a reduction of acute inflammation episodes, resolution of tophi, and improvement in health-related quality of life perception.a number of urate-lowering drugs are available but a number of patients fail to achieve or maintain therapeutic serum urate levels and go on to develop refractory chronic gout. serum urate is a rational target for gout treatment given the central role of urate in disease causality, its association with key outcomes and its practicality of use in clinical practice. a strong case can be made for a treat-to-target serum urate strategy in gout, supported by existing knowledge of disease pathophysiology, outcomes from urate-lowering therapy studies and emerging results of randomised strategy trials of sufficient duration. 
Diagnosis and follow-up in constipated children: should we use ultrasound? [SEP] to perform a systematic review evaluating the value of abdominal radiography, colonic transit time (ctt), and rectal ultrasound scanning in the diagnosis of idiopathic constipation in children. eligible studies were those assessing diagnostic accuracy of abdominal radiography, ctt, or rectal ultrasound scanning in children suspected for idiopathic constipation. we found insufficient evidence for a diagnostic association between clinical symptoms of constipation and fecal loading on abdominal radiographs, ctt, and rectal diameter on ultrasound scanning in children. abdominal ultrasound and anorectal manometry are part of the investigations used to assess children with functional constipation. ultrasound examination proved a reliable alternative to rectal examination or abdominal radiography when identifying faecal impaction. pelvic ultrasound (us) has been used in various different ways to assess severity of constipation. ultrasonography has shown to be useful in the diagnosis of constipation. children without constipation who underwent abdominal sonography were assigned to the control group. urinary tract anomalies were prospectively investigated with ultrasound in 29 children with functional constipation. urinary tract anomalies were prospectively investigated with ultrasound in 31 children with chronic functional constipation. 
Are neighbourhood social capital and availability of sports facilities related to sports participation among Dutch adolescents? [SEP] the aim of this study is to explore whether availability of sports facilities, parks, and neighbourhood social capital (nsc) and their interaction are associated with leisure time sports participation among dutch adolescents. this study aimed to assess whether objective physical and socio-spatial neighbourhood characteristics relate to sports participation and preferences for sports locations. data from dutch adults (n = 1201) on sports participation, their most-used sports location, and socio-demographic characteristics were collected using an online survey. objective land-use data and the number of sports facilities were gathered for each participant using a 2000-m buffer around their home locations, whereas socio-spatial neighbourhood characteristics (i.e., density, socio-economic status, and safety) were determined at the neighbourhood level. this study aimed to explore whether individual cognitions and neighbourhood social capital strengthen each other in their relation with engaging in sports at least three times per week. accordingly, the aim of this study was to investigate the relationships between participation in a sports club and socio-economic status (ses), access to facilities, and family and peer support, for female adolescents. participation in club sport among both younger and older adolescent girls was significantly positively associated with the ses of both their neighbourhoods and their households, particularly in metropolitan areas. this study aims to assess the association between the social neighborhood environment and three location-specific sports outcomes. the results suggest that a positive social neighborhood environment enhances sports participation, but that this impact depends on the location of the sports activity. this longitudinal study aimed to identify individual and environmental predictors of adolescents' sports participation and to examine whether availability of sports facilities moderated the intention-behaviour relation. 
Did the call for boycott by the Catholic bishops affect the polio vaccination coverage in Kenya in 2015? [SEP] in august 2015, the catholic bishops in kenya called for boycott of a polio vaccination campaign citing safety concerns with the polio vaccine. compared to the november 2014 campaign, the proportion of children who were not vaccinated due to parent's refusal significantly increased from 6% to 12% in august 2015. however, if the call for boycott is repeated in future it could have some significant negative implication to polio eradication. the boycott of polio vaccination in three northern nigerian states in 2003 created a global health crisis that was political in origin. this paper traces the diplomatic actions that were taken by the global polio eradication initiative, the united nations, and the u.s. government, to restart polio vaccination and resolve the crisis. the polio vaccination boycott in northern nigeria provides a useful case study of the practice of global health diplomacy. we focus mainly on kano state, which initiated the boycotts and continued to reject immunisations for the longest period, to provide a focused analysis of the internal dynamics and complex multifaceted causes of the boycott. for example, in 2003, local imams, traditional leaders and politicians declared a polio campaign boycott, due to the concerns about the safety of the polio vaccine. we conducted a vaccine coverage survey in kilifi district, kenya in order to identify predictors of childhood immunization. in nigeria, zimbabwe, kenya and malawi, even polio coverage declined, in spite of the introduction of nids. 
Recurrent spontaneous abortion and skewed X-inactivation: is there an association? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to determine whether there is an association between skewed x-inactivation and recurrent spontaneous abortion in a large, well-defined sample of women with recurrent loss. skewed x-inactivation is not associated with recurrent spontaneous abortion but is associated with increasing maternal age. here, we provide background on known genetic factors that contribute to spontaneous abortion and describe a novel x chromosome-based genetic mechanism that may be an important cause of recurrent spontaneous abortion. several studies suggest that highly skewed x chromosome inactivation (hsxi) is associated with recurrent spontaneous abortion. x chromosome inactivation patterns, an assay used to detect women who are likely to be carriers of x-linked recessive cell-lethal traits, were compared between 105 female patients with idiopathic recurrent pregnancy loss and 101 women (control subjects) with a single successful pregnancy and no history of pregnancy loss. we found the 14% of women with unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss show highly skewed x inactivation, which suggests that they are carriers of x-linked recessive lethal traits. to analyze x inactivation in women with recurrent miscarriage to estimate whether skewed x inactivation is associated with recurrent miscarriage and whether it predicts next pregnancy outcomes. consistent with the association of sxci with autoimmunity, i first note the possibility that recurrent spontaneous abortion could reflect immune rejection of fetuses inheriting alleles from the largely silenced maternal x chromosome. to our knowledge, this is the first gene-mapping study of abnormalities of x-inactivation patterns and is the first association of a specific locus for recurrent spontaneous abortion in a cytogenetically normal family. recent studies show that women experiencing recurrent spontaneous abortion exhibit nonrandom x-chromosome inactivation (xci) more often than in controls. 
Does increased patient awareness improve accrual into cancer-related clinical trials? [SEP] the coalition of cancer cooperative groups convened a 1-day program entitled addressing the current challenges of nsclc clinical trial accrual to develop specific strategies for enhancing accrual into nsclc clinical trials and to increase and sustain the level of discussion with and among cooperative group and community-based researchers. this study explores cancer patients' awareness and perceptions of cancer clinical trials, as well as their perceptions of patient-provider interactions related to discussing cancer clinical trials in order to improve accrual in cancer clinical trials. findings from this study will inform communication strategies to enhance recruitment to cancer clinical trials by increasing awareness and countering misconceptions about clinical trials. this paper examines the role that the cancer information service (cis) played in the nationwide education initiative sponsored by the national cancer institute to increase accrual to clinical trials. this article reviews the literature on accrual in oncology clinical trials to characterize the extent of the problem, identify reasons for low accrual, and suggest ways to promote accrual. these concepts form a framework for integrating the available information about accrual to clinical oncology trials. patient and physician factors previously related to clinical trials suggest specific recommendations for increasing accrual to clinical oncology trials. the post-test results suggested an increase in awareness among pcps of their potential role in cancer clinical trial accrual, and an increase in pcp willingness to mention clinical trials to their patients with suspicion of cancer or diagnosed with cancer. the purpose of the study was to examine lung cancer patients' knowledge, attitudes, and behavior regarding clinical trials and to develop an effective intervention for increasing patient knowledge and awareness of clinical trials for lung cancer patients. multiple strategies will be necessary to enhance awareness of and experience with accrual to cancer clinical trials for asians, including richer understanding and increased involvement of asians in cancer clinical trials and greater attention to the location and diversity of the asian population in structuring study centers and evaluating trial results. 
Does airway surgery lower serum lipid levels in obstructive sleep apnea patients? [SEP] we studied healthy untreated patients with obstructive sleep apnea (18 severe and 10 very mild) before and after acute treatment with continuous positive airway pressure, and 12 healthy control subjects free of obstructive sleep apnea. our results indicate that untreated severe obstructive sleep apnea results in increased erythropoietin, which decreases after continuous positive airway pressure treatment. although adenotonsillectomy provides dramatic relief from obstructive sleep apnea, little evidence is available as to the efficacy of surgery in the far more prevalent cases of partial airway obstruction. we analyzed the changes in airway space before and after surgery and assessed their association with obstructive sleep apnea. in two patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea, we observed a decrease in the apnea-hypopnea index, an increase in mean wake time, mean sao(2), and minimum sao(2), and alterations in sleep structures with continuous positive airway pressure treatment. the processes of free radical lipid oxidation were studied in 47 patients with moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome before and after 1-month course of cpap-therapy (continuous positive airway pressure). although nasal surgery in isolation does not have a consistent effect on the apnea-hypopnea index in osa patients, it does have robust evidence on improving snoring, subjective sleep quality, daytime sleepiness, sleep-related quality of life measures, and other important osa outcome measures. the objectives were to determine whether upper airway surgery lowers nasal continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) settings for patients who require cpap postoperatively for unresolved obstructive sleep apnea and to assess cpap tolerability after upper airway surgery. upper airway surgery does not predictably reduce cpap settings in the patient who requires postoperative cpap for unresolved obstructive sleep apnea. upper airway surgery may improve cpap tolerability. 
Is withdrawal-induced anxiety in alcoholism based on beta-endorphin deficiency? [SEP] since beta-endorphin deficiency was earlier associated with alcohol craving and anxiety during withdrawal, abstinence maintaining effects of acamprosate might at least be partially related with the ability to modulate opioidergic activity especially in the subsample of hp patients with an attenuated opioidergic activity during this state. on voluntary alcohol intake and on changes in plasma beta-endorphin levels while alcohol was available and 10 days after imposed abstinence. restoring the alcohol-induced deficiency of beta-endorphin may be an important factor in the prevention of craving and maintenance of abstinence. together these results indicate a contribution of beta-endorphin to ethanol consumption and dependence. the aim of our study was to test the hypothesis whether beta e during acute alcohol withdrawal is associated with anxiety, depression, and craving. we observed self-rated anxiety, depression, and craving during alcohol withdrawal and assessed beta e levels (ria) in a consecutive sample of 60 alcoholics on day 1 and day 14 after onset of withdrawal, and in 30 healthy volunteers. our results give first evidence that lowered beta e during alcohol withdrawal may contribute to anxiety as a common disturbance during this state. however, it has also been observed that habitual alcohol consumption leads to a beta-endorphin deficiency. it is a well-documented phenomenon that people with a genetic deficit of beta-endorphin peptide are particularly susceptible to alcoholism. evidence indicates that both genetic and environmental factors, such as stress, may play an important role for the development of alcoholism, while beta-endorphin may be implicated in the control of alcohol consumption. 
Do older patients receive adequate stroke care? [SEP] age may predict level of care and subsequent outcome among patients with stroke. elderly stroke patients in denmark receive a lower quality of care than do younger stroke patients, however, the age-related differences are modest for most examined quality-of-care criteria and do not appear to explain the higher mortality among older patients. the authors propose a number of recommendations in relation to stroke care in older survivors of a recent ischemic stroke. in order to implement cost-effective stroke services for older patients, it is necessary to identify how stroke care is currently provided for these patients and how provision relates to outcome. access to organised stroke care was higher in older (58%) than in younger patients (51%) (p = 0.002). stroke care varies considerably across european centres, with older people more likely to gain access to organised stroke care in many centres but less likely to receive diagnostic investigations, therapy input and outpatient review. however, there is evidence to suggest that, in some instances, older stroke patients may receive poorer quality care than younger patients.our aim was to systematically review evidence of the quality of care provided to patients with acute stroke related to their age. patients' age may be a factor in the care they receive after an acute stroke. older patients are less likely to be treated in a stroke unit than younger patients (risk ratio comparing 85 + years with those <65 years 0.82 (95% ci 0.75-0.90). there is clear evidence of an age effect on the delivery of stroke care in england, wales, and northern ireland, with older patients being less likely to receive care in line with current clinical guidelines. 
Doppler examination of uteroplacental circulation in early pregnancy: can it predict adverse outcome? [SEP] to determine whether spectral doppler measurements obtained from bilateral uterine, arcuate, radial, and spiral arteries in early gestation correlate with adverse pregnancy outcome. one hundred five pregnant women underwent transvaginal doppler sonographic examination of uteroplacental circulation at 6-12 weeks' gestation. transvaginal doppler examination can detect hemodynamic changes in uteroplacental circulation associated with subsequent adverse pregnancy outcome. the purpose of this study was to determine the utility of color duplex doppler sonography of the uteroplacental circulation in predicting the outcome of first-trimester gestations. this study indicates that abnormal blood flow patterns of the early uteroplacental circulation are associated with an increased prevalence of pregnancy complications and that color doppler imaging may be used to predict pregnancy outcome. to determine whether doppler waveforms from the uteroplacental circulation could improve the prediction of pregnancy outcome in women with raised maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein and a structurally normal fetus. doppler ultrasound also offers the potential for noninvasive experimental hemodynamic studies of the uteroplacental circulation. in our study, we used color doppler sonography to assess the uteroplacental circulation and predict outcome of first-trimester gestations. we aimed to study the changes in the flow dynamics of the uteroplacental and umbilical circulations in the middle trimester of normal pregnancy, and establish normal ranges for indices of the doppler flow velocity waveforms (fvws) from both circulations at 14, 18 and 24 weeks. doppler fvws then obtained confirm the development of the low-resistance uteroplacental and umbilical circulations in the mid-trimester. 
Can vitamin C prevent complex regional pain syndrome in patients with wrist fractures? [SEP] vitamin c reduces the prevalence of complex regional pain syndrome after wrist fractures. the primary objective of this systematic literature review and meta-analysis was to assess the efficacy of vitamin c therapy in preventing crps-i after a wrist fracture. daily supplementation with 500mg of vitamin c per day for 50 days decreases the 1-year risk of crps-i after wrist fracture. vitamin c has been used for primary prevention after wrist fracture and upper and lower limb surgery. vitamin c has been proposed to improve outcomes after a distal radial fracture by promotion of bone and soft-tissue healing and reduction of the prevalence of complex regional pain syndrome (crps). results of 2 high-quality trials support use of vitamin c 500 mg daily for 50 days as prophylaxis against complex regional pain syndrome after wrist fracture treated conservatively and operatively. systemic vitamin c supplementation after wrist fracture has been suggested to reduce the incidence of complex regional pain syndrome (crps). some studies recommend the use of vitamin c to prevent complex regional pain syndrome. operative and conservative treatment of wrist fractures might lead to complex regional pain syndrome (crps) type i.in our multicenter dose response study in which patients with distal radial fractures were randomly allocated to placebo or vitamin c in a daily dose of 200mg, 500mg or 1500mg during 50 days, an operated subgroup was analyzed.48 (of 427) fractures) were operated (11.2%). vitamin c has been shown to be effective in preventing crps i secondary to wrist fracture, but few data are available with respect to foot and ankle cases. 
Is digoxin use for cardiovascular disease associated with risk of prostate cancer? [SEP] long-term usage of the antiarrhythmic drug digoxin has been connected to lowered risk of prostate cancer. we evaluated the association between use of digoxin, beta-blocker sotalol, and other antiarrhythmic drugs and prostate cancer risk in a retrospective cohort study. digoxin or other antiarrhythmic drugs are not associated with any clear decrease in prostate cancer risk. the aim of this study was to investigate whether digoxin use after diagnosis of prostate cancer was associated with decreased prostate cancer-specific mortality. digoxin use was associated with an increase in prostate cancer-specific mortality before adjustment (hr = 1.59; 95% ci 1.32-1.91), but after adjustment for confounders, the association was attenuated (adjusted hr = 1.13; 95% ci 0.93-1.37) and there was no evidence of a dose response. protective effects have been suggested for digoxin against prostate cancer risk. compared to never-users of antiarrhythmic drugs, we found no significant association between digoxin use and prostate cancer risk overall [odds ratio (or) 0.95, 95% confidence interval (ci): 0.89-1.01] or for advanced prostate cancer risk (or: 0.90, 95% ci: 0.77-1.05). we show that digoxin or other common antiarrhythmic drugs generally do not associate with prostate cancer risk at population level during maximum follow-up of eight years. digoxin, a commonly used drug for congestive heart failure and cardiac arrhythmias, has been reported to exert cytotoxic and apoptosis-inducing effects on prostate cancer (pca) cells. however, digoxin use was associated with a significantly elevated risk of prostate cancer-specific mortality. 
Are income-related differences in active travel associated with physical environmental characteristics? [SEP] rates of active travel vary by socio-economic position, with higher rates generally observed among less affluent populations. aspects of both social and built environments have been shown to affect active travel, but little research has explored the influence of physical environmental characteristics, and less has examined whether physical environment affects socio-economic inequality in active travel. this study explored income-related differences in active travel in relation to multiple physical environmental characteristics including air pollution, climate and levels of green space, in urban areas across england. we hypothesised that any gradient in the relationship between income and active travel would be least pronounced in the least physically environmentally-deprived areas where higher income populations may be more likely to choose active transport as a means of travel. three-level binary logistic regression models were used to explore how associations between the trip being active (by bike/walking) and three income groups, varied by level of multiple physical environmental deprivation. the income-related gradient in making active trips remained steep in the least environmentally-deprived areas because those in the highest income groups were markedly less likely to choose active travel when physical environment was 'good', compared to those on the lowest incomes (or = 0.44, 95% ci = 0.22 to 0.89). active travel was associated with being younger, living in owner-occupied accommodation, not having to travel a long distance to work and not having access to a car, whereas overall physical activity was associated with living in social rented accommodation and not being overweight. apart from access to local amenities, environmental characteristics may have limited influence on active travel in deprived urban populations characterised by a low level of car ownership, in which people may have less capacity for making discretionary travel choices than the populations studied in most published research on the environmental correlates of physical activity. differences in log-transformed body mass index (bmi) were estimated for levels of active travel use (vehicular travel only, mixed vehicular/active travel, and active travel only), household income, and neighbourhood deprivation after controlling for sociodemographic and physical activity variables. the modifying effect of household income on the association between active travel and bmi was also evaluated. 
Can Roux-en-Y gastric bypass provide a lifelong solution for diabetes mellitus? [SEP] laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass is associated with a high rate of diabetes remission. we hypothesize that laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass decreases systemic inflammatory markers and cardiovascular disease risk factors in obese diabetics. extremely obese diabetic adolescents experience significant weight loss and remission of type 2 diabetes mellitus after roux-en-y gastric bypass. improvements in insulin resistance, beta-cell function, and cardiovascular risk factors support roux-en-y gastric bypass as an intervention that improves the health of these adolescents. although the long-term efficacy of roux-en-y gastric bypass is not known, these findings suggest that roux-en-y gastric bypass is an effective option for the treatment of extremely obese adolescents with type 2 diabetes mellitus. roux-en-y gastric bypass was a safe and effective therapeutic tool to achieve hypertension resolution in patients who also had diabetes mellitus. diabetes resolves in 80% of individuals undergoing successful roux-en-y gastric bypass. this study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of modified roux-en-y gastric bypass for type 2 diabetes mellitus. modified roux-en-y gastric bypass was effective in treating type 2 diabetes mellitus, independent of body mass index. laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypass was superior in the management of dyslipidemia, hypertension and gastroesophageal reflux disease. 
Does the severity of obstructive sleep apnea predict patients requiring high continuous positive airway pressure? [SEP] thirty patients with obstructive sleep apnea (14 with moderate and 16 with severe obstructive sleep apnea) were studied during a baseline polysomnographic study, after a full night of acute continuous positive airway pressure treatment, and after long-term (~2 years) chronic continuous positive airway pressure therapy. acute continuous positive airway pressure therapy decreased the lf modulations and the lf/hf ratio and increased the hf modulations during sleep in patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea. long-term continuous positive airway pressure therapy decreased lf modulations and lf/hf ratio with increased hf modulations during sleep in patients with moderate and severe obstructive sleep apnea. long-term continuous positive airway pressure reduces the sympathovagal imbalance in patients with moderate and severe obstructive sleep apnea, both during rapid and non-rapid eye movement sleep. in two patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea, we observed a decrease in the apnea-hypopnea index, an increase in mean wake time, mean sao(2), and minimum sao(2), and alterations in sleep structures with continuous positive airway pressure treatment. however, treatment-emergent central sleep apnea developed after adenotonsillectomy and was further aggravated after continuous positive airway pressure and bilevel positive airway pressure without a backup respiratory rate use. residual excessive sleepiness prevalence in continuous positive airway pressure-treated obstructive sleep apnea was 13% (18% for those with an initial epworth sleepiness scale score > 11), and significantly decreased with continuous positive airway pressure use (9% in ≥ 6 h night⁻¹ continuous positive airway pressure users, p < 0.005). continuous positive airway pressure improved symptoms in the whole population, but to a lower extent in patients with residual excessive sleepiness (fatigue scale: -5.2 versus -2.7 in residual excessive sleepiness- and residual excessive sleepiness+ patients, respectively, p < 0.001). the current study will investigate the effectiveness of continuous positive airway pressure on both cognitive and functional outcomes in stroke patients with obstructive sleep apnea. we studied healthy untreated patients with obstructive sleep apnea (18 severe and 10 very mild) before and after acute treatment with continuous positive airway pressure, and 12 healthy control subjects free of obstructive sleep apnea. 
Do the changes in the serum levels of IL-2, IL-4, TNFalpha, and IL-6 reflect the inflammatory activity in the patients with post-ERCP pancreatitis? [SEP] to investigate the association between early changes (within 24 hours) in the serum interleukin (il)-2, il-4, tumor necrosis factor (tnf)alpha, and il-6 levels and the development of post-ercp pancreatitis. the levels of il-4 at 24 hours after ercp were significantly lower in the patients with post-ercp pancreatitis than in those without pancreatitis, while tnfalpha levels at 12 hours after ercp were higher in the complicated group than those of the uncomplicated group. the ratios of tnfalpha/il-4 at 12 and 24 hours after ercp were found significantly higher in the patients with post-ercp pancreatitis than in those without pancreatitis. the enhancement of serum tnfalpha and il-6 levels in the patients with ercp-induced pancreatitis reflects the inflammatory activity. variations in pro and anti-inflammatory cytokine levels occur commonly after ercp procedure complications, such as in post-ercp pancreatitis. il-6 increased in the first 24 h of post-ercp pancreatitis. the preoperative and postoperative inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf)-α, interleukin-6 (il-6) and il-8, and serum amylase levels were measured, and the incidence of pancreatitis and hyper amylasemia were monitored. to assess the early changes of soluble ifn-γ, il-1β, il-2, il-4, il-5, il-6, il-8, il-10, il-12, tnf-α, tnf-β, il-17a, il-22, soluble (s) p-selectin, se-selectin and sicam-1 in post-ercp pancreatitis (pep). the aim of this study was to assess the role of serum lipase, crp, and il-6 in ercp-induced pancreatitis. serum crp and il-6 levels may be useful early markers for predicting the severity of ercp-induced pancreatitis. 
Is routine intraoperative frozen-section examination of sentinel lymph nodes in breast cancer worthwhile? [SEP] this study was conducted to ascertain whether extensive intraoperative examination of sentinel lymph nodes by frozen section examination would attain a sensitivity comparable to that obtained by routine histologic examination without intraoperative frozen section examination. in a consecutive series of 155 clinically lymph node negative breast carcinoma patients, the axillary sentinel lymph nodes were examined intraoperatively, before complete axillary lymph node dissection. the intraoperative examination of axillary sentinel lymph nodes is effective in predicting the axillary lymph node status of breast carcinoma patients and may be instrumental in deciding whether to spare patients axillary lymph node dissection. intraoperative frozen section investigation allows immediate regional lymph node dissection when the sentinel node contains tumor. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of intraoperative frozen sections in evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes in cases of breast cancer. intraoperative frozen section examination of the sentinel node in breast cancer patients is associated with a high number of incorrect negative results with the sentinel node becoming positive in the permanent examination and necessitating a secondary axillary lymph node dissection. frozen section biopsy has been widely used for intraoperative diagnosis and evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes, so a decision can be made regarding whether to perform axillary clearance during primary surgery. intraoperative frozen section examination of the sentinel node is a useful predictor of axillary lymph node status in breast cancer patients. intraoperative evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes has become routine in many units that manage early breast carcinoma. from the results obtained, we strongly recommend intraoperative assessment of the sentinel lymph nodes in breast carcinoma patients; frozen section microscopy can be a reliable and accurate technique in the hands of an experienced histopathologist. 
Preoperative platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: is it a prognostic factor? [SEP] thrombocytosis is found to be associated with unfavorable prognosis in esophageal carcinoma. we examined the relation between platelet count and several prognostic variables in patients with esophageal cancer. platelet count does not correlate with prognostic factors in esophageal cancer. platelet count is inversely related to prognosis in many cancers; however, its role in esophageal cancer is still controversial. the purpose of this study was to determine the prognostic value of preoperative platelet count in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc). preoperative platelet count is a predictive factor for long-term survival in escc, especially in nodal-positive patients. the aim of this study is to analyze the clinicopathologic significance and prognostic value of platelet counts in patients with esophageal cancer. platelet counts were measured before surgery in 374 patients diagnosed between 1987 and 1999 with primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. a high platelet count is associated with tumor progression and poor survival in patients with esophageal carcinoma. in this study, the role of tumor angiogenesis as a prognostic indicator was examined in esophageal squamous cell carcinomas from 43 patients. 
Can we predict urinary stone composition based on an analysis of microelement concentration in the hair and urine? [SEP] the aim of this study was to evaluate the levels of elements in urinary stones and in the urine and hair of stone formers to identify these elements that have synergic correlations in studied materials and may contribute to lithogenesis. only a few incidental correlations between the composition of stones and the distribution of elements in urine and in hair were found. results indicate that analysis of particular elements in hair and urine cannot predict the composition of urinary stones. this study was aimed to attempt to find the correlations between the chemical content of the stones and the concentration of chosen elements in the urine and hair of stone formers. only a few correlations between the composition of stones and the distribution of elements in urine and in hair were found. the data obtained did not allow for the creation of a proper and practical algorithm to predict stone chemical composition based on hair and urine analysis. we aim to study whether 24-hour urine analysis may predict the urinary stone composition. the precise relationship between urine composition and stone formation has not yet been completely understood. the object of this work is to study some constituents of the urine in stone formers and normal subjects in a trial to correlate stone formation with urine composition. we determined the accuracy of 24-hour urinalysis in predicting stone type and identify the associations between 24-hour urine elements with stone type. 
Could ADMA levels in young adults born preterm predict an early endothelial dysfunction? [SEP] this study aimed a) to verify the presence of a statistically significant difference between adma/sdma ratio levels in a group of young adult subjects who were born preterm with an extremely low birth weight (ex-elbw) and a group of healthy adults born at term and b) to seek correlations between adma/sdma ratio levels in ex-elbw and anthropometric and clinical parameters (gender, chronological age, gestational age, birth weight, and length of stay in the neonatal intensive care unit). (1) to verify the presence of statistically significant differences between urinary ngal and hematic adma levels in young adults born preterm at extremely low birth weight (<1000 g; ex-elbw) and those of a control group of healthy adults born at term (c) (2) to seek correlations between ngal and adma levels, which would indicate the presence of an early cardio-renal involvement in ex-elbw. background: preterm birth and low birthweight have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease in young adults. previous studies of endothelial function in young adults born very preterm or with extremely low birthweight have, however, shown diverging results. objective: we aimed to evaluate the risk of cardiovascular disease as measured by vascular endothelial function in young adults born very preterm (<29 weeks of gestation) or with extremely low birthweight (<1,000 g), compared with term-born controls. our findings suggest that high adma levels in early spe could compromise no synthesis contributing to endothelial dysfunction, leading to impaired placentation and the onset of this disease. because endothelial no elaboration is impaired in hypercholesterolemia, we investigated whether plasma concentrations of adma are elevated in young, clinically asymptomatic hypercholesterolemic adults. we further studied whether such elevation of adma levels was correlated with impaired endothelium-dependent, no-mediated vasodilation and urinary nitrate excretion. elevation of adma is associated with impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation and reduced urinary nitrate excretion. adma may be a novel risk factor for endothelial dysfunction in humans. 
Can fractional lasers enhance transdermal absorption of topical lidocaine in an in vivo animal model? [SEP] it has been shown in vitro that pretreatment of skin with fractional lasers enhances transdermal delivery of drugs. the aim of this study is to demonstrate in vivo firstly that laser enhances transdermal drug absorption and secondly that this can be manipulated by altering laser settings. this study demonstrates that laser pretreatment significantly increases absorption of topical lidocaine so that it is detectable in the blood and that manipulating laser settings can affect drug absorption. preclinical studies have demonstrated that laser pretreatment at low energies enhances absorption of topical lidocaine. the authors assess the safety and efficacy of laser-assisted transdermal delivery of topical anesthetic. our studies suggested that the transdermal absorption of topical lidocaine can be efficiently and safely enhanced by pretreatment of the skin with cap. this review systematically introduces the concepts and enhancement mechanisms of lasers, highlighting the potential of this technique for greatly increasing drug absorption via the skin. laser-assisted drug delivery (lad) using fractional ablative laser is an evolving modality that may allow for a greater precise depth of penetration by existing topical medications, as well as more efficient transcutaneous delivery of large drug molecules. pretreatment of the skin with a fractionated laser has already been shown to assist transdermal drug delivery both in vitro and in vivo and may be an ideal approach to facilitating delivery of adsc to the target tissue. the authors investigate in a porcine model whether adsc can be delivered transdermally following pretreatment with a fractional laser. 
Does intra-abdominal desmoid disease affect patients with an ileal pouch differently than those with an ileorectal anastomosis? [SEP] the medical records of patients with intra-abdominal desmoid disease in the david g. jagelman inherited colorectal cancer registry were reviewed. abdominal desmoid disease usually follows total proctocolectomy with ileal pouch anal anastomosis or total abdominal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis. on multivarible analysis, proctocolectomy with pouch was most strongly associated with desmoid disease (p<0.01). polyposis patients who underwent total proctocolectomy with pouch by any approach had significantly greater risk of developing desmoid disease than total colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis, even when accounting for other risk factors. ileal pouch-anal anastomosis is the appropriate type of surgery in fap patients with a positive family history for desmoids. desmoid tumors occurring after ileorectal anastomosis seem to be more severe than after ileoanal anastomosis because, in the former instance, they may interfere with the further management of the rectal stump. desmoid disease was found in 26 patients (38.8%) and influenced surgery in 13 cases, stopping pouch-anal anastomosis in 8. the aim of this study was to review the management of desmoid tumors in patients who have undergone ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for familial adenomatous polyposis and their outcome. although there has been no significant deterioration in pouch function in patients in whom the pouch remains in situ, the pouch function was significantly worse compared with a control group of patients after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for familial adenomatous polyposis in whom desmoid tumors did not develop. desmoid tumors developed in 5.6 percent of 196 patients after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis for familial adenomatous polyposis. 
Does anastomotic leakage affect functional outcome after rectal resection for cancer? [SEP] this study investigates how often bowel continuity was restored after anastomotic leakage in anterior resection for rectal cancer and assesses the clinical factors associated with permanent stoma. this study aimed to identify risk factors for anastomotic leakage associated with laparoscopic anterior resection for rectal cancer. anastomotic leakages are one of the most serious complications of postoperative recovery among patients that undergo rectal cancer resection. considering the increase of sphincter-preserving procedures for rectal cancer, anastomotic leakage, and its impact on oncological outcomes has become an important issue. the management of low anastomotic leakage after anterior resection of rectal cancer is not standardized. this study aimed to identify risk factors for anastomotic leakage associated with laparoscopic anterior resection for rectal cancer. the aim of this study is to present the incidence of anastomotic leakage after anterior resection for rectal cancer and to demonstrate the therapeutic approach for the treatment of this complication. the incidence of anastomotic leakage after anterior resection of the rectum for rectal cancer is relatively low. anastomotic leakage is one of the most important complications that occur after surgical low anterior resection for rectal cancer. to explore whether protective ileostomy is beneficial in preventing anastomotic leakage after anterior resection of rectal cancer. 
Health care for immigrants in Europe: is there still consensus among country experts about principles of good practice? [SEP] european member states are facing a challenge to provide accessible and effective health care services for immigrants. this study assessed the views and values of professionals working in different health care contexts and in different european countries as to what constitutes good practice in health care for immigrants. for each country, the process aimed to produce a national consensus list of the most important factors characterising good practice in health care for migrants. although local political debate, level of immigration and the nature of local health care systems influenced the selection and rating of factors within each country, there was a broad european consensus on most factors. on the need for more consistent governance of health care services for immigrants. experts across europe asserted the right to culturally sensitive health care for all immigrants. the increasing population diversity in europe demands clarification of possible ethnic influences on the growth and health of immigrant children and their psychosocial adaptation to the host countries. this article assesses recent data on immigrant children in europe in comparison to european natives by means of a systematic review of the literature on growth patterns and data on children's health and adaptation. in conclusion, this review provides a framework for the health and growth of immigrant children in europe in comparison to native-born children: the differences among european countries in growth and development of migrants and non-migrants are closely related to the clear anthropological differences among the ethnic groups due to genetic influences. therefore, we provide suggestions for the development of health care strategies in europe. 
Can clinical supervision sustain our workforce in the current healthcare landscape? [SEP] it may be assumed that supportive supervision effectively builds capacity, improves the quality of care provided by frontline health workers, and positively impacts clinical outcomes. supportive supervision can increase job satisfaction and health worker motivation. objective the aim of this study was to identify the factors contributing to high-quality clinical supervision of the allied health workforce in rural and remote settings. results supervisee's work setting and choice of supervisor were found to have a positive and significant influence on clinical supervision quality. supervisee profession and time in work role were found to have a negative and significant influence on the quality of clinical supervision. conclusions high-quality clinical supervision is essential to achieve quality and safety of health care, as well as to support the health workforce. there is mounting evidence on the benefits of clinical supervision to health professionals, organisations and patients. clinical supervision enhances recruitment and retention of the health workforce. effective and high-quality clinical supervision of the rural and remote allied health workforce can enhance recruitment and retention in those areas. healthcare organisations can facilitate effective clinical supervision delivery by using the evidence gathered in this study in clinical supervision policy, training and practice. 
Is the determination of specific IgE against components using ISAC 112 a reproducible technique? [SEP] the immunocap isac 112 is a fluoro-immunoassay that allows detection of specific ige to 112 molecular components from 51 allergenic sources. the allergen microarray immunoassay, isac 112, is a repeatable and reproducible in vitro diagnostic tool for determination of sige beyond the own laboratory. the immunocap isac 112 platform is the only commercially available molecular allergy ige multiplex test. molecular testing with isac 112 correlates well with the immunocap platform for respective molecular timothy grass pollen allergens. the immunocap© isac allows for the determination of specific immunoglobulin e (ige) against 103 recombinant or purified allergen components in a single analytical step. the immunocap immuno solid-phase allergen chip (isac) 112 is a ce-marked, molecular, multiplex, allergy test that can test for ige antibodies to 112 components from 51 allergen sources. sige levels by immunocap were compared with isac ranges. after the re-introduction of immunocap® isac sige 112 on the market, we undertook a study to evaluate the performance of this multiplex-based immunoassay for ige measurements to allergen components. the study shows a robust performance of the immunocap® isac 112 immunoassay at different sites. the reproducibility of isac was good. 
Is the first urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR) in women with suspected preeclampsia a prognostic factor for maternal and neonatal adverse outcome? [SEP] the aim of this study was to determine the prognostic value of the first urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (acr) for adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes and how it relates to other prognostic factors. acr is an independent prognostic factor for maternal and neonatal adverse outcomes in suspected preeclampsia. to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of albumin-creatinine ratio (acr) in woman with preeclampsia and eclampsia and examine the association between acr and fetomaternal outcome. spot urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (acr) leads to earlier detection of glomerular damage leading to prompt management of preeclamptic patients. to assess whether a spot urinary albumin:creatinine ratio (acr) measured before 20 weeks of gestation can predict subsequent development of preeclampsia. primary outcome measure was preeclampsia, secondary outcome measures were gestational hypertension, gestational diabetes mellitus, iugr, and normal range estimate of urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio was established. women who subsequently developed preeclampsia had higher spot urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (median 30.795 [9.7-92.8]) in comparison with women who developed gestational hypertension (median 5.2 [0.7-7.2]) and unaffected women (median 5.2 [2.5-9.6]). the relative risk of developing preeclampsia in women with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio more than 9.85 mg/g of creatinine was higher than in the women who had urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio less than 9.85 mg/g of creatinine. a spot urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio of more than 9.8 mg/g of creatinine can predict the development of preeclampsia in later pregnancy with the sensitivity and specificity of 67 and 76%, respectively. to determine if microalbuminuria can be used as a predictive marker of preeclampsia and adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes in women with pre-existing diabetes and to compare the prognostic utility of urinary albumin to creatinine ratio (uacr) and urinary protein to creatinine ratio (upcr). 
Is there awareness of pharmaceutical expenditure in the reformed primary care system? [SEP] general practitioners and primary care physicians have a pivotal role in the allocation of health care resources in most countries. for example, the united kingdom (uk), united states of america (usa), new zealand (nz), germany and the netherlands, have all pursued reforms introducing explicit budgetary responsibilities for primary care. this paper therefore provides an econometric assessment of the effect of budgetary arrangements in the uk, usa, nz, germany and the netherlands on the growth of primary care expenditure and flow-on costs (as proxied by pharmaceutical expenditure), as proxy indicators for efficiency. the results suggest that for all countries there is some support for efficiency improvements through the implementation of budgets for primary care. the objective of this paper is to examine the progressivity of household expenditure on health care during the reform period, separately for expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices, as well as for formal and informal patient payments for health care services. expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices are the most regressive types of expenditure (kakwani index -0.23/-0.24), and at the same time they represent a major part of the total household expenditure on health care (78-85 %). primary outcomes are outpatient drug expenditure, outpatient total health expenditure, inpatient drug expenditure, and inpatient total health expenditure. the most important out-of-pocket expenditures are payments for pharmaceuticals and supplies. the new reform legislation also limits growth in pharmaceutical expenditures by increasing the level of copayments and by placing physicians as a group at financial risk for growth over the limit. furthermore, outpatient pharmaceutical expenditures (pes) per visit and hospital pes per admission grew throughout the study period. 
Do women with ovaries of polycystic morphology without any other features of PCOS benefit from short-term metformin co-treatment during IVF? [SEP] in women with pcos, metformin co-treatment during ivf has been shown to increase pregnancy rates and reduce the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (ohss). the aim of this study was to investigate whether metformin co-treatment before and during ivf can also increase the live birth rate (lbr) and lower severe ohss rates for women with pco, but no other manifestations of pcos. there appears to be no benefit in metformin co-treatment before and during ivf in women with pco without any other features of pcos. metformin is widely used with gonadotropins by women with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos) during in vitro fertilization (ivf) to increase their chances of pregnancy. the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of metformin in improving the rates of clinical pregnancy among women with pcos undergoing ivf. the risk of ohss in women with pcos and undergoing ivf or icsi cycles was reduced with metformin. seventeen insulin-resistant women with pcos were recruited to our ivf unit to receive two consecutive cycles of ovarian stimulation with or without metformin co-treatment, the order of treatments being randomized using a table of random numbers. co-administration of metformin is therefore likely to increase the number of oocytes collected after ovarian stimulation in insulin-resistant women with pcos but is unlikely to reduce the requirement for fsh. in the present study, we investigated the impact of metformin therapy on in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ivf/icsi) outcomes in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos). women with pcos undergoing in vitro fertilization are likely to benefit from metformin therapy to reduce their risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. 
Estimated fetal weight by ultrasound: a modifiable risk factor for cesarean delivery? [SEP] to evaluate the association between documentation of estimated fetal weight, and its value, with cesarean delivery. after adjustment (including for birth weight), the adjusted or of cesarean delivery was 1.44 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.31-1.58, p<.001) for women with ultrasound estimated fetal weight and 1.08 for clinical estimated fetal weight (95% ci 1.01-1.15, p=.017) compared with women with no documented estimated fetal weight (referent). when ultrasound estimated fetal weight was 4,000 g or greater, the adjusted or was 2.15 (95% ci 1.55-2.98, p<.001) in women without diabetes and 9.00 (95% ci 3.65-22.17, p<.001) in women with diabetes compared to those with estimated fetal weight less than 3,500 g. in this contemporary cohort of women attempting vaginal delivery at term, documentation of estimated fetal weight (obtained clinically or, particularly, by ultrasonography) was associated with increased odds of cesarean delivery. to examine prospectively the effect on pregnancy outcome of a management protocol, that adds ultrasonographic weight estimation in fetuses suspected clinically as large. the contribution of ultrasound, added to routine clinical estimation of fetal weight, was clinically insignificant apart from a further increase in cesarean section rate. a decision analytic model was constructed to compare 3 policies: (1) management without ultrasound; (2) ultrasound and elective cesarean delivery for estimated fetal weight of 4000 g or more (4000-g policy); and (3) ultrasound and elective cesarean delivery for estimated fetal weight of 4500 g or more (4500-g policy). we studied 242 nondiabetic women with estimated fetal weights (efws) by ultrasound of at least 4000 g or the 90th percentile for gestational age at 36 or more weeks' gestation. introduction at term, fetal weight estimation is an important factor for decisions about the delivery mode and the timing of labor induction. conclusion fetal weight should be estimated using ultrasound. stratified analyses demonstrated that ultrasound diagnosis of lga was associated with an increased risk for cesarean delivery whether the birth weight was between 2,500 and 3,499 g (or 2.82, 95% ci 1.62-4.84, p<.001) or between 3,500 and 4,500 g (or 3.47, 95% ci 2.06-5.88, p<.001). 
Does Mammographic Density have an Impact on the Margin Re-excision Rate After Breast-Conserving Surgery? [SEP] limited and conflicting data exist on an association between mammographic density (md) and re-excision rates after breast-conserving surgery (bcs). in the bivariable analysis, the patients with denser breasts according to bi-rads classification and volumetric density showed a trend toward requiring more frequent re-excision, but this association was not seen in the multivariable analysis. mammographic density is not associated with an increased need for re-excision or resection of unnecessary margins at initial bcs. the aim of this study was to evaluate factors affecting the risk for reexcision following breast-conserving surgery. using mammographic density to define a group of patients with a higher risk of reexcision might allow these patients to benefit from more sophisticated methods of localization and margin assessment. adequacy of margins is important for local recurrence control in breast-conserving surgery for breast cancer. this study aimed to evaluate the relationship of mammographic breast density (mbd) and clinicopathologic characteristics with margin status in women undergoing bcs with the marginprobe. the objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of postexcision mammography in dcis. intraoperative resected specimen ultrasound and intraoperative resected specimen mammography may reduce the rates of positive margins and reexcision among patients undergoing conserving therapy. according to our results, the intraoperative ultrasound of the breast specimen for a cutt-off at 2 mm can decrease the rates of margin positivity compared to the mammographic procedure and has the potential to diminish the number of subsequent undesired re-excisions. 
Are women who are treated for hypothyroidism at risk for pregnancy complications? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to investigate the outcomes that are associated with pregnancy and treated hypothyroidism. treated hypothyroidism was not associated with any increase in maternal, fetal, or neonatal complications. compared with patients without hypothyroidism, patients with treated hypothyroidism are not at any increased risk for perinatal morbidity. hypothyroidism is one of the most prevalent diseases in pregnancy, but there is no consensus about its management in pregnant women. in this systematic review, we evaluated the association between pregnancy complications and treated or untreated maternal hypothyroidism. the most prevalent complications associated with maternal hypothyroidism were abortion, intrauterine fetal death, preterm delivery, and preeclampsia. strong evidence indicates that maternal hypothyroidism is associated with maternal-fetal complications, but no consensus was found among the studies reviewed herein. hypothyroidism is common in pregnancy. pregnant women with overt hypothyroidism have appreciable maternal morbidity as well as perinatal morbidity and mortality. prompt treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnant women is mandatory to decrease risks for pregnancy complications and impaired cognitive development in offspring. 
Internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint: is there still a place for ultrasound? [SEP] the aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic value of articular sounds, standardized clinical examination, and standardized articular ultrasound in the detection of internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint. the present study does not support the recommendation of ultrasound as a conclusive diagnostic tool for internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint. the incidence of internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint has been documented in patients with temporomandibular disorders. a prospective clinical investigation of 26 patients (45 temporomandibular joints) with signs and symptoms of temporomandibular joint pain and dysfunction was completed to examine the accuracy of clinical examination, sagittal recording device tracings, arthrography, and magnetic resonance imaging in detecting internal derangement in the temporomandibular joint. incidence of bilateral internal derangement in the temporomandibular joints of the symptomatic patients was also assessed. internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint has mainly been studied arthrographically from the standpoint of anterior disk displacement with or without reduction. this study assessed the ability of electronic thermography to identify internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint. demonstration of characteristic thermal temporomandibular joint changes suggests that electronic thermography may have potential for assessing internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint. magnetic resonance imaging of the temporomandibular joint is a topic of recent interest and has gained widespread use for the assessment of internal derangement and other temporomandibular joint-related symptoms. in this article the authors present six proven cases of pathologic abnormalities of the temporomandibular joint region that may clinically mimic internal derangement. 
Laparoscopic myomectomy: do size, number, and location of the myomas form limiting factors for laparoscopic myomectomy? [SEP] to assess whether it is possible for an experienced laparoscopic surgeon to perform efficient laparoscopic myomectomy regardless of the size, number, and location of the myomas. laparoscopic myomectomy can be performed by experienced surgeons regardless of the size, number, or location of the myomas. laparoscopic myomectomy is technically challenging, and occasionally the procedure needs to be completed by laparotomy. this study aimed to elucidate the factors affecting completion of laparoscopic myomectomy without unintended surgery. laparoscopic myomectomy (lm) is becoming increasingly common in the management of uterine myomas and is usually offered regardless of the number, location, and size of the myomas. laparoscopic myomectomy may present a higher risk of recurrence compared with abdominal myomectomy. data were analyzed from 89 laparoscopic myomectomies performed by a single surgeon (y.-s. kwon) at ulsan university hospital (ulsan, korea) between march 2011 and december 2011. the objective of this article is to review the different techniques that have been adopted for removal of large myomas laparoscopically. this comprehensive review describes all possibilities of laparoscopic myomectomy irrespective of size, site and number. gasless laparoscopic myomectomy could be mainly indicated for removal of large intramural myomas (>or=8 cm) and/or for multiple myomectomies (>or=3 myomas per patient). 
Is intensive chemotherapy safe for rural cancer patients? [SEP] to provide equality of cancer care to rural patients, townsville cancer centre administers intensive chemotherapy regimens to rural patients with node-positive breast and metastatic colorectal cancers at the same doses as urban patients. it appears safe to administer intensive chemotherapy regimens at standard doses to rural patients without increased morbidity or mortality. it appears safe to administer chemotherapy in rural towns under the supervision of medical oncologists from larger centres via teleoncology, provided that rural health care resources and governance arrangements are adequate. the overall objective of this study was to document the nature of the chemotherapy nursing practice of rural and remote area nurses in queensland. forty-seven rural and remote area health facilities in queensland involved in the administration of chemotherapy. it is essential that steps are taken to ensure that rural and remote area cancer patients have equitable access to safe and competent chemotherapy care delivered in their choice of context, and the results of this study provide guidance on ways that this can be achieved. under this model, selected chemotherapy regimens are administered in rural hospitals by rural based generalist doctors and nurses, under the supervision of tcc-based medical oncologists and chemotherapy competent nurses through videoconferencing. this study aimed to assess the safety of chemotherapy in a rural centre with a general physician-led model, by analysing neutropenic fever in albany hospital, a regional cancer centre in western australia. a growing number of rural cancer patients are receiving chemotherapy in hometown clinics and hospitals. local access to cancer care offers many advantages to patients and providers, but is it safe to give intravenous chemotherapy? 
Does sex affect the outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy? [SEP] to assess the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic cholecystectomy versus open cholecystectomy from the payer's perspective, we estimated the probabilities of potential outcomes of each procedure, associated quality-of-life effects, and related direct medical charges and incorporated these estimates into a computerized simulation model. the model projects that laparoscopic cholecystectomy will be more effective than open surgery in terms of total mortality and quality-adjusted survival, for both sexes and all ages. we concluded that laparoscopic cholecystectomy is likely to be less costly and more effective than open cholecystectomy for most patients, as long as it does not routinely require preoperative cholangiography and is not associated with increased professional fees or increased risks of retained stones or bile duct injury. multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that adding laparoscopic cholecystectomy did not affect laparoscopy-related complications (odds ratio, 1.02; 95% confidence interval [ci], 0.84-1.24; p = 0.788) or in-hospital mortality (odds ratio, 1.16; 95% ci, 0.49-2.76; p = 0.727). multiple linear regression analysis also showed that adding laparoscopic cholecystectomy did not affect the length of stay (unstandardized coefficient, 0.37 d; 95% ci, -0.47 to 1.22 d; p = 0.389). this study demonstrated that adding laparoscopic cholecystectomy did not affect outcomes of patients undergoing laparoscopic gastrectomy for gastric cancer, although medical costs during hospitalization were significantly increased. primary outcome was conversion rate from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy and secondary outcomes were complications, mortality, operating time, and length of stay. the advantages of laparoscopic cholecystectomy over the open procedure seem to be related to the lesser surgical trauma. we present a national data series to determine the incidence, outcomes and training opportunities for laparoscopic cholecystectomy among children <16yrs in scotland as performed by paediatric surgeons. in multiple logistic regression, robotic cholecystectomy with icg also showed a lower risk of conversion compared to laparoscopic cholecystectomy, but the difference did not reach statistical significance (or 0.42, 95% ci 0.11-1.65, p = 0.22). 
Is atropine needed with ketamine sedation? [SEP] given recent conflicting conclusions regarding adjunctive atropine, we compared the incidence of hypersalivation, degree of secretion, and related side effects with atropine or placebo as an adjunct to intravenous (iv) ketamine sedation for children. this controlled trial randomized children, 1 to 10 years old, requiring ketamine sedation in a tertiary emergency department to receive 0.01 mg/kg of atropine or placebo, along with iv ketamine (2 mg/kg). atropine as an adjunct to iv ketamine sedation in children significantly reduced hypersalivation, without providing a clinical benefit. the authors evaluated the incidence of kav and the prophylactic effect of adjunctive atropine and metoclopramide in children receiving ketamine sedation in the ed setting. to compare atropine with placebo as an adjunct to ketamine sedation in children undergoing minor painful procedures. children aged between 1 and 16 years of age requiring ketamine procedural sedation in a tertiary emergency department were randomised to receive 0.01 mg/kg of atropine or placebo. the use of atropine as an adjunct for intramuscular ketamine sedation in children significantly reduces hypersalivation and may lower the incidence of post-procedural vomiting. atropine premedication did not prevent the increase in iop seen with ketamine sedation or ketamine-pentobarbital anesthesia. to compare the therapeutic effects of ketamine alone or ketamine plus propofol on analgesia, sedation, recovery time, side effects in premedicated children with midazolam-ketamine-atropin who are prepared circumcision operation. a mixture of ketamine, midazolam and atropine given orally provides sedation and analgesia similar to that produced by the same drugs given intramuscularly. 
Does implant coating with antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduce bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro? [SEP] a fast-resorbable, antibacterial-loaded hydrogel may reduce or prevent bacterial colonization and biofilm formation of implanted biomaterials. (2) can a hydrogel (alone or antibacterial-loaded) coating on implants reduce bacterial colonization? implant coating with an antibacterial-loaded hydrogel reduces bacterial colonization and biofilm formation in vitro. a fast-resorbable, antibacterial-loaded hydrogel coating may help prevent implant-related infections in orthopaedics. the purpose of this study was to test the ability of dac®, a fast resorbable, antibacterial-loaded hydrogel coating, to prevent acute bacterial colonization in an in vivo model of an intra-operatively highly contaminated implant. microbial colonization and biofilm formation on implanted devices represent an important complication in orthopaedic and dental surgery and may result in implant failure. this manuscript comprises three main sections: (i) a narrative review on topics related to oral biofilm formation, bacterial-implant surface interactions, and on how implant-surface modifications can influence microbial accumulation; (ii) a critical evidence-based review to summarize pre-clinical and clinical studies in an attempt to "fit pieces into the puzzle" to unveil the best way to reduce microbial loads and control polymicrobial infection around dental implants showed by the current in vivo evidence; and (iii) discussion and recommendations for future research testing emerging antibacterial implant surfaces, connecting basic science and the requirements for future clinical translation. bacteria adhesion and subsequent biofilm formation are primary causes of implant associated infection. antibacterial coatings on the surface of titanium implant can prevent biofilm formation effectively, but it is still a challenge to accomplish relatively long lasting antibacterial effects before wound healing or formation of biological seal. preclinical reports have suggested that antibacterial coatings of implants may prevent bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation. 
Do family physicians know the costs of medical care? [SEP] patients may wish to discuss costs with their clinicians. describe patient preferences for communication about cost in the clinical setting. preference for discussing health care costs with one's physician. most respondents preferred their physician talk with them about out-of-pocket costs (81.4%) and expressed comfort with discussing costs with their physician (75.6%). delay in seeking care was positively and independently associated with preferring to discuss costs with one's physician; current medical financial burden was not. patient preferences for communication about costs with physicians are high, and medical debt and delay in care-seeking are prevalent. the aim of the present study is to evaluate the possibility than an awareness of the cost of drugs for treatment of hypertension may affect physicians' prescription decisions. the results of this study indicate that a knowledge of the price of the drugs may affect physicians' prescription decisions, a fact that may result in considerable saving by health providing organizations. the usefulness of hospital charges as a means of teaching medical students the relationship between the quality of the cost of medical care provided by primary care physicians (internists and family physicians) is presented. health care providers' knowledge of whether the medications they prescribed were on the formulary of their patients' insurance plan and factors associated with this knowledge were examined. 
Combining process indicators to evaluate quality of care for surgical patients with colorectal cancer: are scores consistent with short-term outcome? [SEP] the performance of 85 hospitals participating in the dutch surgical colorectal audit between the 1st of january 2010 and 31st of december 2010, were evaluated on nine qi: three process indicators for colon cancer, three process indicators for rectal cancer and three outcome indicators. consistency between all process indicators was assessed, and correlations between all process and outcome indicators were evaluated for colon and rectal cancer care separately. to determine if composite measures based on process indicators are consistent with short-term outcome indicators in surgical colorectal cancer care. using a modification of the rand/ucla appropriateness methodology, we carried out structured interviews with leaders in the field of colorectal cancer surgery and systematic reviews of the literature to identify candidate quality indicators addressing perioperative care for patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. the rand/ucla appropriateness methodology can be used to identify and rate indicators of high-quality perioperative care for patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. in colorectal cancer care, many indicators for assessment and improvement of quality of care are being used. therefore, the aim of this systematic review is to examine reported quality indicators used in multidisciplinary colorectal cancer care and categorise these indicators based on scientific evidence. we propose a surgical audit evaluating long-term outcome following colorectal cancer surgery. the overarching goal of this article is to summarize recent efforts to evaluate and improve the quality of colorectal cancer care through the use of selective referral, quality performance measures, and assessment of outcomes. second, we discuss the current level of assessment of colorectal cancer care quality, highlighting four potential targets for quality improvement: increased provider volume for colorectal cancer resection, process-based quality measures for colorectal cancer care (including measures specific to colorectal cancer surgery), data collection and feedback programs for colorectal cancer care, and evaluation of health-related quality of life in patients with colorectal cancer. 
Can APC mutation analysis contribute to therapeutic decisions in familial adenomatous polyposis? [SEP] familial adenomatous polyposis coli is caused by constitutional mutations in the apc gene. the hallmark of familial adenomatous polyposis coli is the presence of numerous (> 100) colorectal polyps, but mutations in the 5' end of the apc gene have been associated with familial colorectal cancer without florid polyposis. although familial adenomatous polyposis coli accounts for only a minority of familial colorectal cancer cases, we hypothesised that apc mutations which were not associated with florid polyposis might make a significant contribution to nonpolyposis familial colorectal cancer. a retrospective analysis and comparison was made of clinical, surgical, and histological criteria, mutation types and the long-term results of patients who underwent genetic analysis which resulted in the diagnosis of familial adenomatous polyposis between 1984 and 2018. it is useful to determine the colonic and extra-colonic involvement of genetic mutation diseases in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis. this report focuses on a family with attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis (afap) with exon 4 mutation, c.481c>t p.q161x of the apc gene. a family with attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis of apc related to exon 4 mutation, c.481c>t p.q161x, was reported and the phenotypic finding was confirmed by endoscopic examination. the adenomatous polyposis coli (apc) gene was analyzed for germline mutations in 113 familial adenomatous polyposis suspected families from all over slovakia. mutations of the adenomatous polyposis coli (apc) gene contribute to both fap and sporadic or familial colorectal carcinogenesis. familial adenomatous polyposis, an autosomal dominant inherited disease caused by germline mutations within the apc gene, is characterized by early onset colorectal cancer as a consequence of the intrinsic phenotypic feature of multiple colorectal adenomatic polyps. 
Do emergency medical services professionals think they should participate in disease prevention? [SEP] the primary objective of the study was to determine emergency medical services (ems) professionals' opinions regarding participation in disease and injury prevention programs. a secondary objective was to determine the proportion of ems professionals who had participated in disease prevention programs. as part of the national registry of emergency medical technicians' biennial reregistration process, ems professionals reregistering in 2006 were asked to complete an optional survey regarding their opinions on and participation in disease and injury prevention. of these responders, 82.7% (99% ci: 82.1-83.3) felt that ems professionals should participate in disease prevention, with those working 20 to 29 hours per week being the least likely to think they should participate (67.4%, p < 0.001). about a third, 33.8% (99% ci: 33.1-34.6), of the respondents reported having provided prevention services, with those having a graduate degree (43.5%, p < 0.001), those working in ems for more than 21 years (44%, p < 0.001), those working for the military (57%, p < 0.001), those working 60 to 69 hours per week (41%, p < 0.001), and those responding to zero emergency calls in a typical week (43%, p < 0.001) being the most likely to report having provided prevention services. those who had participated in prevention programs were more likely to respond that ems professionals should participate in prevention (92% vs. 82%, p < 0.001). further, those who had provided prevention services during emergency calls were more likely to think ems professionals should provide prevention services during emergency calls (81% vs. 51%, p < 0.001). the majority of ems professionals thought that they should participate in disease and injury prevention programs. the respondents were mixed as to whether prevention services should be provided while on emergency calls, but those with experience providing these services were more likely to agree with providing them during emergency calls. field and managerial officials should be involved in policy-making processes, as a means to empower health care managers and improve interfaces and self-efficacy that are relevant to preparedness and response for crises. 
Is the ability to perform transurethral resection of the prostate influenced by the surgeon's previous experience? [SEP] to evaluate the influence of the urologist's experience on the surgical results and complications of transurethral resection of the prostate (turp). sixty-seven patients undergoing transurethral resection of the prostate without the use of a video camera were randomly allocated into three groups according to the urologist's experience: a urologist having done 25 transurethral resections of the prostate (group i - 24 patients); a urologist having done 50 transurethral resections of the prostate (group ii - 24 patients); a senior urologist with vast transurethral resection of the prostate experience (group iii - 19 patients). performance metrics were compared between groups based on urological training level and prior real-world experience with transurethral prostate resection. number of cuts correlated significantly with transurethral prostate resection experience in the previous year. prostate cancer patients who are scheduled for robot-assisted radical prostatectomy often have a history of transurethral resection or laser enucleation of the prostate as treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. previous transurethral resection or laser enucleation of the prostate does not negatively impact surgical, complication-related, and oncologic outcomes if the robot-assisted radical prostatectomy is performed by highly experienced surgeons. performed transurethral resection. several studies have compared these two techniques with transurethral resection of the prostate. a total of 25 patients were randomly assigned to the no balloon previous transurethral resection of the prostate laparoscopic radical prostatectomy group (n = 12) and the with balloon previous transurethral resection of the prostate laparoscopic radical prostatectomy group (n = 13). the outcomes were compared between the groups with previous transurethral resection of the prostate (no balloon previous transurethral resection of the prostate laparoscopic radical prostatectomy and with balloon previous transurethral resection of the prostate laparoscopic radical prostatectomy groups) and the controls. 
Is there a differential in the dental health of new recruits to the British Armed Forces? [SEP] figures from the british defence dental services reveal that serving personnel in the british army have a persistently lower level of dental fitness than those in the royal navy or the royal air force. recruits in the army sample had a significantly greater prevalence of dental decay and greater treatment resource need than either of the other two services. army recruits had a mean number of 2.59 (2.08, 3.09) decayed teeth per recruit, compared to 1.93 (1.49, 2.39 p <0.01) in royal navy recruits and 1.26 (0.98, 1.53 p <0.001) in royal air force recruits. a significant difference in dental health between recruits to each service does exist and is a likely to be a reflection of the sociodemographic background from which they are drawn. significantly more soldiers who enlisted in 1917-18 had poor dental health (44%) than those who enlisted during 1916 (20%) and 1914-15 (8%) (p < 0.001). on average, dental health was poorer among the lower ranks and among recruits of low socio-economic status; and soldiers from major cities had better oral health than those from rural areas; however, these differences were not statistically significant in this sample. cross sectional questionnaire survey of individuals attending 3 armed services dental treatment centres in the uk. dental anxiety is found amongst members of the british armed services at levels similar to that in the general population. backgroundd: the dental health of the british army has been reported as being in decline for the past 10 years, and this is having a significant impact on operations. the current policy for provision of routine dental care to recruits targets resources toward those with the worst dental health and provides only emergency dental care for the remainder.aimss: the goal was to review recruit dental care provision, to determine whether improvements in the overall dental health of the trained army could be made during recruit training.resultss: it was found that >85% of recruit dental treatment need could be met with the routine provision of 2 hours of dental treatment during training.conclusionn: a horizontally equitable model of recruit dental care, whereby all recruits access routine dental care during training, has been recommended to and accepted by the chain of command. 
Is laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux surgery feasible? [SEP] laparoscopic reoperation after a failed antireflux procedure is a major surgical challenge, and it is not devoid of morbidity. we report our experience with the laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux procedures. laparoscopic reoperative antireflux procedures are technically feasible with acceptable preliminary results. laparoscopic refundoplication in the elderly patient is feasible, safe and an effective treatment after failed antireflux surgery. the aim was to determine the feasibility of laparoscopic revision surgery following previous open and laparoscopic antireflux operations. the outcome was determined for 27 patients (14 men, 13 women) who had undergone attempted laparoscopic revision between 3 months and 25 years after a previous antireflux operation. laparoscopic reoperative antireflux surgery is feasible. nineteen patients underwent laparoscopic reoperations for failed or complicated antireflux operations from a total of 248 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease who had been operated on by this approach. laparoscopic reoperation for failed antireflux operations is a complex procedure, but it is safe and effective in selected patients. retrospective review of all patients with laparoscopic antireflux operations for the management and outcome of all complications. 
Does exercise during pregnancy prevent postnatal depression? [SEP] physical activity can reduce pregnancy-related complications and contributes substantially to improving maternal mental health. a reduction in activity encompassing exercise and daily household tasks throughout the course of pregnancy increases the risk of depression and anxiety. the following research examines the longitudinal interaction between exercise, general physical activity, and mental health outcomes in pregnant women. general physical activity and maternal mental health significantly influence each other during and after pregnancy. to study whether exercise during pregnancy reduces the risk of postnatal depression. however, a subgroup of women in the intervention group who did not exercise regularly prior to pregnancy had a reduced risk of postnatal depression. therefore, this study did not provide evidence to show that training women to do the home-based exercises during pregnancy or during pregnancy and post-partum period have a preventive effect on post-partum depression and fatigue. few published studies have examined the relationship between exercise during pregnancy, quality of life (qol), and postpartum depressive symptoms in healthy pregnant women. exercise is an important part of therapy in the prenatal and postnatal period. there is evidence to suggest that interventions delivered in pregnancy can be effective in preventing postnatal depression. 
Is endometrial polyp formation associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta1? [SEP] vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is angiogenic, related to thick walled vessels and transforming growth factor-beta1 (tgf-β1) is related to fibrotic tissue, which are characteristics of endometrial polyps. the primary objective of this study was to find out if endometrial polyp formation is associated with increased expression of vegf or tgf-β1, or both. this prospective study compared vegf and tgf-β1 expression of endometrial polyps and adjacent endometrial tissue in 70 premenopausal women. the score of vegf in glandular cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium, both in the proliferative phase (p<0.001) and the secretory phase (p=0.03); the score of vegf in stromal cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium only in proliferative phase (p=0.006). the score of tgf-β1 in glandular cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium in proliferative phase (p=0.02); whereas the score of tgf-β1 in stromal cells of endometrial polyps was significantly higher than the score in adjacent endometrium, both in the proliferative phase (p=0.006) and the secretory phase (p=0.008). there was increased expression of tgf-β1 and vegf in polyps compared to adjacent normal endometrial tissue. it suggested that these cytokines might play a role in endometrial polyp formation. it was concluded that vascular endothelial growth factor is intensely expressed in situ in nasal polyps, mainly in inflammatory cells but also in epithelial cells. this suggests that vascular endothelial growth factor, inducing oedema and angiogenesis, could be involved in the pathogenesis of nasal polyps. the aim of this study is to explore the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor within nasal polyps, and the implication of such expression as regards the development of nasal polyps amongst children. 
Is human cytomegalovirus infection associated with hypertension? [SEP] human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) has been implicated in several cardiovascular disorders, including atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, and cardiac transplant arteriopathy. however, direct links between human cytomegalovirus infection and essential hypertension remain undefined. based on current studies, we present a hypothesis that human cytomegalovirus is an opportunistic pathogen that causes essential hypertension by disrupting nitric oxide synthesis and immune defense and by activating inflammation and the renin-angiotensin system. the authors reported a case of hypertensive keratouveitis with endotheliitis associated with cytomegalovirus. we report a case of severe acute cytomegalovirus infection in a young immunocompetent male with pulmonary and hepatic involvement and portal hypertension who recovered without specific antiviral therapy with complete resolution of sonographic signs of portal hypertension after 6 months. recent studies have implicated the human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) as a possible pathogen for causing hypertension. we aimed to study the association between hcmv infection and hypertension in the united states national health and nutrition examination survey (nhanes). in this nationally representative population-based survey, hcmv seropositivity is associated with hypertension in women in the nhanes population. past exposure to human cytomegalovirus has been suggested to participate in the pathogenetic events associated with atherosclerotic lesion establishment and progression. finally, correlations between inflammatory factors (high-sensitivity c-reactive protein and white blood cell count) and other atherosclerosis risk factors in both human cytomegalovirus-igm-positive and -negative subjects were evaluated. 
Is it possible to stop treatment with nucleos(t)ide analogs in patients with e-antigen negative chronic hepatitis B? [SEP] it is not clear to what extent long-term suppression of hbv by nucleos(t)ide analogues can restore antiviral t-cell functions. findings from patients treated with nucleos(t)ide analogues who had complete (hbv dna negative/antibody to hepatitis b surface antigen positive) or partial (hbv dna negative/hepatitis b surface antigen positive) control of their infections were compared with those of patients with spontaneous or interferon alfa-induced resolution of acute or chronic infections, inactive hbv carriers, or untreated hepatitis b e antigen-negative patients with chronic infections. nucleos(t)ide analogue-treated patients who were hbv dna negative but hepatitis b surface antigen positive had lower levels of t-cell responses but responses greater than those of untreated patients with chronic infection. stopping nucleos(t)ide analogues (na) after hepatitis b e antigen (hbeag) seroconversion is associated with high relapse rates in asian patients, but data in caucasian cohorts are scarce. the aim of this study was to determine relapse rates, factors predicting relapse and clinical outcomes after nucleos(t)ide analogue cessation in a large, predominantly caucasian cohort of chronic hepatitis b patients with nucleos(t)ide analogue-induced hbeag seroconversion. treatment withdrawal in caucasian chronic hepatitis b patients after nucleos(t)ide analogue-induced hbeag seroconversion results in viral relapses in more than half of patients with potential fatal outcomes. this prospective study investigated viral and host markers after stopping long-term therapy with nucleos(t)ide analogues in noncirrhotic patients with hepatitis b e antigen-negative chronic hepatitis b. nucleos(t)ide analogs (nas) are effective, safe, and convenient antiviral therapy to suppress replication of hepatitis b virus, which can be translated into improved long-term outcome of chronic hepatitis b patients. safe nucleos(t)ide analogue discontinuation in chronic hepatitis b (chb) is an unmet need. combining hbv rna and hbcrag performed satisfactorily in predicting clinical relapse and hbsag loss after treatment cessation in hbeag-positive patients with chb.the combination of hepatitis b virus rna and hepatitis b core-related antigen performed satisfactorily in predicting clinical relapse and hepatitis b surface antigen loss after stopping nucleos(t)ide analogue treatment among noncirrhotic hepatitis b e antigen-positive patients with chronic hepatitis b and could be used to guide safe discontinuation. 
Does radiotherapy around the time of pregnancy for Hodgkin's disease modify the risk of breast cancer? [SEP] to determine whether the risk of secondary breast cancer after radiotherapy (rt) for hodgkin's disease is greater among women who underwent rt around time of pregnancy. the risk was dependent on the length of time from pregnancy to rt, with women receiving rt during pregnancy and within 1 month of pregnancy having an increased risk of breast cancer compared with nonpregnant women and women irradiated later than 1 month after pregnancy (hazard ratio, 22.49; 95% confidence interval, 5.56-90.88; p <0.001). the results of this study indicate that the risk of breast cancer after rt is greater with irradiation around the time of pregnancy. radiotherapy for breast cancer, hodgkin's disease and cervical cancer in pregnant women is reviewed. the risk to the foetus during radiotherapy for supradiaphragmatic hodgkin's disease appears to be minimal, provided special attention is paid to the treatment techniques and the foetus is adequately shielded. several recent publications have highlighted the issue of an increased risk of breast cancer in women treated with radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or combined modality therapy for hodgkin's disease. this article reviews the available data pertaining to induction of breast cancer by radiotherapy for hodgkin's disease. women treated with supradiaphragmatic radiotherapy (srt) for hodgkin lymphoma (hl) at young ages have a substantially increased breast cancer risk. there is now widespread evidence that female survivors of hodgkin's disease who have been treated with supradiaphragmatic radiotherapy are at an increased risk of breast cancer. we have systematically reviewed all published literature on breast cancer after treatment for hodgkin's disease and show that high risk is particularly associated with treatment at a young age, mantle radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. 
Should displaced midshaft clavicular fractures be treated surgically? [SEP] 40 adolescents with displaced midshaft clavicular fractures were surgically treated from january 2010 to may 2017. adolescents with displaced midshaft clavicular fractures treated with precontoured locking plates exhibited satisfactory outcomes and low complication rate. although most acute midshaft clavicular fractures can be successfully treated nonsurgically, surgery is more appropriate for cases with severe displaced fractures, skin tenting, initial shortening of fracture ends, and associated with multiple injuries. this study discusses a closed reduction and internal fixation technique for midshaft clavicular fracture. surgical fixation of midshaft clavicle fracture, as treatment for refracture after angular malunion. plate fixation of displaced midshaft clavicular fractures has been shown to decrease nonunion, symptomatic malunion, and residual shoulder disability compared with nonoperative treatment. from november 2008 to december 2012, we surgically treated 72 patients with displaced midshaft clavicular fractures. fourteen cases were considered with a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture, initially treated non-surgically, but which developed symptomatic non-union and required surgical treatment. the control group was a cohort of 18 patients with a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture, who had surgical treatment in an acute setting (<3 weeks). according to our study, patients with a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture non-union who needed surgery achieved similar functional results as compared to patients treated in an acute setting for a displaced midshaft clavicle fracture. 
Is laparoscopic cholecystectomy safe and acceptable as a day case procedure? [SEP] studies from the west have reported that 'day case laparoscopic cholecystectomy' is feasible and safe. we conducted a prospective study to assess the feasibility, safety and patients' acceptance of 'day case laparoscopic cholecystectomy' in a tertiary care hospital. in selected patients, day case laparoscopic cholecystectomy is safe and feasible in a developing country. day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe, feasible and beneficial procedure in our set-up. day-surgery laparoscopic cholecystectomy (lc) should be the procedure of choice in patients with symptomatic gallstone disease. this article assesses feasibility, patient outcome and predictive factors for successful day-case laparoscopic cholecystectomy. the day care laparoscopic cholecystectomy (dclc) is found to be safe and effective in developed countries. day care laparoscopic cholecystectomy is safe and feasible in our set up. out of the total 236 laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed over a period of 26 months, 106 patients (44.9%) underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy as day care procedure. day care laparoscopic cholecystectomy is feasible, safe, and acceptable to patients. 
Is etoricoxib effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after primary total hip arthroplasty? [SEP] in this study, we investigated whether etoricoxib, a selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 (cox-2) inhibitor that produces fewer gastrointestinal side effects, is an effective alternative for the prevention of heterotopic ossification. etoricoxib seems effective in preventing heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty. this finding further supports the use of cox-2 inhibitors for the prevention of heterotopic ossification following total hip arthroplasty. low-dose radiation therapy and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have proven to effectively reduce the rate of heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty. the investigations presented in this study confirm a good efficiency of etoricoxib for the prevention of heterotopic ossifications in comparison with classical methods such as radiation or drug therapy and show a low rate of undesirable side effects. the efficacy of a 10-day course of indomethacin in preventing heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty was studied in a consecutive series of male patients who were at increased risk for bone formation. this series documents a 100% clinical success rate and a 94% radiographic success rate in preventing heterotopic ossification in patients at high risk after total hip arthroplasty. in a previous prospective study, patients who were at high risk for heterotopic ossification after total hip arthroplasty were identified and an effective regimen for its prevention was established. this study investigated whether etoricoxib (cox-ii blocker) has a superior efficacy of preventing heterotopic ossification (ho) after total hip arthroplasty (tha) compared to diclofenac (non-selective nsaid). the present article extensively reviews the current literature on heterotopic ossification following total hip arthroplasty with regard to epidemiologic factors, clinical presentation and possible pathogenesis. 
Should serum pancreatic lipase replace serum amylase as a biomarker of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is usually based on the presence of abdominal pain and elevated levels of serum amylase and/or lipase. the aim of this review is to investigate whether serum lipase alone is a sufficient biomarker for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. when comparing different studies, serum lipase offers a higher sensitivity than serum amylase in diagnosing acute pancreatitis. lipase also offers a larger diagnostic window than amylase since it is elevated for a longer time, thus allowing it to be a useful diagnostic biomarker in early and late stages of acute pancreatitis. in addition, it was determined whether serum lipase and pancreatic amylase tests could replace the total amylase test to improved diagnostic efficiency in the evaluation of acute pancreatitis in hyperamylasemia patients. serum pancreatic lipase may improve the diagnosis of pancreatitis compared to serum amylase. it is concluded that serum pancreatic lipase is a more accurate biomarker of acute pancreatitis than serum amylase. we first present the results of serial serum total amylase, pancreatic isoamylase, lipase, and immunoreactive trypsin tests in nine patients during the week after their admission to the hospital with a diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, and then compare the serum total amylase, lipase, and immunoreactive trypsin levels in the initial serum submitted for amylase analysis from 100 patients because of the clinical suspicion of acute pancreatitis. we studied the behavior of serum amylase and lipase in 66 consecutive patients with acute pancreatitis in order to assess the ability of these tests and of the serum lipase-amylase ratio to establish the etiology and predict the severity of acute pancreatitis. lipase and l2 could replace amylase, an inefficient test, for the diagnosis of patients with suspected acute pancreatitis. 
Rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane: is partial prostatectomy oncologically adequate? [SEP] a multicentre, retrospective study was conducted of patients with rectal cancer threatening or affecting the prostatic plane, but not the bladder, judged by magnetic resonance imaging (mri). a consecutive series of 126 men with rectal cancer threatening (44) or affecting (82) the prostatic plane on preoperative staging and operated with local curative intent between 1998 and 2010 was analysed. laparoscopy is an increasingly used approach in the surgical treatment of rectal cancer and prostate cancer. in the other patients, resection of the rectum, followed by radical prostatectomy, was performed. combined laparoscopic rectal resection and radical prostatectomy is a viable option for selected patients with locally advanced rectal cancer or tumor duplication. this study aims to evaluate the oncological and functional outcomes of performing rectal resection with prostatectomy alone compared with rectal resection with cystoprostatectomy in patients undergoing pelvic exenteration. in appropriately selected patients with invasive pelvic tumours, rectal resection with prostatectomy alone provides adequate oncological outcomes. approximately 10% of all low rectal cancer needs surgical resection extended to other pelvic structures. laparoscopic-assisted abdominoperineal resection and en-bloc prostatectomy using the trans-sacral approach for locally invasive rectal cancer that invades only the prostate is useful in order to avoid total pelvic exenteration. laparoscopic bladder-preserving surgery for locally invasive rectal cancer can preserve postoperative quality of life and provides oncological curability. 
Does bone anchor fixation improve the outcome of percutaneous bladder neck suspension in female stress urinary incontinence? [SEP] from march 1996, 37 patients with stress urinary incontinence (> 2 years) were treated using a bone anchor system. we evaluated the long-term results of percutaneous needle suspension using bone anchor devices for treating stress urinary incontinence in women. a 39-year-old woman with type 1 genuine stress urinary incontinence was treated using a novel extraperitoneal laparoscopic bladder neck suspension procedure with a bone-anchor suture fixation system. extraperitoneal laparoscopic bladder neck suspension using the bone-anchor suture fixation system is an easy and feasible procedure. bone anchors were initially used in transvaginal needle suspension procedures to improve stabilization of the bladder neck. in this article, the application of bone anchors in female urology is reviewed. a total of 40 women with urodynamically proven stress urinary incontinence (sui) underwent vesica percutaneous bladder neck suspension between 1994 and 1997. fifty-three women with stress urinary incontinence underwent consecutive endoscopic bladder neck suspensions with new modifications developed in an effort to decrease suspending suture detachment. percutaneous bone anchor bladder neck suspension has been recommended as a less morbid alternative to traditional anti-incontinence procedures. we present an original technique of bladder neck suspension through percutaneous vaginal suspension for stress urinary incontinence. 
Are intraoperative precursor events associated with postoperative major adverse events? [SEP] precursor events are undesirable events that can lead to a subsequent adverse event and have been associated with postoperative mortality. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether precursor events are associated with a composite endpoint of major adverse cardiac events (mace) (death, acute renal failure, stroke, infection) in a low- to medium-risk coronary artery bypass grafting, valve, and valve plus coronary artery bypass grafting population. patients undergoing cardiac surgery who are exposed to intraoperative precursor events were more likely to experience a postoperative mace. intraoperative adverse events were prospectively monitored. we sought to examine the relationship between intraoperative precursor events (those events that precede and are requisite for the occurrence of an adverse event) and adverse outcomes themselves. when categories of precursor events were analyzed, major severity events and those most affecting the surgeon were independent predictors of dnm. over an 11-year period, the changes of occurrence of such intraoperative adverse events were assessed in this study. patients with an intraoperative adverse event had a significantly higher rate of postoperative local and general morbidity (41.2 and 32.9 % vs. 18.0 and 17.2 %, p < 0.001 and p < 0.001, respectively). intraoperative adverse events and intraoperative measures taken were analysed in relation to outcome of surgery. intraoperative adverse events were important contributors to morbidity and mortality. 
Does a family meetings intervention prevent depression and anxiety in family caregivers of dementia patients? [SEP] family caregivers of dementia patients are at increased risk of developing depression or anxiety. this study examines the preventive effects of family meetings for primary caregivers of community-dwelling dementia patients. family meetings appear to be among the most powerful psychosocial interventions to reduce depression in caregivers. an american landmark study reported substantial beneficial effects of a multifaceted intervention where family meetings had a central place on depression in family caregivers as well as on delay of institutionalization of patients. we perform the first trial comparing only structured family meetings with significant others versus usual care among primary family caregivers of community dwelling demented patients and measure the effectiveness on both depression and anxiety in the primary caregiver, both on disorder and symptom levels. the intervention group receives four family meetings with family and close friends of the primary family caregiver of a community dwelling patient with a clinical diagnosis of dementia. by evaluating the effectiveness of only structured family meetings organized in the netherlands, this study will contribute to the existing literature about the value of psychosocial interventions for dementia caregivers. the aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a family meetings intervention for family caregivers of dementia patients in comparison with usual care over a period of 12 months. this pilot randomized trial tested an intervention aimed at enhancing resourcefulness in family caregivers of persons with dementia, postulating that caregivers' emotional outcomes (anxiety and depression) and role outcomes (reward, strain, mutuality, and preparedness) would be improved, and problem behaviors in the care recipients (persons with dementia) would be reduced as a result of the intervention. the aim of this study was to examine the association between clinical depressive and anxious symptomatology at baseline and treatment responses of dementia family caregivers using samples from two randomized intervention trials with the same pre-post design. 
HIF1A as a major vascular endothelial growth factor regulator: do its polymorphisms have an association with age-related macular degeneration? [SEP] to investigate the association between age-related macular degeneration (amd) and the polymorphisms of hif1a, a major vascular epithelial growth factor regulator under hypoxic conditions. the aim of the study was an attempt to discern an influence of expression levels and functional genetic polymorphisms of selected genes related to the extracellular matrix turnover or neovascularization on age-related macular degeneration occurrence and progression. the single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping showed that tt genotype for mmp-9 -1702t/a and cc genotype for vegf +936c/t increase markedly the risk of age-related macular degeneration but do not influence on its progression. clinical relevance multiple growth factors are involved in the pathogenesis of choroidal neovascularization in age-related macular degeneration. in this review we discuss the status of anti- vascular endothelial growth factor in age-related macular degeneration and describe different studies focused on new potential therapeutic targets beyond anti- vascular endothelial growth factor. to determine whether there is an association between response to intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor agents and genotype in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration. further studies to investigate biologic pathways of neovascular age-related macular degeneration and gene products that are directly involved might lead to better understanding of contribution of various genes to treatment response. to assess the association between genotypes and alleles of the c-460t polymorphism of the vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) gene and the risk of wet form of age-related macular degeneration (amd). the c-460t polymorphism of the endothelial growth factor can be considered as a potential marker for the wet form of age-related macular degeneration. increased levels of hif1a, hif2a, epo and vegf are associated with a highly disorganised retinal vasculature, chorioretinal anastomoses and the persistence of embryonic vascular structures into adulthood. 
Is combined therapy more effective than growth hormone or hyperbaric oxygen alone in the healing of left ischemic and non-ischemic colonic anastomoses? [SEP] our aim was to investigate the effects of growth hormone (gh), hyperbaric oxygen and combined therapy on normal and ischemic colonic anastomoses in rats. combined treatment with recombinant human growth hormone and hyperbaric oxygen resulted in a favorable therapeutic effect on the healing of ischemic colonic anastomoses. this study was designed to investigate the effects of hyperbaric oxygen on the healing of ischemic and normal colon anastomoses in the rat model. hyperbaric oxygen increases anastomotic healing of both normal and ischemic colonic anastomosis and reverses ischemic damage. this study demonstrated that hyperbaric oxygen improves anastomotic healing. bm-mscs therapy significantly accelerated all of the healing parameters for ischemic colonic anastomosis. here,we analyzed the effects of hyperbaric oxygen and beta-glucan on colon anastomoses in ischemic condition. hyperbaric oxygen and glucan improve healing in ischemic colon anastomoses by anti-microbic,immune stimulating properties and seem to act synergistically when combined together. the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of hyperbaric oxygen therapy (hbo2) on the healing process of ischemic colonic anastomoses in rats. hbo treatment has a positive effect on biochemical and mechanical parameters of ischemic and normal colon anastomoses in rats. 
Does oxybutynin hydrochloride cause arrhythmia in children with bladder dysfunction? [SEP] antimuscarinic agents oxybutynin) are the main drugs used to treat patients with overactive bladder (oab) syndrome, defined as urgency, with or without urgency incontinence, usually with increased daytime frequency and nocturia. the authors' experience with sterile intravesical preparations of oxybutynin hydrochloride and ephedrine in children is reported here. to test the safety and efficacy of extended-release oxybutynin in children with bladder dysfunction. intravesical oxybutynin hydrochloride was administered to 17 patients with a neuropathic bladder (myelomeningocele in 15 and spinal cord tumour in two) and urinary incontinence refractory to intermittent catheterisation. the cystometric bladder capacity before and after 1 hour of intravesical oxybutynin hydrochloride was 132 +/- 45 ml and 193 +/- 71 ml (mean +/- 1 standard deviation, p < 0.01) in all 17 patients. to evaluate the incidence of side-effects of oral and intravesical oxybutynin chloride in children with meningomyelocele (mmc) and a neurogenic bladder. in all, 101 children (mean age 4.2 years, range 0.25-10) had unco-ordinated detrusor-sphincter function and low compliance; they were treated with either oral or intravesical oxybutynin and clean intermittent catheterization. we evaluated the effects of tolterodine on clinical symptoms and compared its efficacy with that of oxybutynin in terms of bladder capacity, bladder wall thickness, and post-void residual volume in children with overactive bladder. twenty children (11 girls, 9 boys, 4-17 years) with neuropathic bladder dysfunction who perform clean intermittent catheterization and use intravesical oxybutynin instillations twice daily were included in this prospective study. the urodynamics after 40 days of fesoterodine were in 16 (80%) identical or better and could be a safe alternative for oxybutynin instillations in children with neuropathic bladder dysfunction. 
Do "America's Best Hospitals" perform better for acute myocardial infarction? [SEP] this study evaluated how well hospitals ranked on the us news & world report list of top heart and heart surgery hospitals performed on acute myocardial infarction and heart failure measures derived from american college of cardiology and american heart association clinical treatment guidelines. to compare hospitals, 10 rate-based performance measures (6 addressing processes of acute myocardial infarction care and 4 addressing heart failure care), were aggregated into a cardiovascular composite measure. as a group, the us news & world report hospitals performed statistically better than their peers (mean, 86% versus 83%; p < 0.05). we compared the post-hospital prognosis after an acute coronary event (acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina) in 106 patients in japan vs. 789 patients in north america who were prospectively enrolled in the multicenter study of myocardial ischemia and were followed-up for an average of 26 months per patients. "america's best hospitals," an influential list published annually by u.s. news and world report, assesses the quality of hospitals. it is not known whether patients admitted to hospitals ranked at the top in cardiology have lower short-term mortality from acute myocardial infarction than those admitted to other hospitals or whether differences in mortality are explained by differential use of recommended therapies. using data from the cooperative cardiovascular project on 149,177 elderly medicare beneficiaries with acute myocardial infarction in 1994 or 1995, we examined the care and outcomes of patients admitted to three types of hospitals: those ranked high in cardiology (top-ranked hospitals); hospitals not in the top rank that had on-site facilities for cardiac catheterization, coronary angioplasty, and bypass surgery (similarly equipped hospitals); and the remaining hospitals (non-similarly equipped hospitals). admission to a top-ranked hospital was associated with lower adjusted 30-day mortality (odds ratio, 0.87; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.76 to 1.00; p=0.05 for top-ranked hospitals vs. the others). admission to a hospital ranked high on the list of "america's best hospitals" was associated with lower 30-day mortality among elderly patients with acute myocardial infarction. to compare the safety and efficacy of percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) for acute myocardial infarction performed at a hospital without cardiac surgical capability with pci performed for acute myocardial infarction at a center with on-site surgery. 
Does preoperative anemia adversely affect colon and rectal surgery outcomes? [SEP] to evaluate the long-term prognostic factor of preoperative anemia in colorectal cancer patients. as surgery is likely to enhance anemia, the long-term prognostic value of preoperative anemia seems most interesting. in a fixed-effects meta-analysis of eight studies, including both colon and rectal cancer, preoperative anemia was significantly associated with poor os (hr 1.56; 95% ci 1.30 to 1.88; p < 0.001). the present meta-analysis reveals that preoperative anemia is significantly associated with decreased long-term os and dfs in rectal cancer, but not in colon cancer patients, although this meta-analysis is mainly based on retrospective studies with high heterogeneity. these results justify raised awareness about the impact of preoperative anemia on long-term survival. the aim of this study was to analyze the association between preoperative anemia and postoperative complications and the survival of patients undergoing surgery for rectal cancer in the era of laparoscopic surgery and modern perioperative care. preoperative anemia appeared to have only limited association with postoperative and disease-specific outcome after rectal cancer surgery in contrast to published meta-analysis of small historical series. to assess whether preoperative anemia predicted adverse, early, perioperative outcomes in patients undergoing elective spine surgery. prior studies have assessed the association of anemia with outcomes in various noncardiac surgical procedures. preoperative anemia is independently associated with adverse outcomes after cardiac surgery. 
Can early second-look tympanoplasty reduce the rate of conversion to modified radical mastoidectomy? [SEP] early timing of second-look procedures allows easier removal of any recurrent or residual disease, which reduces the conversion rate to open mastoidectomy. only four cases were converted to a modified radical mastoidectomy (3%) and three cases required a third-look procedure. modified radical mastoidectomy was performed for 31 patients. otorrhea was estimated in 4 cases (10.3%) after closed tympanoplasty surgery and in 6 cases (19.4%) after modified radical mastoidectomy. the hearing improvement was found in 15 cases (38.46%) after closed tympanoplasty, while there was no hearing improvement after modified radical mastoidectomy. to discover whether removal of the canal wall would reduce the incidence of postoperative cholesteatoma in tympanoplasty, the findings in staged, intact canal wall tympanoplasties were compared with those in staged, modified radical mastoidectomies with cavity obliteration and tympanoplasty. rates of dysfunction after surgery were: tympanoplasty (27%, 4/15), combined approach mastoidectomy (30%, 11/29), modified radical mastoidectomy (50%, 4/8). the postoperative hearing results in cases of tympanoplasty, radical mastoidectomy, modified radical mastoidectomy and tympanoplasty combined with modified radical mastoidectomy on 528 ears, performed in the tokai university hospital between 1975 and 1980 were assessed. in the non-ossiculoplasty group, type i tympanoplasty produced 59.5% auditory success whereas 37.3% auditory success was achieved in radical mastoidectomy. adult and pediatric patients who underwent a tympanoplasty with mastoidectomy for cholesteatoma with a single-stage or second-look operative strategy were identified. 
Is serum total bilirubin useful to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes? [SEP] previous studies have reported that the total bilirubin (tb) level is associated with coronary artery disease, heart failure and atrial fibrillation. however, whether the serum tb could be a biomarker to differentiate cardioembolic stroke from other stroke subtypes is unclear. serum tb level was independently associated with cardioembolic stroke. we sought to determine whether gene expression signatures in blood can distinguish between cardioembolic and large-vessel causes of stroke, and whether these profiles can predict stroke etiology in the cryptogenic group. gene expression signatures distinguish cardioembolic from large-vessel causes of ischemic stroke. on multivariate regression analysis, aspartate aminotransferase (ast) and bilirubin (bili) were independently associated with ht for stroke overall. plasma pro-bnp (chemiluminescence), serum uric acid, bilirubin (colorimetric assay), albumin and transferrin (nephelometric assay) levels were performed in 168 admitted patients (mean age 68.7 +/- 11.6 years, 52 men and 116 women) with different subtypes of acute ischemic strokes within 24 hours and at 7 days after stroke onset as toast and ocsp criteria, nihss and glasgow coma score at baseline and at 7 days were used. the level of plasma pro-bnp may be useful in distinguishing ce stroke from other stroke subtypes. we investigated whether the plasma bnp level can also be used as a biological marker to differentiate specific stroke subtype, in particular cardioembolic stroke from the other ischemic stroke subtypes. correlation between plasma bnp level and stroke subtype was then examined. 
Delayed imaging in routine CT examinations of the abdomen and pelvis: is it worth the additional cost of radiation and time? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to retrospectively assess the potential benefits of delayed phase imaging series in routine ct scans of the abdomen and pelvis. routine contrast-enhanced abdominopelvic ct scans of 1000 consecutively examined patients (912 men, 88 women; average age, 60 years; range, 22-94 years) were retrospectively evaluated, and the added benefits of the delayed phase series through the abdomen were recorded for each examination. an additional delayed phase through the abdomen in routine contrast-enhanced ct examinations of the abdomen and pelvis is of low yield, particularly if reliable follow-up imaging to further elucidate uncertain findings is available. to assess the frequency, appropriateness, and radiation doses associated with multiphase computed tomography (ct) protocols for routine chest and abdomen-pelvis examinations in 18 countries. a retrospective analysis was performed of contrast-enhanced cts of the abdomen and pelvis from outside imaging facilities uploaded to our picture archiving and communication system (pacs) between january 1, 2012, and december 31, 2015. a contrast-enhanced ct of the abdomen and pelvis exam from an outside imaging facility with two passes may have as much as four times to six times the dose as the same exam performed with a single pass at a pediatric imaging center. computed tomography (ct) has a high level of sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis and follow-up of pathologies of the abdomen-pelvis region. this study evaluated the image quality and radiation dose of abdomen-pelvis ct protocols with atcm technique. to assess justification and radiation doses of abdomen-pelvis ct in women of childbearing potential (wocbp) scanned in 2 tertiary hospitals in qatar.the local ethical committee approved retrospective study of 451 wocbp (14-55 years) who underwent abdomen-pelvis ct examinations. despite interscanner variabilities in ct radiation doses, shorter scan length for chest than for abdomen-pelvis ct enables accurate binning of radiation doses for split-run combined chest-abdomen-pelvis ct. 
Suturing of the nasal septum after septoplasty, is it an effective alternative to nasal packing? [SEP] nasal septal suturing is a commonly used alternative treatment to nasal packing after septoplasty. besides alleviating postoperative discomfort, extensive studies have shown that nasal septal suturing is more effective than nasal packing. this proposed study will explore the possibility of adopting nasal septal suturing as an alternative to nasal packing after septoplasty. septal suturing after septoplasty offers the following advantages: elimination of discomfort for the patients, minimal complications, the outcome is almost the same as with nasal packing, and finally the hospital stay is less than with nasal packing. therefore, suturing of the nasal septum after septoplasty should be a preferred alternative to nasal packing. the objective of this study was to compare the results of septoplasty with and without post-operative nasal packing and thereby assess the necessity of nasal packing after septoplasty. nasal packing is routinely used after septoplasty, but there are patient factors for which its use needs to be reconsidered. effectiveness of nasal packing in trans-septal suturing technique in septoplasty. this systematic review applied meta-analytic procedures to evaluate the curative effect of trans-septal suturing versus nasal packing after septoplasty. randomized trials investigating trans-septal suturing versus nasal packing following septoplasty in patients with deviated nasal septum. 
Have antiepileptic drug prescription claims changed following the FDA suicidality warning? [SEP] in january 2008, the food and drug administration (fda) communicated concerns and, in may 2009, issued a warning about an increased risk of suicidality for all antiepileptic drugs (aeds). this research evaluated the association between the fda suicidality communications and the aed prescription claims among members with epilepsy and/or psychiatric disorder. during the time period considered, the fda aed-related suicidality warning does not appear to have significantly affected prescription claims of aed medications for the study population. this study compared and contrasted three statistical estimation procedures in the assessment of a u.s. food and drug administration (fda) suicidality warning, communicated in january 2008 and implemented in may 2009, on antiepileptic drug (aed) prescription claims. on 16 december 2008, fda issued a class warning for antiepileptic drugs and suicidal thoughts and behavior. to determine the reaction of neurology practitioners to the food and drug administration (fda) alert concerning suicidality (suicidal ideation or behavior) and antiepileptic drugs. although 98% warn about behavioral side effects when starting antiepileptic drugs, only 44% warn specifically about suicidal ideations or behavior. however, within the past decade, an increasing number of reports have questioned the actual validity of the fda warning, especially considering a decline in the prescription of the antidepressant drugs associated with an increase in the rate of suicidal events among people with severe depression. a few years ago the food and drug administration, based on a meta-analysis, issued a warning stating that antiepileptic drugs (aeds) are associated with an increased risk of suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and completed suicide. in 2008, the food and drug administration (fda) issued a warning that any and all antiepileptic drugs (aeds) might increase the risk of suicidal ideation, suicide attempt, and completed suicide. 
Does ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament affect the neurological outcome after traumatic cervical cord injury? [SEP] our aim is to highlight the association between ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and spinal cord injury in trauma patients. to evaluate the influence of static compression factors and dynamic factors based on the various degrees of traumatic force on the cervical spinal cord injury (sci) in patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. both the degree of spinal cord compression and the degree of traumatic force were found to be important factors associated with the severity of cervical sci in patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. to identify an appropriate surgical approach for the management of cervical cord injury with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. a retrospective study of 25 cases of cervical cord injury with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament was performed. the surgical outcomes of cervical cord injury with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament were satisfactory. for patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament, if there are neurological symptoms, early surgical treatment is recommended to relieve the compression, so as to prevent irreversible neurological damage caused by trauma. in this study, the influence of sagittal and axial types of ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament on mechanical stress in the cervical spinal cord was investigated. the main causes of deterioration in patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament were a minor trauma in patients with residual cervical cord compression caused by ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament and thoracic myelopathy resulting from ossification of the yellow ligament in the thoracic spine. we compared anterior and posterior surgery for cervical myelopathy resulting from ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament. 
Can distal ureteral diameter predict reflux resolution after endoscopic injection? [SEP] the objective of the study was to evaluate the predictive value of distal ureteral diameter ratio (udr) on outcome of primary vesicoureteral reflux (vur) and reflux resolution after endoscopic injection. ureteral diameter ratio was calculated on the initial vcug at the time of the diagnosis as the largest ureteral diameter within the false pelvis divided by the distance between l1-l3.the correlation between udr, clinical outcome (spontaneous resolution/surgical correction) and success of endoscopic injection was evaluated by logistic regression analysis. when the predictive value of the reflux grade and udr in the success rate of endoscopic correction was compared, udr was shown to be significantly more predictive than the grade of reflux (p < 0.05). ureteral diameter ratio is an objective measurement of vur and appears to be a new predictive tool for clinical outcome and success after endoscopic injection. to test the predictive value of distal ureteral diameter (ud) on reflux resolution after endoscopic injection in children with primary vesicoureteral reflux (vur). previous studies have demonstrated that the distal ureteral diameter ratio (udr) on voiding cystourethrography (vcug) may be more predictive for clinical prognosis than reflux grade. recently, several studies have suggested that distal ureteral dilatation is an important factor influencing the spontaneous resolution of primary vesicoureteral reflux (vur). we evaluated the relationship between distal ureteral dilatation and the spontaneous resolution of primary vur. distal ureteral diameter ratio is an objective measure that is prognostic of spontaneous resolution of vesicoureteral reflux. we present experience at 2 institutions with endoscopic treatment for vesicoureteral reflux after failed ureteroneocystostomy. 
Is leptin involved in phagocytic NADPH oxidase overactivity in obesity? [SEP] this study aimed to investigate whether there is a relationship between plasma levels of leptin and phagocytic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) oxidase activity, and its potential relevance in the vascular remodeling in obese patients. phagocytic nadph oxidase activity and leptin levels were enhanced (p < 0.05) in obese patients compared with controls. nadph oxidase activity positively correlated with leptin in obese patients. in-vitro studies showed that leptin induced nadph oxidase activation. these findings show that phagocytic nadph oxidase activity is increased in obesity and is related to preclinical atherosclerosis in this condition. we also suggest that hyperleptinemia may contribute to phagocytic nadph oxidase overactivity in obesity. leptin increased intracellular oxidative stress in a leptin receptor (ob-r) and nadph oxidase-dependent manner, leading to the phosphorylation of the ap-1 subunit c-jun. adverse effects of leptin include oxidative stress mediated by activation of nadph oxidase. nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) oxidase is upregulated in a variety of tissues in obesity. our results suggest that upregulation of nadph oxidase in multiple tissues during obesity appears to be a systemic response. 
Canada's Compassionate Care Benefit: is it an adequate public health response to addressing the issue of caregiver burden in end-of-life care? [SEP] an increasingly significant public health issue in canada, and elsewhere throughout the developed world, pertains to the provision of adequate palliative/end-of-life (p/eol) care. in this article, we specifically examine how canada's compassionate care benefit (ccb)--a contributory benefits social program aimed at informal p/eol caregivers--operates as a public health response in sustaining informal caregivers providing p/eol care, and whether or not it adequately addresses known aspects of caregiver burden that are addressed within the population health promotion (php) model. as part of a national evaluation of canada's compassionate care benefit, 57 telephone interviews were conducted with canadian informal p/eol caregivers in 5 different provinces, pertaining to the strengths and weaknesses of the ccb and the general caregiving experience. palliative care is a heavy burden to many canadians who have dying relatives or friends. this article explores whether a program designed as part of employment insurance can provide comprehensive support to those informal end-of-life care-givers, and whether it is equally accessible to all canadians. the aim of this paper is to present the historical development of the public health approach to end-of-life care in canada, including its successes and hardships thus far. this study aims to determine whether and how caregivers' end-of-life care assessments depend on their burden and benefit perceptions. logistic regression was used and predicted probabilities of caregivers positively or negatively assessing end-of-life care based on their burden and benefit experiences calculated. this suggests that caregiver interventions reducing burden and bolstering benefits may have a positive and lasting impact on end-of-life care assessments. recognising their valuable role as key informants, this study examines the perspectives of front-line palliative care providers (flpcp) regarding a social benefit programme in canada designed to support family caregivers at end-of-life, namely the compassionate care benefit (ccb). 
Fatigue in primary Sjögren's syndrome: is there a link with the fibromyalgia syndrome? [SEP] clinical features of fibromyalgia were evaluated in 100 consecutive outpatients with primary sjögren's syndrome and, as controls, in 90 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, in 75 patients with primary fibromyalgia and in 30 healthy subjects. logistic regression on fibromyalgia revealed three positive associations: chronic fatigue (p=0.0149; odds ratio 2.6 [95% confidence interval 1.2, 5.6]); sjögren's syndrome (p=0.0004; 5.2 [2.1, 13.2]); and ic (p=0.0232; 5.7 [1.3, 25.7]). in an analysis of covariance, there were significant interactions of chronic fatigue, sjögren's syndrome, and interstitial cystitis on fibromyalgia. chronic fatigue, sjögren's syndrome, and ic are significantly associated with fibromyalgia after adjustment for other independent variables. more than two third of patients with primary sjögren's syndrome (ss) report fatigue. clinically, associations have been observed between sjögren's syndrome and fibromyalgia. to determine whether fibromyalgia (fm) is more common in patients with primary sjögren's syndrome (pss) who complain of fatigue. the association and prevalence of fatigue and fm was recorded in a group of patients with pss and a control group of lupus patients, a subset of whom had secondary sjögren's syndrome (sss). fatigue is a prevalent and debilitating problem in sjögren's syndrome. in 300 patients with primary sjögren's syndrome and 100 demographically matched people from the general population (mean age 57 years, 93% female), fatigue (five dimensions of the multidimensional fatigue inventory) and physical activity (three dimensions of the international physical activity questionnaire) were assessed. 
Is laparoscopic sonography a reliable and sensitive procedure for staging colorectal cancer? [SEP] we evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of lus in comparison with preoperative staging and laparoscopy in 33 patients with colorectal cancer. the results obtained in this study demonstrate that lus is an accurate and highly sensitive procedure in staging colorectal cancer, providing a useful and reliable diagnostic tool complementary to laparoscopy. the aim of this study was to determine the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of hydrocolonic sonography (hs) in the detection and preoperative staging of colonic carcinomas. one hundred four patients referred to our department for colorectal disease were examined in a prospective study with conventional transabdominal sonography followed by hs and other well-established means for detection of colorectal cancer. for colon cancer, many randomized controlled trials regarding short-term outcome demonstrate that laparoscopic surgery is feasible, safe and has many benefits including reduction in a peri-operative mortality. this study compared laparoscopic sonography with surgical pathology in the evaluation of pelvic lymph nodes in women with cervical cancer. laparoscopic sonography achieved a sensitivity exceeding 90% in the detection of metastatic lymph nodes in the hemipelves of women with cervical cancer. laparoscopic sonography is a feasible and promising technique for the evaluation of pelvic lymph nodes in women with cervical cancer and merits further evaluation. we describe our experience with laparoscopic procedures for patients with stage iv incurable symptomatic colorectal cancer and compare perioperative outcomes with a contemporaneous group of patients who underwent conventional open procedures. we retrospectively reviewed data from laparoscopic resections performed in patients for symptomatic stage iv colorectal cancer between 1999 and 2009. 
Is alexithymia a risk factor for unexplained physical symptoms in general medical outpatients? [SEP] alexithymia is presumed to play an important predisposing role in the pathogenesis of medically unexplained physical symptoms. this study investigated whether patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms are more alexithymic than those with explained symptoms and whether, in patients with unexplained symptoms, alexithymia is associated with subjective health experience and use of medical services. alexithymia is thought to be associated with the development of medically unexplained physical symptoms (ups). clinicians who treat patients with medically unexplained physical symptoms may often recognize alexithymic features in their patients. it is supposed that alexithymia could be a predisposing factor for the development or persistence of medically unexplained physical symptoms. furthermore, the empirical literature on the association between alexithymia and medically unexplained physical symptoms is reviewed. the main conclusions are that alexithymia appears to be a theoretically important and clinically appealing concept, but that so far the empirical evidence that alexithymia predisposes to the development or persistence of medically unexplained physical symptoms is imperfect. alexithymia is postulated as an important factor in the development of medically unexplained physical symptoms. there is a high incidence of alexithymia in people who report medically unexplained symptoms. while alexithymia is related to psychopathology in general, it has been associated with increased reporting of medically unexplained symptoms and depression in particular. 
Alcohol consumption and acute myocardial infarction: a benefit of alcohol consumed with meals? [SEP] we studied the association of alcohol consumption with the risk of myocardial infarction among 38,077 male health professionals who were free of cardiovascular disease and cancer at base line. as compared with men who consumed alcohol less than once per week, men who consumed alcohol three to four or five to seven days per week had decreased risks of myocardial infarction (multivariate relative risk, 0.68 [95 percent confidence interval, 0.55 to 0.84] and 0.63 [95 percent confidence interval, 0.54 to 0.74], respectively). among men, consumption of alcohol at least three to four days per week was inversely associated with the risk of myocardial infarction. men who increased their alcohol consumption by a moderate amount during follow-up had a decreased risk of myocardial infarction. the apparent favorable effect of alcohol on the risk of acute myocardial infarction (mi) may be related to its hypoinsulinemic effect when consumed with meals. we discuss the association between alcohol consumption and acute myocardial infarction on the basis of evidence from literature published recently. habitual moderate alcohol consumption is associated with a lower risk of acute myocardial infarction (mi), whereas heavy (binge) drinking is associated with higher cardiovascular risk. to quantify the effects of quantity and frequency of alcohol consumption on risk of acute myocardial infarction and coronary death. the aim of this study was to investigate a possible association between the risk for acute myocardial infarction occurrence and alcohol consumption. our results suggest that binge drinking is associated with twice the risk for myocardial infarction compared to not drinking. 
Do mossy fibers release GABA? [SEP] furthermore, glutamic acid decarboxylase and the vesicular gaba transporter mrna are expressed in the granule cells and mossy fibers in an activity-dependent manner, suggesting that these cells release gaba in addition to glutamate. in accordance with our hypothesis we show that the mossy fiber synaptosomal preparation of the kindled rats has a significantly higher content of endogenous gaba than controls. these results suggest that mossy fiber (mf) synaptosomes contain and release glutamate and gaba. failure of gaba(b) receptor-mediated modulation of mossy fiber transmission at mossy fibers may contribute to the development of spontaneous seizures after status epilepticus. gad expression is increased after seizures, and simultaneous glutamatergic and gabaergic neurotransmission from the mossy fibers to ca3 appears, supporting the hypothesis that gaba can be released from the mossy fibers. this further supports the notion that local synaptic molecular changes enable mossy fibers to release gaba in response to enhanced excitability. in this study, we report that axonal gaba(a) receptors on mossy fibers are involved in the activity-dependent facilitation during development. these results suggested that gaba released from interneurons acted on axonal gaba(a) receptors on mossy fibers and contributed at least partially to the activity- and age-dependent facilitation in the hippocampus. it has been hypothesized that, in the developing rodent hippocampus, mossy fiber terminals release gaba together with glutamate. thus, our results do not support the hypothesis that gaba is released as a neurotransmitter from mossy fiber terminals during development. 
The clinical significance of bile duct sludge: is it different from bile duct stones? [SEP] some patients with suspected common bile duct (cbd) stones are found to have sludge and no stones. although sludge in the gallbladder is a precursor of gallbladder stones, the significance of bile duct sludge (bds) is poorly defined. bile duct sludge seems to be an early stage of choledocholithiasis. previously we reported on the use of laparoscopic ultrasonography in detecting common bile duct stones during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. medical records of 44 patients with an increased risk for common bile duct stones undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy between 1993 and 1998 were reviewed. the presence of bile duct stones and/or sludge were confirmed after sphincterotomy and extraction in 34 patients. these observations suggest a link between intermittent obstruction due to biliary sludge in the common bile duct and bacterial cholangitis. in approximately one out of five patients with positive findings at eus, sludge is detected in the bile duct instead of stones. we evaluated the bile duct using idus for the presence of stones or sludge. in both groups, the positive rate of choledocholithiasis and bile sludge at exploration, number of stones in cbd, utilization rate of electro-hydraulic lithotripsy, estimated blood loss, successful duct clearance, the rate of postoperative bile leakage, postoperative bile duct stricture, reoperation, stone recurrence, and other postoperative complications showed no significant difference (p > 0.05). 
Can Ambu self-inflating bag and Neopuff infant resuscitator provide adequate and safe manual inflations for infants up to 10 kg weight? [SEP] manual resuscitation devices for infants and newborns must be able to provide adequate ventilation in a safe and consistent manner across a wide range of patient sizes (0.5-10 kg) and differing clinical states. we aimed to compare performance of the ambu self-inflating bag (sib) with the neopuff t-piece resuscitator in three resuscitation models. the neopuff was unable to reach set peak inflation pressures and exhibited seriously elevated positive end expiratory pressure (peep) with all inflow gas rates (p<0.001) in this infant model. manual inflation resuscitation devices delivering positive pressure lung inflation at birth can be classified broadly into two types: 1) flow generating, ie silicone self-inflating bags (sib) also known as bag valve mask (bvm) and 2) flow dependent, ie anaesthetic flow inflating bag (fib) and t-piece resuscitator (tpr) systems (eg: neopuff, ge panda and draeger resuscitaires). to explore how much oxygen is delivered when using two different brands of neonatal self-inflating resuscitation bags without a reservoir. when using the laerdal and ambu infant resuscitation self-inflating bags without a reservoir, delivered oxygen concentration is >70% for currently recommended flow and pressure settings. this paper reviews the state of the art in australia of manually operated, self-inflating bag resuscitators, including the laerdal, air viva and ambu; manually operated bags dependent upon an oxygen supply, including mapleson b, c, e and f, the cig medishield oxy-saver and modified oxy-viva resuscitator 3, and the komesaroff oxy-resuscitator rd85; oxygen-powered resuscitators, including the oxy-viva resuscitator 3 with demand and rm2 valves, and the oxylife fm85; and portable ventilators, including the drager oxylog, and ohmeda logic 07. we studied 31 operators (neomatologists, neonatal respiratory therapists, neonatal fellows, a pediatrician, pediatric residents, neonatal nurse practitioners, and neonatal nurses) using a t-piece resuscitator (neopuff), fisher and paykel healthcare, auckland, new zealand), a self-inflating bag (baby blue ii, vital signs, totowa, nj), and a flow-inflating bag (model e191 anesthesia associates, san marcos, ca). using a continuous pressure recording system and a neonatal manikin, we evaluated the ability to deliver a consistent pip of 20 or 40 cmh2o and a peep of 5 cmh2o during 30 s of ventilation, the ability to maintain a 5 s inflation at a pip of 20 cmh2o and the time to transition from a pip of 20 to 40 cmh2o. there is a need for improvement in the design and function of current manual resuscitation devices and for prospective trials to evaluate the optimal method of bag and mask ventilation during resuscitation of the newborn infant. 
Are IgM-enriched immunoglobulins an effective adjuvant in septic VLBW infants? [SEP] to investigate the effectiveness of igm-enriched immunoglobulins (igm-eivig) in reducing short-term mortality of neonates with proven late-onset sepsis. this hypothesis-generator study shows that igm-eivig is an effective adjuvant therapy in vlbw infants with proven sepsis. the use of intravenous igm enriched immunoglobulins, with higher antimicrobial activity than standard igg, has been demonstrated in a retrospective study to reduce short term mortality in vlbw infant with proven sepsis. igm-enriched immunoglobulins have been proposed as a potential adjuvant therapy for septic shock. the aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical features and prognoses of children receiving igm-enriched intravenous immunoglobulin to treat sepsis, septic shock, and multi-organ failure. our clinical work with 5-days igm-enriched intravenous immunoglobulin may reveal a survival benefit of this treatment for children with septic shock. the aim of this study was to determine the effects of adjuvant immunoglobulin m (igm)-enriched intravenous immunoglobulin (ivig) therapy on mortality rate, hematological variables and length of hospital stay in newborn infants with blood culture-proven sepsis. in this prospective randomised controlled pilot study we investigated the effects of igm-enriched immunoglobulin treatment in patients with early septic shock accompanied by severe respiratory failure. we evaluated a polyclonal igm and iga enriched immunoglobulin (igmeivig) preparation in reducing the short term mortality in extremely low birth weight neonates (elbw) with proven infection. this study shows that igmeivig may have a role as adjuvant therapy in elbw infants with proven sepsis. 
Is resected stomach volume related to weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy? [SEP] we present the correlation between excised specimen size in laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy and patient demographics, comorbidities, and postoperative weight loss. this study aims to address whether the size of gastric specimen excised during laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy has any correlation with patient demographics, comorbidities, and postoperative percent of excess body weight lost. there was no correlation between excised stomach size in laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy and postoperative weight loss (percent of excess body weight lost) or change in bmi. outcome was expressed by excess weight loss percentage, resolution of comorbidities, improvement of quality of life, and incidence of complications after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. among the bariatric surgery community, it has recently emerged the idea of a possible association between resected gastric volume (rgv) and weight loss after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg). pre- and post-operative stomach volumes can be important determinants for effectiveness of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (lsg) in causing weight loss. early post-operative weight loss (3 months) correlates well with the volume of the excised stomach but not with that of the gastric sleeve. the present study aimed to evaluate the impact of the preoperative gastric volume, volume of the remaining gastric pouch, and volume of the resected stomach on weight loss after lsg. the percentage of excess weight loss (ewl) and decrease in body mass index (bmi) at 6 months postoperatively were measured and correlated with preoperative and postoperative gastric volumes. however, short-term weight regain may occur owing to gastric dilation after initial laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. 
Resection of colorectal liver metastases after second-line chemotherapy: is it worthwhile? [SEP] clinical trials demonstrated that 6-37% of the patients with colorectal liver-limited metastases underwent surgical resection after first-line chemotherapy. non-operative management of asymptomatic colorectal cancers with un-resectable liver metastases is a safe approach. after resection of colorectal liver metastases (clm), ras mutations are associated with modest survival benefit and second-line chemotherapy confers limited hope for cure. patients who received second-line chemotherapy had significantly larger and greater number of liver metastases and were more likely to undergo major hepatectomy. despite significant improvements in systemic therapy for patients with colorectal liver metastases (crlms), response rates in the first-line setting are not optimal, and response rates in the second-line setting remain disappointing. thus, surgical treatment approaches are an appropriate and important treatment option in patients with liver-only colorectal cancer metastases. resection of colorectal cancer liver metastases can produce long-term survival in selected patients, but the efficacy of liver resection as a solitary treatment is limited by two factors. liver resection is the treatment of choice for hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma. recent reports have shown that liver resection following systemic chemotherapy in patients with initially unresectable metastases from colorectal cancer may also result in a good long-term survival, and rescue surgery after chemotherapy has become a strategy of choice. a 29-year-old male and a 35-year-old female with unresectable liver metastases from colorectal cancer underwent complete resection after administration of third-line combination therapy of cetuximab and irinotecan. 
Do ART patients face higher C-section rates during their stage of delivery? [SEP] patients after art treatment suffer from higher c-section rates during their stage of delivery. the aim of this study was to analyze if art procedures influenced pregnancy and neonatal outcomes in singleton pregnancies with early preterm delivery. c-section rate, placenta previa and pih disorders were higher in the art group. the higher prevalence of c-sections in the art group was not statistically significant after adjusting for age and parity in the whole population but resulted significantly different when analyzing the subgroup of patients with spontaneous initiation of labor. fetal outcomes seem to be equal between art and sc in early preterm neonates ; c-section rate and pregnancy complications such as placenta previa and pih disorders seem to be higher in the art group. rate of assisted delivery, including cesarean section, was significantly higher in both patient groups. trigonocephaly is related to art, and in addition higher rates of breech position and cesarean section are found. ninety-five singleton art pregnancies and 190 matched spontaneous pregnancies were assessed for preterm delivery rates, pregnancy complications, and cesarean section rates in a retrospective study at an academic medical center. among the art singleton deliveries group (n = 95), 19 (20%) were preterm, which was statistically significantly higher than the 4% (8 of 190) found in the control group. singleton art pregnancies are at an increased risk of preterm delivery compared to singleton pregnancies after spontaneous conception. 
Does a preoperative medically supervised weight loss program improve bariatric surgery outcomes? [SEP] the efficacy of mandatory medically supervised preoperative weight loss (mpwl) prior to bariatric surgery continues to be a controversial topic. the purpose of this observational study was to assess the efficacy of a mpwl program in a single institution, which mandated at least 10% excess body weight loss before surgery, by comparing outcomes of patients undergoing primary bariatric surgery with and without a compulsory preoperative weight loss regimen. a mandatory preoperative weight loss program prior to bariatric surgery did not result in significantly greater %ewl or comorbidity resolution 1 year after surgery compared to patients not required to lose weight preoperatively. preoperative weight loss regimens prior to bariatric surgery have been a routine and common practice for many centers, in the us and around the world. this review examines the available current literature, in the context of previous findings, regarding the impact of mandated preoperative weight loss regimens and mandatory weight loss on bariatric outcomes. the reviewed studies do not provide sufficient evidence that mandatory participation in a preoperative weight loss regimen prior to bariatric surgery is associated with achieved weight loss or durable bariatric outcome benefit. to determine if preoperative weight loss is the best predictor of postoperative weight loss. a medically supervised weight management program complementary to surgery is beneficial for the treatment of weight regain and may prove important in assisting the surgical patient achieve long-term weight loss success. despite preoperative weight loss being a common prerequisite to metabolic and bariatric surgery, its relationship to 30-day postoperative outcomes is unclear. the aim of this study was to assess whether preoperative weight loss is associated with 30-day postoperative quality outcomes in adults undergoing metabolic and bariatric surgery. 
Is solitary kidney really more resistant to ischemia? [SEP] solitary kidney in a canine model is more resistant to ischemia than paired kidneys based on radiological, pathological and genetic evidence. the occurrence of an aneurysm in a solitary kidney, ex situ operation and renal preservation during ischemia are discussed. median cold ischemia time was 31 minutes in patients with a solitary kidney and 35 minutes in those with 2 kidneys. compared to patients with 2 kidneys those with a solitary kidney had a significantly lower preoperative estimated glomerular filtration rate (p < 0.001), which decreased a median of 30% during the early postoperative period, and 15% and 32% 1 and 12 months after surgery, respectively. longer clamping time is particularly detrimental in patients with a solitary kidney but it does not appear to influence long-term renal function. to determine the effect of a laparoscopic approach on warm renal ischemia in the pig with a solitary kidney. possible explanations for this finding include the protective effect of a solitary kidney and the potential protective effect of relative ischemic preconditioning provided by the pneumoperitoneum. this case shows that the reversibility of renal ischemia is not necessarily determined by either the duration of occlusion or the size of the affected kidney. to compare the short- and long-term renal effects of warm ischemia versus no ischemia in patients with a solitary kidney. although selection bias is present, pn without ischemia should be used when technically feasible in patients with a solitary kidney. 
Neck pain treatment with acupuncture: does the number of needles matter? [SEP] multiple factors may contribute to variability in acupuncture's therapeutic effects, including needling technique, number of needles used, duration of needle retention, acupuncture point specificity, number of treatments, and numerous subjective (psychological) factors. this case report documents the clinical history of a patient who presented to an outpatient physical therapy clinic following surgical removal of two single-use filament needles that fractured in the patient's neck during acupuncture treatment. a systematic literature review was undertaken of studies that compared needle or laser acupuncture with a control procedure for the treatment of neck pain. acupuncture applied to tender points appears to have short-term effects on neck and shoulder pain and stiffness, but this study was unable to demonstrate any long-term superiority over sham acupuncture. however, the number of needles used, that is, the dose of acupuncture stimulation, to obtain the best antinociceptive efficacy is still a matter of debate. the question was addressed comparing the clinical efficacy of two different therapeutic schemes, characterized by a different number of needles used on 36 patients between 29-60 years of age with by a painful cervical myofascial syndrome. for neck pain, acupuncture provides benefits when it is combined with other treatments. here we review neck pain background, acupuncture and the evidence that exist to support acupuncture use in chronic neck pain. clinical trials studying acupuncture for neck pain have shown significant reduction in both pain and associated symptoms. eighteen patients underwent a single 20-minute treatment session, with needling of two acupuncture points hou hsi (si-3) and luo zhen (m-ue-24), on the side ipsilateral to the predominantly involved side of the neck. 
Does fluoridation reduce the use of dental services among adults? [SEP] this paper analyzes the relationship among presence of fluoride in the drinking water, oral health and dental expenditures in four towns in finland. a two-stage least-squares model is used to determine the effect of fluoridated water and other independent variables on the number of missing teeth and per capita annual dental service expenditures for 555 adults. fluoridation's effect on restorative dental demand among 972 washington state employees and spouses, aged 20 to 34 years, in two fluoridated communities and a nonfluoridated community was examined. market effects also were detected in demand equations; relative to adults in the nonfluoridated community, adults residing in the fluoridated community with a large dentist supply received a greater number of restorations, suggesting potential supplier-induced demand from less disease and fewer patients. among adults aged 20 to 34 years with private dental insurance, fluoridation reduces oral disease but may or may not reduce use of restorative services, depending on dentists' clinical decisions. because fluoridation effectively reduces dental caries among children, it may also reduce their demand for dental care. improved preventive methods, primarily the use of fluorides, have resulted in declines in tooth loss, and concomitant increase in risk for dental diseases among older adults. to describe the prevalence of dental fluorosis in the australian adult population. the prevalence of dental fluorosis in the australian adult population was found to be related to population-level changes in fluoride exposure. fluorides and sealants have been shown to reduce caries in populations, making fluoride interventions a large part of the dental public health effort. 
Pertrochanteric fractures: is there an advantage to an intramedullary nail? [SEP] of 2,245 pertrochanteric fractures, 1,867 were treated with a short intramedullary nail and 378 were treated with a long intramedullary nail. in contrast, a short intramedullary nail has a lower rate of major reoperations compared with a long intramedullary nail for pertrochanteric fractures but with a lower absolute risk reduction compared with the results for subtrochanteric intramedullary nailing. this article reviews intramedullary nailing for the treatment of pertrochanteric femoral fractures, with an emphasis on complications. to compare the results between a sliding compression hip screw and an intramedullary nail in the treatment of pertrochanteric fractures. to compare short with long intramedullary hip nailing for elderly patients with unstable pertrochanteric fractures. short intramedullary hip nailing is associated with similar function and complications, but shorter operative time compared to long intramedullary hip nails for patients with unstable pertrochanteric fractures. intramedullary nailing is widely used in the treatment of stable pertrochanteric fractures. this study suggests that intramedullary nails without distal locking may be a reliable and acceptable option for treating stable pertrochanteric fractures (ao/ota 31-a1 and a2) in elderly people. intramedullary nailing of pertrochanteric femoral fractures has grown in popularity over the past 2 decades likely because this procedure is associated with a low risk for postoperative morbidity and a fast recovery of function. the results of this study confirm that intramedullary nailing with the use of a gamma nail is a safe treatment option for stable and unstable pertrochanteric fractures. 
SPECT study with I-123-Ioflupane (DaTSCAN) in patients with essential tremor. Is there any correlation with Parkinson's disease? [SEP] this review was undertaken to clarify the utility of dat-spect imaging with ((123)i)ioflupane (datscan or datscan or ((123)i)fp-cit) in assisting practitioners in their clinical decision making by visualising the dopamine transporter in parkinsonian cases. in some patients with suspected parkinsonian syndromes, spect imaging with ((123)i)ioflupane is useful to assist in the diagnosis and to help guide prognosis and treatment decisions, including avoiding medications that are unlikely to provide benefit. ioflupane, n-u-fluoropropyl-2a-carbomethoxy-3a-(4-iodophenyl) nortropane, also called fp-cit, labelled with (123)i (commercially known as datscan) has been proven to be useful in the differential diagnosis between pd and et and to confirm dopaminergic degeneration in patients with parkinsonism. previous 123-i ioflupane spect (datscan) studies involving radioisotope labeling of the dopamine transporter protein at presynaptic level in patients with ipd (idiopathic parkinson's disease) have found this technique to be highly sensitive in exploring the nigrostriatal pathway. sixty percent of patients had parkinsonism and 47% abnormal (123)i-ioflupane spect. the [(123)i]ioflupane-a dopamine transporter radioligand-spect (dat-spect) has proven to be useful in the differential diagnosis of tremor. we used (123)i-ioflupane spect to study 32 unrelated patients with essential tremor (16 with positive familial history), 47 sporadic tremor dominant patients with parkinson's disease and 31 healthy control subjects. among patients with suspected parkinsonian syndromes, of which pd is one, the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of datscan spect imaging are high. study 2 was a trial of [(123)i]fp-cit spect in patients with established diagnoses of parkinsonian syndrome (ps) or essential tremor (et). the usefulness of i-ioflupane imaging for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum of patients with clinically uncertain parkinsonian syndromes is well known, especially to differentiate essential tremor from parkinsonisms. 
Are the GFRUP's recommendations for withholding or withdrawing treatments in critically ill children applicable? [SEP] in 2005, the french-speaking task force on pediatric critical and emergency care [groupe francophone de réanimation et d'urgences pédiatriques (gfrup)] issued recommendations on withholding and withdrawing treatments in pediatric critical care. to evaluate feasibility of the guidelines of the groupe francophone de réanimation et urgence pédiatriques (french-speaking group of paediatric intensive and emergency care; gfrup) for limitation of treatments in the paediatric intensive care unit (picu). to determine whether limits to life-sustaining care are becoming more common, we attempted to quantify the incidence of recommendations to withhold or withdraw life support from critically ill patients, to describe how patients respond to these recommendations, and to examine how conflicts over these recommendations are resolved. decision to withdraw or withhold life-sustaining treatment in critically ill adults in the united kingdom was associated with increased 180-day mortality in the marginal patients. a decision was made to limit, withdraw, or withhold life-sustaining treatment for 82% of the infants. this study confirms that health care providers and families together can confront the ethical decision of whether to continue or forego life-sustaining treatment for the critically ill neonate near the end of life and, in the majority of cases, will choose to limit, withdraw, or withhold such support. many critically ill patients who die will do so after a decision has been made to withhold/withdraw life-sustaining therapy. the objective of this study was to document the characteristics of icu patients with a decision to withhold/withdraw life-sustaining treatment, including the types of supportive treatments used, patterns of organ dysfunction, and international differences, including gross national income (gni). a decision to withhold/withdraw life-sustaining treatment was reported during the icu stay in 1,259 patients (13%), including 820 (40%) nonsurvivors and 439 (5%) survivors. the withholding and withdrawing of treatment was frequent in critically ill patients and was initiated primarily by physicians. 
Is inhaled prophylactic heparin useful for prevention and Management of Pneumonia in ventilated ICU patients? [SEP] the purpose was to determine the efficacy of prophylactic inhaled heparin for the prevention and treatment of pneumonia in patients receiving mechanical ventilation (mv). patients aged at least 18 years and requiring invasive mv for more than 48 hours were randomized to usual care, nebulization of unfractionated sodium heparin (5000 u in 2 ml), or nebulization with 0.9% sodium chloride (2 ml) 4 times daily with the main outcome measures, the development of ventilator-associated pneumonia (vap), ventilator-associated complication, and sequential organ failure assessment scores in patients with admission pneumonia or developing vap. low-dose nebulized heparin cannot be recommended for prophylaxis against vap or to hasten recovery from pneumonia in patients receiving mv. to determine whether prophylactic inhaled heparin is effective for the prevention and treatment of pneumonia patients receiving mechanical ventilation (mv) in the intensive care unit. patients aged ≥18years and requiring invasive mv for more than 48hours were randomized to usual care, nebulization of unfractionated sodium heparin (5000 units in 2ml) or placebo nebulization with 0.9% sodium chloride (2ml) four times daily with the main outcome measures of the development of ventilator associated pneumonia (vap), ventilator associated complication (vac) and sequential organ failure assessment scores in patients with pneumonia on admission or who developed vap. nebulized heparin cannot be recommended for prophylaxis against vap or to hasten recovery from pneumonia in patients receiving mv. small uncontrolled studies suggest aerosolized heparin with n-acetylcysteine might break down pulmonary casts and relieve airway obstruction in patients with severe inhalation injury. pneumonia caused by the ventilator is the most common acquired infection in the intensive care unit (icu), which increases the morbidity and mortality of the patients. the present study reviews the effect of adding inhaled colistin in the treatment of ventilator-induced pulmonary infections in intensive care unit (icu) patients. therapeutic-dose anticoagulation may be beneficial for patients with severe covid-19 pneumonia requiring mechanical ventilation. 
Is the h-index predictive of greater NIH funding success among academic radiologists? [SEP] the aims of this study were to determine whether h-indices were associated with greater national institutes of health (nih) funding success among academic radiologists. the authors' objectives were to determine whether there is an association between scholarly impact, as measured by the h index, and successful national institutes of health (nih) grant funding awarded to faculty in neurological surgery departments. the purpose of this investigation was to determine the association between scholarly impact, as measured by the h-index, and the procurement of national institutes of health (nih) grant funding among academic plastic surgeons. nih-funded faculty had higher h-indices than nonnih-funded faculty (23.9 versus 9.9, p < 0.001), an effect that persisted when controlling for academic rank. higher rank correlated with higher h-indices and predicted greater nih funding (p < 0.05). higher h-indices correlated with greater nih funding (r = 0.481, p < 0.001). to examine whether there is an association between scholarly impact, as measured by the h-index, academic rank, and national institutes of health (nih) awards in academic ophthalmology. bibliometric indices are higher for those with nih funding compared to those without, but only the contemporary h-index was shown to be predictive of nih funding. we evaluated the relationship between national institutes of health (nih) funding, academic rank and research productivity, as measured by the h-index, an objective indicator of research impact on a field. there is an association among the h-index, nih funding and academic rank. 
Is minimally invasive mitral valve repair with artificial chords reproducible and applicable in routine surgery? [SEP] minimally invasive mitral valve repair using neochords provided a high rate of repair, reproducible results in a routine cardiac surgery setting and stable repair during follow-up. this has become our preferred technique for mitral valve surgery. to review selected recent publications on minimally invasive mitral valve surgery to help answer the question as to whether the minimally invasive approach should be routinely used in complex mitral valve repairs. we retrospectively reviewed 16 patients (7 men and 9 women, aged 36 to 77 years) who underwent mitral valve repair with chordal reconstruction for isolated posterior mitral leaflet prolapse. artificial chords for the posterior mitral leaflet should not be too long, to avoid systolic anterior motion or recurrent mitral regurgitation after surgery. a novel method is described for artificial chordae replacement with expanded polytetrafluoroethylene suture in mitral valve repair procedures. herein we describe a novel and reproducible technique for bi-leaflet mitral valve repair, including those with extensive anterior mitral leaflet prolapse. transcatheter edge-to-edge mitral valve repair using the mitraclip and pascal system, which are designed to mimic the surgical alfieri's stich, has changed the landscape for the treatment of symptomatic functional mitral regurgitation (mr). the transapical off-pump mitral valve repair with neochord implantation, known as a neochord procedure, is also a new option to implant artificial chords in a minimally invasive manner in mr patients with leaflet prolapse or flail. in this review article, we will summarize the emerging minimally invasive interventions for mitral and tricuspid valves. 
Does obesity predict knee pain over fourteen years in women, independently of radiographic changes? [SEP] to assess whether age, obesity, and change in radiographic knee osteoarthritis explain the trend in knee pain and osteoarthritis. this study examined the roles of sociodemographic factors (age, race, gender, education, marital status), obesity, and severity of radiographic knee osteoarthritis (oa) and knee pain on self-reported functional status. only age, female sex, obesity, and knee pain severity were independent effects (p < 0.0009). disability associated with knee pain varied by both radiographic knee oa severity and obesity. obesity was independently associated with disability and compounded disability from knee pain. studies of disability in knee oa should include assessment of obesity, severity of radiographic knee oa, and severity of knee pain, as well as their interactions. subjects were 180 obese women, aged 45-64 years, with unilateral knee oa, based on the standing anteroposterior (ap) view. associations between bmi over 14 years and knee pain at y15 were examined using logistic regression. over 14 years, a higher bmi predicts knee pain at y15 in women, independently of radiographic knee oa. among women with knee pain, higher knee height was associated with more severe knee pain (p = 0.0004 for the highest quartile versus the lowest quartile of knee height) independently of the severity of radiographic oa. 
Do liquid-based preparations of urinary cytology perform differently than classically prepared cases? [SEP] the cytomorphology of liquid-based preparations in urine cytology is different than classic slide preparations. to compare the performance of liquid-based preparation specimens to classically prepared urine specimens with a malignant diagnosis in the college of american pathologists interlaboratory comparison program in nongynecologic cytology. liquid-based preparations performed significantly better in urinary cytology challenges when evaluating malignant categories in the college of american pathologists interlaboratory comparison program. these results suggest that liquid-based preparations facilitate a more accurate diagnosis than conventional preparations. is adenocarcinoma more readily detected in liquid-based preparations? liquid-based cytology of nongynecological specimens is commonly used in cytology laboratories throughout the world and various processing methods, such as thinprep and surepath, have been reported. the cytological features and performance of liquid-based cytology for various cytology specimens, including body cavity fluids, urine, brushing specimens and fine-needle aspiration of various lesions, were reviewed and compared with the experience of our laboratory and the literature published in pubmed. the aim of this study was to compare the quality of two different preparation techniques (cell collectors): the conventional transfer procedure to glass slides and the so-called liquid-based cytology preparation method. on specimen analysis, the liquid-based cytology showed statistically significant improvement compared to conventional glass sides (p < 0.001). the conventional smear (cs) method of testing urine samples has a low sensitivity, approximately 50% result accuracy for detecting urothelial carcinomas, while liquid-based cytology (lbc) has much improved diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity. 
Outcomes of severely injured adult trauma patients in an Australian health service: does trauma center level make a difference? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to critically evaluate the outcome of injured children treated in an adult level i trauma center by adult trauma surgeons. it has yet to be shown whether there is an outcome benefit associated with the "level of hospital" initially treating severely injured trauma patients in australia. this study was designed to determine whether the level of trauma center providing treatment impacts mortality and/or hospital length of stay. outcomes were evaluated for severely injured trauma patients with an injury severity score (iss) > 15 using nsw institute of trauma and injury management data from 2002-2007 for our regional health service. patients presenting to a level iii trauma center had a significantly higher risk of death than those presenting to the level i center, regardless of age, sex, iss, or prehospital time. severely injured patients treated at a level iii center had a higher mortality rate than those treated at a level i center. a successful regional trauma care system should concentrate severely injured patients within trauma centers, and should improve severity-adjusted outcomes. for the entire patient cohort, and for central nervous system, orthopaedic and general/gastrointestinal injuries, severity, age, and gender adjusted mortality risk was significantly greater at trauma centers than nontrauma centers. adult trauma patients consecutively admitted to a level i trauma center between january 2006 and december 2010 were analyzed. in this cohort of patients treated at urban and suburban trauma centers, treatment at a level ii trauma center was associated with overall risk-adjusted reduced mortality relative to that at a level i center. 
Does a well developed collateral circulation predispose to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention? [SEP] to evaluate whether a well developed collateral circulation predisposes to restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). a well developed collateral circulation does not predict an increased risk of restenosis after pci. however, data derived from smaller studies indicates that coronary collaterals may increase the risk for restenosis after percutaneous coronary interventions. the risk of restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) is increased in patients with good coronary collateralization. the purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that the incidence of restenosis after primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction is largely influenced by the preexistent coronary collateral circulation to the infarct-related coronary artery. severe preexistent stenosis of the infarct-related coronary artery causing the development of collateral circulation may result in a high frequency of restenosis. restenosis occurred in 26 (38%) of 69 patients with poor or no collateral circulation (group a) in contrast to 35 (64%) of 55 patients with good angiographic collateral circulation (group b, p < 0.005). these findings indicate that the presence of well developed collateral circulation to the infarct-related coronary artery predicts a higher frequency of restenosis after primary coronary angioplasty. the difference in restenosis rates observed between the patients with and without good collateral circulation probably reflects the impact of underlying severity of stenosis on the long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty. patients with restenosis had a significantly higher collateral flow index at the initial coronary angiography than patients without restenosis (0.26 +/- 0.14 vs 0.12 +/- 0.09; p<0.0001). 
Are home sampling kits for sexually transmitted infections acceptable among men who have sex with men? [SEP] this qualitative study, involving semi-structured interviews with 24 men recruited from a genitourinary medicine clinic in brighton, uk, explored their views towards the introduction of home sampling kits for sti into clinical practice. home sampling kits could be a viable alternative to meet the increasing demand for sexual health services, but to improve the home sampling kit uptake the method of service provision must be culturally sensitive and acceptable. to investigate factors associated with the return of home sampling kits for sexually transmitted infections (stis). all patients requesting sti home sampling kits via the umbrella sexual health service website between 15 july 2016 and 14 december 2016. on multivariable analysis, women and men who have sex with men were similarly likely to return their sampling kits (adjusted or (oradj) 1.06, 95% ci 0.86 to 1.30), while heterosexual men were significantly less likely to return their sampling kits (oradj 0.63, 95% ci 0.55 to 0.72, p<0.001 vs women). this programme included home sampling for testing, combined with treatment and sexual health counselling. here, we pilot implemented the programme in a hospital setting (hiv-positive msm) to determine the factors for the successful implementation of sti home sampling strategies. healthcare providers from the hiv hospital treatment centre (maastricht) were invited to offer free sti sampling kits (syphilis, hepatitis b, [extra]genital chlamydia and gonorrhoea laboratory testing) to their hiv-positive msm patients (march to may 2018). the home sampling programme increased sti test uptake and was acceptable and feasible for msm and their care providers. home-based screening for sexually transmitted infections has been shown to be a feasible approach for men and women from a variety of settings, including high-risk, low-income, and resource-poor communities. 
Does route of delivery affect maternal and perinatal outcome in women with eclampsia? [SEP] this study aims to compare the fetomaternal outcome between planned vaginal delivery and planned cesarean section in women with eclampsia after 34 weeks of gestation. there is increasing trend of delivering the eclampsia mother at > 34 weeks of gestation by cesarean section instead of inducing labor and delivering vaginally. the case notes of 212 patients with eclampsia were analyzed with respect to age, parity, type of eclampsia, gestational age, booking status, mode of delivery, and outcome of the babies and mothers. to find out the reproductive performance of patients in the immediate pregnancy following an eclampsia. three hundred and ninety seven women whose previous pregnancies were complicated by eclampsia were followed up based on a schedule of antenatal care from 14-16 weeks gestation till delivery. previous episode of eclampsia does not necessarily affect perinatal and maternal outcome adversely in subsequent pregnancy, provided adequate antenatal surveillance and timely delivery are offered to the patients. eclampsia occurs in one in 124 deliveries in cali, colombia and is associated with high maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. eclampsia is a major cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. the objectives of this study were to determine pregnancy outcome in women with eclampsia especially the maternal and perinatal deaths and the various contributory factors. a retrospective analysis of demographic and clinical data of patients with eclampsia over a ten-year period (2000-2009) with particular reference to fetal and maternal outcome. 
Surgical management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta: is endoaortic balloon occlusion safe? [SEP] occlusion of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta by an endoaortic inflatable balloon has been proposed as an alternative to conventional cross-clamping to prevent injury to the vessel and distal embolization of debris. the endoaortic balloon clamp catheter was used to occlude the ascending aorta at pressures >300 mmhg. the analysis performed among 78 patients showed no incidence of any structural damage to the ascending aorta at the intraoperative position of the endoaortic balloon. application of an external cross-clamp to an atherosclerotic ascending aorta increases the risk of an embolic event and traumatic injury of the aorta. concerns have been raised regarding the potential increased risk of vascular adverse events (embolization, dissection, stroke, lower extremity ischemia) associated with endoaortic balloon occlusion. we undertook this study to evaluate the vascular risk associated with endoaortic balloon use. aortic valve replacement in patients with severe atherosclerosis of the ascending aorta poses technical challenges. the purpose of this study was to examine operative strategies and results of aortic valve replacement in patients with a severely atherosclerotic ascending aorta that could not be safely crossclamped. aortic valve replacement in patients with severe atherosclerosis of the ascending aorta is associated with increased operative morbidity and mortality. our experience suggests that it is possible to successfully use endoaortic balloon occlusion in patients with ascending aortic dilation with proper preoperative imaging and planning. 
Estradiol and Antagonist Pretreatment Prior to Microdose Leuprolide in in Vitro Fertilization. Does It Improve IVF Outcomes in Poor Responders as Compared to Oral Contraceptive Pill? [SEP] to compare in vitro fertilization (ivf) outcomes in low responders stimulated with microdose leuprolide protocol (ml) following pretreatment with either oral contraceptive pill (ocp) or luteal estradiol (e2) + gnrh antagonist (e2 + antag) for follicular synchronization prior to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (coh). e2+antag pretreatment does not appear to improve ivf outcomes in ml protocol when compared to the standard ocp in poor responders. to evaluate in vitro fertilization (ivf) cycle outcomes in young poor responders treated with a luteal estradiol/gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (e(2)/ant) protocol versus an oral contraceptive pill microdose leuprolide protocol (ocp-mdl). to evaluate the effect of oral contraceptive pill (ocp) pretreatment in patients undergoing ivf cycles with an antagonist. this study aims to verify if luteal estradiol pre-treatment improves ivf/icsi outcomes in a gnrh antagonist protocol as compared with a micro dose gnrh agonist protocol in poor-responding patients. this study demonstrates that the use of estradiol during a preceding luteal phase in a gnrh antagonist protocol can provide similar ivf outcomes when compared to a micro dose gnrh agonist protocol. to summarize the available data regarding the value of oral contraceptive pill addition in ovarian stimulation schemes used for in-vitro fertilization. the objective is to present an overview of trials and appreciate the relevant data on the effect of steroids pretreatment (oral contraceptives, 17β-estradiol and estradiol valerate) in assisted reproduction cycles. in low responders oral contraceptive pill pretreatment may be beneficial in improving ovarian responses by reducing the amount of gonadotropins and the number of days required for ovarian stimulation. we performed a randomized trial to compare ivf outcomes in 54 poor responder patients undergoing a microdose leuprolide acetate (la) protocol or a gnrh antagonist protocol incorporating a luteal phase e(2) patch and gnrh antagonist in the preceding menstrual cycle. 
Are opioid dependence and methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) documented in the medical record? [SEP] methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) is typically provided separately from medical care. to identify potential safety risks among mmt patients engaged in medical care by evaluating the frequency that opioid dependence and mmt documentation are missing in medical records and characterizing potential medication-methadone interactions. the proportions of medical records without opioid dependence and methadone documentation were estimated and potential medication-methadone interactions were identified. among the study subjects (n = 84), opioid dependence documentation was missing from the medical record in 30% (95% ci, 20%-41%) and mmt documentation was missing from either the last primary care note or the last hospital discharge summary in 11% (95% ci, 5%-19%). among patients receiving mmt and medical care at different sites, documentation of opioid dependence and mmt in the medical record occurs for the majority, but is missing in a substantial number of patients. methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) involves the daily administration of the oral opioid agonist methadone as a treatment for opioid dependence-a persistent disorder with a substantial risk of premature death. the nation's methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) programs play a central role in addressing the current opioid epidemic. methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) is reco-gnized as a reference treatment for opioid dependence. methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) is an effective therapy for opioid-dependence; its use is based on a harm reduction philosophy and represents one of a range of treatment approaches for opioid-dependent individuals. methadone maintenance treatment (mmt) may prevent overdose and death among homeless people with opioid dependence, but suboptimal medication adherence is a common limitation. 
Can teaching medical students to investigate medication errors change their attitudes towards patient safety? [SEP] the purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of a patient-safety curriculum administered during a paediatric clerkship on medical students' attitudes towards patient safety. to assess medical students' perceptions about patient safety issues before the teaching of "patient safety" can be recommended. the main outcome measures were students' perceptions about patient safety issues and their attitude towards teaching of patient safety curriculum. the purpose of this study was to compare attitudes toward disclosing medical errors between medical students and interns. there is a growing recognition of the importance of teaching patient safety to medical students to improve healthcare and minimize patients' harm; however, few studies evaluated the attitudes of pharmacy students toward patient safety. the purpose of this study was to explore the attitudes toward patient safety among pharmacy students in saudi arabia. in undergraduate medical education, patient safety concepts and understanding of medical errors are under-represented. medical students reported slightly positive patient safety attitudes (4.7 ± 0.5 of 7) with the most positive attitudes in the domains of situational awareness, importance of patient safety in the curriculum, error inevitability and team functioning. medical students' patient safety attitudes were very similar among students from both universities, except for understanding of medical error, for which students, who had received structured training in this topic, displayed significantly more positive attitudes. this study investigated the attitudes of korean medical students about patient safety to determine which perspectives required increased focus in terms of educational development. 
Has the prevalence of health care services use increased over the last decade (2001-2009) in elderly people? [SEP] (1) to describe the prevalence of general practitioner visits and hospitalization according to sex and age groups; (2) to identify which factors are independently associated with a higher use of health care services among elderly spanish; and (3) to study the time trends in the prevalence of use of health care services 2001-2009. the current study revealed an increase in health care services utilization from 2001 to 2009 in the older spanish population. between 2001 and 2015, the number and rate of elderly admissions to nt public hospitals increased significantly. elderly people in the nt are increasingly using acute care services. the number of elderly persons is expected to increase rapidly in the coming decades. however, due to improved health among the elderly, this will lead to a relatively limited increase of needs. to assess the use of healthcare services by elderly individuals suffering from chronic diseases. the results indicate that, although the family health program promotes greater use of services at primary care units by elderly people with chronic conditions, it is necessary to expand the access of those aged over 80 and of individuals with functional disability. over the past few decades, in oecd countries there has been a general growing trend in the prevalence of out-of-hospital healthcare services, but there is a general lack of data on the use of these services. this study examined if and how elderly people are using digital services to access health and social care. 
Does high-dose radiotherapy benefit palliative lung cancer patients? [SEP] despite an increasing use of chemotherapy in the palliative setting for lung cancer, the role of palliative thoracic radiotherapy should not be disregarded. radiotherapy has a palliative effect in 50 to 75 per cent of patients presenting with symptoms from either a primary lesion or metastases and should therefore be recommended in symptomatic patients. durable palliation of advanced lung cancer is a common objective for radiation oncologists. to discover the most effective and least toxic regimens of palliative radiotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer, and whether higher doses increase survival. randomised controlled clinical trials comparing different regimens of palliative radiotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. radiotherapy plays a key role in the management of lung cancer patients in curative and palliative settings. twenty-two patients who had received high-dose radiotherapy (50-60 gy) for non-small-cell lung cancer were retreated with palliative radiotherapy for symptoms that were due to locally recurrent disease. percutaneous radiotherapy is an effective tool for the palliative treatment of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc). choosing the optimal palliative lung radiotherapy regimen is challenging. in this retrospective single-centre analysis of palliative lung radiotherapy, increased total dose (up to and including 30 gy/10 fractions) was associated with better survival regardless of performance status. 
Is endothelin-1 an aggravating factor in the development of acute pancreatitis? [SEP] in this study we investigated the effects of exogenous endothelin-1 on the development of severe pancreatitis in rats. these results suggest that endothelin-1 causes pancreatic microcirculatory disturbance and might be a contributing factor in the aggravation of acute pancreatitis. these results suggest that endothelin-1 should play a role in aggravating the development of acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis, through its action on the pancreatic microcirculation. because vasoactive substances, including endothelin, seem to contribute to early mortality in acute pancreatitis, we tested the hypothesis that the inhibition of endothelin action could alter the outcome after severe experimental pancreatitis. to elucidate further the role of endothelin in the development of capillary leakage in acute pancreatitis by investigating the effect of exogenous endothelin administration and endothelin receptor blockade in sham operated animals and two models of acute pancreatitis. endothelin increased pancreatic and colonic capillary permeability in healthy animals and animals with mild acute pancreatitis but had no additional adverse effect in severe acute pancreatitis. in mild and severe acute pancreatitis, endothelin receptor blockade stabilised increased capillary permeability in both the pancreas and colon. the role of endothelin-1 (et-1) and of its receptor a (eta) blockade in oedematous acute pancreatitis (ap) remains unclear. to clarify the involvement of endothelin-1 in acute pancreatitis, we examined the effects of endothelin-1 and its receptor antagonist bq-123 on cerulein-induced pancreatitis in rats. this study suggests that endothelin-1 has protective effects on experimental acute pancreatitis. 
Malnutrition, a new inducer for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients? [SEP] arterial calcification is a significant cardiovascular risk factor in hemodialysis patients. malnutrition is prevalent in hemodialysis patients and is associated with arterial calcification and the expressions of bmp2 and mgp in calcified radial arteries. malnutrition may be a new inducer candidate for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients. this study sought to evaluate the prevalence of carotid artery calcification from panoramic radiographs of patients who were undergoing hemodialysis and to assess the relationship between such calcification and certain medical and periodontal parameters. the purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence of vascular and coronary calcification in patients new to hemodialysis. coupled with the extensive vascular calcification reported by others in prevalent dialysis patients these findings suggest that dialysis-specific factors contribute to calcific vascular disease in esrd. we investigated our hemodialysis outpatients to determine the prevalence of intracranial artery calcification in these patients in comparison with that in healthy controls. a much higher rate of intracranial artery calcification was observed in hemodialysis patients than in the general population, and the most frequently involved sites of calcification in these patients were the relatively large intracranial arteries. in the 56 non-dm hemodialysis patients, vascular calcification was found in the hand artery in 5 patients (8.9%) and in the aorta in 23 patients (41.1%). vascular calcification is a major contributor to morbidity and mortality in hemodialysis. 
Does glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy damage the kidney in women with more parities? [SEP] we aimed to investigate the glomerular hyperfiltration due to pregnancy in women with more parities. in our study, we suggest that glomerular hyperfiltration due to pregnancy does not have adverse effects on kidney in women with more parities. pregnancy may have possible protective mechanisms for kidney against adverse effects of glomerular hyperfiltration. glomerular hyperfiltration is one physiological adaptation to pregnancy, marked by a decline in serum creatinine (scr) concentration by 16 weeks' gestation. it is not known whether blunted glomerular hyperfiltration leads to adverse maternal outcomes, including severe maternal morbidity (smm). blunted glomerular hyperfiltration in pregnancy may identify some women at higher risk of smm. further prospective research is needed about the implications of glomerular hyperfiltration in early pregnancy. pregnancy results in hyperfiltration and might be an added risk for the development of hypertension, proteinuria, or renal insufficiency in donors. in this article, we review the effect of normal pregnancy on the kidney as well as the role of the kidney in preeclampsia. it is well known that a glomerular hyperfiltration takes place during normal pregnancy. 
Subclavian steal syndrome: can the blood pressure difference between arms predict the severity of steal? [SEP] all patients initially seen with discrepant arm blood pressures or a diminished or weakened radial pulse unilaterally should have the diagnosis of subclavian steal considered during their evaluation. subclavian steal syndrome results from hemodynamic impairment due to stenosis or occlusion of subclavian artery. eleven subclavian steal syndrome patients undergoing endovascular therapy attended this study. the measurement of hemodynamic status by pressure wire is very useful to guide endovascular therapy in subclavian steal syndrome patients. we present a case of subclavian steal syndrome successfully diagnosed using the latest technology and treated with stent implantation. the subclavian steal syndrome is a condition that results from the stenosis or occlusion of the subclavian artery proximal to the origin of the vertebral artery. subclavian steal should be a diagnostic consideration in any patient who presents with a pulse deficit or a systolic blood pressure difference of greater than 15 mmhg. herein, we report the case of an 82-year-old male patient with steal syndrome, who had no subjective symptoms despite severe stenosis of the subclavian artery, with a marked left-right difference in blood pressure. seven patients with subclavian steal syndrome underwent diagnostic angiography, which showed four stenoses and three occlusions of the proximal left subclavian artery. we present a case of subclavian-steal syndrome due to post-traumatic dissection of an aberrant right subclavian artery. 
Can the Internet be used to improve sexual health awareness in web-wise young people? [SEP] with the advent of the internet, web-based interventions have potential as an attractive new tool for sexual health promotion by peers. involving young people in their own education in an interactive, safe online space has the potential to develop their empowerment and to foster long-term positive behaviors, especially in the area of sexual health. because young people increasingly use the internet on a daily basis, this medium might be a good educational tool for hiv/aids and other stds. the internet has become the leading source for sexual health information. the internet has opened pathways for youth to find sexual health information which was not easily available to them in the past. studies have shown that seeking sexual health information online may potentially influence an individuals' decision-making to change their sexual health behaviours. online sti information has the potential to increase access to sti information among young online users in malaysia amid the stigma surrounding sex-related issues. providing accurate sti information online from reliable sources may equip young people who have internet access with awareness of sexual health protective behaviours such as condom use. recent research suggests that a variety of media sources and strategies that include mass media communication, computer-assisted instruction and the internet can be used effectively for increasing knowledge and changing attitudes on sexual health issues and for promoting responsible sexual behaviors among young people. the internet can potentially represent a way to educate on sexual health and encourage young people, and especially youth, to be tested for stds. 
Is eligibility for a chemotherapy protocol a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer after radical cystectomy? [SEP] to assess whether eligibility to an adjuvant chemotherapy protocol in itself represents a good prognostic factor after radical cystectomy for bladder cancer. the aim of the study was to evaluate the value of clinical prognostic factors for survival of patients with invasive urinary bladder cancer treated with radical cystectomy, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy. in the united states, radical cystectomy is viewed as the gold standard and, with few exceptions, is the only treatment recommended for patients with invasive bladder cancer. standard treatment for muscle-invasive bladder cancer is radical cystectomy. neoadjuvant chemotherapy before radical cystectomy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer is a commonly used treatment modality. the study population included patients with clinical stage t2 - t4a, n0, m0 bladder cancer who underwent radical cystectomy. the purpose of this study is to compare health-related quality of life in patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by radical cystectomy or radical cystectomy alone based on patient-reported outcome data. in patients with bladder cancer treated with radical cystectomy, lymphatic invasion is an independent prognostic factor for disease-specific and disease-free survival. to evaluate the clinical outcomes of patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer treated with a prospective institutional protocol composed of induction low-dose chemoradiotherapy (lcrt) plus partial or radical cystectomy. radical cystectomy is considered as standard therapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer. 
Does a geriatric oncology consultation modify the cancer treatment plan for elderly patients? [SEP] our aim was to study the value of a geriatric consultation in oncological decision-making. data on cancer patients referred for geriatric consultation for clinical optimisation or due to uncertainty regarding their optimal treatment strategy were prospectively analysed. the results demonstrate that a geriatric consultation can aid in complex treatment decisions and may allow for a reduction in over- and undertreatment of elderly cancer patients. geriatric consultation can be useful in treatment decision making in elderly patients with colorectal cancer. this study was performed to describe the treatment plan modifications after a geriatric oncology clinic. the geriatric oncology consultation led to a modification of the cancer treatment plan in more than one third of cases. the objective of the present population-based study was to assess the impact of geriatric oncology consultation on the management of elderly patients with breast cancer and to identify the predictive factors of breast cancer treatment in this population. the independent impact of geriatric oncology consultation on treatment was analyzed using multivariate logistic regression with adjustment for the other predictive factors of treatment. patients who had a geriatric oncology consultation (19.4%) had more comorbidities (charlson comorbidity index ≥ 1; p = 0.02), more advanced tumors (p = 0.025), more aggressive tumors (p = 0.029), were more likely to receive mastectomy and adjuvant therapy (p < 0.0001); and less likely to be treated by breast-conserving surgery and adjuvant therapy (p = 0.003). in the present study, we found that treatment of patients who underwent a geriatric oncology consultation generally followed the geriatricians' recommendations. 
Does left atrial appendage (LAA) occlusion device alter the echocardiography and electrocardiogram parameters in patients with atrial fibrillation? [SEP] the alterations of echocardiography and electrocardiogram (ecg) in patients received left atrial appendage laa occlusion therapy are still unclear. the present study was to evaluate the influence of laa occlusion device on echocardiography and ecg changes in patients with atrial fibrillation (af). left atrial appendage (laa) occlusion or ligation by percutaneously implanted devices is increasingly an alternative management option for atrial fibrillation, particularly for patients who are intolerant or have contraindications for anticoagulation. a 73-year-old patient with permanent atrial fibrillation presented for left atrial appendage (laa) occlusion. occlusion of the left atrial appendage (laa) may protect against stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. the efficacy of left atrial appendage (laa) occlusion using the transcatheter patch (tp) (custom medical devices, athens, greece) in conjunction with surgical adhesives was assessed. approximately 90% of thromboembolism occurs in the left atrial appendage (laa) in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. this study aimed to investigate the feasibility and safety of left atrial appendage occlusion (laao) procedures in patients with persistent left atrial appendage (laa) thrombus. the left atrial appendage (laa) is the most common site of thrombus formation in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (af). to investigate the efficacy of transesophageal echocardiography (tee) in the treatment of nonvalvular atrial fibrillation with left atrial appendage (laa) occlusion. 
Can ki-67 play a role in prediction of breast cancer patients' response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy? [SEP] the objectives of this study were to assess the potential value of ki-67 in predicting response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients and to suggest a reasonable cutoff value for classifying ki-67 expression. in subgroup analysis, a higher ki-67 value (≥25%) was a significant predictive factor for the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, especially in er-negative and her2-positive breast cancer patients. ki-67 expression in breast cancer tissue may be an effective factor for predicting the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. the current study analyses the predictive value of ki-67 in foreseeing breast cancer patients' responses to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. our data shows that the ki-67 value predicts the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy as a function of the molecular subtype, reflecting the daily routine concerning ki-67 and its impressing potential and limitation as a predictive marker for neoadjuvant chemotherapy response. after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, the changes of ki-67 in different subtypes of breast cancer were different (p < 0.001), and these changes correlated with response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (p < 0.001). the study concluded that ki-67 is a useful tool to predict chemosensitivity in the setting of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for invasive breast cancer but not for the triple negative breast cancer subgroup. to review the predictive values of ki-67 before neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac) for breast cancer patients. the study aims are to evaluate whether ki-67 expression detected by immunohistochemistry (ihc) and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qrt-pcr) may predict clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer. these results suggest that ki-67 expression detected by both ihc and qrt-pcr is considered to be a predictor of clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally advanced breast cancer. 
Intravenous administration of metoclopramide by 2 min bolus vs 15 min infusion: does it affect the improvement of headache while reducing the side effects? [SEP] to determine the therapeutic effect (alleviation of vascular type headache) and side effects of a slow intravenous metoclopramide infusion over 15 min compared with those effects of a bolus intravenous metoclopramide infusion over 2 min in the treatment of patients with recent onset vascular type headache. this study compared the effects of two different rates of intravenous infusion of metoclopramide over a period of 13 months at a university hospital emergency department. slowing the infusion rate of metoclopramide is an effective strategy for the improvement of headache and reducing the incidence of akathisia in patients with vascular type headache. to provide evidence about whether intravenous metoclopramide continuous infusion is associated with fewer extrapyramidal side effects than bolus infusion. compared with bolus administration, continuous intravenous infusion of metoclopramide reduces the appearance of extrapyramidal side effects. the study aims to determine if slow intravenous infusion of metoclopramide reduces the incidence of acute drug-induced akathisia (dia) compared with intravenous bolus. participants were randomised to receive either: metoclopramide 20 mg as a bolus and normal saline infusion over 15 min, or normal saline bolus and metoclopramide 20 mg infused over 15 min. thus, metoclopramide continuous infusion was significantly superior in antiemetic effect compared to bolus infusion. to investigate the effect of the rate of metoclopramide infusion on akathisia incidence, severity, onset of symptoms, and duration in patients with headache, and/or nausea/vomiting in the emergency department (ed) setting. prospective, double blind, randomised clinical study comparing two rates of intravenous infusion of metoclopramide over a period of six months at a tertiary university hospital ed. 
Is the breast best for children with a family history of atopy? [SEP] this paper describes the results of our study on the effects of breast-feeding on rate of illness in normal children with a family history of atopy. a historic cohort approach of 794 children with a family history of atopy was used to assess the effects of breast-feeding on illness rates. we then compared rates of illness between children with a family history of atopy who were and who were not breast-fed. our results suggest a protective effect of breast-feeding among children with a family history of atopy that is not confined to the period of breast-feeding but continues during the first three years of life. breast-feeding should be promoted in children with a family history of atopy. despite the numerous studies on the possible protective effect of breast-feeding against the onset of atopic dermatitis during childhood, this issue remains controversial. exclusive breast-feeding during the first 3 months of life is associated with lower incidence rates of atopic dermatitis during childhood in children with a family history of atopy. breast-feeding should be strongly recommended to mothers of infants with a family history of atopy, as a possible means of preventing atopic eczema. breast fed infants were found to have approximately one-half the incidence of atopy of cow's milk or soy formula fed infants from atopic families when followed for up to 15 years. the effect, caused by immunomodulatory qualities of breast milk, avoidance of allergens, or a combination of these and other factors, strengthens the advantage of breast-feeding, especially if a family history of atopy is present. 
Does escalation of the apical dose change treatment outcome in beta-radiation of posterior choroidal melanomas with 106Ru plaques? [SEP] to compare iodine-125 (125i) with ruthenium-106 (106ru) episcleral plaque radiation therapy in terms of the effectiveness and non-inferiority for choroidal melanoma treatment. the treatment with our 125i plaques is as effective as 106ru plaques in controlling choroidal melanoma tumor and preserving the vision during the two and half year of follow-up. to show the results of treating posterior uveal melanomas with 106ru plaque beta-ray radiotherapy and to review and discuss the literature concerning the optimal apical dose prescription (100 vs. 160 gy). to compare the efficacy of iodine-125 (125i) and ruthenium-106 (106ru) episcleral plaque radiation therapy and proton beam radiation therapy (pbrt) in the treatment of choroidal melanoma. local control of choroidal melanomas after 125i, 106ru, or pbrt. the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and vision-threatening complications of brachytherapy with ruthenium-106 (106ru) plaque to treat uveal melanoma. the medical records of consecutive patients with choroidal melanomas between 1.5 and 5.0 mm in apical height treated initially with (125)i plaque radiotherapy were reviewed. treatment of choroidal melanomas less than 5 mm in apical height with (125)i brachytherapy to the true apical height is equally effective when compared to treatment with 85 gy to 5.0 mm. 22 years) after 106ru/106rh plaque radiotherapy of posterior uveal melanomas. 106ru/106rh plaque radiotherapy can be recommended for small (t1a, b) and medium sized (t2) choroidal melanomas. 
Does septoplasty change the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate? [SEP] to measure the dimensions of compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate in patients with nasal septal deviation, before and after septoplasty. the dimensions of bony and mucosal components of the middle turbinate on concave and convex sides of the septum were not significantly changed by septoplasty. the present study findings suggest that compensatory hypertrophy of the middle turbinate is not affected by septoplasty, even after one year. the objective was to measure the dimensions, composition, and possible structural and radiological changes of the compensatory hypertrophic inferior turbinate in patients with deviated nasal septum. the dimensions of the compensatory hypertrophic inferior turbinate in patients with septal deviation were compared with normal control subjects. the present study uncovers the dimensions and composition of the inferior turbinate with compensatory hypertrophy in patients with nasal septum deviation. to determine the dimensions of the compensatory hypertrophic inferior turbinate and investigate the radiological changes in the morphology of the conchal bone in patients with septal deviation. to measure the dimensions, composition, and possible structural and/or histopathological changes of the compensatory hypertrophic inferior turbinate in patients with deviated nasal septum. forty-two patients with septum deviation and compensatory contralateral inferior turbinate hypertrophy were recruited in this study. the compensatory hypertrophy of inferior turbinates in patients with nasal septum deviation is not only caused by mucosal hypertrophy, but also by hypertrophy of the inferior turbinate bone itself. 
Can patient coaching reduce racial/ethnic disparities in cancer pain control? [SEP] therefore, we examined whether patient coaching could reduce disparities in pain control in a secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial. patient coaching offers promise as a means of reducing racial/ethnic disparities in pain control. this review reveals the persistence of racial and ethnic disparities in acute, chronic, cancer, and palliative pain care across the lifespan and treatment settings, with minorities receiving lesser quality pain care than non-hispanic whites. this review evaluates the recent literature on racial and ethnic disparities in pain and pain treatment. evidence is provided for racial- and ethnic-based differences in pain care across different types of pain (i.e., experimental pain, acute postoperative pain, cancer pain, chronic non-malignant pain) and settings (i.e., emergency department). consistent with the institute of medicine's report on health care disparities, racial and ethnic disparities in pain perception, assessment, and treatment were found in all settings (i.e., postoperative, emergency room) and across all types of pain (i.e., acute, cancer, chronic nonmalignant, and experimental). our findings inform our understanding of the sociocultural factors that influence pain within medical contexts and suggest that increasing minority, particularly non-hispanic black/african american, physician numbers may help reduce persistent racial/ethnic pain disparities. the objectives of this paper are to (1) define parameters of and summarize evidence pertinent to racial/ethnic minority disparities in pain management, (2) identify factors contributing to observed disparities, and (3) identify strategies to minimize the disparities. to examine poverty-related and racial and ethnic disparity in cancer pain management. oncology nurses and interdisciplinary teams must be aware of disparities in cancer pain management for vulnerable groups, intervene to empower patients through customized educational approaches, and simultaneously implement systemwide strategies to ensure effective pain management and targeted monitoring for high-risk patients. 
Does prior benign prostate biopsy predict outcome for patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy? [SEP] to determine the effect of prior benign prostate biopsies on the surgical and clinical outcomes of patients treated with radical perineal prostatectomy for prostate cancer. a prior benign prostate biopsy may be independently associated with more favorable surgical and biochemical outcomes after prostatectomy. prior benign biopsy correlated with tumor in the anterior or lateral portion of the radical prostatectomy specimen (p = 0.044) and prostate weight (p = 0.002). prior benign biopsy in men subsequently diagnosed with prostate cancer does not indicate indolent tumor. a randomized study was performed on patients with localized prostate cancer and treated with radical prostatectomy using the perineal or the retropubic approach comparing oncological outcomes, cancer control, and functional results. radical perineal prostatectomy is an excellent alternative approach for radical surgery in the treatment of early prostate cancer. this paper focuses on the procedures' oncological or functional outcomes and perioperative morbidities of radical retropubic prostatectomy, radical perineal prostatectomy, and robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. positive surgical margin rates of radical prostatectomy affect the recurrence and survival of prostate cancer. to assess the risk of leaving cancer-positive surgical margins in the perineal approach for radical prostatectomy as compared to the retropubic approach. from 1974 to 1982, 30 patients who had had previous transurethral resection of the prostate underwent radical perineal prostatectomy for localized prostatic cancer. 
Does patient position during liver surgery influence the risk of venous air embolism? [SEP] it is generally believed that positioning of the patient in a head-down tilt (trendelenberg position) decreases the likelihood of a venous air embolism during liver resection. the physiological effect of variation in horizontal attitude on central and hepatic venous pressure was measured in 10 patients during liver surgery. the effect on venous pressures caused by the change in patient positioning alone during liver surgery does not affect the risk of venous air embolism. the trendelenberg position is recommended during liver resection, to decrease the risk of venous air embolism. during orthotopic liver transplantation, venous air embolism may occur due to iatrogenic injury of the inferior vena cava. it is suggested that, during venous air embolism in the sitting position, a significant number of patients are haemodynamically at risk from paradoxical air embolism, and that the serious consequences of venous air embolism in neurosurgery may be due to this. we report a case of vf which was highly suspected to be induced by air embolism at the moment when the surgeon was dissecting the collateral vessels of portal vein in liver transplantation surgery. objective the semisitting position of a patient confers numerous advantages in various neurosurgical procedures, but venous air embolism is one of the associated complications of this position. in this study, the authors compared changes in the severity of venous air embolism according to the degree of head elevation (30° or 45°) in patients undergoing an elective cranial neurosurgical procedure in the semisitting position. conclusions for patients in the semisitting position, an increase in the degree of head elevation is related directly to a higher rate of venous air embolism. 
Do Indigenous Australians age prematurely? [SEP] to assess whether indigenous australians age prematurely compared with other australians, as implied by australian government aged care policy, which uses age 50 years and over for population-based planning for indigenous people compared with 70 years for non-indigenous people. the idea that indigenous people age prematurely is not well supported by this study of a series of discrete conditions. indigenous australians have rates of cardiovascular (cvd) mortality some seven to 10-fold higher than non-indigenous australians aged 25-64 years. indigenous australians suffer higher rates of ischaemic heart disease resulting in premature mortality. indigenous and non-indigenous australians. indigenous australians with af were significantly younger compared to non-indigenous australians (55±13 vs 75±13 years, p<0.001). despite their younger age, indigenous australians with af had similar or greater rates of cardiovascular comorbidities than non-indigenous australians with af. aboriginal australians were significantly younger and died at a significantly younger age than other groups. this study aimed to identify the available data on the health of older indigenous australians in population-based longitudinal studies of ageing. within the existing australian longitudinal ageing studies, indigenous australians are under-represented. 
Are tuberculosis patients adherent to prescribed treatments in China? [SEP] this investigation of tuberculosis (tb) treatment regimens in 6 tb hospitals in china showed that only 18% of patients with new cases and 9% of patients with retreatment cases were prescribed standard tb treatment regimens. adherence to treatment guidelines needs to be improved in tb hospitals to control multidrug-resistant tb in china. we carried out an investigation in five provinces in china to assess treatment adherence and identify factors associated with insufficient treatment adherence in tuberculosis (tb) patients in mountainous, rural areas of china. in the fight against the global tuberculosis epidemic, it is essential to ensure that patients adhere to the treatment prescribed. medication adherence is crucial for decreasing the burden of tuberculosis, but few relevant studies have been conducted in northeast china. this study aimed to explore the level of medication adherence among pulmonary tuberculosis outpatients and the predictive factors based on the bio-psycho-social medical model. to investigate adherence to anti-tuberculosis treatment. adherence to anti-tuberculosis treatment was high in our study. tuberculosis is a health threat in taiwan. the treatment effect of tb patients, from urban and rural china, was influenced by a different mechanism, among which rural tb patients need not only improve the treatment adherence but also establish good doctor-patient trust and communication to improve treatment effects. 
Ultrasound in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis; a useful addition to clinical staging? [SEP] as part of the staging procedure in squamous cell carcinoma of the penis, we assessed the role of ultrasound examination, in particular its role in assessing the extent and the invasion into the corpora. while ultrasound examination is inexpensive and easily done, it is not accurate enough for staging small penile cancers located at the glans penis. however, for larger tumors ultrasound can be a useful addition to physical examination by delineating reliably the anatomic relations of the tumor to structures such as the tunica albuginea, corpus cavernosum, and urethra. to describe the clinicopathologic features of squamous cell carcinoma of the penis registered at the hospital between 1978 and 2004. we included cases of squamous cell carcinoma of the penis that were histologically confirmed. 34 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis were registered: 8 in situ and 26 invasive, with a mean age of 54.7 ± 22.4 and 64,7 ± 12.5 years, respectively. two hundred and thirty-nine patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis were grouped into the existing different clinical classifications and staging systems, i.e. we propose that the systems presented should be examined and applied prospectively for clinical classification and staging of carcinoma of the penis. to analyze, in a clinicopathologic correlation study, a small population of primarily white men with invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the penis for potential prognostic predictors. the data from 43 patients with invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the penis were studied retrospectively. 
Do oblique views add value in the diagnosis of spondylolysis in adolescents? [SEP] for spondylolysis, 2-view plain films are often diagnostic and oblique views did not add significant value. anteroposterior, lateral, and right and left oblique lumbar spine radiographs are often a standard part of the evaluation of children who are clinically suspected of having spondylolysis. the purpose of the present study was to determine the diagnostic value of oblique views in the diagnosis of spondylolysis. radiographs of fifty adolescents with l5 spondylolysis without spondylolisthesis and fifty controls were retrospectively reviewed. various methods are utilized in diagnosing spondylolysis, such as plain radiography, computed tomography (ct), magnetic resonance (mr), and scintigraphy. the aim of this review was to provide of the current knowledge in pathophysiology, diagnosis and management of spondylolysis based on the authors' experience and the pertinent medical literature. significantly less spondylolysis was seen in persons older than 30, with back pain usually caused by disk degeneration; thus routine oblique views could be safely omitted in older patients. we present three adolescent and preadolescent athletes with low back pain in whom a high index of suspicion led to the early diagnosis of pars stress fracture or spondylolysis. presenting radiographs of 30 children with spondylolisthesis and spondylolysis were reviewed. spondylolysis is a differential diagnosis to be considered in a positive scan for evaluation of back pain. 
Are many colorectal cancers due to missed adenomas? [SEP] an unknown number of colorectal cancers could be due to missed adenomas during previous endoscopy. assuming that these cancers developed from an adenoma than only 11 out of 835 (1.3%) cancers were missed in the adenoma phase. an unsystematic review of the literature concerning the issues of missed colorectal cancers and interval cancers during colonoscopy was performed and the most important articles described. according to the literature there are various reasons for interval and/or missed colorectal cancers: incomplete bowel cleaning, incomplete colonoscopy, short withdrawal time, incomplete resection of adenomas, rapid tumor progression, sessile serrated adenomas and the examiner him- or herself. colonoscopy is the gold standard investigation for the colon but is not perfect, and small or flat adenomas can be missed which increases the risk of patients subsequently developing colorectal cancer. although colonoscopy is the accepted standard for detection of colorectal adenomas and cancers, many adenomas and some cancers are missed. many studies have indicated the number of adenomas on initial examination as the most significant predictor for missed adenoma and incidence of adenoma on surveillance colonoscopy. the presence of colorectal adenomas is considered a major risk factor for colorectal cancer development. however, multiple studies have reported a significant percentage of adenomas are missed during standard, forward-viewing colonoscopy. missed adenomas can lead to interval colorectal cancers. 
Does desflurane alter left ventricular function when used to control surgical stimulation during aortic surgery? [SEP] although desflurane is commonly used to control surgically induced hypertension, its effects on left ventricular (lv) function have not been investigated in this clinical situation. this study demonstrates that in patients at risk for cardiac morbidity undergoing vascular surgery, desflurane is effective to control intraoperative hypertension without fear of major cardiac depressant effect. four patients in the desflurane and three in the isoflurane group developed transient worsening of regional function but no change in mean left ventricular ejection fraction area and no ecg ischaemia occurred during anaesthetic induction. the effects of desflurane, sevoflurane, and isoflurane on left ventricular-arterial coupling and mechanical efficiency were examined and compared in acutely instrumented dogs. the authors tested the hypothesis that desflurane, sevoflurane, and isoflurane alter left atrial mechanics evaluated with invasively derived pressure-volume relations. desflurane, sevoflurane, and isoflurane decreased heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and maximal rate of increase of left ventricular pressure and increased left atrial end-diastolic, end-systolic, and maximum volumes. the results indicate that desflurane, sevoflurane, and isoflurane depress left atrial contractility, delay relaxation, reduce chamber stiffness, preserve reservoir and conduit function, and impair left atrial-left ventricular coupling in vivo. desflurane caused a dose-dependent increase in right-heart filling pressure and a decrease in systemic vascular resistance and mean systemic arterial blood pressure. desflurane, administered only in the presence of left anterior descending occlusion and left circumflex stenosis, significantly (p less than 0.05) decreased mean arterial pressure, left ventricular systolic pressure, and left ventricular positive dp/dt50 without change in heart rate. ratios of flow between occluded and normal zones were decreased when hypotension produced by desflurane was uncontrolled, but when arterial pressure and heart rate were adjusted to conscious postocclusion levels using partial thoracic aorta occlusion and atrial pacing, the ratio remained at conscious control levels regardless of the degree of left circumflex stenosis severity (p less than 0.05). 
Does gestational age misclassification explain the difference in birthweights for Australian aborigines and whites? [SEP] gestational age misclassification is an unlikely explanation for the reported divergence in average birth-weights for aborigines and whites. are most births of aboriginal babies with low birthweight preterm or full term? implausibly large misclassification proportions were required to make preterm low birthweight an insignificant contributor to the low birthweight excess in aborigines. to compare birthweight for gestational age of aboriginal with caucasian infants and investigate the origins of their differences. data pertaining to birthweight, gestational age at delivery and pathological factors were abstracted from birth records of 1301 western australian singleton aboriginal pregnancies dated before 24 weeks by ultrasound fetometry and compared with routinely collected data pertaining to caucasian births of the same period. diabetes, urogenital infections, alcoholism and leprosy) occurring more commonly in aboriginal than in caucasian pregnancies accounted for most of the differences in birthweight for gestation between mixed-descent aboriginal and caucasian infants but a discrepancy of almost 180 g remained between pure-descent aboriginal and caucasian infants. this article describes the distributions of birthweight and gestational age of all singleton aboriginal and white live-born infants in western australia for the period 1980-1986. at early gestational ages, the mean birthweight was greater for aboriginal infants. more aboriginal infants were of low birthweight--male aboriginal infants, 9.8%; male white infants, 4.0%; female aboriginal infants, 12.4%; and female white infants, 4.6%, this excess only occurred in term (37- to 41-weeks' gestation) and post-term (42- to 52-weeks' gestation) infants. thus, it seems that the distributions of both birthweight and gestational age in aboriginal infants are shifted downward compared with those for white infants. 
Is there any interest to perform ultrasonography in boys with undescended testis? [SEP] it is suggested that surgical intervention before onset of puberty may not always be necessary in acquired undescended testis. in a prospective study during 1981-1983 42 boys aged 3-12 (mean 6.5) years were operated on for a palpable undescended testis. preoperative ultrasonography can be recommended in case of an unpalpable testis in a boy not previously operated on in the inguinal area. abdominoscrotal sonogram is often used in boys with a nonpalpable testis to determine the presence of the testis. we describe our experience with the use of ultrasonography in boys with a nonpalpable testis. we retrospectively reviewed the medical records of boys aged less than 14 years, who underwent preoperative ultrasonography for an impalpable undescended testis (iudt) between 2006 and 2010 in our institution. we assessed the performance of ultrasound as a diagnostic tool for palpable undescended testis, as well as the diagnostic agreement between pcp and pediatric urologists. during 1987-89, 76 boys from halton district underwent surgery for undescended testis in the neighbouring hospitals: 64 (84%) of these boys had attended at least one screening examination in the community clinics; 12 (16%) did not attend any. the use of ultrasonography to localize the testis in children with undescended testis is still controversial. this study was designed to determine the value of ultrasound in the preoperative assessment of children with undescended testis in a resource-limited setting. 
Is peak concentration needed in therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin? [SEP] we analyzed the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship of vancomycin to determine the drug exposure parameters that correlate with the efficacy and nephrotoxicity of vancomycin in patients with methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus pneumonia and evaluated the need to use peak concentration in therapeutic drug monitoring (tdm). trough and peak vancomycin serum concentrations were determined before and after the third dose. the use of the proposed schedule leads to adequate vancomycin trough serum concentrations, and there is no need for routine monitoring of peak serum concentrations. vancomycin, the drug of choice for infections due to methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, requires the use of therapeutic drug monitoring (tdm) for delivery of optimal therapy. this article reviews two innovative approaches for calculating the vancomycin auc in clinical practice based on one or two drug concentrations. the baseline characteristics, vancomycin therapeutic drug monitoring data, and prognosis were compared and analyzed. peak and through vancomycin levels were analyzed retrospectively (n=295), in patients from 18 to 65 yr old with diagnosis of sepsis. therapeutic drug monitoring of vancomycin needs re-evaluation in the hospital to explain why existing methods are ineffective. our aim was to observe the use of vancomycin in an intensive care population, with the main focus on achievement of therapeutic serum concentrations (15-20 mg/l) and to evaluate how this was influenced by dose regimens, use of guidelines and therapeutic drug monitoring. therapeutic drug monitoring (tdm) of vancomycin is routinely performed at steady state, target concentrations are peaks between 20 and 40 mg/l and troughs of 5-10 mg/l. 
Can autologous platelet-rich plasma gel enhance healing after surgical extraction of mandibular third molars? [SEP] to evaluate the efficacy of autologous platelet-rich plasma in soft tissue healing & bone regeneration in mandibular third molar extraction socket. platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a material containing many autologous growth factors that may be used in repairing and preventing periodontal complications at the distal root of the second molar adjacent to the extracted third molar. platelet-rich plasma (prp) is a material containing many autologous growth factors that may be used in repairing and preventing periodontal complications at the distal root of the second molar adjacent to the extracted third molar. to evaluate the efficacy of autologous platelet rich plasma (prp) in regeneration of bone and to assess clinical compatibility of the material in mandibular third molar extraction socket. to compare the healing of mandibular third molar extraction wounds with and without prp. the aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of autologous platelet-rich plasma (prp) in the third molar impactions, with respect to: pain, swelling, healing, and periodontal status distal to the second molar in patients who need surgical removal of bilateral impacted mandibular third molars. (1) to carry out a prospective study to evaluate differences in soft tissue healing and bony regeneration of impacted mandibular third molar extraction sites, with and without the incorporation of autologous platelet-rich fibrin (prf) within the surgical wounds. : to evaluate the efficacy of autologous platelet rich fibrin in soft tissue healing and bone regeneration in mandibular third molar extraction sockets. the study was conducted in 20 patients visiting in outpatient department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, requiring extraction of bilateral mandibular third molar, following extraction platelet rich fibrin (prf) was placed in one extraction sockets, the other socket was studied as the control sites with no prf. this study was to evaluate and compare the bone regeneration potential of autologous platelet-rich fibrin (prf) placed in one of the extracted sockets after the surgical removal of bilateral impacted mandibular third molars. 
Are sugars-free medicines more erosive than sugars-containing medicines? [SEP] seventy-seven per cent of the pharmacists thought that sugar in medicines could contribute to caries, but recommended sugar-containing preparations more frequently than sugar-free alternatives. the dental profession needs to actively promote medicines that are sugar-free if there is to be a change from the use of iatrogenic sugar-containing preparations. this investigation was undertaken to determine whether problems exist in the formulation, production and availability of sugar-free medicines. when the effect of generic prescribing upon the sugars content of these medicines was considered, 96% of the volume of proprietary liquid oral medicines dispensed in primary care was sugars-free compared with 9% of generic liquid oral medicines. in conclusion, although many prolonged oral clearance medicine preparations are sugars-free, due to generic prescribing a large proportion of the quantities dispensed for possible long-term use in the elderly are sugar-containing liquid oral medicines. paediatric sf medicines were not more erosive than sc medicines in vitro; a more significant predictor of their erosive potential was dose form. sugar in liquid medicines is a factor in dental caries for many children. there has been an increase in the availability of sugar-free medicines in recent years, but they need to be prescribed specifically, because most generic liquid medicines still contain sugar. the object of the present study was to examine parental and child factors which may be linked to the provision of sugar-free alternatives by their medical practitioner. the levels of provision of sugar-free medication and the frequency of used common types of medication were recorded and long term users identified. 
